  ABSTRACT
          Peptides that specifically bind erythrocytes are described.     These are provided as
  peptidic ligands having sequences that specifically bind, or as antibodies or fragments thereof
  that provide specific binding, to erythrocytes.  The peptides may be prepared as molecular
5 fusions with therapeutic agents, tolerizing antigens, or targeting peptides. Immunotolerance
  may be created by use of the fusions and choice of an antigen on a substance for which
  tolerance is desired.
                                              94

                           ERYTHROCYTE-BINDING THERAPEUTICS
    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This is a divisional application of Australian patent application 2013220079, which is
 5  the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international application PCT/1B2013/000684
    (published as WO 2013/121296), this application claims priority to U.S. Serial No.
    13/397,202 filed February 15, 2012, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
    TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 0          The Technical Field relates to medical compositions and uses for ligands or antibodies
    that bind erythrocytes. Specific uses include immunotolerization, drug delivery, and cancer
    therapies.
    BACKGROUND
 5          The rejection of transplanted tissue and autoimmune diseases are pathological
    conditions that involve an immunorejection of a foreign biomolecule because of its antigenic
    nature. Many drugs and clinical processes are involved in suppressing or treating
    immunorejection. Vaccines take advantage of this process by stimulating an immune
    response to antigens on pathogenic biomolecules to build up the immune system response
 '0 against proteins or other biomolecules that carry the antigen.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            Tolerogenesis is a process of creating immunological tolerance to a substance.       A
    patient, either human or non-human, that is treated to create tolerance of a substance will
25  have a reduced adapative immune response to the substance. The reduction in an adaptive
    immune response can be measured by analyzing the amounts of circulating antibodies
    reactive to the substance, or by analyzing T-cell reactions to the substance and tolerizing
    agent.   Compositions and methods for tolerization are provided herein.          Many of the
    embodiments involve administering a fusion molecule that has a tolerizing antigen combined
30  with an erythrocyte binding moiety.     The fusion molecule binds to erythrocytes and begins a
    process of presenting the tolerizing antigen to the immune system in a manner that creates
    tolerance.
            Peptides that specifically bind to erythrocytes (also known as red blood cells) have
    been discovered.       These peptide ligands are erythrocyte-binding moieties that bind
                                                  1

   specifically to erythrocytes even in the presence of other factors present in blood. These
   ligands may be used in a variety of ways.
            An embodiment of the invention is a pharmaceutically acceptable composition
   comprising a molecular fusion that comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte
 5 binding moiety that specifically binds an erythrocyte in the patient, wherein the erythrocyte
   binding moiety specifically binds to a biomolecule chosen from the group consisting of Band
   3 (CD233), aquaporin-1, Glut-i, Kidd antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE
   (CD240CE), Rh30D (CD240D),           Kx, glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c),
   glycophorin D (CD235d), Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARCi (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF
 0 (CD55), Globoside, CD44, ICAM-4 (CD242), Lu/B-CAM (CD239), XGI/XG2 (CD99),
   EMMPRIN/neurothelin         (CD147),   JMH,     Glycosyltransferase,  Cartwright,   Dombrock,
   C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2, stomatin, BA-1 (CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H
   antigen (CD173).
            An embodiment of the invention is a pharmaceutically acceptable composition
 5 comprising: an erythrocyte-binding moiety joined to a domain that specifically binds a target,
   e.g., a protein that comprises a tolerogenic antigen. One or both of these domains may be a
   peptidic ligand or an antibody or antibody fragment.
            Another embodiment is a pharmaceutically acceptable composition for use in
   antibody depletion or otherwise removing antibodies from circulation in a patient.         The
 O composition has an erythrocyte-binding moiety joined to an antigen, e.g., a native auto
   antigen.or an antigen for a therapeutic protein.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            Figure I shows the experimental scheme and results for the molecular fusion of ERY
25 1 and ovalbumin (OVA), wherein the ERYi-OVA fusion binds the equatorial periphery of
   mouse erythrocytes with high affinity; Panel (a) Schematic of conjugation of ERYi peptide
   to ovalbumin (OVA), resulting in binding to erythrocyte-surface glycophorin-A; Panel (b)
   Binding of each OVA conjugate and intermediate, characterized by flow cytometry; black
   filled histogram, ERYi-OVA; empty histogram, SMCC-OVA; dotted histogram, MIS-OVA;
30 ERYI    =  erythrocyte-binding peptide WMVLPWLPGTLD (SEQ ID NO: 1), MIS            = mismatch
   peptide     PLLTVGMDLWPW           (SEQ    ID    NO:2),   SMCC      =  sulfosuccinimidyl-4-(N
   maleimidomethyl) cyclohexane-i-carboxylate, used to conjugate ERYi to OVA; Panel (c)
                                                 2

    Equilibrium binding of ERY1-OVA to erythrocytes demonstrating the low dissociation
    constant of ERY1-OVA (R 2      = 0.97, one-site binding), determined by flow cytometry.
            Figure 2 is a montage of results showing that erythrocyte-binding induces tolerance to
    antigen challenge: Panel (a) The OTI CD8* T cell adoptive transfer tolerance model,
 5  displaying experimental protocol for experimental as well as challenge and naive control
    groups (n  =  5); Panel (b) Flow cytometric detection of OTI CD8* T cell populations (CD38*
    CD8a&CD45.2+); Panel (c) OTI CD8* T cell population quantification in the draining lymph
    nodes (inguinal and popliteal) 4 d following antigen challenge in CD45.1* mice (** P <
    0.01); Panel (d) Flow cytometric detection of IFNy-expressing OTI CD8' T cells; Panel (e)
 0  IFNy-expressing OTI CD8* T cells in the draining lymph nodes 4 d following antigen
    challenge and restimulation with SIINFEKL peptide (SEQ ID NO:3) (** P < 0.01); Panel (f)
    IFNy concentrations in lymph node cell culture media 4 d following restimulation with
    SIINFEKL peptide (SEQ ID NO:3), determined by ELISA (** P < 0.01); Panel (g) IL-10
    concentrations in lymph node cell culture media 4 d following restimulation with OVA,
 5  determined by ELISA (* P < 0.05). Data represent median ± min to max; Panel (h) OVA
    specific serum IgG titers at day 19, (* P < 0.05) data represent mean ± SE; Panel (i) The
    combination OTI and OVA-expressing EL4 thymoma (E.G7-OVA) tumor tolerance model,
    displaying experimental protocol for experimental as well as control groups (n           =  4, 3,
    respectively); Panel (j) Quantification of non-proliferating (generation 0) OTI CD8* T cells
 '0 circulating in blood 5 d following adoptive transfer; data represent median ± min to max (**
    P < 0.01); Panel (k)      Growth profile of E.G7-OVA tumors, subcutaneously injected 9 d
    following OTI adoptive transfer, data represent mean ± SE (* P < 0.05).
            Figure 3 is a bar graph showing how erythrocyte binding attenuates antigen-specific
    humoral responses in C57BL/6 mice.            OVA-specific IgG detection in serum 19 days
25  following two administrations of 1 pg OVA or 1 pg ERY1-OVA 6 d apart in C57BL/6 mice
    (* P < 0.05).
            Figure 4 presents experimental results wherein 8-arm PEG-ERY1 binds erythrocytes
    in vitro and in vivo; Panel (a) 8-arm PEG-ERY1 (black filled histogram), but not 8-arm PEG
    MIS (grey filled histogram) or 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide bind to mouse erythrocytes
30  following in vitro incubation; Panel (b) 8-arm PEG-ERY1 (black filled histogram), but not 8
    arm PEG-MIS (grey filled histogram) bind to circulating erythrocytes upon intravenous
    injection.
            Figure 5 presents experimental results depicting erythrocyte cell-surface half-life of 8
    arm PEG-ERY1 (filled circles) and 8-arm PEG-MIS (empty boxes), determined by flow
                                                    3

    cytometry.
            Figure 6 presents experimental results as a bar graph showing binding of peptidic
    ligands to human erythrocytes.
            Figure 7 presents experimental results as a flow cytometry histogram. Mouse
 5  erythrocytes were incubated with TER119-SIINFEKL (grey filled histogram) or albumin
    (empty histogram). Fluorescent signal comes from the anti-6xHis-PE antibody used in
    detection of the scFv.
            Figure 8 is a plot of experimental results showing proliferating OT-I CD8 T cells in
    the spleen following intravenous administration of: saline, OVA, ERY1-OVA, or TERI19
 0  SIINFEKL. **P<0.01, ***P<0.001
            Figure 9 is a plot of experimental results showing phenotypic characterization of OTI
    CD8 T cells following adoptive transfer and intravenous administration of:       saline, OVA,
    ERY1-OVA, or TERI 19-SIINFEKL. Left panel: apoptotic OTI cell induction marked by
    Annexin-V binding in flow cytometry; Right panel: exhausted OTI cell induction marked by
 5  expression of PD-I in flow cytometry.
            Figure 10 is a plot of experimental results showing characterization of inflammatory
    (IFNy+) OTI T cells in lymph nodes draining the site of challenge from mice tolerized with
    various injection formulations, as analyzed by flow cytometry.
            Figure 11 is a plot of experimental results showing asparaginase (ASNase)-specific
 '0 serum IgG titers from mice receiving 2 or 6 doses of ERY 1-ASNase or wild-type ASNase, 21
    days following administration, as determined by ELISA.
            Figure 12 is a plot of experimental results showing proliferation of CD4 T cells from
    the transgenic NODBDC2.5 mouse in co-culture with splenic DCs, with various media
    additives.
25          Figure 13 is a plot of experimental results showing quantification of non-proliferating
    NODBDC2.5 CD4 T cells following adoptive transfer and intravenous administration of
    TERI 19-ChrA, free 1040-p3l peptide, or saline, as determined by flow cytometry.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
30          Molecular designs are provided for tolerogenesis.    The protein or other molecular
    antigen to which tolerance is sought is formed as a conjugate with an erythrocyte binding
    moiety. The moiety may comprise a peptide ligand, an antibody, an aptamer, or an antibody
    fragment. The conjugate, also referred to as a molecular fusion, may be a fusion protein or
    may involve a linker, e.g., a polymer or polymer micelle or polymer nanoparticle conjugate.
                                                  4

            Peptides that specifically bind erythrocytes are described herein. These are provided
    as peptidic ligands having sequences that specifically bind, or as antibodies or fragments
    thereof that provide specific binding, to erythrocytes.     The peptides may be prepared as
    molecular fusions with therapeutic agents, tolerizing antigens, or targeting peptides.      The
 5  therapeutic agents may advantageously have an increased circulating half-life in vivo when
    they are part of the fusion. Immunotolerance may be created by use of the fusions and choice
    of an antigen on a substance for which tolerance is desired. The term antigen, in this context,
    means the full size antigen, an antigenic fragment thereof, or a mimetic of the tolerogenic
    antigen. Fusions with targeting peptides direct the fusions to the target, for instance a tumor,
 0  where the erythrocyte-binding ligands reduce or entirely eliminate blood flow to the tumor by
    recruiting erythrocytes to the target.
    Peptidic sequences that specifically bind erythrocytes
            Peptides that specifically bind erythrocytes have been discovered and reported by the
 5  Applicant in PCT/US2011/047078., included a peptide referred to as ERY1 that specifically
    binds to an erythrocyte.     Six peptides (ERY19, ERY59, ERY64, ERY123, ERY141 and
    ERY162) that bind specifically to human erythrocytes were also reported. Example 9 details
    how peptidic ligands (ERY64, ERY123, and ERY141) were made part of a fusion protein
    with a fluorescent protein reporter and retained their specific binding properties.          An
 '0 embodiment of the invention is a substantially pure polypeptide comprising an amino acid
    sequence of ERY1, or one of the human erythrocyte binding peptides, or a conservative
    substitution thereof, or a nucleic acid encoding the same. Such polypeptides specifically bind
    erythrocytes and are a ligand for the same. Ligand is a term that refers to a chemical moiety
    that has specific binding to a target molecule. A target refers to a predetermined molecule,
25  tissue, or location that the user intends to bind with the ligand. Thus targeted delivery to a
    tissue refers to delivering a molecule or other material such as a cell to the intended target
    tissue. Accordingly, embodiments include molecules or compositions comprising at least one
    of the ligands disclosed herein that are used to bind an erythrocyte. The binding activity of a
    polypeptide to an erythrocyte may be determined simply by following experimental protocols
30  as described herein.     Using such methods, the binding strengths of polypeptide variants
    relative to ERY1 or a human erythrocyte binding peptide under given physiological
    conditions can be determined, e.g., sequences made using conservative substitutions, addition
    or removal of flanking groups, or changes or additions for adjusting sequence solubility in
    aqueous solution.     Peptidic ligands may be generated specifically for one or more of the
                                                  5

    following targets or group of targets: an erythrocyte surface molecule (protein, glycoprotein),
    Band 3 (CD233), a glycophorin, more particularly glycophorin A (CD235a), glycophorin B
    (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c) & glycophorin D (CD235d), aquaporin-1, Glut-1, Kidd
    antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE (CD240CE), Rh30D (CD240D), Kx,
 5  Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARC (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF (CD55), Globoside, CD44,
    ICAM-4      (CD242),    Lu/B-CAM     (CD239),    XGI/XG2     (CD99),   EMMPRIN/neurothelin
    (CD147), JMH, Glycosyltransferase, Cartwright, Dombrock, C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2,
    stomatin,    BA-1    (CD24), GPIV (CD36),       CD108,    CD139,    and H antigen (CD173).
    Erythrocytes cell-surface proteins, either purified preparations or a mixture of them, can be
 0  screened for peptidic ligands. Erythrocyte cell-surface proteins may be recombinantly
    expressed in their full form or as partial domains fused to tags that enhance expression or
    stability of the protein. The recombinant protein target may then be immobilized on a plate
    or bead, and used as the affinity target for the library screening process.   Erythrocyte cell
    surface proteins may also be isolated from cellular preparations of whole blood, from which
 5  purified or complex mixtures of membrane proteins may be immobilized on a solid matrix
    (bead, plate, or other), and used as affinity targets for the screening process. The entire
    screening process may be performed in the presence of a high concentration of serum
    albumin (e.g., 50 mg/mL) and at 37'C to reduce non-specific binding events and to select for
    peptides with favorable binding characteristics in blood serum. Peptidic ligands are most
 '0 preferably selected from Band 3 (CD233), glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C
    (CD235c) and glycophorin D (CD235d).
             Peptidic ligands were observed to bind the erythrocyte cell surfaces without altering
    cell morphology and without cytoplasmic translocation.       The ligands distributed across the
    cell surface and were free of clustering.     Glycophorin-A (GYPA) was a specific protein
25  indentified as the target of ERY-1.    ERY-1 was reactive only with mouse and rat species.
    Peptidic ligands that specifically bound human erythrocytes were determined to be specific
    for human erythrocytes and not other speciesA phage clone displaying a high-affinity
    peptide, WMVLPWLPGTLD (SEQ ID NO:1 herein termed ERYi) towards the mouse
    erythrocyte cell surface was reported . Other experiments identified binding ligands for
30  human erythrocytes as shown in Tables 1-2.        Six sequences bound specifically to human
    erythrocytes. A seventh sequence, named ERY50, bound human erythrocytes and also bound
    epithelial/endothelial cells.
                                                  6

   Table 1: Peptidic ligands that bind human erythrocytes
   Peptide         Human Erythrocyte Binding                        Sequence Identifier
   Name            Peptide Sequence
   ERY19           GQSGQPNSRWIYMTPLSPGIYRGSSGGS                     SEQ ID NO:4
   ERY50           GQSGQSWSRAILPLFKIQPVGSSGGS                       SEQ ID NO:5
   ERY59           GQSGQYICTSAGFGEYCFIDGSSGGS                       SEQ ID NO:6
   ERY64           GQSGQTYFCTPTLLGQYCSVGSSGGS                       SEQ ID NO:7
   ERY123          GQSGHWHCQGPFANWVGSSGGS                           SEQ ID NO:8
   ERY141          GQSGQFCTVIYNTYTCVPSSGSSGGS                       SEQ ID NO:9
   ERY162          GQSGQSVWYSSRGNPLRCTGGSSGGS                       SEQ ID NO:10
   Underlined sequence portions indicate linker sequences
   Table 2: Peptidic ligands that bind mouse or human erythrocytes
   Peptide                                                          Sequence         Identifier
   ERY19'          PNSRWIYMTPLSPGIYR                                SEQ ID NO:11
   ERY50'*         SWSRAILPLFKIQPV                                  SEQ ID NO:12
   ERY59'          YICTSAGFGEYCFID                                  SEQ ID NO:13
   ERY64'          TYFCTPTLLGQYCSV                                  SEQ ID NO:14
   ERY123'         HWHCQGPFANWV                                     SEQ ID NO:15
   ERY141'         FCTVIYNTYTCVPSS                                  SEQ ID NO:16
   ERY162'         SVWYSSRGNPLRCTG                                  SEQ ID NO:17
   ERY1**          WMVLPWLPGTLD                                     SEQ ID NO:1
 5 *not specific for erythrocytes
   **for mouse
           Embodiments of the invention include peptides that that specifically bind the surface
   of erythrocytes. The sequences were not optimized for minimum length. Such optimization
10 is within the skill of the art and may be practiced using techniques described herein.         For
   example, Kenrick et al. (Protein Eng. Des. Sel. (2010) 23(1):9-17) screened from a 15 residue
   library, and then identified minimal binding sequences 7 residues in length.            Getz (ACS
   Chem. Biol., May 26, 2011 identified minimal binding domains as small as 5 residues in
   length. The erythrocyte binding peptides may be present in repeats of the same sequences,
15 e.g., between 2 and 20 repeats; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and
   values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated. Moreover, the peptides may be
   present in combination, with two or more distinct sequences being in the same peptide or
   being part of a single molecular fusion.
           The number of consecutive residues that provide specific binding is expected to be
20 between about 4 and 12 residues. Accordingly, all peptides of four consecutive residues in
   length found in Table 2 are disclosed, as well as all peptides of, e.g., 5, 6, 7, or 8 consecutive
                                                7

    residues. This number is based on the number of residues for other peptidic protein-binding
    ligands. Embodiments of the invention include minimum length sequences for one of the
    erythrocyte-binding SEQ IDs set for the herein, including Table 1. Accordingly, certain
    embodiments are directed to a composition comprising a peptide, or an isolated (or purified)
 5  peptide, comprising a number of consecutive amino acid sequences between 4 and 12
    consecutive amino acid residues of a sequence chosen from the group consisting of SEQ ID
    NO:11, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17,
    SEQ ID NO: 1, and conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said sequence specifically
    binds an erythrocyte. Alternatively the number of consecutive residues may be chosen to be
 0  between about 5 and about 18; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and
    values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated, e.g., 7, 8, 9, 10, or from 8 to 18.
    The erythrocyte-binding sequence may have, e.g., a conservative substitution of at least one
    and no more than two amino acids of the sequences, or 1, 2, or 3 substitutions, or between 1
    and 5 substitutions. Moreover, the substitution of L-amino acids in the discovered sequence
 5  with D-amino acids can be frequently accomplished, as in Giordano.              The peptide or
    composition may, in some embodiments, consist essentially of a sequence chosen from the
    group consisting of SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ
    ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17, SEQ ID NO:1. The peptide may be limited in length, e.g., having
    a number of residues between about 10 and about 100; artisans will immediately appreciate
 '0 that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated, e.g., about
    10 to about 50 or about 15 to about 80.        A peptide erythrocyte-binding moiety may be
    provided that comprises a peptide ligand that has a dissociation constant of between about 10
    pM and 0.1 nM as determined by equilibrium binding measurements between the peptide and
    erythrocytes; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the
25  explicitly stated ranges are contemplated, e.g., from about 1 pM to about lnM. The peptide
    may further comprise a therapeutic agent. The therapeutic agent may be, e.g., a protein, a
    biologic, an antibody fragment, an ScFv, or a peptide. The peptide may further comprise a
    tolerogenic antigen, e.g., a human protein used in a human deficient in that protein (e.g.,
    blood factors such as factor VIII or factor IX), proteins with nonhuman glycosylation,
30  synthetic proteins not naturally found in humans, human food allergens, or human
    autoimmune antigens.
             Polypeptides of various lengths may be used as appropriate for the particular
    application.    In general, polypeptides that contain the polypeptide ligand sequences will
    exhibit specific binding if the polypeptide is available for interaction with erythrocytes in
                                                 8

    vivo. Peptides that have the potential to fold can be tested using methods described herein.
    Accordingly, certain embodiments are directed to polypeptides that have a polypeptide ligand
    but do not occur in nature, and certain other embodiments are directed to polypeptides having
    particular lengths, e.g., from 6 to 3000 residues, or 12-1000, or 12-100, or 10-50; artisans will
 5  immediately appreciate that every value and range within the explicitly articulated limits is
    contemplated.
             Certain embodiments provide various polypeptide sequences and/or purified or
    isolated polypeptides. A polypeptide is a term that refers to a chain of amino acid residues,
    regardless of post-translational modification (e.g., phosphorylation or glycosylation) and/or
 0  complexation with additional polypeptides, synthesis into multisubunit complexes, with
    nucleic acids and/or carbohydrates, or other molecules.       Proteoglycans therefore also are
    referred to herein as polypeptides.        As used herein, a "functional polypeptide" is a
    polypeptide that is capable of promoting the indicated function.          Polypeptides can be
    produced by a number of methods, many of which are well known in the art. For example,
 5  polypeptides can be obtained by extraction (e.g., from isolated cells), by expression of a
    recombinant nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide, or by chemical synthesis. Polypeptides
    can be produced by, for example, recombinant technology, and expression vectors encoding
    the polypeptide introduced into host cells (e.g., by transformation or transfection) for
    expression of the encoded polypeptide.
 10          There are a variety of conservative changes that can generally be made to an amino
    acid sequence without altering activity. These changes are termed conservative substitutions
    or mutations; that is, an amino acid belonging to a grouping of amino acids having a
    particular size or characteristic can be substituted for another amino acid. Substitutes for an
    amino acid sequence may be selected from other members of the class to which the amino
25  acid belongs. For example, the nonpolar (hydrophobic) amino acids include alanine, leucine,
    isoleucine, valine, proline, phenylalanine, tryptophan, methionine, and tyrosine. The polar
    neutral amino acids include glycine, serine, threonine, cysteine, tyrosine, asparagine and
    glutamine. The positively charged (basic) amino acids include arginine, lysine and histidine.
    The negatively charged (acidic) amino acids include aspartic acid and glutamic acid. Such
30  alterations are not expected to substantially affect apparent molecular weight as determined
    by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or isoelectric point. Conservative substitutions also
    include substituting optical isomers of the sequences for other optical isomers, specifically D
    amino acids for L amino acids for one or more residues of a sequence. Moreover, all of the
    amino acids in a sequence may undergo a D to L isomer substitution. Exemplary conservative
                                                   9

    substitutions include, but are not limited to, Lys for Arg and vice versa to maintain a positive
    charge; Glu for Asp and vice versa to maintain a negative charge; Ser for Thr so that a free -
    OH is maintained; and Gln for Asn to maintain a free NH 2 . Moreover, point mutations,
    deletions, and insertions of the polypeptide sequences or corresponding nucleic acid
 5  sequences may in some cases be made without a loss of function of the polypeptide or nucleic
    acid fragment. Substitutions may include, e.g., 1, 2, 3, or more residues. The amino acid
    residues described herein employ either the single letter amino acid designator or the three
    letter abbreviation. Abbreviations used herein are in keeping with the standard polypeptide
    nomenclature, J. Biol. Chem., (1969), 243, 3552-3559. All amino acid residue sequences are
 0  represented herein by formulae with left and right orientation in the conventional direction of
    amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus.
            In some cases a determination of the percent identity of a peptide to a sequence set
    forth herein may be required. In such cases, the percent identity is measured in terms of the
    number of residues of the peptide, or a portion of the peptide. A polypeptide of, e.g., 90%
 5  identity, may also be a portion of a larger peptide
            The term purified as used herein with reference to a polypeptide refers to a
    polypeptide that has been chemically synthesized and is thus substantially uncontaminated by
    other polypeptides, or has been separated or purified from other most cellular components by
    which it is naturally accompanied (e.g., other cellular proteins, polynucleotides, or cellular
 '0 components).      An example of a purified polypeptide is one that is at least    7 0%,  by dry
    weight, free from the proteins and naturally occurring organic molecules with which it
    naturally associates. A preparation of a purified polypeptide therefore can be, for example, at
    least 80%, at least 90%, or at least 99%, by dry weight, the polypeptide. Polypeptides also
    can be engineered to contain a tag sequence (e.g., a polyhistidine tag, a myc tag, or a FLAG*
25  tag) that facilitates the polypeptide to be purified or marked (e.g., captured onto an affinity
    matrix, visualized under a microscope).         Thus a purified composition that comprises a
    polypeptide refers to a purified polypeptide unless otherwise indicated. The term isolated
    indicates that the polypeptides or nucleic acids of the invention are not in their natural
    environment.      Isolated products of the invention may thus be contained in a culture
30  supernatant, partially enriched, produced from heterologous sources, cloned in a vector or
    formulated with a vehicle, etc.
            Polypeptides may include a chemical modification; a term that, in this context, refers
    to a change in the naturally-occurring chemical structure of amino acids. Such modifications
    may be made to a side chain or a terminus, e.g., changing the amino-terminus or carboxyl
                                                   10

    terminus. In some embodiments, the modifications are useful for creating chemical groups
    that may conveniently be used to link the polypeptides to other materials, or to attach a
    therapeutic agent.
             Specific binding, as that term is commonly used in the biological arts, refers to a
 5  molecule that binds to a target with a relatively high affinity compared to non-target tissues,
    and generally involves a plurality of non-covalent interactions, such as electrostatic
    interactions, van der Waals interactions, hydrogen bonding, and the like. Specific binding
    interactions    characterize  antibody-antigen    binding,    enzyme-substrate  binding,   and
    specifically binding protein-receptor interactions; while such molecules may bind tissues
 0  besides their targets from time to time, such binding is said to lack specificity and is not
    specific binding. The peptide ERY1 and its derivatives and the human erythrocyte binding
    peptides and their derivatives may bind non-erythrocytes in some circumstances but such
    binding has been observed to be non-specific, as evidenced by the much greater binding of
    the peptides to the erythrocytes as opposed to other cells or proteins.
 5          Thus, embodiments include a ligand that binds with specificity to an erythrocyte and
    does not specifically bind other blood components, e.g., one or more of: blood proteins,
    albumin, fibronectin, platelets, white blood cells, substantially all components found in a
    blood sample taken from a typical human.         In the context of a blood sample, the term
    "substantially all" refers to components that are typically present but excludes incidental
 '0 components in very low concentrations so that they do not effectively reduce the titer of
    otherwise bioavailable ligands.
    Antibody peptides
            In addition to peptides that bind erythrocytes, proteins are also presented herein,
25  specifically antibodies and especially single chain antibody fragments.        Techniques for
    raising an antibody against an antigen are well known. The term antigen, in this context,
    refers to a site recognized by a host immune system that responds to the antigen. Antigen
    selection is known in the arts of raising antibodies, among other arts. Embodiments include
    use of these peptides in a molecular fusion and other methods presented herein. Antigens
30  may be recombinantly expressed in their full form or as partial domains fused to tags that
    enhance expression or stability of the protein. The recombinant protein antigen may then be
    immobilized on a plate or bead, and used as the affinity target for the library screening
    process. Antigens may also be isolated from cellular preparations of whole blood, from
    which purified or complex mixtures of membrane proteins may be immobilized on a solid
                                                 11

    matrix (bead, plate, or other), and used as affinity targets for the screening process.
            Artisans reading this disclosure will be able to create antibodies that specifically bind
    erythrocytes.  Examples 4-6 relate to making antibodies or fragments thereof.           Numerous
    parallel techniques are used to discover new antibodies or antibody fragments or to make
 5  compositions comprising such fragments active towards erythrocytes, including but not
    limited to phage display, yeast display, and bacterial display. Additional erythrocyte binding
    antibodies or antibody fragments, or scFvs may be generated specifically for one or more of
    the following targets or group of targets (collectively referred to herein as the Erythrocyte
    Target Group) chosen from the group consisting of Band 3 (CD233), aquaporin-1, Glut-1,
 0  Kidd antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE (CD240CE), Rh30D (CD240D),
    Kx, glycophorin A (CD235a), glycophorin B (CD235b),                   glycophorin C (CD235c),
    glycophorin D (CD235d), Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARC (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF (CD55),
    Globoside,    CD44,     ICAM-4      (CD242),    Lu/B-CAM        (CD239),     XG1/XG2      (CD99),
    EMMPRIN/neurothelin        (CD147),    JMH,     Glycosyltransferase,     Cartwright,    Dombrock,
 5  C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2, stomatin, BA-1 (CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H
    antigen (CD173).
            Additionally, new erythrocyte-specific antibodies may be generated by immunization
    of mice with intact, or protein preparations of, human erythrocytes. Following immunization
    with the target formulated in adjuvant, mice are sacrificed at pre-determined time points and
 '0 their antibody repertoires are sequenced and/or their B cells isolated for hybridoma-based
    screening.    These antibodies or antibody fragments            may be optimized by several
    aforementioned in vitro techniques, for improved binding and/or stability parameters.
    Additional erythrocyte binding antibodies or antibody fragments may be generated by using
    antibody hybridoma clones previously discovered to bind erythrocytes.              They may be
25  generated, for instance, by using the method used to generate the TER119 scFv.              As a
    template, or as an antibody source, the following hybridoma clones may be used, among
    others: BRIC 4, 5, 6, 10, 14, 18, 39, 66, 68, 69, 87, 108, 110, 111, 125, 126, 128, 145, 155,
    157, 163, 170, 198, 203, 216, 220, 221, 222, 229, 230, 231, 235, or 256; BRAC 17, 18;
    BGRL 1, 2, 11, 100; BRAD 3; BIRMA D6, D10, K3, 84B; 6A7; COE; or KZi.
30          The term peptide is used interchangeably with the term polypeptide herein.
    Antibodies and antibody fragments are peptides.         The term antibody fragment refers to a
    portion of an antibody that retains the antigen-binding function of the antibody.             The
    fragment may literally be made from a portion of a larger antibody or alternatively may be
    synthesized de novo.     Antibody fragments include, for example, a single chain variable
                                                  12

    fragment (scFv) An scFv is a fusion protein of the variable regions of the heavy (VH) and
    light chains (VL) of immunoglobulin, connected with a linker peptide, e.g., about 10 to about
    50 amino acids. The linker can either connect the N-terminus of the VH with the C-terminus
    of the VL, or vice versa.      The term scFv includes divalent scFvs, diabodies, triabodies,
 5  tetrabodies and other combinations of antibody fragments.          Antibodies have an antigen
    binding portion referred to as the paratope. The term peptide ligand refers to a peptide that is
    not part of a paratope.
            The binding of erythrocytes, by antibodies and fragments thereof, by peptidic binding
    ligands, and by aptamers, may be performed without covalent bonding to the erythrocytes.
 0  The binding may be performed in vivo and without an ex vivo erythrocyte binding event.
    This binding event, including the resultant association of an antigen with the erythrocyte, can
    be performed without causing the erythrocytes to be apoptotic.             The process may be
    performed so that the surface molecules of erythrocytes are not crosslinked to each other by a
    crosslinking agent and/or the binding event, and are not crosslinked by covalent bonds.
 5
    Bi-specific protein constructs to bind antigens to erythrocytes
            When creating protein constructs that bind to erythrocytes, a main design option is to
    create a single protein or molecular fusion that contains both the antigen of interest and the
    erythrocyte-binding moiety.
 0O         An alternative design that may be more efficient in production and use is a bi-specific
    protein or molecular construct that contains one domain that binds to erythrocytes fused to an
    additional domain that binds directly or indirectly to the antigen of interest. The actual
    antigen of interest is not included in this molecular fusion, only a moiety that binds directly
    or indirectly to the antigen of interest. As such, there is no requirement to modify or engineer
25  the antigen of interest. One example of such a design is a bi-specific antibody or antibody
    fragment, with one antibody domain specific for erythrocytes recombinantly fused to a
    second antibody domain that specifically binds a biomolecule having the antigen of interest.
    Multiple different bi-specific antibody constructs are implemented, including but not limited
    to tandem scFv's, diabodies, and tandem scFv-IgG molecules (62). Other non-proteinaceous
30  scaffolds are also used, including polymeric nanoparticles or other multivalent polymer
    conjugates, which are engineered for dual specificity by harboring a domain that binds to the
    antigen of interest, and another domain that binds to erythrocytes.
            The affinity moieties of the bi-specific construct may be any combination of peptide
    domains and/or antibody fragment domains. Peptides that bind to erythrocytes or the target
                                                  13

    protein antigen are obtained with conventional peptide library screening techniques,
    including, e.g., bead or multiplexed peptide library screening, phage display, bacterial
    display, and yeast display.       The engineered peptide is characterized for specificity and
    affinity to its binding target using standard biochemical assays, e.g., ELISA, surface plasmon
 5  resonance, and flow cytometric-based methods. Antibodies or antibody fragments that bind
    to erythrocytes or the target protein antigen are obtained using conventional techniques, e.g.,
    hybridoma-based       selection methods, phage display, yeast display, bacterial        display,
    ribosomal display, or direct antibody gene or proteomics-based sequencing methods of
    immunized animals.        The engineered antibody or antibody fragment is characterized for
 0  specificity and affinity to its binding target using standard biochemical assays, e.g., ELISA,
    surface plasmon resonance, and flow cytometric-based methods.
            Following discovery and characterization of each affinity moiety (peptide, antibody,
    and/or antibody domain), they are fused to form a bi-specific molecular construct using
    standard recombinant DNA techniques such as assembly PCR or direct gene synthesis, then
 5  the fusion protein is expressed in a suitable host. Bi-specific constructs are also created by
    chemically conjugating two individual moieties together in any combination deemed suitable
    for bi-specific binding (peptide-peptide, peptide-antibody fragment, etc). Two antibody
    domains are used to create bi-specific antibodies using various state-of-the-art architectures
    (1). Additionally, a synthetic polymeric scaffold (PEG, PPG, or other) is used to create stable
 '0 linkages between each binding moiety and improve flexibility of the construct. Branched
    polymers are also used to increase the affinity of binding to the erythrocyte, to the protein
    antigen, or both, by avidity effects.
            Characterization of binding efficacy of the bi-specific construct is performed using
    standard in vitro biochemical binding affinity assays, such as ELISA and surface plasmon
25  resonance. In vivo performance of the bi-specific construct is performed by injecting the bi
    specific construct or the bispecific construct and the antigen into an animal model such as
    mice or rats, then sampling blood and testing for both erythrocyte and antigen binding using
    similar in vitro assays.
            Embodiments include a pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising: an
30  erythrocyte-binding moiety joined to a domain that specifically binds a target. The target
    may comprise a protein, with the protein further comprising a tolerogenic antigen. The
    erythrocyte-binding moiety may comprises a peptide ligand, an antibody, an antibody
    fragment, a single chain antigen binding domain (ScFv) or an aptamer. The domain may be
    chosen from the group consisting of an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single chain
                                                  14

   antigen binding domain (ScFv), a peptide ligand, and an apatamer.         An embodiment is a
   composition that comprises a member of the group chosen from a molecular fusion, a tandem
   scFv, a diabody, and a tandem scFv-IgG molecule, with the erythrocyte-binding moiety and
   the domain being part of said member. A single fusion protein or nucleic acid encoding the
 5 same may comprise the erythrocyte-binding domain and the other domain that binds the
   target.
   Therapeutic depletion of antigen-specific antibodies using erythrocyte-bindingantigens
           The induction of antigen-specific antibodies is detrimental to treatment and can cause
 0 dangerous    side-effects during protein replacement therapies, in the pathogenesis            of
   autoimmunity, and during biologics treatment in general (63-68). Therapeutic interventions
   capable of depleting circulating antigen-specific antibodies in the blood would have positive
   clinical impact, in that depletion of such drug-specific antibodies would enable future
   treatment with the drug while diminishing the risk of adverse immunological side-effects due
 5 to drug-antibody complexes.     In the example case of hemophilia-A, approximately 30% of
   patients induce anti-drug antibodies towards the standard therapeutic protein drug Factor
   VIII, thus making further treatment with Factor VIII dangerous and inefficacious.              A
   therapeutic intervention depleting Factor VIII-specific circulating antibodies in such a patient
   re-enables the therapeutic Factor VIII treatment regimen, and obviates the need to switch the
 0 patient to other more expensive and less effective treatment alternatives. In the example case
   of systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE, lupus), an autoimmune disease mediated mainly by
   the induction of antibodies towards native auto-antigens in the body, a therapeutic treatment
   capable of depleting auto-antigen-specific antibodies circulating in the blood would greatly
   decrease the pathogenesis and progression of disease onset.
25         In order to deplete antigen-specific antibodies, antigens are engineered to bind to
   circulating erythrocytes following administration.    Molecular constructs of an erythrocyte
   biding moiety fused to the antigen of interest are created to form the erythrocyte-binding
   antigen. Alternatively, a bi-specific construct may be implemented to create an erythrocyte
   binding formulation of the antigen, as described above. In this manner, upon injection of the
30 erythrocyte-binding antigen, any circulating antibody specific for the antigen will bind to the
   engineered antigen, and thus be closely associated with a circulating erythrocyte in situ.
   During the close physical association of an antigen-specific antibody to a naturally circulating
   cell such as the erythrocyte, dangerous inflammatory immune effects are inhibited by
   regulatory signals present on the erythrocyte.       Erythrocytes express several regulatory
                                                15

   molecules on their surface, including CD55 and CD59, among others (67). Thus, antigen
   specific antibodies remain bound to erythrocytes and traffic to zones of natural clearance of
   erythrocytes, during which they are cleared as well.          The antigen-decorated erythrocyte
   serves as a cellular safe-deposit and a depletion carrier for the antigen-specific antibody.
 5         Depletion    of antigen-specific    antibodies    is  characterized    in vivo    following
   administration of the engineered antigen construct, by periodic sampling of blood from test
   animals and performing antigen-specific antibody titration techniques, such as ELISAs.
   Specific deletion or inactivation of the antibody-secreting immune cell (B cell, plasma cell, or
   other) is also characterized by isolation of immune cells from the blood, bone marrow,
 0 spleen, or lymphatic system of recipient mice and performing antigen-specific in vitro
   restimulations    B-cell  ELISpots    assays,   and multi-parameter        flow   cytometry.      In
   autoimmunity-related studies, relevant mouse models of autoimmune disorders are used to
   characterize the effects of erythrocyte-binding antigens in auto-antigen depletion.
           Uses of the compositions include removing antibodies from circulation and/or binding
 5 them to red blood cells.      An embodiment is a pharmaceutically acceptable composition
   comprising: an erythrocyte-binding moiety joined to an antigen. The antigen may be a native
   auto-antigen, e.g., a lupus erythematosis antigen. The antigen may alternatively be an antigen
   for a therapeutic protein that is administered to a patient, e.g., a Factor VIII antigen.
 O Aptamersfor specific binding of erythrocytes
           In addition to peptide ligands that bind erythrocytes, nucleotide aptamer ligands for
   erythrocyte surface components are taught. Accordingly, aptamers are to be made and used
   as described herein for other erythrocyte-binging moieties. DNA and RNA aptamers may be
   used to provide non-covalent erythrocyte binding. As they are only composed of nucleotides,
25 aptamers are promising biomolecular targeting moieties in that screening methodologies are
   well established, they are readily chemically synthesized, and pose limited side-effect toxicity
   and/or immunogenicity due to their rapid clearance in vivo (Keefe, Pai, et al., 2010).
   Furthermore, due to the non-canonical nature of the nucleotide-target protein interaction, any
   productive agonist signaling upon target binding in vivo is unlikely, thus contributing low
30 immunogenicity and toxicity. As such, numerous aptamer-based molecules are currently in
   human clinical trials for a number of clinical indications, including leukemia, macular
   degeneration, thrombosis, and type 2 diabetes (Keefe, Pai, et al., 2010). Aptamers have also
   been used as targeting agents to deliver drug payloads to specific tissues in vivo, in
   applications such as cancer chemotherapy and fluorescence or radiological tumor detection
                                                 16

    techniques (Rockey, Huang, et al., 2011; Savla, Taratula, et al., 2011).
            Aptamers are oligonucleic acids or peptides that bind to a specific target molecule.
    Aptamers are usually created to bind a target of interest by selecting them from a large
    random sequence pool. Aptamers can be classified as DNA aptamers, RNA aptamers, or
 5  peptide aptamers. Nucleic acid aptamers are nucleic acid species that have been engineered
    through repeated rounds of in vitro selection or Systematic Evolution of Ligands by
    Exponential Enrichment (SELEX) method (Archemix, Cambridge, MA, USA) (Sampson,
    2003) to specifically bind to targets such as small molecules, proteins, nucleic acids, cells,
    tissues and organisms.     Peptide aptamers typically have a short variable peptide domain,
 0  attached at both ends to a protein scaffold. Peptide aptamers are proteins that are designed to
    interfere with other protein interactions inside cells. They consist of a variable peptide loop
    attached at both ends to a protein scaffold. This double structural constraint greatly increases
    the binding affinity of the peptide aptamer to be comparable to an antibody. The variable
    loop length is typically composed of about ten to about twenty amino acids, and the scaffold
 5  is a protein which has good solubility and is compact.       For example the bacterial protein
    Thioredoxin-A is a scaffold protein, with the variable loop being inserted within the reducing
    active site, which is a -Cys-Gly-Pro-Cys- loop in the wild protein, the two Cysteines lateral
    chains being able to form a disulfide bridge.
             Some techniques for making aptamers are detailed in Lu et al., Chem Rev
 '0 2009:109(5):1948-1998,      and also in US       7,892,734, US 7,811,809,    US 2010/0129820,
    US 2009/0149656, US 2006/0127929, and US 2007/0111222.               Example 8 further details
    materials and methods for making and using aptamers for use with the embodiments
    disclosed herein.
25  Molecularfusion
            A molecular fusion may be formed between a first peptidic erythrocyte binding ligand
    and a second peptide. The fusion comprises the peptides conjugated directly or indirectly to
    each other. The peptides may be directly conjugated to each other or indirectly through a
    linker. The linker may be a peptide, a polymer, an aptamer, a nucleic acid, or a particle. The
30  particle may be, e.g., a microparticle, a nanoparticle, a polymersome, a liposome, or a
    micelle. The polymer may be, e.g., natural, synthetic, linear, or branched. A fusion protein
    that comprises the first peptide and the second peptide is an example of a molecular fusion of
    the peptides, with the fusion protein comprising the peptides directly joined to each other or
    with intervening linker sequences and/or further sequences at one or both ends.             The
                                                  17

    conjugation to the linker may be through covalent bonds. Other bonds include ionic bonds.
    Methods include preparing a molecular fusion or a composition comprising the molecular
    fusion, wherein the molecular fusion comprises peptides that specifically bind to erythrocytes
    and a therapeutic agent, tolerizing antigen, or other substance.
 5          The term molecular fusion, or the term conjugated, refers to direct or indirect
    association by chemical bonds, including covalent, electrostatic ionic, charge-charge. The
    conjugation creates a unit that is sustained by chemical bonding. Direct conjugation refers to
    chemical bonding to the agent, with or without intermediate linkers or chemical groups.
    Indirect conjugation refers to chemical linkage to a carrier.          The carrier may largely
 0  encapsulate the agent, e.g., a polymersome, a liposome or micelle or some types of
    nanoparticles, or have the agent on its surface, e.g., a metallic nanoparticle or bead, or both,
    e.g., a particle that includes some of the agent in its interior as well as on its exterior. The
    carrier may also encapsulate an antigen for immunotolerance. For instance a polymersome,
    liposome, or a particle may be made that encapsulates the antigen. The term encapsulate
 5  means to cover entirely, effectively without any portion being exposed, for instance, a
    polymersome may be made that encapsulates an antigen or an agent.                    Examples of
    therapeutic agents are single-chain variable fragments (scFv), antibody fragments, small
    molecule drugs, bioactive peptides, bioactive proteins, and bioactive biomolecules.
            Conjugation may be accomplished by covalent bonding of the peptide to another
 '0 molecule, with or without use of a linker. The formation of such conjugates is within the
    skill of artisans and various techniques are known for accomplishing the conjugation, with
    the choice of the particular technique being guided by the materials to be conjugated. The
    addition of amino acids to the polypeptide (C- or N-terminal) which contain ionizable side
    chains, i.e. aspartic acid, glutamic acid, lysine, arginine, cysteine, histidine, or tyrosine, and
25  are not contained in the active portion of the polypeptide sequence, serve in their
    unprotonated state as a potent nucleophile to engage in various bioconjugation reactions with
    reactive groups attached to polymers, i.e. homo- or hetero-bi-functional PEG (e.g., Lutolf and
    Hubbell, Biomacromolecules 2003;4:713-22, Hermanson, Bioconjugate Techniques, London.
    Academic Press Ltd; 1996).       In some embodiments, a soluble polymer linker is used, and
30  may be adminsited to a patient in a pharmaceutically acceptable form. Or a drug may be
    encapsulated in polymerosomes or vesicles or covalently attached to the peptide ligand.
            An embodiment is a conjugation of a non-protein therapeutic agent and a peptide
    ligand, antibody, antibody fragment, or aptamer that binds specifically to an erythrocyte.
    Application of the erythrocyte binding peptide methodology is not restricted to polypeptide
                                                  18

    therapeutics; rather it may be translated into other drug formulations, such as small molecules
    and polymeric particles.      In the long history of small molecules and their application in
    medicine, short circulation half-lives and poor bioavailability have consistently plagued their
    efficacy in vivo.      Polymeric micelles and nanoparticles represent a relatively newer
 5  generation of drug class, yet their pharmacokinetic behavior remains sub-optimal for reasons
    that include a high clearance rate via the action of the reticuloendothelial system (Moghimi
    and Szebeni, 2003).      The erythrocyte-binding design can be extended to these other drug
    classes to increase their circulation half-lives and clinical efficacy.
            The conjugate may comprise a particle.         The erythrocyte binding peptide may be
 0  attached to the particle. An antigen, agent, or other substance may be in or on the particle.
    Examples of nanoparticles, micelles, and other particles are found at, e.g., US 2008/0031899,
    US 2010/0055189, US 2010/0003338, which applications are hereby incorporated by
    reference herein for all purposes, including combining the same with a ligand as set forth
    herein; in the case of conflict, however, the instant specification controls.
 5          Nanoparticles may be prepared as collections of particles having an average diameter
    of between about 10 nm and about 200 nm, including all ranges and values between the
    explicitly articulated bounds, e.g., from about 20 to about 200, and from about 20 to about 40,
    to about 70, or to about 100 nm, depending on the polydispersity which is yielded by the
    preparative method. Various nanoparticle systems can be utilized, such as those formed from
 '0 copolymers of poly(ethylene glycol) and poly(lactic acid), those formed from copolymers of
    poly(ethylene oxide) and poly(beta-amino ester), and those formed from proteins such as
    serum albumin. Other nanoparticle systems are known to those skilled in these arts. See also
    Devalapally et al., Cancer Chemother Pharmacol., 07-25-06; Langer et al., International
    Journal of Pharmaceutics, 257:169-180 (2003); and Tobio et al., PharmaceuticalResearch,
25  15(2):270-275 (1998).
            Larger particles of more than about 200 nm average diameter incorporating the
    cartilage tissue-binding ligands may also be prepared, with these particles being termed
    microparticles herein since they begin to approach the micron scale and fall approximately
    within the limit of optical resolution.          For instance, certain techniques for making
30  microparticles are set forth in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,227,165, 6,022,564, 6,090,925, and
    6,224,794.
            Functionalization of nanoparticles to employ targeting capability requires association
    of the targeting polypeptide with the particle, e.g., by covalent binding using a bioconjugation
    technique, with choice of a particular technique being guided by the particle or nanoparticle,
                                                    19

    or other construct, that the polypeptide is to be joined to. In general, many bioconjugation
    techniques for attaching peptides to other materials are well known and the most suitable
    technique may be chosen for a particular material. For instance, additional amino acids may
    be attached to the polypeptide sequences, such as a cysteine in the case of attaching the
 5  polypeptide to thiol-reactive molecules.
            To create a multimeric molecule capable of displaying multiple different bioactive
    molecules, a commercially available 8-arm PEG dendrimer was chemically modified to
    include reactive groups for facile conjugation reactions.       The 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide
    contained the pyridyldisulfide group that reacts readily with thiolates from small molecules
 0  and/or cysteine-containing peptides or proteins, resulting in a disulfide-bond between the
    attached bioactive moiety and the 8-arm PEG scaffold. The multimeric architecture of the 8
    arm PEG allowed the conjugation of different peptides or molecules to the scaffold, thus
    creating a hetero-functionalized biomolecule with multiple activities by virtue of its attached
    moieties.    Heterofunctionalized fluorescent 8-arm PEG constructs, capable of binding
 5  erythrocytes in vitro (Fig. 4A) and in vivo (Fig. 4B) were created. This binding was sequence
    specific to the ERY1 peptide, as conjugates harboring the non-specific MIS peptide
    demonstrated little to no binding to erythrocytes.      The binding in vivo was long-lived, as
    fluorescent 8-arm PEG-ERY1-ALEXAFLUOR647 was detected on circulating erythrocytes
    5 h following intravenous administration, and displayed a cell-surface half-life of 2.2 h (Fig.
 '0 5). To demonstrate the induction of tolerance in an autoimmune diabetic mouse model, an 8
    arm PEG conjugated with both ERY1 and the diabetes antigen chromogranin-A (CrA) was
    created. The modular nature of the 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide scaffold made it possible to
    co-conjugate     different    of    thiol-containing   molecules      by    sequentially    adding
    stoichiometrically defined quantities of the molecules.
25          The molecular fusion may comprise a polymer. The polymer may be branched or
    linear. The molecular fusion may comprise a dendrimer.            In general, soluble hydrophilic
    biocompatbile polymers may be used so that the conjugate is soluble and is bioavailable after
    introduction into the patient.       Examples of soluble polymers are polyvinyl alcohols,
    polyethylyene imines, and polyethylene glycols (a term including polyethylene oxides)
30  having a molecular weight of at least 100, 400, or between 100 and 400,000 (with all ranges
    and values between these explicit values being contemplated).           Solubility in this context
    refers to a solubility in water or physiological saline of at least 1 gram per liter. Domains of
    biodegradable    polymers may also be used, e.g., polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid,
    copolymers of polylactic and polyglycolic acid, polycaprolactones, polyhydroxy butyric acid,
                                                   20

    polyorthoesters, polyacetals, polydihydropyrans, and polycyanoacylates.
            In some embodiments, a polypeptide-polymer association, e.g., a conjugate, is
    prepared and introduced into the body as a purified composition in a pharmaceutically
    acceptable condition, or with a pharmaceutical excipient. The site of introduction may be,
 5  e.g., systemic, or at a tissue or a transplantation site.
            Artisans may prepare fusion proteins using techniques known in these arts.
    Embodiments include preparing fusion proteins, isolating them, and administering them in a
    pharmaceutically acceptable form with or without other agents, e.g., in combination with an
    interleukin of TGF-beta. Embodiments include a vector for, and methods of, transfecting a
 0  cell to thereby engineer the cell to make the fusion protein in vivo, with the cell being
    transfected in vitro, ex vivo, or in vivo, and with the cell being a member of a tissue implant
    or distinct therefrom.     The following U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated by
    reference herein for all purposes, including the purposes of making fusion proteins, with the
    instant specification controlling in case of conflict: 5227293, 5358857, 5885808, 5948639,
 5  5994104, 6512103,         6562347,    6905688,    7175988, 7704943,   US 2002/0004037, US
    2005/0053579, US 2005/0203022, US 2005/0250936, US 2009/0324538.
            Embodiments of a molecular fusion include, for example, a molecular fusion that
    comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte-binding moiety that specifically binds an
    erythrocyte in the patient and thereby links the antigen to the erythrocyte, wherein the
 '0 molecular fusion is administered in an amount effective to produce immunotolerance to a
    substance that comprises the tolerogenic antigen.         Embodiments include, for example, a
    composition comprising an erythrocyte-binding moiety that specifically binds an erythrocyte
    joined to a carrier chosen from the group consisting of a polymer, a branched polymer, and a
    particle, wherein the carrier is joined to a therapeutic agent. The particle may be, e.g., a
25  microparticle, a nanoparticle, a polymersome, a liposome, or a micelle.       The erythrocyte
    binding moiety may comprises a peptide comprising at least 5 consecutive amino acid
    residues of a sequence chosen from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:13,
     SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17, SEQ ID NO:1, and
    conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said sequence specifically binds an erythrocyte.
30  The erythrocyte-binding moiety may comprise an antibody, antibody fragment, aptamer, scFv
    or peptide ligand. Embodiments of a molecular fusion include an erythrocyte binding moiety
    and a tolerogenic antigen, an antibody, an antibody fragment, an ScFv, a small molecule
    drug, a particle, a protein, a peptide, or an aptamer.
            In a preferred aspect of the invention there is provided a molecular fusion that
                                                    21

    comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte-binding moiety selected from Band 3
    (CD233), glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c) and glycophorin D (CD235d).
    The molecular fusion is particularly for use in producing immunotolerance. A preferred
    molecular fusion is one that comprises a tolerogenic antigen selected from: a protein, a
 5  portion of a protein, a human protein or portion thereof, a nonhuman protein or portion
    thereof, a glycan, a glycan of a protein that comprises nonhuman glycosylation, a human
    autoimmune antigen, a protein therapeutic for a human or a portion thereof, and a portion of a
    human food, proteins deficient by genetic disease, proteins with nonhuman glycosylation,
    nonhuman proteins, synthetic proteins not naturally found in humans, human food antigens,
 0  human transplantation antigens, and human autoimmune antigens; and an erythrocyte-binding
    moiety selected from Band 3 (CD233), glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c),
    glycophorin D (CD235d).
    Erythrocyte binding ligandsfor improved pharmacokinetics
 5          As many drugs are systemically delivered to the blood circulatory system, the answer
    to the problem of effective drug delivery often focuses on maintaining the drug in the blood
    for extended periods of time.      Thus, the development of long-circulating (long half-life)
    therapeutics that remain biologically available in the blood for extended time periods will
    represent a new generation of drugs engineered for efficacy, safety, and economic feasibility.
 10         Embodiments of the invention include molecular fusions of an erythrocyte-binding
    peptide and a therapeutic agent. Molecular fusions between peptides that specifically bind to
    erythrocytes and a therapeutic agent or other substance provide an increased circulation time
    (circulating half-life in blood in vivo) for the agent/substance.     The increase may be, for
    instance from about 1.5-fold to 20-fold increase in serum half-life, artisans will immediately
25  appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated,
    e.g., about 3-fold or about 6-fold or between about 3 fold and about 6-fold.
            The molecular fusions may be accomplished by, for instance, recombinant addition of
    the peptide or adding the peptide by chemical conjugation to a reactive site on the therapeutic
    agent or associated molecule or particle. As solid-phase peptide synthesis can be used to
30  synthesize high yields of pure peptide with varying terminal reactive groups, there exist
    multiple conjugation strategies for the attachment of the peptide onto the therapeutic.
    Though this functionalization method differs with the recombinant method used with
    proteins, the effect (erythrocyte binding leading to increased circulation half life) is
    postulated to be the same.
                                                 22

             One embodiment of the invention involves functionalization of therapeutic agents
    with short peptide ligands that specifically bind to erythrocytes as tools for the improvement
    of pharmacokinetic parameters of the therapeutic agents.              This half-life extension
    methodology takes into consideration pivotal parameters in therapeutic drug design, namely
 5  simplicity in manufacturing, modularity, and the ability to tune the extension effect. Using
    standard recombinant DNA techniques, proteins are easily altered at the amino acid level to
    contain new or altered functionalities. Generally, relying the use of shorter peptide domains
    for function is preferable to using larger polypeptide domains, for reasons that include ease in
    manufacturing, correct folding into a functional therapeutic protein, and minimal biophysical
 0  alterations to the original therapeutic itself. Polypeptides, e.g., ERY1, a human erythrocyte
    binding ligand, or antibodies or antibody fragments, may be engineered to bind specifically to
    erythrocytes and conjugated to a therapeutic agent to extend bioavailability, e.g., as measured
    by the circulating half-life of the agent.
             The results reported herein provide opportunities to make molecular fusions to
 5  improve pharmacokinetic parameters of the therapeutic agents such as insulin, pramlintide
    acetate, growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor-1, erythropoietin, type 1 alpha interferon,
    interferon   a2a, interferon a2b, interferon       pla, interferon Plb, interferon ylb, p
    glucocerebrosidase, adenosine deaminase, granulocyte colony stimulating factor, granulocyte
    macrophage colony stimulating factor, interleukin 1, interleukin 2, interleukin 11, factor VIla,
 '0 factor VIII, factor IX, exenatide, L-asparaginase, rasburicase, tumor necrosis factor receptor,
    and enfuvirtide.
             Attempts by others to create passive half-life improvement methods focus on
    increasing the apparent hydrodynamic radius of the drug. The kidney's glomerular filtration
    apparatus is the primary site in the body where blood components are filtered. The main
25  determinant of filtration is the hydrodynamic radius of the molecule in the blood; smaller
    molecules (<80 kDa) are filtered out of the blood to a higher extent than larger molecules.
    Researchers have used this generalized rule to modify drugs to exhibit a larger hydrodynamic
    radius and thus longer half-life, mainly via chemical conjugation to large molecular weight
    water-soluble polymers, such as polyethylene glycol (PEG). The success of this method is
30  evident in the numerous PEGylated protein and small molecule therapeutics currently offered
    in the clinic (Pasut and Veronese, 2009; Fishburn, 2008). Though effective in many cases in
    increasing circulation half-life, especially as the hydrodynamic radius of the graft or fusion
    increases (Gao, Liu, et al., 2009), these methods offer challenges in manufacturing and
                                                   23

   maintenance of biological effector function.      Heterogeneities in conjugation reactions can
   cause complex product mixtures with varying biological activities, due mostly to the
   utilization of site-unspecific chemistries.     Extensive biochemical characterization often
   follows precise purification methods to retain a homogenous therapeutic product (Huang,
 5 Gough, et al., 2009; Bailon, Palleroni, et al., 2001; Dhalluin, Ross, et al., 2005).
   Furthermore, attachment of large moieties, such as branched PEGs, to reactive zones of
   proteins can lead to decreased receptor affinity (Fishbum, 2008).
            Other work by others has provided for a therapeutic protein to bind to albumin for
   increased circulation of the drug (Dennis, 2002; Walker, Dunlevy, et al., 2010). Considering
 0 the same general aforementioned rule on kidney filtration, Dennis               and colleagues
   hypothesized that increasing the apparent size of the therapeutic by engineering it to bind
   another protein in the blood (such as serum albumin) would decrease the rate of drug
   clearance. In this manner, the drug attains its large molecular size only after administration
   into the blood stream. The addition of affinity-matured serum albumin-binding peptides to
 5 antibody fragments increased their circulation time 24 fold in mice (Dennis, 2002). Though
   effective, this method is complicated by the dynamics of albumin recycle by the neonatal Fc
   receptor (FcRn) and the use of cysteine-constrained cyclic peptides for functionality. Walker
   and colleagues corroborate the results contributed by Dennis in 2002, namely that imparting
   serum albumin affinity to a protein increases its half-life. The method described by Walker
 0 and colleagues involves recombinant addition of large antibody fragments to the protein drug,
   which may cause structural as well as manufacturing complications.         Though elegant and
   effective, the methods of Dennis and Walker are complicated by use of complex cyclic or
   large domains for functionality. Though the peptides discovered by Dennis and colleagues
   displayed high affinity for albumin, they require the physical constraint of correctly forming a
25 cyclic structure prior to use.   A more bulky approach, Walker's method of fusing larger
   antibody fragments may not be amendable to proteins with an already complex folding
   structure or low expression yield.
   Single chain antibodies
30          An embodiment of the invention is a molecular fusion of an scFv with a peptide that
   specifically binds to an erythrocyte.    An scFv may be used a therapeutic agent, and its
   combination with an erythrocyte binding peptide may be used to extend its circulating half
   life and provide access to body compartments.        Recombinant antibodies and recombinant
   antibody fragments have potential as therapeutics in the biologics industry (Sheridan, 2010).
                                                24

            Single-chain variable fragment (scFv) antibody fragments comprise of the entire
    antigen-binding domain of a full-length IgG, but lack the hinge and constant fragment regions
    (Maynard and Georgiou, 2000).        Recombinant construction of a scFv involves fusing the
    variable heavy (VH) domain with the variable light (VL) domain with a short polypeptide
 5  linker consisting of tandem repeats of glycine and serine (e.g. (GGGGS) 4) (SEQ ID NO:18).
    Though the simplicity of scFv's is attractive for therapeutic applications, their main drawback
    the short circulation half lives which they exhibit, by virtue of their relatively small molecular
    weight of 26 - 28 kDa (Weisser and Hall, 2009).
            As the glycine-serine linker commonly used in scFv design is non-functional in
 0  nature, rather it exists as a physical bridge to ensure correct VH-VL folding, linker domains
    were tested herein that exhibit a function of binding to erythrocytes in the blood. Thus, the
    engineered scFv may be multifunctional and bi-specific, displaying an affinity to its native
    antigen through the VH-VL domains, and an affinity to erythrocytes in its linker domain. In
    binding to erythrocytes, the engineered scFv will exhibit a longer circulation half-life, as has
 5  been demonstrated for another model protein with this same functionality. An scFv antibody
    fragment may have a linker as described herein, or other linkers may be provided as is known
    to those of skill in these arts. An alternative embodiment provides for a free cysteine group
    engineered into the linker region of a scFv, and this cysteine thiol used to link by chemical
    conjugation an erythrocyte binding ligand.
 0O         Design of the engineered scFv antibodies focused on the importance of linker domain
    length, as well as spacing of the erythrocyte binding peptide. As the wild-type variant was
    designed and validated for antigen binding with a (GGGGS) 4 linker (SEQ ID NO: 18),
    subsequent mutants were designed with a linker minimum linker length of 20 amino acids.
    As the linker domain can modulate correct folding of the scFv into its correct tertiary
25  structure, two ERY1 containing mutants were designed. The REP mutant contains the ERY1
    peptide centered in the linker domain, flanked by the correct number of Gly and Ser residues
    to maintain the parent 20 amino acid linker length.            In the possible case where the
    hydrophobic nature of the ERY1 peptide does not linearly align, but clusters into a shorter
    assembled domain, the linker length of REP would be shorter and may thereby hinder correct
30  folding. For such reasons, the INS mutant was designed to contain the ERY1 peptide added
    into the center of the parent linker domain, lengthening the linker to 32 amino acids. As the
    ERY1 peptide was discovered with a free N-terminus, it was unknown whether or not its
    presence in a constrained polypeptide conformation would effect erythrocyte binding. To
    address this potential behavior, a scFv variant was created by chemical conjugation with
                                                  25

    synthetic ERY1 peptide, whereby the N-terminus of the peptide is free and the C-terminus is
    conjugated to the scFv .
            In this manner, the number of erythrocyte binding peptides, and thus the erythrocyte
    binding capacity of an scFv, may be tuned stoichiometrically during the conjugation reaction.
 5  Accordingly, ScFv can be engineered to comprise the erythrocyte-binding peptides as taught
    herein. Embodiments include an scFv comprising a number of ligands ranging from 1 to 20;
    artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated
    ranges are contemplated, e.g, between 2 and 6.
            Embodiments include scFv conjugated to a tolerogenic antigen to make a molecular
 0  fusion that induces tolerance, e.g., as in Example 6 describing details for creating tolerance as
    exemplified with creation of tolerance against OVA that is attached to an scFv. Example 6
    also details materials and methods for making scFv protein constructs recombinantly fused to
    an immune recognition epitope of an antigen.           The scFv is directed to recognition of
    erythrocytes.    The antigen is an antigen as described herein, e.g., a tolerogenic antigen.
 5  Working examples reported herein describe results using murine models, with the use of
    murine TERI 19 scFv used as the antibody domain in the constructs. TERI 19 is an antibody
    that binds to mouse erythrocytes. The TERI 19 antibody domain may be replaced by other
    antibody domains, for instance domains directed to an erythrocyte in human or other animals.
    For instance, the 10F7 antibody domain may be used to create antibody-antigen constructs
 '0 capable of binding human erythrocytes. Additional fusions of scFv from Ter-1 19 were made
    with three different antigens, as reported in Example 6, including the immunodominant
    MHC-I epitope of OVA, the chromogranin-A mimotope 1040-p31, and proinsulin.
            Example 13 describes other embodiments of scFvs that have been made, including
    embodiments for testing in animal models and embodiments reactive for humans.               These
25  include those relating to the protein level: TERI 19-SIINFEKL, TERI 19-ChrA, and TERI 19
    proinsulin.    These also include those relating to the genetic level: TERI 19-SIINFEKL,
    TERI 19-ChrA,        TERI 19-proinsulin,    TERI 19-uricase,     TERI 19-InsB9-23,      TERI 19
    ISQAVHAAHAEINEAGR               (SEQ    ID NO:80), TER119-H-2kb,         TER119-H-2kd,      10F7
    SIINFEKL, 10F7-ChrA, 10F7-proinsulin, and 10F7-uricase.
30
    Binding of erythrocytes to particularsites, such as tumor vasculature
            In addition to increasing the half-life of a drug, the capacity of an engineered
    therapeutic to bind erythrocytes is useful in order to selectively bind and localize erythrocytes
    to a particular site in the body. In treatment of solid tumors, transarterial chemoembolization
                                                  26

    (TACE) may be used to limit blood supply to the tumor, thereby hindering its access to
    nutrients required for growth. TACE treatment involves the surgical insertion of polymeric
    solid microparticles upstream of the tumor blood supply. As the microparticles reach the
    tumor vascular bed, they become physically trapped in the blood vessel network thereby
 5  creating a blockage for blood supply to the tumor (Vogl, Naguib, et al., 2009).
            Pursuant to the TACE theme, an embodiment herein is to use autologous erythrocytes
    circulating in the blood as natural microparticles for tumor embolization by engineering a
    tumor-homing therapeutic to contain an erythrocyte-binding peptide.          In this manner, the
    therapeutic localizes to the tumor vascular bed and recruits passing erythrocytes to bind to the
 0  vessel, thereby limiting and blocking blood flow to the tumor mass. Such a treatment is less
    invasive than classical TACE: the drug would be simply injected intravenously and use
    natural erythrocytes already present in the blood as the embolization particle.         The term
    tumor-binding or tumor-homing refers to a peptide that binds to a component accessible from
    the blood compartment in tumor vasculature or on tumor cells.
 5          Discovery of specific tumor-homing therapeutics is known in the cancer research
    field.  The paradigm of bioactive targeting of tumors relies on binding to protein markers
    specifically expressed in the tumor environment. These include, but are not limited to: RGD
    directed integrins, aminopeptidase-A and -N, endosialin, cell surface nucleolin, cell surface
    annexin-1, cell surface p32/gC1q receptor, cell surface plectin-1, fibronectin EDA and EDB,
 '0 interleukin 11 receptor a, tenascin-C, endoglin/CD105, BST-2, galectin-1, VCAM-1, fibrin,
    and tissue factor receptor. (Fonsatti, Nicolay, et al., 2010; Dienst, Grunow, et al., 2005;
    Ruoslahti, Bhatia, et al., 2010; Thijssen, Postel, et al., 2006; Schliemann, Roesli, et al., 2010;
    Brack, Silacci, et al., 2006; Rybak, Roesli, et al., 2007). A therapeutic targeted towards any
    of these molecules may be a vector to carry an erythrocyte-binding peptide to the tumor
25  vasculature to cause specific occlusion.
            An embodiment is a first ligand that specifically binds erythrocytes conjugated with a
    second ligand that specifically binds to a cancerous cell or the tumor vasculature or a
    component of the tumor vasculature, such as a protein in the subendothelium (which is
    partially exposed to the blood in a tumor) or a protein on the surface of a tumor endothelial
30  cell. The ligand may be part of a pharmaceutically acceptable composition that is introduced
    into a patient, e.g., into the bloodstream. The ligands bind to erythrocytes and the tumor
    homing ligand binds to a site at or near the tumor or tumor vasculature, or to a cancerous cell.
    The erythrocytes collect at the targeted site and block access of the target site to nutrients,
    e.g., by embolizing a blood vessel.        Given that the embolization is mechanical, being
                                                  27

   determined by the physical size of the erythrocyte, embolization will be sudden.
            Solid tumors depend heavily on their vascular supply, and biomolecular therapeutics
   as well as material therapeutics have been developed to either block growth of their vascular
   supply or to block flow to their vascular supply.         An embodiment is a biomolecular
 5 formulation or a biomolecular-nanoparticulate formulation that is to be systemically injected
   to rapidly occlude the vasculature of solid tumors, in the primary tumor or in the metastases
   at known or unknown locations.
           Tumor embolization has been approached in a number of ways, including the use of
   particle and biomolecular based methods.       Biomaterial particles, including those made of
 0 polyvinyl alcohol, are of a diameter greater than the tumor microvasculature, e.g. 50-500
   micrometers in diameter, and have been developed for use clinically in transcatheter arterial
   embolization, or TACE (Maluccio, Covey, et al., 2008).           A parallel approach includes
   chemotherapeutics     loaded   inside   the   particles for   slow    release  in  transarterial
   chemoembolization (TACE) used mainly for the treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma
 5 (Gadaleta and Ranieri, 2010).     In both cases, when particles are injected into the arterial
   circulation, usually by an interventional radiologist under radiographic guidance, these
   particles can flow into the tumor vasculature and occlude them, blocking flow (Maluccio,
   Covey, et al., 2008). With these local approaches, only the tumor that is directly targeted by
   the placement of the catheter is treated, and other tumors, such as metastases at known or
 0 unknown locations, go untreated since the particles are not easily targeted in the vessels.
   More recently, biomolecular approaches have been explored, for example using bispecific
   antibodies that recognize both a thrombosis factor and a tumor vascular endothelial marker
   not present in normal vasculature.    After binding specifically to the tumor vasculature, the
   antibody accumulates and initiates the formation of blood clots within the tumor vessels to
25 block them; this effect was only induced when the antibody was targeted to the tumor
   (Huang, Molema, et al., 1997). These biomolecular approaches have a benefit of targeting
   both primary and secondary tumors from intravenous infusions if specific tumor vascular
   signatures can be identified; yet they have a disadvantage of not providing sudden
   mechanical occlusion to the tumor.
30         Embodiments of the invention include a method of embolizing a tumor in a patient
   comprising administering a composition to a patient that comprises an erythrocyte-binding
   moiety coupled to a targeting moiety, wherein the targeting moiety is an antibody, antibody
   fragment, or peptide that is directed to a target chosen from the group consisting of a tumor
   and tumor microvasculature, and wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises a
                                                28

    peptide, an antibody, an antibody fragment, or an aptamer that specifically binds
    erythrocytes. The peptide may be, e.g., a sequence as set forth herein.
    Antigen-specific immunological tolerance
 5          In addition to improving the pharmacokinetic behavior of a therapeutic agent, it has
    been discovered that erythrocyte affinity may be used in methods of creating antigen-specific
    tolerance.     Certain working and prophetic embodiments are set forth in the Examples.
    Tolerogenesis, as demonstrated herein, can result in elimination of circulating antibodies
    against an antigen, or reduction of circulating antibodies against an antigen by a factor of at
 0  least 10, i.e., at least 100, at least 1000, or more than 10,000. Tolerogenesis can prevent, cure,
    or slow disease progression, reduce or eliminate rejection of a transplanted tissue, and reduce
    or eliminate an allergic reaction to a substance.
            Examples 3 and 10-12 detail how tolerance was created in mouse animal models
    predictive of human behavior.          Example 3 showed the creation of tolerance using a test
 5  antigen (ovalbumin) connected to a peptide ligand that binds an erythrocyte surface.
    Examples 10-12 corroborate the results of Example 3 and provide further working examples
    showing creation of tolerance using ovalbumin attached to an scFv and asparaginase attached
    to a peptidic ligand. A working example showing creation of tolerance that reverses pre
    existing immunorejection is provided in Example 12. Accordingly, embodiments include a
 '0 fusion molecule for tolerogenesis comprising asparaginase, an antigenic asparaginase
    fragment, of an antigenic mimotope of asparaginase and an erythrocyte-binding moiety, with
    the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically binding, for instance, glycophorin A or a target
    chosen from the group consisting of Band 3, glycophorin B, glycophorin C or other members
    of the Erythrocyte Target Group. The erythrocyte-binding moiety may be, for instance,
25  chosen from the group consisting of antibodies, antibody fragments, scFvs, peptide ligands
    and aptamers and/or from the group consisting of ERY19, ERY59, ERY64, ERY123,
    ERYl41, ERYl62, ERY19', ERY59', ERY64', ERY123', ERY141', and ERY162' and
    conservative substitutions thereof. These fusion molecules may be applied prophylacticly
    before a first administration of asparaginase, during a course of treatment with asparaginase,
30  and/or after a course of treatment with asparaginase. These fusion molecules may be applied
    before an immune response to asparaginase drug is observed, or after such a response is
    observed.
              In Example 3, a peptide the binds mouse erythrocytes, ERY1, had been discovered.
    A molecular fusion of ERY1 was made with a test antigen, ovalbumin (OVA). The fusion
                                                     29

   bound specifically bound to erythrocytes in vivo and did not bind other molecules, including
   those in blood or the vasculature. A lengthy circulating half-life was observed. Erythrocyte
   binding of ERY1-OVA was observed to lead to efficient cross-presentation of the OVA
   immunodominant MHC I epitope (SIINFEKL) by antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and
 5 corresponding cross-priming of reactive T cells. ERY 1-OVA induced much higher numbers
   of annexin-V* proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells than OVA, suggesting an apoptotic fate that
   would eventually lead to clonal deletion. Using an established OT-I challenge-to-tolerance
   model (Liu, Iyoda, et al., 2002) (Fig. 2), ERY1-OVA was demonstrated to prevent
   subsequent immune responses to vaccine-mediated antigen challenge, even with a very strong
 0 bacterially-derived adjuvant. Intravenous administration of ERY 1-OVA resulted in profound
   reductions in OT-I CD8* T cell populations in the draining lymph nodes (Fig. 2; gating in
   Fig. 12b) and spleens compared with mice administered unmodified OVA prior to antigen
   challenge with LPS (Fig. 2c), demonstrating deletional tolerance.       This effective clonal
   deletion exhibited in mice administered ERY1-OVA supported earlier observations of
 5 enhanced OT-I CD8* T cell cross-priming and furthermore showed that cross-priming
   occurred in the absence of APC presentation of co-stimulatory molecules to lead to deletional
   tolerance.   Intravenous administrations of ERY1-OVA caused a 39.8-fold lower OVA
   specific serum IgG levels 19 d after the first antigen administration (Fig. 3) as compared to
   OVA-treated mice. To further validate the induction of antigen-specific immune tolerance,
 0 the OT-I challenge-to-tolerance model was combined with an OVA-expressing tumor graft
   model (Fig. 2), with favorable results. The results detailed in this Example demonstrate that
   erythrocyte binding by ERY1-OVA induces antigen-specific immune tolerance. This was
   shown in response to a strongly adjuvanted challenge as well as implanted cellular grafts
   expressing a xeno-antigen. Moreover, tolerance was acheived by functional inactivation and
25 deletion of reactive CD8* T cells through interaction with antigen present on circulating
   erythrocytes, independent of direct CD4* T cell regulation. These detailed experiments with
   ERY 1, a mouse erythrocyte binding peptide, are predictive of similar results in humans using
   human erythrocyte binding peptides, several of which are taught herein. Moreover, having
   shown that peptide ligands are effective, similar results may be made using conjugates with
30 other erythrocyte binding ligands, e.g., antibodies, antibody fragments, or aptamers, with
   these moieties binding a surface molecule of an erythrocyte, for example, one of the surface
   proteins or antigens set forth herein.
           Example 10 further demonstrated the creation of tolerance to a tolerogenic antigen by
   fusing the tolerogenic antigen to an scFv that binds an erythrocyte, and preparing the fusion
                                               30

   molecule as a medicament for administration to a patient. Example 10 demonstrates induction
   of tolerance to the MHC-I immunodominant domain of OVA, which is the peptide
   SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:3). This antigen was fused to the scFv TER-1 19, which is known to
   bind to mouse erythrocytes. OT-I CD8* T cell proliferation, determined by dilution of the
 5 fluor CFSE as measured by flow cytometry, was markedly enhanced in mice administered
   TER119-SIINFEKL        compared to ERY1-OVA or OVA (Fig. 8), demonstrating that
   erythrocyte-binding increased antigen-specific CD8* T cell cross-priming compared to the
   soluble antigen SIINFEKL. Furthermore, these data demonstrate that antibody fragments
   designed to bind erythrocytes and display immune epitopes are efficiently processed by
 0 immune cells to cross-prime antigen specific T cells. These results on cross-presentation and
   cross-priming are consistent with other studies concerning tolerogenic antigen presentation
   on MHC I by APCs engulfing antigen from apoptotic cells (Albert 1998, Green 2009).
   TERI 19-SIINFEKL and ERY 1-OVA induced much higher numbers of annexin-V* and PD
   I proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells than OVA (Fig. 13), indicating an exhausted and apoptotic
 5 fate that leads to clonal deletion. This phenotype of proliferating CD8* T cells is consistent
   with other reported OT-I adoptive transfer models in which regulated antigen-specific T cell
   receptor engagement by APCs fails to induce inflammatory responses (Bursch, Rich, et al.,
   2009).
           Referring to Example 10, the ability of TER119-SIINFEKL and ERY1-OVA to
 0 prevent subsequent immune responses to a vaccine-mediated antigen challenge were
   demonstrated - even when challenged with a very strong bacterially-derived adjuvant. Fusion
   molecules with either an scFv or a peptide ligand for binding an erythrocyte were thus
   effective to produce tolerance.
           Example 11 shows that it is possible to induce antigen-specific immune tolerance
25 towards therapeutic proteins and proteins with therapeutic potential.      Many therapeutic
   proteins induce immune reactions, rendering their clinical use dangerous or ineffective.
   Asparaginase is a microbially-derived therapeutic enzyme used to treat acute lymphoblastic
   leukemia, yet also induces dangerous immune responses that obviate its repeated use. A
   mouse model was used. A fusion molecule of asparaginase and an erythrocyte-binding
30 moiety (the peptide ERYl) was administered to mice and compared to mice treated with the
   clinical drug asparaginase.      The drug asparaginase produced antibodies but the fusion
   molecule did not; this test established that antibody levels could be used as a measure of
   tolerance. Tolerance was then proven by administering the fusion molecule to mice followed
   by repeated administration of the clinical drug asparaginase, and observing that there was no
                                                31

    potent antibody response, even after a very aggressive challenge by repeated dosing with the
    drug.    In contrast, mice that received the drug but not the fusion molecule became
    immunoreactive and dangerously hypersensitive.
            Example 12 shows that immunoreversal is possible. Mice that were immunoreactive
 5  to a protein were treated to become tolerant of the protein. The asparaginase mouse model of
    Example 11 was used. Mice that were immunoreactive to the drug asparaginase were treated
    with the fusion molecule (asparaginase-and-erythrocyte binder) and became tolerant of the
    drug asparaginase.
            In contrast, prior reports teach that immunorejection is created by attaching an antigen
 0  to a surface of an erythrocyte to thereby make a vaccine, and other reports have used antigens
    encapsulated within erythrocytes to create vaccines.           For instance when antigen is
    encapsulated within an erythrocyte, a vaccine is thereby made (Murray et al., Vaccine 24:
    6129-6139 (2006)). Or antigens conjugated to an erythrocyte surface were immunogenic and
    proposed as vaccines (Chiarantini et al., Vaccine 15(3): 276-280 (1997)).       These references
 5  show that the erythrocyte delivery approach an immune response as good as those obtained
    with normal vaccines with adjuvants.           Others have reported that placement within an
    erythrocyte is needed for inducing tolerance, as in patent application WO 2011/051346,
    which also teaches several means by which to alter the erythrocyte surface to enhance
    clearance by Kupffer cells in the liver. This same application also teaches binding antibodies
 '0 to erythrocyte surface proteins such as glycophorin A, but for the purpose of making immune
    complexes on the erythrocyte to enhance its clearance by Kupffer cells.
            Embodiments set forth herein provide for a method of producing immunotolerance,
    the method comprising administering a composition comprising a molecular fusion that
    comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte-binding moiety that specifically binds an
25  erythrocyte in the patient and thereby links the antigen to the erythrocyte, wherein the
    molecular fusion is administered in an amount effective to produce immunotolerance to a
    substance that comprises the tolerogenic antigen. The erythrocyte, and patient, may be free
    of treatments that cause other alterations to erythrocytes, and free of erythrocyte crosslinking,
    chemical covalent conjugations, coatings, and other alterations other than the specific binding
30  of the peptide. The molecular fusion may comprise, or consist of, the erythrocyte-binding
    moiety directly covalently bonded to the antigen. The molecular fusion may comprise the
    erythrocyte-binding moiety attached to a particle that is attached to the antigen. The particle
    may comprise a microparticle, a nanoparticle, a liposome, a polymersome, or a micelle. The
    tolerogenic antigen may comprise a portion of a therapeutic protein, e.g., a blood factor
                                                   32

    administered to a patient suffering from a lack of production of the factor. Embodiments
    include the instances wherein: the patient is a human and the tolerogenic antigen is a human
    protein of which the patient is genetically deficient; wherein the patient is a human and the
    tolerogenic antigen comprises a portion of a nonhuman protein; wherein the patient is a
 5  human and the tolerogenic antigen comprises a portion of an engineered therapeutic protein
    not naturally found in a human; wherein the patient is a human and the tolerogenic antigen
    comprises a portion of a protein that comprises nonhuman glycosylation; wherein the
    tolerogenic antigen comprises a portion of a human autoimmune disease protein; wherein the
    tolerogenic antigen is an antigen in allograft transplantation; wherein the tolerogenic antigen
 0  comprises a portion of a substance chosen from the group consisting of human food; and/or
    wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is chosen from the group consisting of a peptide, an
    antibody, and an antibody fragment.        Embodiments include tolerization materials and
    methods wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises a peptide comprising at least 5
    consecutive amino acid residues of a sequence chosen from the group consisting of SEQ ID
 5  NO:11, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17,
    SEQ ID NO: 1, and conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said sequence specifically
    binds an erythrocyte.
            The molecular fusion may be chosen to place the antigen on the inside or the outside
    of the erythrocyte. Without being bound to a particular mechanism of action, the following
 '0 theory is presented. In man, approximately 1% of erythrocytes become apoptotic (eryptotic)
    and are cleared each day, a large number of cells, and their proteins are processed in a manner
    so as to maintain tolerance to the erythrocyte self-antigens. An antigen engineered to bind to
    erythrocytes through the use of the ERY1 peptide or a human erythrocyte binding peptide, an
    erythrocyte-binding single chain antibody or antibody, an erythrocyte-binding aptamer, or
25  another erythrocyte-binding agent may also elicit the same tolerogenic response. Given that
    the current state-of-the-art method developed by Miller and colleagues (see above) is
    cumbersome, in that it requires harvesting and reacting donor splenocytes for re
    administration, our non-covalent erythrocyte-binding method provides a simpler alternative.
    As the ERY1 -erythrocyte or human erythrocyte binding peptide-erythrocyte or other affinity
30  biomolecule (single chain antibody, antibody, or aptamer, for example) interaction occurs
    spontaneously after introduction of the antigen conjugate or fusion in vivo, the engineered
    antigen is simply administered by injection, and binding occurs in situ.
            In some cases, the tolerogenic antigen is derived from a therapeutic agent protein to
    which tolerance is desired. Examples are protein drugs in their wild type, e.g., human factor
                                                 33

    VIII or factor IX, to which patients did not establish central tolerance because they were
    deficient in those proteins; or nonhuman protein drugs, used in a human. Other examples are
    protein drugs that are glycosylated in nonhuman forms due to production, or engineered
    protein drugs, e.g., having non-native sequences that can provoke an unwanted immune
 5  response.    Examples of tolerogenic antigens that are engineered therapeutic proteins not
    naturally found in humans include human proteins with engineered mutations, e.g.,
    mutatuions to improve pharmacological characteristics.       Examples of tolerogenic antigens
    that comprise nonhuman glycosylation include proteins produced in yeast or insect cells.
             Embodiments include administering a protein at some frequency X or dose Y and also
 0  administering an antigen from that protein at a lesser frequency and/or dose, e.g., a frequency
    that is not more than 0.2X or a dose that is not more than 0.2Y; artisans will immediately
    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated,
    e.g., 0.01 or 005 X or some range therebetween.
             Embodiments include choosing the tolerogenic antigen from proteins that are
 5  administered to humans that are deficient in the protein. Deficient means that the patient
    receiving the protein does not naturally produce enough of the protein.           Moreover, the
    proteins may be proteins for which a patient is genetically deficient. Such proteins include,
    for example, antithrombin-III, protein C, factor VIII, factor IX, growth hormone,
    somatotropin, insulin, pramlintide acetate, mecasermin (IGF-1), p-gluco cerebrosidase,
 '0 alglucosidase-a,     laronidase    (a-L-iduronidase),   idursuphase     (iduronate-2-sulphatase),
    galsulphase,    agalsidase-p    (a-galactosidase),  a-i  proteinase inhibitor, and albumin.
    Accordingly, embodiments include a fusion molecule for tolerogenesis comprising an
    erythrocyte-binding moiety and at least one antigen, antigenic fragment, or antigenic
    mimotope of one or more of these proteins, with the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically
25  binding, for instance, glycophorin A or a target chosen from the group consisting of Band 3,
    glycophorin B, glycophorin C or other members of the Erythrocyte Target Group. The
    erythrocyte-binding moiety may be, for instance, chosen from the group consisting of
    antibodies, antibody fragments, scFvs, peptide ligands and aptamers.
             Embodiments include choosing the tolerogenic antigen from therapeutic antibodies
30  and antibody-like molecules, including antibody fragments and fusion proteins with
    antibodies and antibody fragments. These include nonhuman (such as mouse) antibodies,
    chimeric antibodies, and humanized antibodies. Immune responses to even humanized
    antibodies have been observed in humans (Getts, 2010). Accordingly, embodiments include
                                                   34

    a fusion molecule for tolerogenesis comprising an erythrocyte-binding moiety and at least
    one antigen, antigenic fragment, or antigenic mimotope of one or more of these proteins, with
    the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically binding, for instance, glycophorin A or a target
    chosen from the group consisting of Band 3, glycophorin B, glycophorin C or other members
 5  of the Erythrocyte Target Group. The erythrocyte-binding moiety may be, for instance,
    chosen from the group consisting of antibodies, antibody fragments, scFvs, peptide ligands
    and aptamers.
            Embodiments include choosing the tolerogenic antigen from proteins that are
    nonhuman.     Examples of such proteins include adenosine deaminase, pancreatic lipase,
 0  pancreatic amylase, lactase, botulinum toxin type A, botulinum toxin type B, collagenase,
    hyaluronidase, papain, L-Asparaginase, rasburicase, lepirudin, streptokinase, anistreplase
    (anisoylated   plasminogen    streptokinase  activator  complex),   antithymocyte    globulin,
    crotalidae polyvalent immune Fab, digoxin immune serum Fab, L-arginase, and L
    methionase.
 5          Embodiments include choosing the tolerogenic antigen from human allograft
    transplantation antigens.  Examples of these antigens are the subunits of the various MHC
    class I and MHC class II haplotype proteins, and single-amino-acid polymorphisms on minor
    blood group antigens including RhCE, Kell, Kidd, Duffy and Ss.
            In some cases, the tolerogenic antigen is a self antigen against which a patient has
 '0 developed an autoimmune response or may develop an autoimmune response. Examples are
    proinsulin (diabetes), collagens (rheumatoid arthritis), myelin basic protein (multiple
    sclerosis).
            For instance, Type 1 diabetes mellitus (TID) is an autoimmune disease whereby T
    cells that recognize islet proteins have broken free of immune regulation and signal the
25  immune system to destroy pancreatic tissue. Numerous protein antigens that are targets of
    such diabetogenic T cells have been discovered, including insulin, GAD65, chromogranin-A,
    among others. In the treatment or prevention of TID, it would be useful to induce antigen
    specific immune tolerance towards defined diabetogenic antigens to functionally inactivate or
    delete the diabetogenic T cell clones. Example 14 details how a fusion molecule presenting
30  the chromogranin-A (ChrA) mimotope as a tolerogenic antigen successfully created
    tolerogenesis to ChrA, based on T-cell data that was established as predictive in the other
    Examples.      Accordingly,  embodiments     include a fusion molecule      for tolerogenesis
    comprising chromogranin-A, an antigen or antigenic portion thereof, or a mimotope of the
    same with an erythrocyte-binding moiety, with the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically
                                                35

    binding, for instance, glycophorin A or a target chosen from the group consisting of Band 3,
    glycophorin B, glycophorin C or other members of the Erythrocyte Target Group. The
    erythrocyte-binding moiety may be, for instance, chosen from the group consisting of
    antibodies, antibody fragments, scFvs, peptide ligands and aptamers and/or from the group
 5  consisting of ERY19, ERY59, ERY64, ERY123, ERY141, ERY162, ERY19', ERY59',
    ERY64', ERYl23', ERY141', ERY162' and conservative substitutions thereof.
            Accordingly, tolerance and/or delay of onset or progression of autoimmune diseases
    may be achieved for various of the many proteins that are human autoimmune proteins, a
    term referring to various autoimmune diseases wherein the protein or proteins causing the
 0  disease are known or can be established by routine testing.
            Embodiments include testing a patient to identify an autoimmune protein and creating
    an antigen for use in a molecular fusion and creating immunotolerance to the protein.
    Embodiments include an antigen, or choosing an antigen from, one or more of the following
    proteins.   In type 1 diabetes mellitus, several main antigens have been identified: insulin,
 5  proinsulin, preproinsulin, glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD-65), GAD-67, insulinoma
    associated protein 2 (IA-2), and insulinoma-associated protein 2P (IA-23); other antigens
    include    ICA69,   ICA12    (SOX-13),    carboxypeptidase    H,   Imogen  38,   GLIMA     38,
    chromogranin-A,      HSP-60,    caboxypeptidase    E,   peripherin,  glucose   transporter  2,
    hepatocarcinoma-intestine-pancreas/pancreatic     associated protein, S100p, glial fibrillary
 '0 acidic protein, regenerating gene II, pancreatic duodenal homeobox 1, dystrophia myotonica
    kinase, islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit-related protein, and SST G
    protein coupled receptors 1-5. In autoimmune diseases of the thyroid, including Hashimoto's
    thyroiditis and Graves' disease, main antigens include thyroglobulin (TG), thyroid peroxidase
    (TPO) and thyrotropin receptor (TSHR); other antigens include sodium iodine symporter
25  (NIS) and megalin.     In thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy and dermopathy, in addition to
    thyroid autoantigens including TSHR, an antigen is insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor. In
    hypoparathyroidism, a main antigen is calcium sensitive receptor.       In Addison's disease,
    main antigens include 21-hydroxylase, 17a-hydroxylase, and P450 side chain cleavage
    enzyme (P450scc); other antigens include ACTH receptor, P450c21 and P450c17.                In
30  premature ovarian failure, main antigens include FSH receptor and o-enolase.                In
    autoimmune hypophysitis, or pituitary autoimmune disease, main antigens include pituitary
    gland-specific protein factor (PGSF) la and 2; another antigen is type 2 iodothyronine
    deiodinase.     In multiple sclerosis, main antigens include myelin basic protein, myelin
                                                 36

    oligodendrocyte glycoprotein and proteolipid protein. In rheumatoid arthritis, a main antigen
    is collagen II. In immunogastritis, a main antigen is H', K+-ATPase. In pernicious angemis,
    a main antigen is intrinsic factor. In celiac disease, main antigens are tissue transglutaminase
    and gliadin. In vitiligo, a main antigen is tyrosinase, and tyrosinase related protein 1 and 2.
 5  In myasthenia gravis, a main antigen is acetylcholine receptor. In pemphigus vulgaris and
    variants, main antigens are desmoglein 3, 1 and 4; other antigens include pemphaxin,
    desmocollins, plakoglobin, perplakin, desmoplakins, and acetylcholine receptor. In bullous
    pemphigoid, main antigens include BP180 and BP230; other antigens include plectin and
    laminin 5. In dermatitis herpetiformis Duhring, main antigens include endomysium and
 0  tissue transglutaminase. In epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, a main antigen is collagen VII.
    In systemic sclerosis, main antigens include matrix metalloproteinase 1 and 3, the collagen
    specific molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 47, fibrillin-1, and PDGF receptor; other
    antigens   include Scl-70,    U1    RNP, Th/To, Ku, Jol, NAG-2,            centromere proteins,
    topoisomerase I, nucleolar proteins, RNA polymerase I, II and III, PM-Slc, fibrillarin, and
 5  B23.    In mixed connective tissue disease, a main antigen is UlsnRNP.              In Sjogren's
    syndrome, the main antigens are nuclear antigens SS-A and SS-B; other antigens include
    fodrin, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and topoisomerase. In systemic lupus erythematosus,
    main antigens include nuclear proteins including SS-A, high mobility group box 1 (HMGB 1),
    nucleosomes, histone proteins and double-stranded DNA. In Goodpasture's syndrome, main
 .0 antigens include glomerular basement membrane proteins including collagen IV.                  In
    rheumatic heart disease, a main antigen is cardiac myosin. Other autoantigens revealed in
    autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 1 include aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase,
    histidine decarboxylase, cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase, tryptophan hydroxylase,
    tyrosine hydroxylase, phenylalanine hydroxylase, hepatic P450 cytochromes P4501A2 and
25  2A6, SOX-9, SOX-10, calcium-sensing receptor protein, and the type 1 interferons interferon
    alpha, beta and omega.     Example 15 provides detailed guidance for tolerogenesis to such
    proteins, and specifically describes a process with insulin as an example.
            In some cases, the tolerogenic antigen is a foreign antigen against which a patient has
    developed an unwanted immune response.            Examples are food antigens.      Embodiments
30  include testing a patient to identify foreign antigen and creating a molecular fusion that
    comprises the antigen and treating the patient to develop immunotolerance to the antigen or
    food.   Examples of such foods and/or antigens are provided.        Examples are from peanut:
    conarachin (Ara h 1), allergen II (Ara h 2), arachis agglutinin, conglutin (Ara h 6); from
    apple: 31 kda major allergen/disease resistance protein homolog (Mal d 2), lipid transfer
                                                  37

    protein precursor (Mal d 3), major allergen Mal d 1.03D (Mal d 1); from milk: c-lactalbumin
    (ALA), lactotransferrin; from kiwi: actinidin (Act c 1, Act d 1), phytocystatin, thaumatin-like
    protein (Act d 2), kiwellin (Act d 5); from mustard: 2S albumin (Sin a 1), 11S globulin (Sin a
    2), lipid transfer protein (Sin a 3), profilin (Sin a 4); from celery: profilin (Api g 4), high
 5  molecular weight glycoprotein (Api g 5); from shrimp: Pen a 1 allergen (Pen a 1), allergen
    Pen m 2 (Pen m 2), tropomyosin fast isoform; from wheat and/or other cerials: high
    molecular weight glutenin, low molecular weight glutenin, alpha- and gamma-gliadin,
    hordein, secalin, avenin; from strawberry: major strawberry allergy Fra a 1 -E (Fra a 1), from
    banana: profilin (Mus xp 1).
 0          Many protein drugs that are used in human and veterinary medicine induce immune
    responses, which creates risks for the patient and limits the efficacy of the drug. This can
    occur with human proteins that have been engineered, with human proteins used in patients
    with congenital deficiencies in production of that protein, and with nonhuman proteins. It
    would be advantageous to tolerize a recipient to these protein drugs prior to initial
 5  administration, and it would be advantageous to tolerize a recipient to these protein drugs
    after initial administration and development of immune response.              In patients with
    autoinimunity, the self-antigen(s) to which autoimmunity is developed are known. In these
    cases, it would be advantageous to tolerize subjects at risk prior to development of
    autoimmunity, and it would be advantageous to tolerize subjects at the time of or after
 .0 development of biomolecular indicators of incipient autoimmunity. For example, in Type 1
    diabetes mellitus, immunological indicators of autoimmunity are present before broad
    destruction of beta cells in the pancreas and onset of clinical disease involved in glucose
    homeostasis.     It would be advantageous to tolerize a subject after detection of these
    immunological indicators prior to onset of clinical disease.
25          Recent work by headed by Miller and colleagues has shown that covalently
    conjugating an antigen to allogenic splenocytes ex vivo creates antigen-specific immune
    tolerance when administered intravenously in mice (Godsel, Wang, et al., 2001; Luo,
    Pothoven, et al., 2008).    The process involves harvesting donor splenic antigen-presenting
    cells and chemically reacting them in an amine-carboxylic acid crosslinking reaction scheme.
30  The technique has proven effective in inducing antigen-specific tolerance for mouse models
    of multiple sclerosis (Godsel, Wang, et al., 2001), new onset diabetes type 1 (Fife, Guleria, et
    al., 2006), and allogenic islet transplants (Luo, Pothoven, et al., 2008).    Though the exact
    mechanism responsible for the tolerogenic response is not known, it is proposed that a major
                                                  38

    requirement involves antigen presentation without the expression of co-stimulatory molecules
    on apoptotic antigen-coupled cells (Miller, Turley, et al., 2007).             It has also been
    contemplated to encapsulate antigens within erythrocyte ghosts, processing the erythrocytes
    ex vivo and re-injecting them, as in W02011/051346.
 5
    Administration
            Many embodiments of the invention set forth herein describe compositions that may
    be administered to a human or other animal patient. Embodiments of the invention include,
    for example, molecular fusions, fusion proteins, peptide ligands, antibodies, scFv, that
 0  recognize antigens on erythrocytes or tumors or tumor vasculature, as well as combinations
    thereof. These compositions may be prepared as pharmaceutically acceptable compositions
    and with suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients.
            The compositions that bind erythrocytes may do so with specificity. This specificity
    provides for in vivo binding of the compositions with the erythrocytes, as well as alternative
 5  ex vivo processes. Accordingly, the compositions may be directly injected into a vasculature
    of the patient. An alternative is injection into a tissue, e.g., muscle, dermal, or subcutaneous,
    for subsequent erythrocyte contact and uptake.      An embodiment of the invention is a method
    of inducing tolerogenesis in a patient comprising administering a tolerizing antigen to the
    patient in association with an erythrocyte-binding moiety to thereby attach the antigen to an
 '0 erythrocyte in vivo; the in vivo attachment can thus be performed without ex vivo processing
    of erythrocytes.   This process may be performed wherein the erythrocyte is not made to be
    apoptotic as a result of the process. This process may be performed so that it is free of (does
    not involve) exposing the erythrocytes to one or more of: a crosslinking agent; a crosslinking
    agent that crosslinks surface molecules of an erythrocyte; a crosslinking agent comprising at
25  least two functional groups; a crosslinking agent that forms a covalent bind with an
    erythrocyte; functional groups that form a covalent bond with an erythrocyte; and an antigen
    and/or antigenic substance that covalently bonds to the erythrocyte.        The process may be
    performed    so that the      erythrocytes   and/or the    antigens   are free   of 1-ethyl-3-(3
    dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide) (EDC; also EDAC or EDCI) and may also be free of
30  any reactions with a carbodiimide. This process may be performed with autologous
    erythrocytes and may be free of allogeneic erythrocytes.
            Pharmaceutically     acceptable    carriers or excipients    may be     used to    deliver
    embodiments as described herein. Excipient refers to an inert substance used as a diluent or
    vehicle for a therapeutic agent. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are used, in general,
                                                    39

    with a compound so as to make the compound useful for a therapy or as a product.                 In
    general, for any substance, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is a material that is
    combined with the substance for delivery to an animal.             Conventional pharmaceutical
    carriers, aqueous, powder or oily bases, thickeners and the like may be necessary or desirable.
 5  In some cases the carrier is essential for delivery, e.g., to solubilize an insoluble compound
    for liquid delivery; a buffer for control of the pH of the substance to preserve its activity; or a
    diluent to prevent loss of the substance in the storage vessel. In other cases, however, the
    carrier   is  for   convenience,    e.g.,  a   liquid  for   more    convenient     administration.
    Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds described herein may be synthesized
 0  according to methods known to those skilled in the arts. Thus pharmaceutically acceptable
    compositions are highly purified to be free of contaminants, are biocompatible and not toxic,
    are suited to administration to a patient. In the case of water as the carrier, the water is highly
    purified and processed to be free of contaminants, e.g., endotoxins.
             The compounds described herein are typically to be administered in admixture with
 5  suitable pharmaceutical diluents, excipients, extenders, or carriers (termed herein as a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, or a carrier) suitably selected with respect to the intended
    form of administration and as consistent with conventional pharmaceutical practices. Thus
    the deliverable compound may be made in a form suitable for oral, rectal, topical, intravenous
    injection, intra-articular injection, or parenteral administration.    Carriers include solids or
 '0 liquids, and the type of carrier is chosen based on the type of administration being used.
    Suitable binders, lubricants, disintegrating agents, coloring agents, flavoring agents, flow
    inducing agents, and melting agents may be included as carriers, e.g., for pills. For instance,
    an active component can be combined with an oral, non-toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable,
    inert carrier such as lactose, gelatin, agar, starch, sucrose, glucose, methyl cellulose,
25  magnesium stearate, dicalcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, mannitol, sorbitol and the like.
    The compounds can be administered orally in solid dosage forms, such as capsules, tablets,
    and powders, or in liquid dosage forms, such as elixirs, syrups, and suspensions. The active
    compounds can also be administered parentally, in sterile liquid dosage forms. Buffers for
    achieving a physiological pH or osmolarity may also be used.
30
    EXAMPLES
    Example 1: Characterizing the Molecular Target of Binding to Mouse Erythrocytes
             Result: To search for a molecular target for the ERY1 peptide, affinity pull-down
                                                   40

    techniques using a biotinylated soluble peptide were employed; this method revealed
    glycophorin-A (GYPA) as the ERY1 ligand on the erythrocyte membrane.             When whole
    erythrocytes   were incubated with ERY1         peptide functionalized   with biotin and a
    photoactivatable crosslinker, a single 28 kDa protein was conjugated with the peptide-biotin
 5  complex, as detected by a streptavidin Western blot. The reaction lysate was extensively
    washed and purified using streptavidin magnetic beads to ensure no unlabeled proteins from
    the erythrocyte lysate remained. As expected, the mismatch peptide failed to conjugate to
    any erythrocyte proteins. The mismatch peptide, PLLTVGMDLWPW (SEQ ID NO:2), was
    designed to contain the same amino acid residues as ERY1, and to match its hydrophobicity
 0  topography.    Evidence of the apparent size of the interacting protein suggested several
    smaller, single pass membrane proteins as likely ligands, namely the glycophorins.       Anti
    GYPA Western blotting of the same purified samples from the crosslinking reaction
    confirmed that the candidate biotinlyated protein was GYPA.
             Co-localization of ERY1 phage with GYPA was analyzed by high-resolution confocal
 5  microscopy. GYPA is naturally expressed and presented as part of a complex comprised of
    several membrane and cytoskeletal proteins (Mohandas and Gallagher, 2008).             This is
    visually evident in GYPA staining, whereby non-uniform labeling was seen at the cell
    equatorial periphery.    Labeling with ERY1 phage produced extremely similar staining
    topographies. A high overlap coefficient of 0.97 in co-localization analysis, corroborated the
 '0 conclusion that ERY1 phage and anti-GYPA bind to the same protein. GYPA clustering was
    also witnessed in erythrocytes labeled with library phage, yet no phage binding thus no co
    localization was evident.
             Method:    The ERY1     (H 2N-WMVLPWLPGTLDGGSGCRG-CONH 2)                  (SEQ    ID
    NO:19) and mismatch (H 2N-PLLTVGMDLWPWGGSGCRG-CONH 2) (SEQ ID NO:20)
25  peptides were synthesized using standard solid-phase f-moc chemistry on TGR resin. The
    peptide was cleaved from the resin in 95% tri-fluoroacetic acid, 2.5% ethanedithiol, 2.5%
    water, and precipitated in ice-cold diethyl ether. Purification was conducted on a Waters
    preparative HPLC-MS using a C18 reverse phase column.
             The ERY1 and mismatch peptide were conjugated to Mts-Atf-biotin (Thermo
30  Scientific) as suggested by the manufacturer.        In brief, peptides were solubilized in
    PBS/DMF and reacted with 1.05 equivalents of Mts-atf-biotin overnight at 4'C. Following
    clarification of the reaction by centrifugation, biotinylated peptide was incubated with
    erythrocytes at in PBSA-50 for 1 h at 37'C, cells were washed twice in fresh PBS, and were
    UV irradiated at 365 nm for 8 min at room temperature. Cells were lysed by sonication and
                                                41

    the lysate was purified using streptavidin-coated magnetic beads (Invitrogen).    The eluate
    was run on an SDS-PAGE and transferred to a PVDF membrane, and immunoblotted with
    streptavidin-HRP (R&D Systems) or anti-mouse GYPA.
 5  Example 2: Characterizing of Binding to Human Erythrocytes
            Result: To characterize the selected peptides that bound to human erythrocytes,
    bacteria displaying each individual peptide were subjected to binding assays with multiple
    cell types. Six (ERY19, ERY59, ERY64, ERY123, ERY141 and ERY162) of seven peptides
    bound specifically to human erythrocytes as compared to binding towards human epithelial
 0  293T cells and human endothelial HUVECs. Additionally, peptides bound to human blood
    types A and B, but not to mouse blood indicating that these peptides were specific to human
    blood, but not dependent on the common blood group antigens. Peptides are synthesized
    using standard solid-phase f-moc chemistry, conjugated to nanoparticles, and analyzed for
    binding to individual cell types as above. Binding to erythrocyte surfaces was studied using
 5  both microscopy and flow cytometry.
    Example 3: Inducing Antigen-specific Immunological Tolerance Through Non-covalent
    Erythrocyte-binding with ERY1 Peptide-conjugated Antigen or Human Erythrocyte Binding
    Peptide-Conjugated Antigen
 10         To obtain strong and specific biophysical binding of an antigen to erythrocytes, we
    used a synthetic 12 amino acid peptide (ERYl) that we discovered by phage display to
    specifically bind to mouse glycophorin-A (Kontos and Hubbell, 2010). In this investigation,
    the model antigen OVA was used with a transgenic mouse strain (OT-I) whose CD8* T cell
    population expresses the T cell receptor specific for the MHC I immunodominant OVA
25  peptide SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:3). The ERY1 peptide was chemically conjugated to OVA
    to create an OVA variant (ERY 1-OVA) that binds mouse erythrocytes with high affinity and
    specificity (Fig. la). High-resolution confocal microscopy confirmed earlier observations
    concerning ERY1 binding (Kontos and Hubbell, 2010), namely localization to the cell
    membrane equatorial periphery, with no intracellular translocation of the ERY1-conjugated
30  protein.   ERY1-mediated binding to glycophorin-A was sequence-specific, as an OVA
    variant conjugated with a mismatch peptide (MIS-OVA), containing identical amino acids to
    ERY1 but scrambled in primary sequence, displayed negligible binding (Fig. lb).        OVA
    conjugated with only the crosslinking molecule used to conjugate the peptide did not display
    any measureable affinity towards erythrocytes, confirming that ERY 1-OVA binding resulted
                                               42

   from non-covalent interaction between the ERY1 peptide and glycophorin-A on the
   erythrocyte surface.   Furthermore, ERY1-OVA bound to erythrocytes with high affinity,
   exhibiting an antibody-like dissociation constant (Ka) of 6.2 ± 1.3 nM, as determined by
   equilibrium binding measurements (Fig. 1 c).
 5         ERY1-OVA binding was validated in vivo to circulating erythrocytes following
   intravenous administration in mice. Whole blood samples taken 30 min following injection
   of 150 pg of either OVA or ERY1-OVA confirmed the specific erythrocyte-binding
   capability of ERY1-OVA even amidst the complex heterogeneous milieu of blood and the
   vasculature. Consistent with glycophorin-A association, ERY1-OVA bound to erythrocytes
 0 (CD45-) but not to leukocytes (CD45*).          ERY1-OVA binding was unbiased as to the
   apoptotic state of the erythrocytes, binding strongly to both annexin-V* and annexin-V
   CD45- populations. Pharmacokinetic studies of the OVA conjugate demonstrated that ERY1
   OVA erythrocyte binding was long-lived in vivo, exhibiting a cell-surface half-life of 17.2 h .
   ERY1-OVA remained bound to erythrocytes for as long as 72 h following administration;
 5 during this time frame, approximately 13% of erythrocytes are cleared in the mouse
   (Khandelwal and Saxena, 2006).       Quantification of erythrocyte-bound ERY1-OVA in vivo
   showed a relatively high loading of 0.174 ± 0.005 ng of OVA per 106 erythrocytes.
           To exclude any potential physiological effects of OVA loading on erythrocyte
   function, hematological parameters were characterized at varying time points following
 0 intravenous administration of either ERY1-OVA or OVA. Erythrocyte binding by ERY1
   OVA elicited no detectable differences in hematocrit, corpuscular volume, or erythrocyte
   hemoglobin content, as compared with administration of OVA. These results demonstrate
   that  glycophorin-A-mediated      erythrocyte    binding with  antigen  did not alter     their
   hematological parameters.
25         To reveal the cellular targets of erythrocyte-bound antigen upon administration, mice
   were intravenously injected with the highly fluorescent allophycocyanin protein, conjugated
   to either ERY1 (ERYl-allophycocyanin) or MIS peptide (MIS-allophycocyanin).              Flow
   cytometric analysis of splenic DC populations 12 and 36 h following administration showed
   9.4-fold enhanced uptake of ERYl-allophycocyanin by MHCII            CD11b- CD11c' DCs as
30 compared with MIS-allophycocyanin, yet similar uptake of ERYl-allophycocyanin and MIS
   allophycocyanin by MHCII CD11b* CD11c' DCs. Additionally, MHCII              CD8a CD11c'
   CD205* splenic DCs were found to uptake ERYl-allophycocyanin to a 3.0-fold greater
   extent than MIS-allophycocyanin, though the absolute magnitude was markedly lower than
   for other DC populations in the spleen. Such targeting of antigen towards non-activated and
                                                 43

    CD8a' CD205* splenic DCs could strengthen the tolerogenic potential of erythrocyte
    binding, as these populations have been extensively implicated in apoptotic cell-driven
    tolerogenesis (Ferguson, Choi, et al., 2011; Yamazaki, Dudziak, et al., 2008). In the liver,
    ERYl-allophycocyanin also greatly enhanced uptake by hepatocytes (CD45- MHCII- CDld-;
 5  by 78.4-fold) and hepatic stellate cells (CD45- MHCII       CDld*; by 60.6-fold) as compared
    with MIS-allophycocyanin ; both populations have been reported as antigen-presenting cells
    that trigger CD8* T cell deletional tolerance (Holz, Warren, et al., 2010; Ichikawa, Mucida, et
    al., 2011; Thomson and Knolle, 2010). Interestingly, such uptake was not seen in liver DCs
    (CD45' CD1 1c') or Kupffer cells (CD45' MHCII F4/80+), which serve as members of the
 0  reticuloendothelial system that aid in clearance of erythrocytes and complement-coated
    particles. Increased uptake of erythrocyte-bound antigen by the tolerogenic splenic DC and
    liver cell populations suggests the potential for a complex interconnected mechanism of
    antigen-specific T cell deletion driven by non-lymphoid liver cell and canonical splenic cell
    cross-talk.
 5           Erythrocyte binding of ERY1-OVA was observed to lead to efficient cross
    presentation of the OVA immunodominant MHC I epitope (SIINFEKL) (SEQ ID NO:3) by
    APCs and corresponding cross-priming of reactive T cells. CFSE-labeled OT-I CD8* T cells
    (CD45.2+) were adoptively transferred into CD45.1* mice. Measurements were made of the
    proliferation of the OT-I CD8* T cells over 5 d following intravenous administration of 10 pg
 '0 of OVA, 10 pg ERY1-OVA, or 10 pg of an irrelevant erythrocyte-binding antigen, ERY1
    glutathione-S-transferase (ERY1-GST).        OT-I CD8* T cell proliferation, determined by
    dilution of the fluor CFSE as measured by flow cytometry, was markedly enhanced in mice
    administered ERY1-OVA compared to OVA, demonstrating that erythrocyte-binding
    increased antigen-specific CD8* T cell cross-priming compared to the soluble antigen.
25  Similar results were also obtained by administration of a 10-fold lower antigen dose of 1 pg,
    demonstrating the wide dynamic range of efficacy of OT-I CD8* T cell proliferation induced
    by erythrocyte-bound antigen.       The results on cross-presentation and cross-priming are
    consistent with other studies concerning tolerogenic antigen presentation on MHC I by APCs
    engulfing antigen from apoptotic cells (Albert, Pearce, et al., 1998; Green, Ferguson, et al.,
30  2009).
             To distinguish T cells being expanded into a functional effector phenotype from those
    being expanded and deleted, the proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells for annexin-V were
    analyzed as a hallmark of apoptosis and thus deletion. ERY1-OVA induced much higher
    numbers of annexin-V* proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells than OVA (Fig. 12d), suggesting an
                                                 44

   apoptotic fate that would eventually lead to clonal deletion.     The same proliferating OT-I
   CD8* T cells induced by ERY1-OVA administration exhibited an antigen-experienced
   phenotype at both 1 and 10 pg doses, displaying upregulated CD44 and downregulated
   CD62L. This phenotype of proliferating CD8* T cells is consistent with other reported OT-I
 5 adoptive transfer models in which regulated antigen-specific T cell receptor engagement by
   APCs fails to induce inflammatory responses (Bursch, Rich, et al., 2009).
           Using an established OT-I challenge-to-tolerance model (Liu, Iyoda, et al., 2002)
   (Fig. 2a), ERY1-OVA was demonstrated to prevent subsequent immune responses to
   vaccine-mediated antigen challenge, even with a very strong bacterially-derived adjuvant. To
 0 tolerize, we intravenously administered 10 pg of either OVA or ERY1-OVA 1 and 6 d
   following adoptive transfer of OT-I CD8* (CD45.2+) T cells to CD45.1* mice. After 9
   additional days to allow potential deletion of the transferred T cells, we then challenged the
   recipient mice with OVA adjuvanted with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) by intradermal injection.
   Characterization of draining lymph node and spleen cells as well as their inflammatory
 5 responses 4 d after challenge allowed us to determine if deletion actually took place.
           Intravenous administration of ERY1-OVA resulted in profound reductions in OT-I
   CD8* T cell populations in the draining lymph nodes (Fig. 2; gating in Fig. 2b) and spleens
   compared with mice administered unmodified OVA prior to antigen challenge with LPS (Fig.
   2c), demonstrating deletional tolerance.    Draining lymph nodes from ERY1-OVA-treated
 0 mice contained over 11-fold fewer OT-I CD8* T cells as compared to OVA-treated mice, and
   39-fold fewer than challenge control mice that did not receive intravenous injections of
   antigen; responses in spleen cells were similar. This effective clonal deletion exhibited in
   mice administered ERY1 -OVA supported earlier observations of enhanced OT-I CD8* T cell
   cross-priming and furthermore shows that cross-priming occurred in the absence of APC
25 presentation of co-stimulatory molecules to lead to deletional tolerance.
           To   further evaluate   the   immune response      following antigen challenge,      the
   inflammatory nature of resident lymph node and spleen cells was characterized by expression
   of interferon-y (IFNy) by OT-I CD8* T cells (Fig. 2d). Following challenge with OVA and
   LPS, the lymph nodes of mice previously treated with ERY1-OVA harbored 53-fold fewer
30 IFNy-expressing cells compared to challenge control mice (previously receiving no antigen),
   and over 19-fold fewer IFNy-expressing cells compared to mice previously treated with an
   equivalent dose of OVA (Fig. 2e), demonstrating the importance of erythrocyte binding in
   tolerogenic protection to challenge; responses in spleen cells were similar. In addition, of the
   small OT-I CD8* T cell population present in the lymph nodes and spleens of mice
                                               45

   previously treated with ERY1-OVA, a lower percentage expressed IFNy, suggesting clonal
   inactivation.   Furthermore, the magnitude of total IFNy levels produced by cells isolated
   from the draining lymph nodes upon SIINFEKL restimulation was substantially reduced in
   mice previously treated with ERY1-OVA (Fig. 2f), erythrocyte binding reducing IFN7 levels
 5 16-fold compared to OVA administration and over 115-fold compared to challenge controls.
   Of note, the suppressive phenomenon was also correlated with downregulated interleukin-10
   (IL-10) expression, as lymph node cells from mice previously treated with ERY1-OVA
   expressed 38% and 50% less IL-10 as compared with previously OVA-treated and challenge
   control mice, respectively (Fig. 2g).     Typically considered a regulatory CD4' T cell
 0 expressed cytokine in the context of APC-T cell communication to dampen Th1 responses
   (Darrah, Hegde, et al., 2010; Lee and Kim, 2007), IL-10 expression was dispensible for
   desensitization to challenge. Similar IL-10 downregulation has been implicated in CD8* T
   cell mediated tolerogenesis (Fife, Guleria, et al., 2006; Arnaboldi, Roth-Walter, et al., 2009;
   Saint-Lu, Tourdot, et al., 2009). Erythrocyte-binding also substantially attenuated humoral
 5 immune responses against antigen, as mice treated with ERY1-OVA exhibited 100-fold
   lower antigen-specific serum IgG titers compared with mice treated with soluble OVA (Fig.
   2h).    A similar reduction in OVA-specific IgG titer reduction as a result of erythrocyte
   binding was seen in non-adoptively transferred C57BL/6 (CD45.2+) mice. Following two
   intravenous administrations of 1 pg OVA or ERY1-OVA 7 d apart, ERY1-OVA treated mice
 0 exhibited 39.8-fold lower OVA-specific serum IgG levels 19 d after the first antigen
   administration (Fig 3). This apparent reduction in B cell activation, following erythrocyte
   ligation by the antigen, corroborates current hypotheses concerning non-inflammatory
   antigen presentation during tolerance induction (Miller, Turley, et al., 2007; Green, Ferguson,
   et al., 2009; Mueller, 2010).
25          To further validate the induction of antigen-specific immune tolerance, the OT-I
   challenge-to-tolerance model was combined with an OVA-expressing tumor graft model
   (Fig. 2i).    Similar to the previous experimental design, mice were tolerized by two
   intravenous administrations of 10 pg ERY 1-OVA or 10 pg OVA following adoptive transfer
   of OT-I CD8* T cells. Marked T cell deletion was detected 5 d following the first antigen
30 administration, as ERY1-OVA injected mice harbored 2.9-fold fewer non-proliferating
   (generation 0) OT-I CD8* T cells in the blood (Fig. 2j).         To determine the functional
   responsiveness of proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells in the absence of a strong exogenously
   administered    adjuvant,   OVA-expressing     EL-4     thymoma     cells   (E.G7-OVA)     were
   intradermally injected into the back skin of mice 9 d following adoptive transfer. To assess
                                               46

    the tolerogenic efficacy of erythrocyte-bound antigen, tumor-bearing mice were challenged
    with LPS-adjuvanted OVA 6 d following tumor grafting, analogous in dose and schedule to
    the challenge-to-tolerance model.       Robust tumor growth was continuously observed in
    ERY 1-OVA treated mice as compared to OVA-treated or non-treated control mice through to
 5  8 d following tumor grafting (Fig. 2k), confirming that ERY1-OVA driven OT-I CD8* T cell
    proliferation induced functional immune non-responsiveness to OVA. That tumor size was
    arrested to a steady state 8 d following grafting may be indicative of residual OT-I CD8* T
    cells that had yet to undergo ERY1-OVA-driven deletional tolerance.
 0  Animals
             Swiss Veterinary authorities previously approved all animal procedures. 8-12 wk old
    female C57BL/6 mice (Charles River) were used for in vivo binding studies and as E.G7
    OVA tumor hosts. C57BL/6-Tg(TcraTcrb) 1 100Mjb (OT-I) mice (Jackson Labs) were bred
    at the EPFL Animal Facility, and females were used for splenocyte isolation at 6-12 wk old.
 5  8-12 week old female B6.SJL-PtprcaPepc/Boy(CD45.1) mice (Charles River) were used as
    recipient hosts for OT-I CD8* T cell adoptive transfer and tolerance induction studies.
    Peptide design and synthesis
            The ERY1 (H 2N-WMVLPWLPGTLDGGSGCRG-CONH 2) (SEQ ID NO:19) and
 '0 mismatch (H 2N-PLLTVGMDLWPWGGSGCRG-CONH 2) (SEQ ID NO:20) peptides were
    synthesized using standard solid-phase f-moc chemistry using TGR resin (Nova Biochem) on
    an automated liquid handler (CHEMSPEED). The underlined sequence is the ERY1 12-mer
    sequence that we previously discovered by phage display as a mouse glycophorin-A binder
    (Kontos and Hubbell, 2010).      The GGSG region served as a linker to the cysteine residue
25  used for conjugation; the flanking arginine residue served to lower the pKa and thus increase
    the reactivity of the cysteine residue (Lutolf, Tirelli, et al., 2001). The peptide was cleaved
    from the resin for 3 h in 95% tri-fluoroacetic acid, 2.5% ethanedithiol, 2.5% water, and
    precipitated in ice-cold diethyl ether. Purification was conducted on a preparative HPLC-MS
    (Waters) using a C18 reverse phase column (PerSpective Biosystems).
30
    ERYJ-antigen conjugation
             10   molar    equivalents    of  succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1
    carboxylate (SMCC, CAS# 64987-85-5, Thermo Scientific) dissolved in dimethylformamide
    were reacted with 5 mg/mL endotoxin-free (<1 EU/mg) OVA (Hyglos GmbH) in PBS for 1 h
                                                  47

    at room temperature.     Following desalting on a 2 mL ZEBA Desalt spin column (Thermo
    Scientific), 10 equivalents of ERY1 or MIS peptide dissolved in 3 M guanidine-HCl were
    added and allowed to react for 2 h at room temperature. The conjugate was desalted using 2
    mL ZEBA Desalt spin columns, 0.2 pm sterile filtered, dispensed into working aliquots, and
 5  stored at -20 C. Protein concentration was determined via BCA Assay (Thermo Scientific).
    The scheme results in conjugation of the cysteine side chain on the peptide to lysine side
    chains on the antigen. Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was expressed in BL21 Escherichia
    coli and purified using standard glutathione affinity chromatography. On-column endotoxin
    removal was performed by extensive Triton-X1 14 (Sigma Aldrich) washing, and endotoxin
 0  removal was confirmed with THP-1X Blue cells (InvivoGen). The same reaction procedure
    was used to conjugate ERY1 to GST.             Maleimide-activated allophycocyanin (Innova
    Biosciences) was dissolved in PBS, and conjugated with ERY1 or MIS as described above.
    Microscopy of binding to erythrocytes
 5          5x10 5 freshly isolated mouse erythrocytes were exposed to 100 nM of ERY1-OVA or
    OVA in PBS containing 10 mg/mL BSA for 1 h at 37 C. Following centrifugation and
    washing, cells were labeled with 1:200 diluted goat anti-mouse glycophorin-A (Santa Cruz)
    and rabbit anti-OVA (AbD SEROTEC) for 20 min on ice. Following centrifugation and
    washing, cells were labeled with 1:200 ALEXAFLUOR488 anti-goat IgG (Invitrogen) and
 '0 AlexaFluor546 anti-rabbit IgG (Invitrogen) for 20 min on ice. Following a final spin/wash
    cycle, cells were hard set mounted and imaged on a Zeiss LSM700 inverted confocal
    microscope with a 63x oil immersion objective. Image analysis was conducted in IMAGEJ
    (NIH), with identical processing to both images.
25  In vivo binding and biodistribution
            150 pg of ERY1-OVA or OVA in 0.9 % saline (B. Braun) in a volume of 100 pL was
    injected intravenously into the tail of 8-12 week old female C57BL/6 mice while under
    anesthesia with isoflurane. Care was taken to ensure mice were kept at 37 C with a heating
    pad during experimentation. At predetermined time points, 5 pL of blood was taken from a
30  small incision on the tail, diluted 100-fold into 10 mM EDTA in PBS, washed three times
    with PBS with 10 mg/mL BSA, and analyzed for OVA content by flow cytometry and
    ELISA.     OVA was quantified by sandwich ELISA, using a mouse monoclonal anti-OVA
    antibody (Sigma) for capture, a polyclonal rabbit anti-OVA antibody (AbD SEROTEC) for
    detection, a goat anti-rabbit-IgG-HRP antibody (BioRad) for final detection, followed by
                                                 48

   TMB substrate (GE Life Sciences).        Hematological characterization was performed on an
   ADVIVA 2120 Hematology System (Siemens). Erythrocyte-bound ERY1-GST was detected
   by incubating labeled cells with goat anti-GST (GE Healthcare Life Sciences), followed by
   incubation with AlexaFluor488 donkey anti-goat (Invitrogen), and analyzed by flow
 5 cytometry.     For biodistribution studies, 20 pg of ERY1-APC or MIS-APC was injected
   intravenously into the tail vein of 8-12 week old female C57BL/6 mice as described above.
   Mice were sacrificed at predetermined time points, and the spleen, blood, and liver were
   removed. Each organ was digested with collagenase D (Roche) and homogenized to obtain a
   single-cell suspension for flow cytometry staining.
 0
   T cell adoptive transfer
           CD8* T cells from OT-I (CD45.2+) mouse spleens were isolated using a CD8
   magnetic bead negative selection kit (Miltenyi Biotec) as per the manufacturer's instructions.
   Freshly isolated CD8* OT-I cells were resuspended in PBS and labeled with 1 pM
 5 carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE, Invitrogen) for 6 min at room temperature, and
   the reaction was quenched for 1 min with an equal volume of IMDM with 10% FBS (Gibco).
   Cells were washed, counted, and resuspended in pure IMDM prior to injection. 3x10 6 CFSE
   labeled CD8* OT-I cells were injected intravenously into the tail vein of recipient CD45.1*
   mice. For short-term proliferation studies, 10 pg of ERY 1-OVA or OVA in 100 pL volume
 0 was injected 24 h following adoptive transfer.     Splenocytes were harvested 5 d following
   antigen administration and stained for analysis by flow cytometry.
   OT-I tolerance and challenge model
           3x10  5 CFSE-labeled OT-I CD8* T cells were injected into CD45.1I recipient mice as
25 described above.       1 and 6 d following adoptive transfer, mice were intravenously
   administered 10 pg of ERY1-OVA or OVA in 100 pL saline into the tail vein.                15 d
   following adoptive transfer, mice were challenged with 5 pg OVA and 25 ng ultra-pure
   Escherichia coli LPS (InvivoGen) in 25 pL intradermally into each rear leg pad (Hock
   method, total dose of 10 pg OVA and 50 ng LPS).           Mice were sacrificed 4 d following
30 challenge, and spleen and draining lymph node cells were isolated for restimulation.       For
   flow cytometry analysis of intracellular cytokines, cells were restimulated in the presence of
   1 mg/mL OVA or 1 pg/mL SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:3) peptide (Genscript) for 3 h.
   Brefeldin-A (Sigma, 5 pg/mL) was added and restimulation resumed for an additional 3 h
   prior to staining and flow cytometry analysis. For ELISA measurements of secreted factors,
                                                49

    cells were restimulated in the presence of 100 pg/mL OVA or 1 pg/mL SIINFEKL (SEQ ID
    NO:3) peptide for 4 d. Cells were spun and the media collected for ELISA analysis using
    IFNy and IL-10 Ready-Set-Go kits (eBiosciences) as per the manufacturer's instructions.
    OVA-specific serum IgG was detected by incubating mouse serum at varying dilutions on
 5  OVA-coated plates, followed by a final incubation with goat anti-mouse IgG-HRP (Southern
    Biotech).
    OT-I E.G7-OVA tolerance model
             1x10 6 CFSE-labeled OT-I CD8' T cells were injected into 8-12 wk old female
 0  C57BL/6 mice as described above.        1 and 6 d following adoptive transfer, mice were
    intravenously administered 10 pg of ERY1-OVA or 10 pg OVA in 100 pL saline into the tail
    vein. Blood was drawn 5 d following adoptive transfer for characterization of OT-I CD8* T
    cell proliferation by flow cytometry.   OVA-expressing EL-4 thymoma cells (E.G7-OVA,
    ATCC CRL-2113) were cultured as per ATCC guidelines. In brief, cells were cultured in
 5  RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 10 mM HEPES, 1 mM
    sodium pyruvate, 0.05 mM f-mercaptoethanol, 1% puromycin/streptomycin (Invitrogen
    Gibco), and 0.4 mg/mL G418 (PAA Laboratories).            Just prior to injection, cells were
    expanded in media without G418 and resuspended upon harvest in HBSS (Gibco).              9 d
    following adoptive transfer, mice were anesthetized with isoflurane, the back area was
 '0 shaved, and 1x106 E.G7-OVA cells were injected intradermally between the shoulder blades.
    4 d following E.G7-OVA graft, tumor dimensions were measured every 24 h with a digital
    caliper, and tumor volume was calculated as an ellipsoid (V=(R/6) I - w - h), where V is
    volume, I is length, w is width, and h is the height of the tumor). 15 d following adoptive
    transfer, mice were challenged with 5 pg OVA and 25 ng ultra-pure Escherichia coli LPS
25  (InvivoGen) in 25 pL intradermally into each front leg pad (total dose of 10 pg OVA and 50
    ng LPS).
    Antibodies andflow cytometry
            The following anti-mouse antibodies were used for flow cytometry: CDld Pacific
30  Blue, CD3E PerCP-Cy5.5, CD8a PE-Cy7, CD lb PE-Cy7, CD1 Ic Pacific Blue, biotinylated
    CD45, CD45.2 Pacific Blue, CD45 Pacific Blue, IFNy-APC, CD8a APC-eF780, CD44 PE
    Cy5.5, CD62L PE, CD205 PE-Cy7, F4/80 PE, I-A/I-E MHCII FITC (all from eBioscience),
    in addition to fixable live/dead dye (Invitrogen), annexin-V-Cy5 labeling kit (BioVision),
                                                50

    streptavidin Pacific Orange (Invitrogen), and anti-OVA-FITC (Abcam).           Samples were
    analyzed on a CyAn ADP flow cytometer (Beckman Coulter). Cells were washed first with
    PBS, stained for 20 min on ice with live/dead dye, blocked for 20 min on ice with 24G2
    hybridoma medium, surface stained for 20 min on ice, fixed in 2% paraformaldehyde for 20
 5  min ice, intracellularly stained in the presence of 0.5% saponin for 45 min on ice, followed
    by a final wash prior to analysis. For apoptosis staining, annexin-V-Cy5 was added 5 min
    prior to analysis. For CD45 staining, cells were stained with streptavidin Pacific Orange for
    20 min on ice, washed, and analyzed.
 0  Implementation with particles
            The ERY1 peptide has also been implemented for tolerogenesis in the form of
    nanoparticles, to which the ERY1 peptide and the tolerogenic antigen are both conjugated.
            To form conjugates of ERY1 with a polymer nanoparticle, which is also conjugated to
    the peptide or protein antigen, stoichiometric amounts of each component may be added
 5  consecutively to control conjugation conversions.      To form a nanoparticle conjugated with
    both OVA and ERY1 or mismatch peptide, the peptides were first dissolved in aqueous 3M
    guanidine HCl, and 0.5 equivalents were added to nanoparticles containing a thiol-reactive
    pyridyldisulfide group.    Absorbance measurements were taken at 343 nm to monitor the
    reaction conversion, as the reaction creates a non-reactive pyridine-2-thione species with a
 '0 high absorbance at this wavelength. Following 2 h at room temperature, the absorbance at
    343 nm had stabilized and OVA was dissolved in aqueous 3M guanidine HCl, and added to
    the nanoparticle solution at a 2-fold molar excess. Following 2 h at room temperature, the
    absorbance at 343 nm had once again stabilized to a higher value, and the concentrations of
    both the peptide and OVA in the solution were calculated.               The bifunctionalized
25  nanoparticles were purified from non-reacted components by gel filtration on a Sepharose
    CL6B packed column. Each 0.5 mL fraction was analyzed for the presence of protein and/or
    peptide by fluorescamine, and nanoparticle size was assessed by dynamic light scattering
    (DLS).
            Should the antigen not contain any free thiol groups to perform such a reaction, they
30  may be introduced by recombinant DNA technology to create a mutant that could then be
    expressed and purified recombinantly.       Alternatively, amine-carboxylic acid crosslinking
    could    be  performed     between    the   nanoparticle   and  antigen  using    1-ethyl-3-(3
    dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC).
            To form conjugates of ERY1 with a polymer micelle, which is also conjugated to the
                                                 51

    peptide or protein antigen, similar reactions would be used as described with polymeric
    nanoparticles.   The micelle would be formed to contain functional groups desired for the
    appropriate conjugation scheme.       Given that our nanoparticles and micelles may be
    synthesized to contain many different chemical group functionalizations, there exist
 5  numerous      possibilities  of  conjugation    schemes    to   employ      in   creating  the
    nanoparticle/micelle-antigen-ERYl complex.
    Example 4: Development of antibodies and antibody-fragments with that bind mouse and/or
    human erythrocytes
 0          As another method to non-covalently bind erythrocytes, an erythrocyte-binding
    antibody may also be used to induce antigen-specific immunological tolerance. Antibodies
    displaying high affinity towards erythrocyte surface proteins may be isolated by screening
    antibody libraries using state-of-the art display platforms, including but not limited to
    bacteriophage display, yeast and E. coli surface display.      Upon discovery of the novel
 5  erythrocyte-binding antibody, similar biochemical characterization of binding may be
    assessed as was performed with the ERY1 peptide. In order to create higher-affinity mutants
    with improved binding characteristics, affinity maturation is conducted on the antibody
    fragments discovered to bind erythrocytes from the initial library screening. Using standard
    recombinant DNA techniques, such as error-prone PCR and site-directed mutagenesis, a new
 '0 library is created from the parent binding sequence. The affinity maturation library is then
    displayed using state-of-the-art display platforms, as described above, for other antibody
    fragments with enhanced affinity for erythrocytes as compared with the parent binding
    sequence.
            Affinity maturation is also performed on existing antibodies that bind either mouse
25  erythrocytes or human erythrocytes. The rat monoclonal TER- 119 clone antibody (Kina et
    al, Br J Haematol, 2000) binds mouse erythrocytes at a site yet to be fully determined, yet its
    specificity has led to its common use in removal of erythrocytes from heterogeneous cellular
    populations. Affinity maturation is performed on the TER-1 19 antibody, either as a full
    length antibody or as an antibody fragment such as an scFv, to discover new antibodies with
30  increased affinity towards mouse erythrocytes. The mouse monoclonal 10F7 clone antibody
    (Langlois et al, J Immunol 1984) binds to human glycophorin-A on the human erythrocyte
    cell surface. Affinity maturation is performed on the 10F7 antibody, either as a full-length
    antibody or as an antibody fragment such as an scFv, to discover new antibodies with
    increased affinity towards human erythrocytes.
                                                52

          To determine the primary sequence of the TER-1 19 antibody, we cloned the antibody
  specific isolated cDNA from the TER-1 19 hybridoma into a plasmid allowing for facile
  sequencing of the gene fragments.       A specific set of primers were used for the PCR
  amplification process of the antibody genes that allows for amplification of the multiple
5 variable domains of the gene segments (Krebber et al., 1997; Reddy et al., 2010). The DNA
  sequence of the antibody domains allowed us to determine the variable regions of the heavy
  and light chains of the TER- 119 IgG antibody. To construct an scFv version of the TER- 119
  IgG, we used assembly PCR to create a gene comprising of the variable heavy chain of TER
  119, followed by a (Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Ser)4 (SEQ ID NO:18) linker, followed by the variable
0 light chain of TER-1 19.
          Standard reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) was performed on mRNA from the
  TER-119     hybridoma clone using the Superscript III First Strand Synthesis System
  (Invitrogen) to create complimentary DNA (cDNA) of the clone. PCR was then conducted
  using the following set of primers to specifically amplify the DNA sequences of the variable
5 heavy (VH) and variable light (VL) regions of the antibody:
    Primer                      Primer sequence (5' to 3')                      SEQ ID NO
     name
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TCC AGC TGA CTC AGC                     SEQ ID NO:21
     FORI     C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TTC TCW CCC AGT                     SEQ ID NO:22
     FOR2     C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGM TMA CTC AGT                     SEQ ID NO:23
     FOR3     C
      VL-     AGC  CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGY TRA CAC AGT                    SEQ ID NO:24
     FOR4     C
      VL-     AGC  CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TRA TGA CMC AGT                    SEQ ID NO:25
     FOR5     C
      VL-     AGC   CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTM AGA TRA MCC                       SEQ ID NO:26
     FOR6     AGT  C
      VL-     AGC  CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTC AGA TGA YDC AGT                    SEQ ID NO:27
     FOR7     C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TYC AGA TGA CAC SEQ ID NO:28
     FOR8     AGA C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TTC TCA WCC AGT                     SEQ ID NO:29
     FOR9     C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG WGC TSA CCC AAT                     SEQ ID NO:30
    FOR1O     C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTS TRA TGA CCC ART                     SEQ ID NO:31
    FOR1I     C
      VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYR TTK TGA TGA CCC ARA                     SEQ ID NO:32
    FOR12     C
                                              53

  VL-  AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TGA CBC AGK SEQ ID NO:33
FOR13  C
  VL-  AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TAA CYC AGG  SEQ ID NO:34
FOR14  A
  VL-  AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TGA CCC SEQ ID NO:35
FOR15  AGW T
  VL-  AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TGA CAC AAC  SEQ ID NO:36
FOR16  C
  VL-  AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTT TGC TGA CTC AGT  SEQ ID NO:37
FOR17  C
  VL-  AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG ARG CTG TTG TGA CTC AGG  SEQ ID NO:38
FOR18  AAT C
  VL-  GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTG ATT TCC AGC  SEQ ID NO:39
REVI   TTG G
  VL-  GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTT ATT TCC AGC  SEQ ID NO:40
REV2   TTG G
  VL-  GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTT ATT TCC AAC  SEQ ID NO:41
REV3   TTT G
  VL-  GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTC AGC TCC AGC  SEQ ID NO:42
REV4   TTG G
  VL-  GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CCT AGG ACA GTC AGT  SEQ ID NO:43
REV5   TTG G
  VL-  GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CCT AGG ACA GTG ACC  SEQ ID NO:44
REV6   TTG G
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA  SEQ ID NO:45
 FORI  KGT RMA GCT TCA GGA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA  SEQ ID NO:46
 FOR2  GGT BCA GCT BCA GCA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GCA SEQ ID NO:47
 FOR3  GGT GCA GCT GAA GSA STC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA SEQ ID NO:48
 FOR4  GGT CCA RCT GCA ACA RTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GCA SEQ ID NO:49
 FOR5  GGT YCA GCT BCA GCA RTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA  GCC GGC AAT GGC GCA SEQ ID NO:50
 FOR6  GGT YCA RCT GCA GCA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA  GCC GGC AAT GGC GCA SEQ ID NO:51
 FOR7  GGT CCA CGT GAA GCA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA  GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA SEQ ID NO:52
 FOR8  GGT GAA SST GGT GGA ATC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA  GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA SEQ ID NO:53
 FOR9  VGT GAW GYT GGT GGA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA  SEQ ID NO:54
FOR1O  GGT GCA GSK GGT GGA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA  SEQ ID NO:55
FOR 11 KGT GCA MCT GGT GGA GTC
 VH-   GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA  SEQ ID NO:56
FOR12  GGT GAA GCT GAT GGA RTC
                               54

      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA                   SEQ ID NO:57
    FOR13     GGT GCA RCT TGT TGA GTC
      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA                   SEQ ID NO:58
    FOR14     RGT RAA GCT TCT CGA GTC
      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA                   SEQ ID NO:59
    FOR15     AGT GAA RST TGA GGA GTC
      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GCA SEQ ID NO:60
    FOR16     GGT TAC TCT RAA AGW GTS TG
      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GCA SEQ ID NO:61
    FOR17     GGT CCA ACT VCA GCA RCC
      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA                   SEQ ID NO:62
    FOR18     TGT GAA CTT GGA AGT GTC
      VH-     GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT GGC GGA SEQ ID NO:63
    FOR19     GGT GAA GGT CAT CGA GTC
      VH-     CCC TTG AAG CTT GCT GAG GAA ACG GTG ACC GTG SEQ ID NO:64
     REVI     GT
      VH-     CCC TTG AAG CTT GCT GAG GAG ACT GTG AGA GTG                   SEQ ID NO:65
     REV2     GT
      VH-     CCC TTG AAG CTT GCT GCA GAG ACA GTG ACC AGA                   SEQ ID NO:66
     REV3     GT
      VH-     CCC TTG AAG CTT GCT GAG GAG ACG GTG ACT GAG                   SEQ ID NO:67
     REV4     GT
          The amplified VH and VL genes were then digested with restriction endonucleases
   (NcoI and NotI for VL, NdeI and HindlIl for VH), the gene fragments were purified
   following agarose electrophoresis using a standard kit (Zymo Research, Orange, CA, USA),
 5 and ligated into a cloning plasmid pMAZ360. The plasmid containing either the VH or VL
   gene was sequenced, and a new gene was constructed using assembly PCR to create the TER
   119 scFv sequence:
   5'-GAGGTGAAGCTGCAGGAGTCTGGAGGAGGCTTGGTGCAACCTGGGGGGTCTC
   TGAAACTCTCCTGTGTAGCCTCAGGATTCACTTTCAGGGACCACTGGATGAATTG
10 GGTCCGGCAGGCTCCCGGAAAGACCATGGAGTGGATTGGAGATATTAGACCTGA
   TGGCAGTGACACAAACTATGCACCATCTGTGAGGAATAGATTCACAATCTCCAG
   AGACAATGCCAGGAGCATCCTGTACCTGCAGATGAGCAATATGAGATCTGATTA
   CACAGCCACTTATTACTGTGTTAGAGACTCACCTACCCGGGCTGGGCTTATGGAT
   GCCTGGGGTCAAGGAACCTCAGTCACTGTCTCCTCAGCCGGTGGTGGTGGTTCTG
15 GTGGTGGTGGTTCTGGCGGCGGCGGCTCCGGTGGTGGTGGATCCGACATTCAGAT
   GACGCAGTCTCCTTCAGTCCTGTCTGCATCTGTGGGAGACAGAGTCACTCTCAAC
   TGCAAAGCAAGTCAGAATATTAACAAGTACTTAAACTGGTATCAGCAAAAGCTT
   GGAGAAGCTCCCAAAGTCCTGATATATAATACAAACAATTTGCAAACGGGCATC
   CCATCAAGGTTCAGTGGCAGTGGATCTGGTACAGATTTCACACTCACCATCAGTA
                                              55

   GCCTGCAGCCTGAAGATTTTGCCACATATTTCTGCTTTCAGCATTATACTTGGCCC
   ACGTTTGGAGGTGGGACCAAGCTGGAAATCAAACGTACT-3'                             (SEQ   ID  NO:69),
   which encodes for the VH region of the TER- 119 clone at the N terminus of the translated
   protein, followed by a (Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Ser)4 (SEQ ID NO: 18) linker domain, followed by
 5 the VL region of the TER- 119 clone at the C terminus of the translated protein. The TER
   119 scFv gene was constructed by amplifying the TER- 119 cDNA with primers SK07 and
   SK08, specific for the VH region, and SK09 and SK10, specific for the VL region:
     Primer                      Primer sequence (5' to 3')                       SEQ ID NO
     name
              ACT CGC GGC CCA GCC GGC CAT GGC GGA GGT GAA                       SEQ        ID
     SK07
              GCT GCA GGA GTC                                                   NO:70
              GGA GCC GCC GCC GCC AGA ACC ACC ACC ACC AGA                       SEQID
     SK08     ACC ACC ACC ACC GGC TGA GGA GAC AGT GAC TG                        NO:71
              GGC GGC GGC GGC TCC GGT GGT GGT GGA TCC GAC ATT CAG SEQ ID
     SK09     ATGACG CAG TC                                                     NO:7972
              GAC TAC TAG GCC CCC GAG GCC AGT ACG TTT GAT                       SEQ ID
     SK10     TTC CAG CT                                                        NO:73
 0         Each final completed scFv gene product was digested with SfiI and XhoI (NEB,
   Ipswich, MA, USA), and ligated into the same sites on the pSecTagA mammalian expression
   plasmid (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA).
           To affinity mature the 10F7 scFv that binds to human glycophorin-A, the gene was
   commercially synthesized and obtained from DNA2.0 (Menlo Park, CA, USA) as the
15 following sequence:
   5'-GTTATTACTCGCGGCCCAGCCGGCCATGGCGGCGCAGGTGAAACTGCAGCAG
   AGCGGCGCGGAACTGGTGAAACCGGGCGCGAGCGTGAAACTGAGCTGCAAAGC
   GAGCGGCTATACCTTTAACAGCTATTTTATGCATTGGATGAAACAGCGCCCGGTG
   CAGGGCCTGGAATGGATTGGCATGATTCGCCCGAACGGCGGCACCACCGATTAT
20 AACGAAAAATTTAAAAACAAAGCGACCCTGACCGTGGATAAAAGCAGCAACACC
   GCGTATATGCAGCTGAACAGCCTGACCAGCGGCGATAGCGCGGTGTATTATTGC
   GCGCGCTGGGAAGGCAGCTATTATGCGCTGGATTATTGGGGCCAGGGCACCACC
   GTGACCGTGAGCAGCGGCGGCGGCGGCAGCGGCGGCGGCGGCAGCGGCGGCGG
                                             56

    CGGCAGCGATATTGAACTGACCCAGAGCCCGGCGATTATGAGCGCGACCCTGGG
    CGAAAAAGTGACCATGACCTGCCGCGCGAGCAGCAACGTGAAATATATGTATTG
    GTATCAGCAGAAAAGCGGCGCGAGCCCGAAACTGTGGATTTATTATACCAGCAA
    CCTGGCGAGCGGCGTGCCGGGCCGCTTTAGCGGCAGCGGCAGCGGCACCAGCTA
 5  TAGCCTGACCATTAGCAGCGTGGAAGCGGAAGATGCGGCGACCTATTATTGCCA
    GCAGTTTACCAGCAGCCCGTATACCTTTGGCGGCGGCACCAAACTGGAAATTAA
    ACGCGCGGCGGCGGCCTCGGGGGCCGAGGGCGGCGGTTCT-3' (SEQ ID NO:74).
            Similar affinity maturation using recombinant DNA techniques described above for
    TER- 119 is performed on the 10F7 gene to obtain a library of mutants to enable screening for
 0  enhanced binding towards human erythrocytes.
    Example 5: Inducing Antigen-specific Immunological Tolerance Through Non-covalent
    Erythrocyte-binding with Antibody-conjugated Antigen
            The antibody may be conjugated with the antigen using standard crosslinking
 5  reactions as mentioned in Example 3 and elsewhere herein. The purified antibody-antigen
    conjugate will exhibit induction of tolerance towards the antigen in standard mouse models of
    type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, islet transplantation, and OVA model antigen.
            In order to demonstrate the induction of tolerance towards OVA, the OVA-antibody
    conjugate or OVA-nanoparticle-antibody conjugate may be administered either intravenously
 '0 or extravascularly to mice. At a predetermined number of days following administration,
    mice are to be sacrificed and lymph nodes, spleen, and blood harvested for analysis.
    Splenocytes and lymph node derived cells are plated and re-stimulated for 3 days ex vivo with
    OVA and/or SIINFEKL peptide, and their down-regulation of IFN7, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4
    expression, and up-regulation of TGF-31, which are established evidence of tolerance, are
25  measured by ELISA. Intracellular staining of IFN7, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4 are performed
    using flow cytometry on splenocytes and lymph node derived cells following 6 h of ex vivo
    re-stimulation with OVA and/or SIINFEKL peptide. Furthermore, flow cytometry is used to
    characterize the expression profiles of CD4, CD8, and regulatory T-cells from lymph node,
    spleen, and blood derived cells. Additionally, blood samples are taken from mice at varying
30  time points to measure humoral antibody responses towards the OVA antigen. A variant
    experiment of the ex vivo re-stimulation is performed to determine if systemic tolerance has
    been established. Mice are administered with OVA-antibody conjugate or OVA-antibody
    nanoparticle conjugate as described above, OVA is re-administered 9 days later with an
    adjuvant (lipopolysaccharide, complete Freud's adjuvant, alum, or other), and splenocyte
                                                   57

    responsiveness to the OVA antigen is assessed by ELISA and/or flow cytometry as described
    above.   The OVA-antibody conjugate and/or OVA-antibody-nanoparticle formulation will
    render splenocytes non-responsive to the second challenge with OVA and adjuvant, which is
    one method to demonstrate effective establishment of systemic tolerance. Following initial
 5  administration    with    OVA-antibody       conjugate     and/or    OVA-antibody-nanoparticle
    formulations, similar in vivo challenge experiments may be conducted with transgenic cell
    lines as a further demonstration of tolerance, such as adoptive transfer with OT-I T cells,
    similar to studies described in detail in Example 3.      To demonstrate immune tolerance in
    mouse models of autoimmunity or deimmunization of therapeutic molecules, analogous
 0  antibody conjugates may be made to the relevant antigens as was described herein with OVA.
    Example 6: Inducing Antigen-specific Immunological Tolerance Through Non-covalent
    Erythrocyte-binding with Single Chain Antibody-fused Antigen
            Single chain antibody fragments (scFv's) may be used as non-covalent binders to
 5  erythrocytes.  ScFv's displaying high affinity towards erythrocyte surface proteins may be
    isolated by screening scFv libraries using state-of-the-art display platforms. Upon discovery
    of the novel erythrocyte-binding antibody fragment, similar biochemical characterization of
    binding are to be assessed as was performed with the ERY1 peptide. As the scFv has one
    polypeptide chain, it will be fused to the antigen in a site-specific recombinant manner using
 '0 standard recombinant DNA techniques.         Depending on the nature of the antigen fusion
    partner, the scFv is fused to the N- or C-terminus of the antigen to create the bifunctional
    protein species.   In the case where the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) peptide
    recognition sequence is known for the antigen, the peptide is also inserted into the linker
    domain of the scFv, thus creating a new bifunctional antibody/antigen construct containing
25  the native termini of the scFv.
            In order to demonstrate the induction of tolerance towards OVA, an OVA-scFv or
    OVA-nanoparticle-scFv       conjugate    may    be   administered     either intravenously   or
    extravascularly to mice. At a predetermined number of days following administration, mice
    are to be sacrificed and lymph nodes, spleen, and blood are to be harvested for analysis.
30  Splenocytes and lymph node derived cells are to be plated and re-stimulated for 3 days ex
    vivo with OVA and/or SIINFEKL peptide (SEQ ID NO:3), and their down-regulation of
    IFNy, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4 expression, and up-regulation of TGF- 1, which are established
    evidence of tolerance, are to be measured, e.g., by ELISA. Intracellular staining of IFNy, IL
                                                 58

    17a, IL-2, and IL-4 is performed using flow cytometry on splenocytes and lymph node
    derived cells following 6 h of ex vivo re-stimulation with OVA and/or SIINFEKL
    peptide(SEQ ID NO:3).        Furthermore, flow cytometry may be used to characterize the
    expression profiles of CD4, CD8, and regulatory T-cells from lymph node, spleen, and blood
 5  derived cells.   Additionally, blood samples are taken from mice at varying time points to
    measure humoral antibody responses towards the OVA antigen. A variant experiment of the
    ex vivo re-stimulation is performed to determine if systemic tolerance has been established.
    Mice are administered with OVA-scFv or OVA-nanoparticle-scFv conjugate as described
    above, OVA is re-administered 9 days later with an adjuvant (lipopolysaccharide, complete
 0  Freud's adjuvant, alum, or other), and splenocyte responsiveness to the OVA antigen is
    assessed by ELISA and/or flow cytometry as described above. The OVA-scFv and/or OVA
    scFv-nanoparticle    formulation will render splenocytes non-responsive to the second
    challenge with OVA and adjuvant, thereby illustrating effective establishment of systemic
    tolerance. Following initial administration with OVA-scFv and/or OVA-scFv-nanoparticle
 5  formulations, similar in vivo challenge experiments may be conducted with transgenic cell
    lines to demonstrate tolerance, such as adoptive transfer with OT-I T cells, similar to studies
    described in detail in Example 3.    To demonstrate immune tolerance in mouse models of
    autoimmunity or deimmunization of therapeutic molecules, analogous scFv fusions may be
    made to the relevant antigens as was described here with OVA.
 10          Standard recombinant DNA techniques were used to create an antibody construct that
    both binds mouse erythrocytes and displays the immunodominant MHC-I epitope of OVA
    (SGLEQLESIINFEKL) (SEQ ID NO:75). Using overlap extension PCR, we first created a
    DNA       fragment    that  encoded    for   the   terminal    3'  domain,     including    the
    SGLEQLESIINFEKL(SEQ ID NO:75) peptide with an overlapping 5' domain that is
25  complimentary to the 3' terminus of the TERI 19 sequence. This DNA fragment was used as
    a reverse primer, along with a complimentary forward 5' primer, in a standard PCR to create
    the entire DNA fragment encoding for TERI 19-SGLEQLESIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:75):
    5,
    GAGGTGAAGCTGCAGGAGTCTGGAGGAGGCTTGGTGCAACCTGGGGGGTCTCTG
30  AAACTCTCCTGTGTAGCCTCAGGATTCACTTTCAGGGACCACTGGATGAATTGGG
    TCCGGCAGGCTCCCGGAAAGACCATGGAGTGGATTGGAGATATTAGACCTGATG
    GCAGTGACACAAACTATGCACCATCTGTGAGGAATAGATTCACAATCTCCAGAG
    ACAATGCCAGGAGCATCCTGTACCTGCAGATGAGCAATATGAGATCTGATTACA
    CAGCCACTTATTACTGTGTTAGAGACTCACCTACCCGGGCTGGGCTTATGGATGC
                                                59

    CTGGGGTCAAGGAACCTCAGTCACTGTCTCCTCAGCCGGTGGTGGTGGTTCTGGT
    GGTGGTGGTTCTGGCGGCGGCGGCTCCGGTGGTGGTGGATCCGACATTCAGATG
    ACGCAGTCTCCTTCAGTCCTGTCTGCATCTGTGGGAGACAGAGTCACTCTCAACT
    GCAAAGCAAGTCAGAATATTAACAAGTACTTAAACTGGTATCAGCAAAAGCTTG
 5  GAGAAGCTCCCAAAGTCCTGATATATAATACAAACAATTTGCAAACGGGCATCC
    CATCAAGGTTCAGTGGCAGTGGATCTGGTACAGATTTCACACTCACCATCAGTAG
    CCTGCAGCCTGAAGATTTTGCCACATATTTCTGCTTTCAGCATTATACTTGGCCCA
    CGTTTGGAGGTGGGACCAAGCTGGAAATCAAACGTACTCATCATCACCATCATCA
    CGGTGGCGGTTCTGGCCTGGAGCAGCTGGAGTCTATTATTAATTTCGAAAAACTG
 0  -3' (SEQ ID NO:76).      The underlined sequence denotes the gene segment encoding for
    SGLEQLESIINFEKL. The DNA fragment was inserted into a mammalian and prokaryotic
    expression vector for recombinant expression.
            Standard recombinant DNA techniques were used to create an antibody construct that
    both binds mouse erythrocytes and displays the chromogranin-A mimetope 1040-p3l
 5  (YVRPLWVRME) (SEQ ID NO:77). Using overlap extension PCR, a DNA fragment was
    created that encoded for the terminal 3' domain, including the YVRPLWVRME (SEQ ID
    NO:77) peptide with an overlapping 5' domain that is complimentary to the 3' terminus of
    the TERI 19 sequence.      This DNA fragment was used as a primer, along with a
    complimentary forward 5' primer, in a standard PCR to create the entire DNA fragment
 '0 encoding for TERI 19-YVRPLWVRME:
    5'
    GAGGTGAAGCTGCAGGAGTCAGGAGGAGGCTTGGTGCAACCTGGGGGGTCTCTG
    AAACTCTCCTGTGTAGCCTCAGGATTCACTTTCAGGGACCACTGGATGAATTGGG
    TCCGGCAGGCTCCCGGAAAGACCATGGAGTGGATTGGGGATATTAGACCTGATG
25  GCAGTGACACAAACTATGCACCATCTGTGAGGAATAGATTCACAATCTCCAGAG
    ACAATACCAGGAGCATCCTGTACCTGCAGATGGGCAATATGAGATCTGATTACA
    CAGCCACTTATTACTGTGTTAGAGACTCACCTACCCGGGCTGGGCTTATGGATGC
    CTGGGGTCAAGGAACCTCAGTCACTGTCTCCTCAGCCGGTGGTGGTGGTTCTGGT
    GGTGGTGGTTCTGGCGGCGGCGGCTCCGGTGGTGGTGGATCCGACATTCAGATG
30  ACGCAGTCTCCTTCAGTCCTGTCTGCATCTGTGGGAGACAGAGTCACTCTCAACT
    GCAAAGCAAGTCAGAATATTAACAAGTACTTAAACCGGTATCAGCAAAAGCTTG
    GAGAAGCTCCCAAAGTCCTGGTATATAATACAAACAATTTGCAAACGGGCATCC
    CATCAAGGTTCAGTGGCAGTGGATCTGGCACAGATTTCACACTCACCATCAGTAG
    CCTGCAGCCTGAAGATTTTGCCACATATTTCTGCTTTCAGCATTATACTTGGCCCA
                                               60

    CGTTTGGAGGTGTGACCAAGCTGGAAATCAAACGTACTCATCATCACCATCATCA
    CGGTGGCGGTTATGTCAGACCTCTGTGGGTCAGAATGGAA-3'(SEQ                             ID    NO:78).
    The underlined sequence denotes the gene segment encoding for the chromogranin-A (1040
    p31) mimetope (YVRPLWVRME) (SEQ ID NO:77). The DNA fragment was inserted into a
 5  mammalian and prokaryotic expression vector for recombinant expression.
            Standard recombinant DNA techniques were used to create an antibody construct that
    both binds mouse erythrocytes and displays mouse proinsulin, a major diabetes autoantigen
    in the NOD mouse.     Using overlap extension PCR, we first created a DNA fragment that
    encoded for the terminal 3' domain, including the entire proinsulin protein, with an
 0  overlapping 5' domain that is complimentary to the 3' terminus of the TERI 19 sequence.
    This DNA fragment was used as a primer, along with a complimentary forward 5' primer, in
    a standard PCR to create the entire DNA fragment encoding for TERI 19-proinsulin:
    5'
    GAGGTGAAGCTGCAGGAGTCAGGAGGAGGCTTGGTGCAACCTGGGGGGTCTCTG
 5  AAACTCTCCTGTGTAGCCTCAGGATTCACTTTCAGGGACCACTGGATGAATTGGG
    TCCGGCAGGCTCCCGGAAAGACCATGGAGTGGATTGGAGATATTAGACCTGATG
    GCAGTGACACAAACTATGCACCATCTGTGAGGAATAGATTCACAATCTCCAGAG
    ACAATGCCAGGAGCATCCTGTACCTGCAGATGAGCAATATGAGATCTGATTACA
    CAGCCACTTATTACTGTGTTAGAGACTCACCTACCCGGGCTGGGCTTATGGATGC
 '0 CTGGGGTCAAGGAACCTCAGTCACTGTCTCCTCAGCCGGTGGTGGTGGTTCTGGT
    GGTGGTGGTTCTGGCGGCGGCGGCTCCGGTGGTGGTGGATCCGACATTCAGATG
    ACGCAGTCTCCTTCAGTCCTGTCTGCATCTGTGGGAGACAGAGTCACTCTCAACT
    GCAAAGCAAGTCAGAATATTAACAAGTACTTAAACTGGTATCAGCAAAAGCTTG
    GAGAAGCTCCCAAAGTCCTGATATATAATACAAACAATTTGCAAACGGGCATCC
25  CATCAAGGTTCAGTGGCAGTGGATCTGGTACAGATTTCACACTCACCATCAGTAG
    CCTGCAGCCTGAAGATTTTGCCACATATTTCTGCTCTCAGCATTATACTTGGCCCA
    CGTTTGATGGTGGGACCAAGCTGGAAATCAAACGTACTCATCATCACCATCATCA
    CGGTGGCGGTTTTGTGAAACAGCATCTGTGCGGTCCGCATCTGGTGGAAGCGCTG
    TATCTGGTGTGCGGCGAACGTGGCTTTTTTTATACCCCGAAAAGCCGTCGTGAAG
30  TGGAAGATCCGCAGGTGGAACAGCTGGAACTGGGCGGCAGCCCGGGTGATCTGC
    AGACCCTGGCCCTGGAAGTGGCGCGTCAGAAACGTGGCATTGTGGATCAGTGCT
    GCACCAGCATTTGCAGCCTGTATCAGCTGGAAAACTATTACAAC-3'                               (SEQ     ID
    NO:79). The underlined sequence denotes the proinsulin gene segment of the construct. The
    DNA fragment was inserted into a mammalian and prokaryotic expression vector for
                                               61

    recombinant expression.
    Example 7: Synthesis of Branched Polymers Comprising Erythrocyte Binding Ligands and
    Other Functions
 5          For the synthesis of 8-arm PEG-thioacetate, 8-arm PEG-OH (Nektar) was dissolved in
    toluene and reacted for 18 h with 10 equivalents of triethylamine (Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 121
    44-8) and 10 equivalents of methanesulfonyl chloride (Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 124-63-0) at
    room temperature under argon. The residue was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under
    reduced pressure, dissolved in dimethylformamide (DMF), and 10 equivalents of potassium
 0  thioacetate (Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 10387-40-3) was added. After 18 h at room temperature,
    the residue was filtered, the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and precipitated
    in diethyl ether. The precipitate was filtered and dried under reduced pressure to obtain the
    final product.
            For the synthesis of 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide,          8-arm PEG-thioacetate was
 5  dissolved in dimethylformamide (DMF) and deprotected with 1.05 equivalents of sodium
    methoxide (Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 124-41-4) for 1 h at room temperature under argon in a
    Schlenk tube.     To reduce the deprotected thiols to thiolates, 2 equivalents of Tris(2
    carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP, Thermo Scientific, CAS# 51805-45-9) and 2
    equivalents of distilled water were added to the solution. After 2 h at room temperature, 12
 '0 equivalents of 2,2'-dithiodipyridine (Aldrithiol-2, Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 2127-03-9) was
    added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The reaction mixture was
    then dialyzed against 5 L of distilled water in MWCO 3,500 Da dialysis tubing for 48 h,
    during which the distilled water was changed 4 times. Pyridyldisulfide loading onto the 8
    arm PEG was quantified by reduction in 25 mM TCEP in 100 mM HEPES, pH 8.0, and UV
25  vis spectra were measured at 343 nm to monitor the presence of the pyridine-2-thione leaving
    group.
            For the synthesis of 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide-ALEXAFLUOR647, 8-arm PEG
    thioacetate was dissolved in DMF and deprotected with 1.05 equivalents of sodium
    methoxide (Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 124-41-4) for 1 h at room temperature under argon in a
30  Schlenk tube.     To reduce the deprotected thiols to thiolates, 2 equivalents of Tris(2
    carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP, Thermo Scientific, CAS# 51805-45-9) and an
    equal volume of 100 mM HEPES pH 8.0 were added to the solution. After 2 h at room
    temperature, 0.125 equivalents (equivalent to 1 arm out of 8) of AlexaFluor647-C2
    maleimide (Invitrogen) was added to the solution.         After 2 h at room temperature, 12
                                                  62

    equivalents of 2,2'-dithiodipyridine (Aldrithiol-2, Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 2127-03-9) was
    added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The reaction mixture was
    then dialyzed against 5 L of distilled water in MWCO 3,500 Da dialysis tubing for 48 h,
    during which the distilled water was changed 4 times. Pyridyldisulfide loading onto the 8
 5  arm PEG was quantified by reduction in 25 mM TCEP in 100 mM HEPES, pH 8.0, and UV
    vis spectra were measured at 343 nm to monitor the presence of the pyridine-2-thione leaving
    group.
            Thiol-containing peptides were conjugated to the 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide by
    adding stoichiometric quantities of the peptide, dissolved in aqueous 3 M guanidine-HCl
 0  (Sigma Aldrich, CAS# 50-01-10), to the aqueous solution of 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide at
    room temperature. Reaction conversion was monitored by measuring UV-vis spectra at 343
    nm to quantify the presence of the pyridine-2-thione leaving group.         If more than one
    molecule was to be conjugated to the 8-arm PEG-pyridyldisulfide, the reaction procedure was
    repeated with the new molecule in the same pot.        Once conjugation was completed, the
 5  reaction mixture was desalted on a ZEBASPIN desalting column (Thermo Scientific), and the
    purified product was stored under the appropriate sterile conditions.
            The induction of tolerance towards OVA could be demonstrated for the 8-arm PEG
    ERYl/MIS-SIINFEKL conjugate (SIINFEKL: SEQ ID NO:3) by administering it either
    intravenously or extravascularly to mice. This test would also indicate induction of tolerance
 '0 in humans using human-specific ligands. In such a demonstration, a predetermined number
    of days following administration, mice would be sacrificed and lymph nodes, spleen, and
    blood harvested for analysis. Splenocytes and lymph node derived cells are plated and re
    stimulated for 3 days ex vivo with OVA and/or SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:3) peptide, and their
    down-regulation of IFNy, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4 expression, and up-regulation of TGF- 1,
25  which are established evidence of tolerance, are measured by ELISA. Intracellular staining
    of IFNy, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4 is performed using flow cytometry on splenocytes and lymph
    node derived cells following 6 h of ex vivo re-stimulation with OVA and/or SIINFEKL (SEQ
    ID NO:3) peptide.      Furthermore, flow cytometry is used to characterize the expression
    profiles of CD4, CD8, and regulatory T-cells from lymph node, spleen, and blood derived
30  cells. Additionally, blood samples are taken from mice at varying time points to measure
    humoral antibody responses towards the OVA antigen. A variant experiment of the ex vivo
    re-stimulation is performed to determine if systemic tolerance has been established. Mice are
    administered with 8-arm PEG-ERYl/MIS-SIINFEKL conjugate (SIINFEKL: SEQ ID NO:3)
                                                63

    as   described    above,    OVA    is re-administered    9   days   later  with   an  adjuvant
    (lipopolysaccharide,     complete   Freud's   adjuvant,  alum,   or   other),  and splenocyte
    responsiveness to the OVA antigen is assessed by ELISA and/or flow cytometry as described
    above.      The 8-arm PEG-ERY1-SIINFEKL             conjugate (SIINFEKL: SEQ ID NO:3)
 5  formulation will render splenocytes non-responsive to the second challenge with OVA and
    adjuvant, which is a method of illustrating effective establishment of systemic tolerance.
    Following initial administration of the 8-arm PEG-ERYl/MIS-SIINFEKL                  conjugate
    formulations (SIINFEKL: SEQ ID NO:3), similar in vivo challenge experiments could be
    conducted with transgenic cell lines to further demonstrate tolerance, such as adoptive
 0  transfer with OT-I T cells, similar to studies described in detail in Example 3.            To
    demonstrate immune tolerance in mouse models of autoimmunity or deimmunization of
    therapeutic molecules, analogous 8-arm PEG constructs may be made to the relevant antigens
    as was described here with SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:3).
 5  Example 8: Inducing Antigen-specific Immunological Tolerance Through Non-covalent
    Erythrocyte-binding with Aptamer-conjugated Antigen
             Methods may be performed using other non-antibody bioaffinity reagents to measure
    their ability to induce immunological tolerance through non-covalent erythrocyte binding.
    Other protein-based affinity moieties, such as designed ankyrin repeat proteins (DARPins)
 ,0 (Steiner, Forrer, et al., 2008), designed armadillo repeat proteins (Parmeggiani, Pellarin, et
    al., 2008), fibronectin domains (Hackel, Kapila, et al., 2008), and cysteine-knot (knottin)
    affinity scaffolds (Silverman, Levin, et al., 2009) are screened for those displaying binding
    affinity to erythrocytes.
             Library screening to discover high-affinity DNA/RNA aptamers towards erythrocytes
25  is conducted using the well-established Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential
    Enrichment (SELEX) method (Archemix, Cambridge, MA, USA) (Sampson, 2003). Upon
    discovery of novel DNA/RNA sequences that binds erythrocytes with high affinity, they are
    chemically synthesized to include an additional chemical reactive group on either their 3' or
    5' terminus for conjugation to an antigen and/or polymer micelle/nanoparticle.             The
30  chemically synthesized aptamer does, for example, harbor a reactive NH2 group, that is
    conjugated via EDC/NHS conjugation chemistry with the COOH groups present on either the
    nanoparticle or antigen or nanoparticle-antigen complex, to create a single bioconjugate
    comprising of the erythrocyte-binding aptamer and the antigen or antigen-nanoparticle.
    Various chemical conjugation techniques are attempted by altering orthogonal reactive
                                                 64

    groups and conjugation schemes on both the aptamer, antigen, and/or antigen-nanoparticle.
            In order to demonstrate the induction of tolerance towards OVA, the OVA-aptamer or
    OVA-nanoparticle-aptamer conjugate is administered either intravenously or extravascularly
    to mice. At a predetermined number of days following administration, mice are sacrificed
 5  and lymph nodes, spleen, and blood are harvested for analysis. Splenocytes and lymph node
    derived cells are plated and re-stimulated for 3 days ex vivo with OVA and/or SIINFEKL
    peptide (SEQ ID NO:3), and their down-regulation of IFNy, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4
    expression, and up-regulation of TGF-pl, which are established evidence of tolerance, is
    measured by ELISA.       Intracellular staining of IFNy, IL-17a, IL-2, and IL-4 is performed
 0  using flow cytometry on splenocytes and lymph node derived cells following 6 h of ex vivo
    re-stimulation with OVA and/or SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:3) peptide.               Furthermore, flow
    cytometry is used to characterize the expression profiles of CD4, CD8, and regulatory T-cells
    from lymph node, spleen, and blood derived cells. Additionally, blood samples are taken
    from mice at varying time points to measure humoral antibody responses towards the OVA
 5  antigen.   A variant experiment of the ex vivo re-stimulation is performed to determine if
    systemic tolerance has been established.        Mice are administered with OVA-antibody or
    OVA-antibody-nanoparticle conjugate as described above, OVA is re-administered 9 days
    later with an adjuvant (lipopolysaccharide, complete Freud's adjuvant, alum, or other), and
    splenocyte responsiveness to the OVA antigen is assessed by ELISA and/or flow cytometry
 0O as described above. The OVA-antibody and/or OVA-antibody-nanoparticle formulations are
    expected to render splenocytes non-responsive to the second challenge with OVA and
    adjuvant, thereby illustrating effective establishment of systemic tolerance. Following initial
    administration with the OVA-aptamer and/or OVA-aptamer-nanoparticle               formulations,
    similar in vivo challenge experiments will be conducted with transgenic cell lines to
25  demonstrate tolerance, such as adoptive transfer with OT-I T cells, similar to studies
    described in detail in Example 3.      To demonstrate immune tolerance in mouse models of
    autoimmunity or deimmunization of therapeutic molecules, analogous aptamer constructs are
    made to the relevant antigens as was described here with OVA.
30  Example 9: Characterizing of Binding to Human Erythrocytes
            To characterize the selected bacterially displayed peptides that bound to human
    erythrocytes in a non-cell displayed context, the peptides were synthesized chemically and
    conjugated to the fluorescent protein allophycocyanin          (APC).    In this manner, the
                                                  65

    erythrocyte-binding capacity of each peptide was characterized in a soluble context, i.e. as a
    protein conjugate. As demonstrated in Fig. 6, peptides ERY64, ERY123, and ERY141 bound
    to human erythrocytes as conjugates of APC
 5  APC-peptide conjugation method
            Peptides were ordered and custom-synthesized via standard fmoc solid-phase peptide
    synthesis from PolyPeptide Group (Strasbourg, France). 10 equivalents of peptide dissolved
    in   3    M    guanidine-HCl    were    added   to   2   mg/mL    maleimide-activated    APC
    (InnovaBiosciences, Cambridge, UK) in PBS. Following a 4 h incubation at 4'C, the reaction
 0  was desalted on a 2 mL ZEBA Desalting Column (Thermo Scientific) and stored at 4'C.
    Quantificationof erythrocyte binding by flow cytometry method
            Freshly isolated human blood was dissolved 100-fold into PBS supplemented with 20
    mg/mL BSA. 5x10 5 erythrocytes were added to 150 pL of 1 pM APC-peptide conjugate and
 5  incubated at 37 C for 45 min. Cells were washed extensively in PBS + 20 mg/mL BSA, and
    analyzed for APC fluorescence on a CyAn ADP Flow cytometer (Beckman Coulter).
    Example 10: Inducing Antigen-specific Immunological Tolerance Through Erythrocyte
    binding with Single Chain Antibody-fused Antigen
 10          A recombinant fusion of an scFv to the MHC-I immunodominant domain of OVA,
    SIINFEKL was created.        The resultant scFv (herein termed TERI 19-SIINFEKL) bound
    mouse erythrocytes, as demonstrated by flow cytometry in Fig 7.
            Since ERY1-OVA has already been shown herein to induce this tolerance, it is a
    useful system to characterize immunological events.       It was determined that erythrocyte
25  binding of ERY1-OVA led to efficient cross-presentation of the OVA immunodominant
    MHC I epitope (SIINFEKL) by antigen presenting cells (APCs) and corresponding cross
    priming of reactive T cells. CFSE-labeled OT-I CD8* T cells (CD45.2+) were adoptively
    transferred into CD45.1* mice, and then proliferation of the OT-I CD8* T cells over 5 days
    was measured following intravenous administration of 10 pg of OVA, 10 pg ERY 1-OVA, an
30  equimolar dose of TERI 19-SIINFEKL, or an equimolar dose of SIINFEKL. OT-I CD8* T
    cell proliferation, determined by dilution of the fluor CFSE as measured by flow cytometry,
    was markedly enhanced in mice administered TERI 19-SIINFEKL compared to ERY 1-OVA
    or OVA (Fig. 8), demonstrating that erythrocyte-binding increased antigen-specific CD8* T
    cell cross-priming compared to the soluble antigen SIINFEKL.
                                                 66

           To distinguish T cells being expanded into a functional effector phenotype from those
   being expanded and deleted, the proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells were analyzed for annexin
   V, as a hallmark of apoptosis and thus deletion, as well as the exhaustion marker
   programmed death-i (PD-1). TER119-SIINFEKL and ERYi-OVA induced much higher
 5 numbers of annexin-V* and PD-I proliferating OT-I CD8* T cells than OVA (Fig. 9).
           Using an established OT-I challenge-to-tolerance model (Liu, Iyoda, et al., 2002), the
   ability of TER 1i9-SIINFEKL and ERYI-OVA to prevent subsequent immune responses to
   vaccine-mediated antigen challenge were demonstrated - even with a challenge involving a
   very strong bacterially-derived adjuvant. To tolerize, 10 pg of either OVA or ERYi-OVA,
 0 or an equimolar dose of TER 119-SIINFEKL were intravenously administered at I and 6 days
   following adoptive transfer of OT-I CD8* (CD45.2+) T cells to CD45.1* mice. After 9
   additional days to allow potential deletion of the transferred T cells, the recipient mice were
   then challenged with OVA adjuvanted with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) by intradermal
   injection. Characterization of draining lymph node and spleen cells as well as their
 5 inflammatory responses 4 d after challenge allowed a determination as to whether or not
   deletion actually took place.
           Intravenous   administration of TER119-SIINFEKL          or ERYi-OVA resulted in
   profound reductions in OT-I CD8* T cell populations in the draining lymph nodes and
   spleens compared with mice administered unmodified OVA prior to antigen challenge with
 0 LPS, demonstrating deletional tolerance. Draining lymph nodes from ERYi-OVA-treated
   mice contained over 11 -fold fewer OT-I CD8* T cells as compared to OVA-treated mice, and
   39-fold fewer than challenge control mice that did not receive intravenous injections of
   antigen; responses in spleen cells were similar. Draining lymph nodes from TER 1i9
   SIINFEKL-treated mice contained over 13-fold fewer OT-I CD8* T cells as compared to
25 OVA-treated mice, and over 42-fold fewer than challenge control mice that did not receive
   intravenous injections of antigen; responses in spleen cells were similar. This effective clonal
   deletion exhibited in mice administered TER 1i9-SIINFEKL or ERYi-OVA supported the
   earlier observations of enhanced OT-I CD8* T cell cross-priming (Fig. 8) and furthermore
   shows that cross-priming occurred in the absence of APC presentation of co-stimulatory
30 molecules to lead to deletional tolerance.
           To   further evaluate   the   immune response      following antigen challenge,      the
   inflammatory nature of resident lymph node and spleen cells was characterized by expression
   of interferon-y (IFNy) by OT-I CD8* T cells (Fig. 10).     Following challenge with OVA and
   LPS, the lymph nodes of mice previously treated with ERYi-OVA harbored 10-fold fewer
                                               67

   IFNy-expressing cells compared to challenge control mice (previously receiving no antigen),
   and over 4-fold fewer IFNy-expressing cells compared to mice previously treated with an
   equivalent dose of OVA. Following challenge with OVA and LPS, the lymph nodes of mice
   previously treated with TERI 19-SIINFEKL harbored 33-fold fewer IFNy-expressing cells
 5 compared to challenge control mice (previously receiving no antigen), and over 14-fold fewer
   IFNy-expressing cells compared to mice previously treated with an equivalent dose of OVA,
   demonstrating the importance of erythrocyte binding in tolerogenic protection to challenge;
   responses in spleen cells were similar.
 0 Animal methods
           Swiss Veterinary authorities previously approved all animal procedures. C57BL/6
   Tg(TcraTcrb) 11 00Mjb (OT-I) mice (Jackson Labs) were bred at the EPFL Animal Facility,
   and females were used for splenocyte isolation at 6-12 wk old.          8-12 week old female
   B6.SJL-PtprcaPepc/Boy(CD45. 1) mice (Charles River) were used as recipient hosts for OT
 5 I CD8* T cell adoptive transfer and tolerance induction studies.
   Peptide design and synthesis methods
           The    ERY1    (H 2N-WMVLPWLPGTLDGGSGCRG-CONH 2)                   peptide      (SEQ   ID
   NO: 128) was synthesized using standard solid-phase f-moc chemistry using TGR resin (Nova
 O Biochem) on an automated liquid handler (Chemspeed).          The underlined sequence is the
   ERY1     12-mer sequence that we previously discovered by phage display as a mouse
   glycophorin-A binder (Kontos and Hubbell, 2010). The GGSG region served as a linker to
   the cysteine residue used for conjugation; the flanking arginine residue served to lower the
   pKa and thus increase the reactivity of the cysteine residue (Lutolf, Tirelli, et al., 2001). The
25 peptide was cleaved from the resin for 3 h in 95% tri-fluoroacetic acid, 2.5% ethanedithiol,
   2.5% water, and precipitated in ice-cold diethyl ether.     Purification was conducted on a
   preparative HPLC-MS (Waters) using a C18 reverse phase column (PerSpective Biosystems).
   ERYJ-antigen conjugation methods
30         10    molar   equivalents    of   succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1
   carboxylate (SMCC, CAS# 64987-85-5, Thermo Scientific) dissolved in dimethylformamide
   were reacted with 5 mg/mL endotoxin-free (<1 EU/mg) OVA (Hyglos GmbH) in PBS for 1 h
   at room temperature.    Following desalting on a 2 mL ZEBA Desalt spin column (Thermo
   Scientific), 10 equivalents of ERY1 peptide dissolved in 3 M guanidine-HCl were added and
                                                68

    allowed to react for 2 h at room temperature. The conjugate was desalted using 2 mL Zeba
    Desalt spin columns, 0.2 pm sterile filtered, dispensed into working aliquots, and stored at
    20 C.     Protein concentration was determined via BCA Assay (Thermo Scientific). The
    scheme results in conjugation of the cysteine side chain on the peptide to lysine side-chains
 5  on the antigen.
    T cell adoptive transfermethods
            CD8* T cells from OT-I (CD45.2+) mouse spleens were isolated using a CD8
    magnetic bead negative selection kit (Miltenyi Biotec) as per the manufacturer's instructions.
 0  Freshly isolated CD8* OT-I cells were resuspended in PBS and labeled with 1 pM
    carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE, Invitrogen) for 6 min at room temperature, and
    the reaction was quenched for 1 min with an equal volume of IMDM with 10% FBS (Gibco).
    Cells were washed, counted, and resuspended in pure IMDM prior to injection. 3x10 6 CFSE
    labeled CD8* OT-I cells were injected intravenously into the tail vein of recipient CD45.1*
 5  mice. For short-term proliferation studies, 10 pg of ERY1-OVA or OVA, or an equimolar
    dose of TERI 19-SIINFEKL in 100 pL volume was injected 24 h following adoptive transfer.
    Splenocytes were harvested 5 d following antigen administration and stained for analysis by
    flow cytometry.
 '0 OT-I tolerance and challenge model methods
            3x10  5 CFSE-labeled OT-I CD8* T cells were injected into CD45.1I recipient mice as
    described above.       1 and 6 d following adoptive transfer, mice were intravenously
    administered 10 pg of ERY1-OVA or OVA, or an equimolar dose of TER119-SIINFEKL in
    100 pL saline into the tail vein. 15 d following adoptive transfer, mice were challenged with
25  5 pg OVA and 25 ng ultra-pure Escherichia coli LPS (InvivoGen) in 25 pL intradermally
    into each rear leg pad (Hock method, total dose of 10 pg OVA and 50 ng LPS). Mice were
    sacrificed 4 d following challenge, and spleen and draining lymph node cells were isolated
    for restimulation.     For flow cytometry analysis of intracellular cytokines, cells were
    restimulated in the presence of 1 mg/mL OVA or 1 pg/mL SIINFEKL peptide (Genscript) for
30  3 h. Brefeldin-A (Sigma, 5 pg/mL) was added and restimulation resumed for an additional 3
    h prior to staining and flow cytometry analysis.
    Antibodies andflow cytometry methods
            The following anti-mouse antibodies were used for flow cytometry: CDld Pacific
                                                 69

    Blue, CD3     PerCP-Cy5.5, CD8a PE-Cy7, CD45.2 Pacific Blue, IFNy-APC, CD8a APC
    eF780, (all from eBioscience), in addition to fixable live/dead dye (Invitrogen), and annexin
    V-Cy5 labeling kit (BioVision).     Samples were analyzed on a CyAn ADP flow cytometer
    (Beckman Coulter).     Cells were washed first with PBS, stained for 20 min on ice with
 5  live/dead dye, blocked for 20 min on ice with 24G2 hybridoma medium, surface stained for
    20 min on ice, fixed in 2% paraformaldehyde for 20 min ice, intracellularly stained in the
    presence of 0.5% saponin for 45 min on ice, followed by a final wash prior to analysis. For
    apoptosis staining, annexin-V-Cy5 was added 5 min prior to analysis.
 0  Example 11: Creation of Antigen-specific Immunological Tolerance Towards Therapeutic
    Proteins Through Fusion Molecule of Erythrocyte Binding Peptide-and-Conjugated Antigen.
            A mouse erythrocyte-binding variant of asparaginase (ERY 1 -ASNase) was created by
    conjugating the mouse erythrocyte-specific peptide ERY1 (Kontos and Hubbell, 2010). To
    determine the immunogenicity of erythrocyte-bound versus wild-type asparaginase, a study
 5  was performed to evaluate to evaluate two regimens, namely exposure to a 2-dose and a 6
    dose regimen of the ERY conjugate (ERY 1-ASNase) or the native form (ASPARAGINASE
    MEDAC, Medac GmbH; which was also used as the raw material for the ERY1-ASNase
    conjugate). In each regimen, 15 pg of ERY1-ASNase               or ASNase was administered
    intravenously every 2 days, and blood was drawn every 7 days.
 10         Following the exposures at therapeutic doses, antibody titers were measured at
    various time points, up to 21 days following the final injection. The result is clear in showing
    vast reduction in immunogenicity through erythrocyte conjugation, with no antibodies
    observable at all in the 2-dose regimen and the 6-dose regimen series (Fig 11). By contrast,
    the   wild  type, native    asparaginase  (as   currently   used  clinically,   in  the product
25  ASPARAGINASE         MEDAC),     induced vigorous immunity even following the 2 dose
    regimen.
            A prophylaxis study was performed to determine if erythrocyte-binding asparaginase
    induced bona-fide immune tolerance towards wild-type asparaginase.             Mice previously
    administered with wild-type clinical asparaginase were challenged with an additional dose
30  following the onset of humoral immunity.        Antibody levels increased or remained high
    following re-administration of the protein; this is representative of a dangerous clinical
    situation of hypersensitivity and shock reactions towards the therapeutic. Mice previously
    treated with ERY1-conjugated asparaginase failed to induce potent antibody responses even
    after six challenges with wild-type asparaginase.          On average, mice tolerized with
                                                70

   erythrocyte-binding asparaginase developed approx. 6000-fold fewer antibodies towards
   clinical wild-type asparaginase.
   ERYJ-ASNase conjugation method
 5          10   molar    equivalents   of   succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1
   carboxylate (SMCC, CAS# 64987-85-5, Thermo Scientific) dissolved in dimethylformamide
   were reacted with 5 mg/mL        Asparaginase Medac in PBS for 2 h at room temperature.
   Following desalting on a 2 mL ZEBA Desalt spin column (Thermo Scientific), 2.5
   equivalents of ERY1 peptide dissolved in 3 M guanidine-HCl were added and allowed to
 0 react for 2 h at room temperature. The conjugate was desalted using 2 mL Zeba Desalt spin
   columns, 0.2 pm sterile filtered, dispensed into working aliquots, and stored at -20 C. Protein
   concentration was determined via BCA Assay (Thermo Scientific). The scheme results in
   conjugation of the cysteine side chain on the peptide to lysine side-chains on the protein.
 5 Flow cytometry detection of binding method
            Freshly isolated human blood was diluted 100-fold into PBS supplemented with 20
   mg/mL BSA. Approximately 500,000 erythrocytes were added to 100 nM of asparaginase
   and incubated at 37 C for 1 h.      Following washing, cells were incubated with goat anti
   asparaginase (Abnova) for 30 min on ice. Following a second round of washing, cells were
 0 incubated with ALEXAFLUOR488-conjugated anti-goat IgG antibody (Invitrogen) for 20
   min on ice.     After a final wash, cells were analyzed on a flow cytometer to detect for
   erythrocyte-bound asparaginase.
   Asparaginaseadministrationmethod
25          Desired dosages of ERY1-ASNase or ASNase were prepared in sterile 0.9% saline,
   and 100 pL of the solution was injected into the tail vein of anesthetized C57BL/6 mice.
   Blood was drawn at pre-determined time points either by cheek puncture or tail incisions.
   Anti-asparaginaseantibody detection from serum method Serum from experimental groups
   was serially diluted into PBS and incubated for 2 h at RT on ASNase-coated ELISA plates.
30 HRP-conjugated anti-mouse IgG (Southern Biotech) was used as the detection antibody.
   Example 12: Immune Reversal to Create Tolerance after Immunoreaction
            In the clinical case where immunity (exemplified by the presence of anti-drug
   antibodies) towards a therapeutic protein or protein of interest has already been induced in the
                                                71

    patient, it is desirable to reverse the immune response towards the drug, thus enabling further
    use of the therapeutic. Again, the clinically available microbial enzyme asparaginase was
    used in this example to demonstrate the induction of tolerance towards a therapeutic protein
    in mice with pre-existing immunity towards asparaginase.         A mouse erythrocyte-binding
 5  variant of asparaginase (ERYl-ASNase) was created by conjugating the mouse erythrocyte
    specific peptide ERY 1.
            A cross-over study was performed to determine if erythrocyte-binding asparaginase
    could reverse immunity towards clinical asparaginase. Mice were intravenously administered
    multiple doses of wild-type asparaginase two days apart. 21 days following administration,
 0  high levels of anti-asparaginase antibodies were detected in serum. Immunized mice were
    then therapeutically treated with erythrocyte-binding asparaginase regimens at varying doses.
    In both dosing regimens, ERY-conjugated asparaginase reduced antibody levels approx. 10
    fold, thus reversing pre-existing humoral immunity
 5  ERYJ-ASNase conjugation method
             10    molar    equivalents    of  succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1
    carboxylate (SMCC, CAS# 64987-85-5, Thermo Scientific) dissolved in dimethylformamide
    were reacted with 5 mg/mL ASPARAGINASE MEDAC in PBS for 2 h at room temperature.
    Following desalting on a 2 mL ZEBA Desalt spin column (Thermo Scientific), 2.5
 '0 equivalents of ERY1 peptide dissolved in 3 M guanidine-HCl were added and allowed to
    react for 2 h at room temperature. The conjugate was desalted using 2 mL ZEBA Desalt spin
    columns, 0.2 pm sterile filtered, dispensed into working aliquots, and stored at -20 C. Protein
    concentration was determined via BCA Assay (Thermo Scientific). The scheme results in
    conjugation of the cysteine side chain on the peptide to lysine side-chains on the protein.
25
    Flow cytometry detection of binding method
            Freshly isolated human blood was diluted 100-fold into PBS supplemented with 20
    mg/mL BSA. Approximately 500,000 erythrocytes were added to 100 nM of asparaginase
    and incubated at 37 C for 1 h. Following washing, cells were incubated with goat anti
30  asparaginase (Abnova) for 30 min on ice. Following a second round of washing, cells were
    incubated with ALEXAFLUOR488-conjugated anti-goat IgG antibody (Invitrogen) for 20
    min on ice.      After a final wash, cells were analyzed on a flow cytometer to detect for
    erythrocyte-bound asparaginase.
                                                  72

    Asparaginaseadministrationmethod
             Desired dosages of ERY1-ASNase or ASNase were prepared in sterile 0.9% saline,
    and 100 pL of the solution was injected into the tail vein of anesthetized C57BL/6 mice.
    Blood was drawn at pre-determined time points either by cheek puncture or tail incisions.
 5
    Anti-asparaginaseantibody detectionfrom serum method
             Serum from experimental groups was serially diluted into PBS and incubated for 2 h
    at RT on ASNase-coated ELISA plates. HRP-conjugated anti-mouse IgG (Southern Biotech)
    was used as the detection antibody.
 0
    Example 13:     Development of antibodies and antibody-fragments that bind mouse and/or
    human erythrocytes
             Several erythrocyte binding antigen constructs have been created.     These include
    those relating to the protein level: TERI 19-SIINFEKL, TERI 19-ChrA, and TERI 19
 5  proinsulin.    These also include those relating to the genetic level: TERI 19-SIINFEKL,
    TERI 19-ChrA       TERI 19-proinsulin,    TERI 19-uricase,     TERI 19-InsB9-23,    TERI 19
    ISQAVHAAHAEINEAGR             (SEQ   ID NO:80), TER119-H-2kb,        TER119-H-2kd,      10F7
    SIINFEKL, 10F7-ChrA, 10F7-proinsulin, and 10F7-uricase.
 '0 Methods
             mRNA from the TER- 119 hybridoma clone was obtained as a gift from Prof. Shozo
    Izui at the University of Geneva, Switzerland. Standard reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR)
    was performed using the SUPERSCRIPT III FIRST STRAND SYNTHESIS SYSTEM
    (Invitrogen) to create complimentary DNA (cDNA) of the clone. PCR was then conducted
25  using the following set of primers to specifically amplify the DNA sequences of the variable
    heavy (VH) and variable light (VL) regions of the antibody:
         Primer                  Primer sequence (5' to 3')                    SEQ ID NO
          name
           VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TCC AGC TGA                      SEQ ID NO:81
         FORI      CTC AGC C
           VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TTC TCW                      SEQ ID NO:82
         FOR2      CCC AGT C
           VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGM TMA                      SEQ ID NO:83
         FOR3      CTC AGT C
           VL-     AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGY TRA                      SEQ ID NO:84
         FOR4      CAC AGT C
                                                73

  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TRA TGA SEQ ID NO:85
 FOR5 CMCAGTC
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTM AGA TRA SEQ ID NO:86
 FOR6 MCCAGTC
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTC AGA TGA SEQ ID NO:87
 FOR7 YDC AGT C
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TYC AGA TGA SEQ ID NO:88
 FOR8 CACAGAC
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TTC TCA SEQ ID NO:89
 FOR9 WCC AGT C
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG WGC TSA SEQ ID NO:90
FOR1O CCC AAT C
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTS TRA TGA SEQ ID NO:91
FOR1I CCCARTC
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYR TTK TGA TGA SEQ ID NO:92
FOR12 CCC ARA C
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TGA SEQ ID NO:93
FOR13 CBC AGK C
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TAA SEQ ID NO:94
FOR14 CYC AGG A
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TGA SEQ ID NO:95
FOR15 CCC AGW T
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTG TGA TGA SEQ ID NO:96
FOR16 CACAACC
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG AYA TTT TGC TGA SEQ ID NO:97
FOR17 CTC AGT C
  VL- AGC CGG CCA TGG CGG ARG CTG TTG TGA SEQ ID NO:98
FOR18 CTC AGG AAT C
  VL- GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTG ATT SEQ ID NO:99
 REVI TCC AGC TTG G
  VL- GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTT ATT SEQ ID NO:100
 REV2 TCC AGC TTG G
  VL- GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTT ATT SEQ ID NO:101
 REV3 TCC AAC TTT G
  VL- GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CGT TTC AGC SEQ ID NO:102
 REV4 TCC AGC TTG G
  VL- GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CCT AGG ACA SEQ ID NO:103
 REV5 GTCAGTTTGG
  VL- GAT GGT GCG GCC GCA GTA CCT AGG ACA SEQ ID NO:104
 REV6 GTGACCTTGG
  VH- GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT SEQ ID NO:105
 FORI GGC GGA KGT RMA GCT TCA GGA GTC
  VH- GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT SEQ ID NO:106
 FOR2 GGC GGA GGT BCA GCT BCA GCA GTC
  VH- GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT SEQ ID NO:107
 FOR3 GGC GCA GGT GCA GCT GAA GSA STC
  VH- GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT SEQ ID NO:108
 FOR4 GGC GGA GGT CCA RCT GCA ACA RTC
                           74

         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:109
        FOR5    GGC GCA GGT YCA GCT BCA GCA RTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:110
        FOR6    GGC GCA GGT YCA RCT GCA GCA GTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO: 111
        FOR7    GGC GCA GGT CCA CGT GAA GCA GTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO: 112
        FOR8    GGC GGA GGT GAA SST GGT GGA ATC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:113
        FOR9    GGC GGA VGT GAW GYT GGT GGA GTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO: 114
       FOR1O    GGC GGA GGT GCA GSK GGT GGA GTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:115
       FOR 11   GGC GGA KGT GCA MCT GGT GGA GTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:116
       FOR12    GGC GGA GGT GAA GCT GAT GGA RTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:117
       FOR13    GGC GGA GGT GCA RCT TGT TGA GTC
         VH-    GTT   ATT   GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC             AAT    SEQ ID NO: 118
       FOR14    GGC   GGA   RGT RAA GCT TCT CGA GTC
         VH-    GTT   ATT   GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC             AAT    SEQ ID NO:119
       FOR15    GGC   GGA   AGT GAA RST TGA GGA GTC
         VH-    GTT   ATT   GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC             AAT    SEQ ID NO:120
       FOR16    GGC   GCA   GGT TAC TCT RAA AGW GTS TG
         VH-    GTT   ATT   GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC             AAT    SEQ ID NO:121
       FOR17    GGC GCA GGT CCA ACT VCA GCA RCC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:122
       FORI 8   GGC GGA TGT GAA CTT GGA AGT GTC
         VH-    GTT ATT GCT AGC GGC TCA GCC GGC AAT                    SEQ ID NO:123
       FOR19    GGC GGA GGT GAA GGT CAT CGA GTC
         VH-    CCC    TTG AAG    CTT GCT GAG GAA ACG GTG              SEQ ID NO:124
        REVI    ACC   GTG GT
         VH-    CCC    TTG AAG     CTT GCT GAG GAG ACT GTG             SEQ ID NO:125
        REV2    AGA   GTG GT
         VH-    CCC    TTG AAG     CTT GCT GCA GAG ACA GTG             SEQ ID NO:126
        REV3    ACC   AGA GT
         VH-    CCC    TTG AAG    CTT GCT GAG GAG ACG GTG              SEQ ID NO:127
        REV4    ACT   GAG GT
          The amplified VH and VL genes were then digested with restriction endonucleases
  (NcoI and NotI for VL, NdeI and HindIl for VH), the gene fragments were purified
  following agarose electrophoresis using a standard kit (Zymo Research, Orange, CA, USA),
5 and ligated into a cloning plasmid pMAZ360. The cloning plasmid was then sequenced to
  determine the DNA sequence of the VH and VL genes of TERI 19.
          TER119    and 10F7-antigen DNA constructs were designed and commercially
  synthesized and obtained from DNA2.0 (Menlo Park, CA, USA).
                                             75

           Each final completed scFv gene was digested with SfiI and XhoI (NEB, Ipswich, MA,
   USA), and ligated into the same sites on the pSecTagA mammalian expression plasmid
   (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA).
 5 Example 14:     Induction of Tolerance Towards Diabetogenic Antigens using Erythrocyte
   binding Diabetes Antigens
           Chromogranin-A mimotope peptide (termed 1040-p3l or ChrA) was engineered to
   bind to mouse erythrocytes by recombinantly fusing the peptide to the mouse erythrocyte
   specific scFv TERI 19.       The resultant scFv, herein termed TERI 19-ChrA, tightly bound
 0 mouse erythrocytes (data not shown). To study T cell behavior towards the chromogranin-A
   antigen variants, the NODBDC2.5 transgenic mouse was used, which harbors T cells specific
   for the recognition of the chromogranin-A antigen.        To determine if TERI 19-ChrA was
   processed and displayed on major histocompatibility-II (MHC-II) complexes in a manner
   sufficient for BDC2.5 T cell priming, the antigen was added to a co-culture system with
 5 BDC2.5 splenic dendritic cells and CD4 T cells. As demonstrated in Figure 12, TERI 19
   ChrA was efficiently processed and the correct antigenic domain displayed on MHC-II to
   prime antigen-specific proliferation of the transgenic BDC2.5 CD4 T cells in vitro, which is a
   requisite for T cell tolerance in vivo.
           To determine the consequences of erythrocyte binding of the autoantigen on CD4
 O proliferation in vivo, a similar proliferation study was conducted using BDC2.5 CD4 T cells
   labeled with the fluorescent molecule CFSE.         Following adoptive transfer of the labeled
   BDC2.5 CD4 T cells into naive NOD mice, either 10 pg of TERI 19-ChrA or an equimolar
   dose of free soluble 1040-p3l peptide was administered intravenously. As is demonstrated in
   Fig. 13, mice treated with TERI 19-ChrA harbored far fewer non-proliferating BDC2.5 CD4
25 T cells in both the spleen and pancreatic lymph nodes (pLN) compared with mice treated
   with the soluble 1040-p3l peptide. These data demonstrate that erythrocyte-binding antigen
   drives potent antigen-specific CD4 T cell signaling and priming in a manner functionally
   distinct from soluble antigen, similar to the inventors thorough investigations of CD8 T cell
   deletional tolerance. Such marked reduction in systemic (spleen) and local (pancreatic lymph
30 node) diabetogenic T cells is clear positive indication of a favorable outcome for control of
   disease onset.
   Example 15: Induction of Tolerance Towards Insulin
           As already demonstrated herein (for instance, see Example 14), tolerance can be
                                                 76

    created towards various antigens. This example describes how tolerance to insulin can be
    created.    In order to induce tolerance towards insulin, which is another islet antigen
    recognized by diabetogenic T cells, insulin is engineered to bind mouse erythrocytes by
    recombinant fusion to the mouse erythrocyte-specific scFv TERI 19. The resultant scFv,
 5  herein termed TERI 19-proinsulin, is implemented in the conventional mouse model of
    spontaneous onset TID, namely the NOD/ShiLt mouse.                   The NOD/ShiLt mouse
    spontaneously undergoes immune cell mediated destruction of insulin-producing pancreatic
    tissue, thus inducing hyperglycemia and clinical onset of disease. Similarly, human insulin
    and human erythrocyte binding factors may be used to create tolerance to insulin in humans.
 0          To demonstrate tolerance in this robust spontaneously autoimmune mouse model,
    TERI 19-proinsulin is to be administered to young (~3 week old) mice at varying time
    intervals and doses in order to functionally inactivate and/or delete insulin-reactive T cells.
    Glucose levels of the treated mice are monitored to assess hyperglycemia and clinical onset
    of disease.   TERI 19-proinsulin is also used in a therapeutic mode to induce remission of
 5  disease. In such a study, TERI 19-proinsulin is administered to new-onset hyperglycemic
    mice at varying doses and time intervals, and glucose levels are monitored to assess reduction
    of hyperglycemia and return to homeostasis, thus demonstrating remission of clinical onset of
    TID.
 '0 Example 16: Creating Tolerance Towards cellular grafts and transplants by using
    erythrocyte-binding MHC molecules
            A process of creating tolerance of grafts is provided by way of example. Erythrocyte
    binding MHC molecules are engineered by chemically conjugating erythrocyte-binding
    peptides to soluble MHC domains. Alternatively, the MHC molecule may be recombinantly
25  expressed as a fusion with an erythrocyte-specific scFv.
            In order to demonstrate tolerance towards MHC molecules by erythrocyte binding,
    mouse models of cellular grafting, such as tumor grafts, skin grafts, islet transplants, and
    hematopoietic cell transplants are conducted.      In each study, the host mouse is tolerized
    towards the donor MHC class by administration of erythrocyte-binding MHC prior to or
30  during the graft procedure. Graft acceptance is monitored using methods appropriate for each
    study; i.e., measurement of tumor growth in tumor grafts, monitoring tissue necrosis or
    growth in skin transplant, monitoring islet mass and glycemia in islet transplants, and
    characterizing chimerism in hematopoietic cell transplants.
                                                 77

    FURTHER DISCLOSURE
            An embodiment is a method of producing immunotolerance, the method comprising
    administering a composition comprising a molecular fusion that comprises a tolerogenic
    antigen and an erythrocyte-binding moiety that specifically binds an erythrocyte in the patient
 5  and thereby links the antigen to the erythrocyte, wherein the molecular fusion is administered
    in an amount effective to produce immunotolerance to a substance that comprises the
    tolerogenic antigen. An embodiment is the method wherein the molecular fusion consists of
    at least one erythrocyte-binding moiety directly covalently bonded to the antigen: for
    instance, a fusion protein comprising the moiety and the antigen. An embodiment is the
 0  method wherein the molecular fusion comprises at least one erythrocyte-binding moiety
    attached to a particle that is attached to or contains the antigen, e.g., wherein the particle is
    chosen from the group consisting of a microparticle, a nanoparticle, a liposome, a
    polymersome, and a micelle. An embodiment is the case wherein the tolerogenic antigen
    comprises a portion of a therapeutic protein, e.g., the protein comprises factor VIII or factor
 5  IX. An embodiment is the case wherein the tolerogenic antigen comprises a portion of a
    nonhuman protein. An embodiment is the case wherein the protein comprises adenosine
    deaminase,     L-asparaginase,   rasburicase,  antithymocyte   globulin,   L-arginase,  and L
    methionase.     An embodiment is the method wherein the patient is a human and the
    tolerogenic antigen comprises a portion of a protein not found in nature. An embodiment is
 '0 the case wherein the patient is a human and the tolerogenic antigen comprises a glycan of a
    protein that comprises nonhuman glycosylation.        An embodiment is the case wherein the
    tolerogenic antigen comprises at least a portion of a human transplantation antigen.          An
    embodiment is the case wherein the tolerogenic antigen comprises a portion of a human
    autoimmune disease protein, e.g.,        chosen from the group consisting of preproinsulin,
25  proinsulin, insulin, GAD65,       GAD67,    IA-2, IA-2p, thyroglobulin, thyroid peroxidase,
    thyrotropin receptor, myelin basic protein, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, proteolipid
    protein, collagen II, collagen IV, acetylcholine receptor, matrix metalloprotein 1 and 3,
    molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 47, fibrillin-1, PDGF receptor a, PDGF receptor P,
    and nuclear protein SS-A.       An embodiment is the case wherein the tolerogenic antigen
30  comprises a portion of a human food, e.g., is chosen from the group consisting of conarachin
    (Ara h 1), allergen II (Ara h 2), arachis agglutinin (Ara h 6), a-lactalbumin (ALA),
    lactotransferrin, glutein, low molecular weight glutein, a- and y-gliadin, hordein, secalin, and
    avenin. An embodiment is the case wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is chosen from
                                                  78

    the group consisting of a peptide ligand, an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single
    chain antigen binding domain (ScFv). An embodiment is the case wherein the erythrocyte
    binding moiety comprises an antibody, an antibody fragment or an ScFv derived from a
    hybridoma that produces an antibody against an erythrocyte, with the hybridoma being
 5  chosen from the group consisting of BRIC 4, BRIC 5, BRIC 6, BRIC 10, BRIC 14, BRIC 18,
    BRIC 39, BRIC 66, BRIC 68, BRIC 69, BRIC 87, BRIC 108, BRIC 110, BRIC 111, BRIC
    125, BRIC 126, BRIC 128, BRIC 145, BRIC 155, BRIC 157, BRIC 163, BRIC 170, BRIC
    198, BRIC 203, BRIC 216, BRIC 220, BRIC 221, BRIC 222, BRIC 229, BRIC 230, BRIC
    231, BRIC 235, BRIC 256, BRAC 17, BRAC 18, BGRL 1, BGRL 2, BGRL 11, BGRL 100,
 0  BRAD 3, BIRMA D6, BIRMA D10, BIRMA K3, BIRMA K3, 84B; 6A7; COE; or KZ1. An
    embodiment is the case wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically binds to a
    biomolecule chosen from the group consisting of Band 3 (CD233), aquaporin-1, Glut-1, Kidd
    antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE (CD240CE), Rh30D (CD240D), Kx,
    glycophorin A, glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c), glycophorin D
 5  (CD235d), Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARCi (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF (CD55), Globoside,
    CD44, ICAM-4 (CD242), Lu/B-CAM (CD239), XG1/XG2 (CD99), EMMPRIN/neurothelin
    (CD147), JMH, Glycosyltransferase, Cartwright, Dombrock, C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2,
    stomatin, BA-1 (CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H antigen (CD173).                    The
    tolerogenic antigen may comprise a mimotope. An embodiment is the case wherein the scFv
 '0 comprises some or all of 10F7, e.g., one or more of a light chain of 10F7 and/or a heavy
    chain of 10F7 and/or a higher affinity variant of a light chain of 10F7 and/or a heavy chain of
    10F7. An embodiment is the method wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises a
    peptide ligand comprising at least 5 consecutive amino acid residues of a sequence chosen
    from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID
25  NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17, SEQ ID NO:1, and conservative substitutions
    thereof, wherein said sequence specifically binds an erythrocyte.
            An embodiment is a composition comprising a molecular fusion that comprises a
    tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte-binding moiety that specifically binds an erythrocyte
    in the patient and thereby links the antigen to the erythrocyte.       An instance is the case
30  wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is covalently bonded to the antigen.            Another
    instance is the case wherein the molecular fusion comprises the erythrocyte-binding moiety
    attached to a particle that is attached to the antigen, .e.g, a microparticle, a nanoparticle, a
    liposome, a polymersome, or a micelle. Examples of a tolerogenic antigen are: a portion of a
    therapeutic protein, s a portion of a nonhuman protein, a portion (including the whole portion,
                                                 79

    i.e., all) of a protein not naturally found in a human, a glycan of a protein that comprises
    nonhuman glycosylation, a portion of a human autoimmune antigen, a portion of a human
    food. An embodiment is the composition wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is chosen
    from the group consisting of a peptide ligand, an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single
 5  chain antigen binding domain (ScFv), e.g., all or a portion of 10F7. The erythrocyte-binding
    moiety may comprises a peptide ligand comprising at least 5 consecutive amino acid residues
    of a sequence chosen from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID
    NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17, SEQ ID NO:1, and conservative
    substitutions thereof, wherein said sequence specifically binds an erythrocyte.           The
 0  erythrocyte-binding moiety may be one that comprises a peptide ligand that has a dissociation
    constant of between about 10 pM and 0.1 nM as determined by equilibrium binding
    measurements between the peptide and erythrocytes. An embodiment is the case wherein the
    erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises an antibody, an antibody fragment or an ScFv derived
    from a hybridoma that produces an antibody against an erythrocyte, with the hybridoma
 5  being chosen from the group consisting of BRIC 4, BRIC 5, BRIC 6, BRIC 10, BRIC 14,
    BRIC 18, BRIC 39, BRIC 66, BRIC 68, BRIC 69, BRIC 87, BRIC 108, BRIC 110, BRIC
    111, BRIC 125, BRIC 126, BRIC 128, BRIC 145, BRIC 155, BRIC 157, BRIC 163, BRIC
    170, BRIC 198, BRIC 203, BRIC 216, BRIC 220, BRIC 221, BRIC 222, BRIC 229, BRIC
    230, BRIC 231, BRIC 235, BRIC 256, BRAC 17, BRAC 18, BGRL 1, BGRL 2, BGRL 11,
 '0 BGRL 100, BRAD 3, BIRMA D6, BIRMA D10, BIRMA K3, BIRMA K3, 84B; 6A7; COE;
    or KZ1.     An embodiment is the case wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically
    binds to a biomolecule chosen from the group consisting of Band 3 (CD233), aquaporin-1,
    Glut-1, Kidd antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE (CD240CE), Rh30D
    (CD240D),       Kx, glycophorin A, glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c),
25  glycophorin D (CD235d), Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARCi (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF
    (CD55), Globoside, CD44, ICAM-4 (CD242), Lu/B-CAM (CD239), XG1/XG2 (CD99),
    EMMPRIN/neurothelin         (CD147),    JMH,   Glycosyltransferase,   Cartwright,  Dombrock,
    C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2, stomatin, BA-1 (CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H
    antigen (CD 173). The tolerogenic antigen may comprise a mimotope.
30            The tolerogenic compositions may be used in treating a pathologic condition, for
    instance a pathologic condition chosen from the group consisting of transplant rejection,
    autoimmune disease, food allergy, and immune response against a therapeutic agent.
              An   embodiment    is  a pharmaceutically    acceptable   composition   for use   in
    immunoreversal of an immune response against a substance comprising a fusion molecule
                                                 80

    that comprises an erythrocyte-binding moiety and an antigen of the substance.               The
    composition may have the tolerogenic antigen is chosen from, for example, the group
    consisting of a protein, a portion of a protein, a human protein or portion thereof, a nonhuman
    protein or portion thereof, a glycan, a glycan of a protein that comprises nonhuman
 5  glycosylation, a human autoimmune antigen, a protein therapeutic for a human or a portion
    thereof, and a portion of a human food. The composition may have the tolerogenic antigen is
    chosen from, for example, the group consisting of proteins deficient by genetic disease,
    proteins with nonhuman glycosylation, nonhuman proteins, synthetic proteins not naturally
    found in humans, human food antigens, human transplantation antigens, and human
 0  autoimmune antigens.       The erythrocyte-binding moiety may be provides that specifically
    binds to a biomolecule chosen from the group consisting of Band 3 (CD233), aquaporin-1,
    Glut-1, Kidd antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE (CD240CE), Rh30D
    (CD240D),      Kx, glycophorin A, glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c),
    glycophorin D (CD235d), Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARCi (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF
 5  (CD55), Globoside, CD44, ICAM-4 (CD242), Lu/B-CAM (CD239), XG1/XG2 (CD99),
    EMMPRIN/neurothelin         (CD147),    JMH,      Glycosyltransferase, Cartwright,    Dombrock,
    C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2, stomatin, BA-1 (CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H
    antigen (CD 173). The erythrocyte-binding moiety may be chosen from the group consisting
    of a peptide ligand, an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single chain antigen binding
 '0 domain (ScFv).     The erythrocyte-binding moiety may be prepared so that it comprises an
    antibody, an antibody fragment or an ScFv derived from a hybridoma that produces an
    antibody against an erythrocyte, with the hybridoma being chosen from the group consisting
    of BRIC 4, BRIC 5, BRIC 6, BRIC 10, BRIC 14, BRIC 18, BRIC 39, BRIC 66, BRIC 68,
    BRIC 69, BRIC 87, BRIC 108, BRIC 110, BRIC 111, BRIC 125, BRIC 126, BRIC 128,
25  BRIC 145, BRIC 155, BRIC 157, BRIC 163, BRIC 170, BRIC 198, BRIC 203, BRIC 216,
    BRIC 220, BRIC 221, BRIC 222, BRIC 229, BRIC 230, BRIC 231, BRIC 235, BRIC 256,
    BRAC 17, BRAC 18, BGRL 1, BGRL 2, BGRL 11, BGRL 100, BRAD 3, BIRMA D6,
    BIRMA D10, BIRMA K3, BIRMA K3, 84B; 6A7; COE; or KZi.
            Embodiments include a fusion molecule comprising an erythrocyte-binding moiety
30  and an antigen of asparaginase. As is evident from the multiple disclosures of erythrocyte
    binding moieties, there are many options for the same, including: an scFv that binds a human
    erythrocyte or a peptidic binding ligand chosen from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 11,
    SEQ ID NO:12, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID
    NO: 17, and conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said sequence specifically binds an
                                                   81

    erythrocyte. Such a composition comprising the fusion molecule may be used for inducing
    tolerance to asparaginase.
            Embodiments include a fusion molecule comprising and an erythrocyte-binding
    moiety and an antigen of chromogranin-A. The antigen may be a mimotope or some or all of
 5  a chromogranin-A.       As is evident from the multiple disclosures of erythrocyte-binding
    moieties, there are many options for the same, including: an scFv that binds a human
    erythrocyte or a peptidic binding ligand chosen from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 11,
    SEQ ID NO:12, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID
    NO: 17, and conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said sequence specifically binds an
 0  erythrocyte. Such a composition comprising the fusion molecule may be used for inducing
    tolerance to chromogranin-A and/or for preventing diabetes or reducing progression a
    diabetes disease.
            Another instance is a composition comprising an erythrocyte-binding moiety that
    specifically binds an erythrocyte joined to an entity chosen from the group consisting of a
 5  synthetic polymer, a branched synthetic polymer, and a particle. The particle may be, e.g., a
    microparticle, a nanoparticle, a liposome, a polymersome, and a micelle. The composition
    may further comprise a tolerogenic antigen, a therapeutic agent, or a tumor homing ligand.
            An embodiment is a single chain antigen binding domain (scFv) comprising a peptide
    ligand that specifically binds an erythrocyte.  The peptide may be attached to the scFv or
 '0 disposed in a linker portion. One or more of the peptide ligands may be included.
                  *                            *                                     *
            All patent applications, patents, and publications mentioned herein are hereby
    incorporated by reference herein for all purposes; in the case of conflict, the instant
25  specification controls.
    References
    1. Pasut G & Veronese FM (2009) "PEG conjugates in clinical development or use as
    anticancer agents: an overview." Adv Drug Deliv Rev 61(13):1177-1188.         2. Fishburn CS
30  (2008) "The pharmacology of PEGylation: balancing PD with PK to generate novel
    therapeutics." J Pharm Sci 97(10):4167-4183. 3. Gao W, Liu W, Mackay JA, Zalutsky MR,
    Toone EJ, & Chilkoti A (2009) "In situ growth of a stoichiometric PEG-like conjugate at a
    protein's N-terminus with significantly improved pharmacokinetics." Proc Natl Acad Sci
    USA     106(36):15231-15236.      4.   Huang L, Gough PC, & Defelippis MR (2009)
                                                 82

   "Characterization of poly(ethylene glycol) and PEGylated products by LC/MS with
   postcolumn addition of amines." Anal Chem 81(2):567-577.            5. Bailon P, Palleroni A,
   Schaffer CA, Spence CL, Fung WJ, Porter JE, Ehrlich GK, Pan W, Xu ZX, Modi MW, Farid
   A, Berthold W, & Graves M (2001) "Rational design of a potent, long-lasting form of
 5 interferon: a 40 kDa branched polyethylene glycol-conjugated interferon alpha-2a for the
   treatment of hepatitis C." Bioconjug Chem 12(2):195-202. 6. Dhalluin C, Ross A, Leuthold
   LA, Foser S,      Gsell B, Miller F, & Senn H (2005)             "Structural and biophysical
   characterization of the 40 kDa PEG-interferon-alpha2a and its individual positional isomers."
   Bioconjug Chem 16(3):504-517.        7.  Dennis M (2002) "Albumin Binding as a General
 0 Strategy for Improving the Pharmacokinetics of Proteins." Journal of Biological Chemistry
   277(38):35035-35043.     8. Walker A, Dunlevy G, Rycroft D, Topley P, Holt LJ, Herbert T,
   Davies M, Cook F, Holmes S, Jespers L, & Herring C (2010) "Anti-serum albumin domain
   antibodies in the development of highly potent, efficacious and long-acting interferon."
   Protein Engineering Design and Selection. 9. Hall SS, Mitragotri S, & Daugherty PS (2007)
 5 "Identification of peptide ligands facilitating nanoparticle attachment to erythrocytes."
   Biotechnol Prog 23(3):749-754. 10. Godsel LM, Wang K, Schodin BA, Leon JS, Miller SD,
   & Engman DM (2001) "Prevention of autoimmune myocarditis through the induction of
   antigen-specific peripheral immune tolerance." Circulation 103(12):1709-1714.     11. Luo X,
   Pothoven KL, McCarthy D, DeGutes M, Martin A, Getts DR, Xia G, He J, Zhang X,
 0 Kaufman DB, & Miller SD (2008) "ECDI-fixed allogeneic splenocytes induce donor-specific
   tolerance for long-term survival of islet transplants via two distinct mechanisms." Proc Natl
   Acad Sci USA 105(38):14527-14532.        12. Fife BT, Guleria I, Gubbels Bupp M, Eagar TN,
   Tang   Q, Bour-Jordan  H, Yagita H, Azuma M, Sayegh MH, & Bluestone JA (2006) "Insulin
   induced remission in new-onset NOD mice is maintained by the PD-i-PD-Li pathway." J
25 Exp Med 203(12):2737-2747.       13.  Miller SD, Turley DM, & Podojil JR (2007) "Antigen
   specific tolerance strategies for the prevention and treatment of autoimmune disease." Nat
   Rev Immunol 7(9):665-677.       14. Maluccio MA, Covey AM, Porat LB, Schubert J, Brody
   LA, Sofocleous CT, Getrajdman GI, Jarnagin W, Dematteo R, Blumgart LH, Fong Y, &
   Brown KT (2008) "Transcatheter arterial embolization with only particles for the treatment of
30 unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma." J Vasc Interv Radiol 19(6):862-869.     15. Gadaleta
   CD & Ranieri G (2010) "Trans-arterial chemoembolization as a therapy for liver tumours:
   New clinical developments and suggestions for combination with angiogenesis inhibitors."
   Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 16. Huang X, Molema G, King S, Watkins L, Edgington TS, &
   Thorpe PE (1997) "Tumor infarction in mice by antibody-directed targeting of tissue factor to
                                                83

    tumor vasculature." Science 275(5299):547-550.         17. Sheridan C (2010) "Fresh from the
    biologic pipeline-2009." Nat Biotechnol 28(4):307-310.         18.   Maynard J & Georgiou G
    (2000) "Antibody engineering." Annual review of biomedical engineering 2:339-376.              19.
    Weisser NE & Hall JC (2009) "Applications of single-chain variable fragment antibodies in
 5  therapeutics and diagnostics." Biotechnol Adv 27(4):502-520. 20. Moghimi SM & Szebeni J
    (2003)    "Stealth   liposomes   and    long   circulating  nanoparticles:  critical   issues   in
    pharmacokinetics, opsonization and protein-binding properties." Prog Lipid Res 42(6):463
    478. 21. Vogl TJ, Naguib NN, Nour-Eldin NE, Rao P, Emami AH, Zangos S, Nabil M, &
    Abdelkader A (2009) "Review on transarterial             chemoembolization in hepatocellular
 0  carcinoma: palliative, combined, neoadjuvant, bridging, and symptomatic indications." Eur J
    Radiol 72(3):505-516. 22.      Fonsatti E, Nicolay HJ, Altomonte M, Covre A, & Maio M
    (2010) "Targeting cancer vasculature via endoglin/CD105: a novel antibody-based diagnostic
    and therapeutic strategy in solid tumours." Cardiovasc Res 86(1):12-19.          23.   Dienst A,
    Grunow A, Unruh M, Rabausch B, N6r JE, Fries JW, & Gottstein C (2005) "Specific
 5  occlusion of murine and human tumor vasculature by VCAM-1-targeted recombinant fusion
    proteins." CancerSpectrum Knowledge Environment 97(10):733-747.              24.     Ruoslahti E,
    Bhatia SN, & Sailor MJ (2010) "Targeting of drugs and nanoparticles to tumors." J Cell Biol
    188(6):759-768. 25. Thijssen VL, Postel R, Brandwijk RJ, Dings RP, Nesmelova I, Satijn S,
    Verhofstad N, Nakabeppu Y, Baum LG, Bakkers J, Mayo KH, Poirier F, & Griffloen AW
 '0 (2006) "Galectin-1 is essential in tumor angiogenesis and is a target for antiangiogenesis
    therapy." Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103(43):15975-15980.            26.  Schliemann C, Roesli C,
    Kamada H, Borgia B, Fugmann T, Klapper W, & Neri D (2010) "In vivo biotinylation of the
    vasculature in B-cell lymphoma identifies BST-2 as a target for antibody-based therapy."
    Blood 115(3):736-744.      27.  Brack SS, Silacci M, Birchler M, & Neri D (2006) "Tumor
25  targeting properties of novel antibodies specific to the large isoform of tenascin-C." Clin
    Cancer Res 12(10):3200-3208. 28. Rybak J, Roesli C, Kaspar M, Villa A, & Neri D (2007)
    "The extra-domain A of fibronectin is a vascular marker of solid tumors and metastases."
    Cancer Res 67(22):10948-10957.         29.   Mohandas N & Gallagher PG (2008) "Red cell
    membrane: past, present, and future." Blood 112(10):3939-3948.        30. Rice JJ & Daugherty
30  PS (2008) "Directed evolution of a biterminal bacterial display scaffold enhances the display
    of diverse peptides." Protein Eng Des Sel 21(7):435-442. 31. Dane KY, Chan LA, Rice JJ,
    & Daugherty PS (2006) "Isolation of cell specific peptide ligands using fluorescent bacterial
    display libraries." J Immunol Methods 309(1-2):120-129. 32. van der Vlies AJ, O'Neil CP,
    Hasegawa U, Hammond N, & Hubbell JA (2010) "Synthesis of pyridyl disulfide
                                                  84

    functionalized nanoparticles for conjugating thiol-containing small molecules, peptides, and
    proteins." Bioconjug Chem 21(4):653-662.         33. O'Neil CP, van der Vlies AJ, Velluto D,
    Wandrey C, Demurtas D, Dubochet J, & Hubbell JA (2009) "Extracellular matrix binding
    mixed micelles for drug delivery applications." J Control Release 137(2):146-151.           34.
 5  Velluto D, Demurtas D, & Hubbell JA (2008) "PEG-b-PPS diblock copolymer aggregates for
    hydrophobic drug solubilization and release: cyclosporin A as an example." Mol Pharm
    5(4):632-642. 35. Reddy ST, Rehor A, Schmoekel HG, Hubbell JA, & Swartz MA (2006)
    "In vivo targeting of dendritic        cells in lymph nodes with poly(propylene        sulfide)
    nanoparticles." J Control Release 112(1):26-34. 36. Reddy ST, van der Vlies AJ, Simeoni E,
 0  Angeli V, Randolph GJ, O'Neil CP, Lee LK, Swartz MA, & Hubbell JA (2007) "Exploiting
    lymphatic transport and complement activation in nanoparticle vaccines." Nat Biotechnol
    25(10):1159-1164. 37. Kontos S & Hubbell JA (2010) "Improving protein pharmacokinetics
    by engineering erythrocyte affinity." Mol. Pharmaceutics 7(6):2141-2147. 38. Khandelwal S
    & Saxena RK (2006) "Assessment of survival of aging erythrocyte in circulation and
 5  attendant changes in size and CD147 expression by a novel two step biotinylation method."
    Exp Gerontol 41(9):855-861.        39.   Ferguson TA, Choi J, & Green DR (2011) "Armed
    response: how dying cells influence T-cell functions." Immunol Rev 241(1):77-88.            40.
    Yamazaki S, Dudziak D, Heidkamp GF, Fiorese C, Bonito AJ, Inaba K, Nussenzweig MC, &
    Steinman RM (2008) "CD8+ CD205+ splenic dendritic cells are specialized to induce
 '0 Foxp3+ regulatory T cells." Journal of immunology (Baltimore, MD:1950) 181(10):6923
    6933. 41. Holz LE, Warren A, Le Couteur DG, Bowen DG, & Bertolino P (2010) "CD8+ T
    cell tolerance following antigen recognition on hepatocytes." Journal of Autoimmunity
    34(1):15-22. 42. Ichikawa S, Mucida D, Tyznik AJ, Kronenberg M, & Cheroutre H (2011)
    "Hepatic stellate cells function as regulatory bystanders." Journal of immunology (Baltimore,
25  Md : 1950) 186(10):5549-5555. 43. Thomson AW & Knolle PA (2010) "Antigen-presenting
    cell function in the tolerogenic liver environment." Nat Rev Immunol 10(1 1):753-766.       44.
    Albert ML, Pearce SF, Francisco LM, Sauter B, Roy P, Silverstein RL, & Bhardwaj N (1998)
    "Immature dendritic cells phagocytose apoptotic cells via alphavbeta5 and CD36, and cross
    present antigens to cytotoxic T lymphocytes." J Exp Med 188(7):1359-1368. 45. Green DR,
30  Ferguson T, Zitvogel L, & Kroemer G (2009) "Immunogenic and tolerogenic cell death." Nat
    Rev Immunol 9(5):353-363.       46. Bursch LS, Rich BE, & Hogquist KA (2009) "Langerhans
    cells are not required for the CD8 T cell response to epidermal self-antigens." J Immunol
    182(8):4657-4664.     47. Liu K, Iyoda T, Saternus M, Kimura Y, Inaba K, & Steinman RM
    (2002) "Immune tolerance after delivery of dying cells to dendritic cells in situ." J Exp Med
                                                  85

   196(8):1091-1097.     48. Darrah PA, Hegde ST, Patel DT, Lindsay RWB, Chen L, Roederer
   M, & Seder RA (2010) "IL-10 production differentially influences the magnitude, quality,
   and protective capacity of Th1 responses depending on the vaccine platform." J Exp Med
   207(7):1421-1433.      49. Lee MS & Kim Y-J (2007) "Signaling pathways downstream of
 5 pattern-recognition receptors and their cross talk." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 76:447-480.        50.
   Arnaboldi PM, Roth-Walter F, & Mayer L (2009) "Suppression of Th1 and Th17, but not
   Th2, responses in a CD8(+) T cell-mediated model of oral tolerance." Mucosal Immunol
   2(5):427-438. 51. Saint-Lu N, Tourdot S, Razafindratsita A, Mascarell L, Berjont N, Chabre
   H, Louise A, Van Overtvelt L, & Moingeon P (2009) "Targeting the allergen to oral dendritic
 0 cells   with  mucoadhesive     chitosan particles   enhances   tolerance   induction."  Allergy
   64(7):1003-1013.     52. Mueller DL (2010) "Mechanisms maintaining peripheral tolerance."
   Nat Immunol 11(1):21-27. 53. Lutolf MP, Tirelli N, Cerritelli S, Cavalli L, & Hubbell JA
   (2001) "Systematic modulation of Michael-type reactivity of thiols through the use of
   charged amino acids." Bioconjug Chem 12(6):1051-1056.            54.   Steiner D, Forrer P, &
 5 Plickthun A (2008) "Efficient selection of DARPins with sub-nanomolar affinities using SRP
   phage display." Journal of Molecular Biology 382(5):1211-1227.            55.   Parmeggiani F,
   Pellarin R, Larsen AP, Varadamsetty G, Stumpp M, Zerbe 0, Caflisch A, & Plickthun A
   (2008) "Designed armadillo repeat proteins as general peptide-binding scaffolds: consensus
   design and computational optimization of the hydrophobic core." Journal of Molecular
 0 Biology 376(5):1282-1304.      56.   Hackel BJ, Kapila A, & Wittrup KD (2008) "Picomolar
   affinity fibronectin domains engineered utilizing loop length diversity, recursive mutagenesis,
   and loop shuffling." J Mol Biol 381(5):1238-1252. 57. Silverman AP, Levin AM, Lahti JL,
   & Cochran JR (2009) "Engineered cystine-knot peptides that bind alpha(v)beta(3) integrin
   with antibody-like affinities." Journal of Molecular Biology 385(4):1064-1075.       58. Keefe
25 AD, Pai S, & Ellington A (2010) "Aptamers as therapeutics." Nat Rev Drug Discov 9(7):537
   550. 59. Rockey WM, Huang L, Kloepping KC, Baumhover NJ, Giangrande PH, & Schultz
   MK (2011) "Synthesis and radiolabeling of chelator-RNA aptamer bioconjugates with
   copper-64 for targeted molecular imaging." Bioorg Med Chem 19(13):4080-4090. 60. Savla
   R, Taratula 0, Garbuzenko 0, & Minko T (2011) "Tumor targeted quantum dot-mucin 1
30 aptamer-doxorubicin conjugate for imaging and treatment of cancer." J Control Release
   153(1):16-22. 61. Sampson T (2003) "Aptamers and SELEX: the technology." World Patent
   Information (25):123-129. 62. Getts DR, Getts MT, McCarthy DP, Chastain EML, & Miller
   SD (2010). "Have we overestimated the benefit of human(ized) antibodies?" mAbs 2(6):682
   694.     63. Chan AC, Carter PJ (2010) Therapeutic antibodies for autoimmunity and
                                                86

  inflammation. Nature Publishing Group 10:301-316.       64. Getts DR, Getts MT, McCarthy
  DP, Chastain EML, Miller SD (2010) Have we overestimated the benefit of human(ized)
  antibodies? MAbs 2:682-694. 65. Jiskoot W, van Schie RMF, Carstens MG, Schellekens H
  (2009) Immunological risk of injectable drug delivery systems. Pharm Res 26:1303-1314.
5 66. Wang J et al. (2008) Neutralizing antibodies to therapeutic enzymes: considerations for
  testing, prevention and treatment. Nat Biotechnol 26:901-908.       67.  Cartron JP, Colin Y
  (2001) Structural and functional diversity of blood group antigens. Transfus Clin Biol 8:163
  199.
                                              87

CLAIMS
1.     A pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising:
       a molecular fusion that comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte-binding
moiety that specifically binds an erythrocyte in the patient,
       wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety specifically binds to a biomolecule chosen
from the group consisting of Band 3 (CD233), aquaporin-1,              Glut-1, Kidd antigen,
RhAg/Rh50     (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE             (CD240CE), Rh30D (CD240D),           Kx,
glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c), glycophorin D (CD235d), Kell (CD238),
Duffy/DARCi (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF (CD55), Globoside, CD44, ICAM-4 (CD242),
Lu/B-CAM      (CD239),     XG1/XG2      (CD99),    EMMPRIN/neurothelin       (CD147),   JMH,
Glycosyltransferase, Cartwright, Dombrock, C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2, stomatin, BA-1
(CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H antigen (CD173).
2.     The composition of claim I wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is covalently
bonded to the antigen.
3.     The composition of claim I or 2 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is chosen
from the group consisting of a peptide ligand, an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single
chain antigen binding domain (ScFv).
4.     The composition of any of claims 1-3           wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety
comprises an antibody, an antibody fragment or an ScFv derived from a hybridoma that
produces an antibody against an erythrocyte, with the hybridoma being chosen from the
group consisting of BRIC 4, BRIC 5, BRIC 6, BRIC 10, BRIC 14, BRIC 18, BRIC 39, BRIC
66, BRIC 68, BRIC 69, BRIC 87, BRIC 108, BRIC 110, BRIC 111, BRIC 125, BRIC 126,
BRIC 128, BRIC 145, BRIC 155, BRIC 157, BRIC 163, BRIC 170, BRIC 198, BRIC 203,
BRIC 216, BRIC 220, BRIC 221, BRIC 222, BRIC 229, BRIC 230, BRIC 231, BRIC 235,
BRIC 256, BRAC 17, BRAC 18, BGRL 1, BGRL 2, BGRL 11, BGRL 100, BRAD 3,
BIRMA D6, BIRMA D10, BIRMA K3, BIRMA K3, BIRMA 84B; 6A7; COE; and KZI.
5.     The composition of any of claims 1-4 wherein the tolerogenic antigen comprises a
mimotope of a protein.
                                             88

6.      The composition of any of claims 1-5 wherein the tolerogenic antigen is chosen from
the group consisting of a protein, a portion of a protein, a human protein or portion thereof, a
nonhuman protein or portion thereof, a glycan, a glycan of a protein that comprises
nonhuman glycosylation, a human autoimmune antigen, a protein therapeutic for a human or
a portion thereof, and a portion of a human food.
7.      The composition of any of claims 1-5 wherein the tolerogenic antigen is chosen from
the group consisting of proteins deficient by genetic disease, proteins with nonhuman
glycosylation, nonhuman proteins, synthetic proteins not naturally found in humans, human
food antigens, human transplantation antigens, and human autoimmune antigens.
8.      The composition of any of claims 1-5 wherein the tolerogenic antigen comprises an
antigen chosen from the group consisting of factor VIII, factor IX. adenosine deaminase, L
asparaginase, rasburicase, antithymocyte globulin, L-arginase, L-methionase, preproinsulin,
proinsulin, insulin, GAD65,      GAD67,     IA-2, IA-2p, thyroglobulin, thyroid peroxidase,
thyrotropin receptor, myelin basic protein, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, proteolipid
protein, collagen II, collagen IV, acetylcholine receptor, matrix metalloprotein 1 and 3,
molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 47, fibrillin-1, PDGF receptor a, PDGF receptor P,
nuclear protein SS-A, conarachin (Ara h 1), allergen II (Ara h 2), arachis agglutinin (Ara h 6),
a-lactalbumin (ALA), lactotransferrin, glutein, low molecular weight glutein, c-gliadin , y
gliadin, hordein, secalin, and avenin.
9.      The composition of claim 8 wherein the antigen is a mimotope.
10      The composition of any of claims 1-9        for use in treating a pathologic condition
chosen from the group consisting of transplant rejection, autoimmune disease, food allergy,
and immune response against a therapeutic agent.
11.     A molecular fusion that comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an erythrocyte-binding
moiety selected from Band 3 (CD233), glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c)
and glycophorin D (CD235d).
12.     A molecular fusion according to claim 11 for use in producing immunotolerance.
                                             89

13.     A molecular fusion that comprises a tolerogenic antigen selected from: a protein, a
portion of a protein, a human protein or portion thereof, a nonhuman protein or portion
thereof, a glycan, a glycan of a protein that comprises nonhuman glycosylation, a human
autoimmune antigen, a protein therapeutic for a human or a portion thereof, and a portion of a
human food, proteins deficient by genetic disease, proteins with nonhuman glycosylation,
nonhuman proteins, synthetic proteins not naturally found in humans, human food antigens,
human transplantation antigens, and human autoimmune antigens; and an erythrocyte-binding
moiety selected from Band 3 (CD233), glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c),
glycophorin D (CD235d).
14.     A method of producing immunotolerance, the method comprising administering a
composition comprising a molecular fusion that comprises a tolerogenic antigen and an
erythrocyte-binding moiety that specifically binds an erythrocyte in the patient, wherein the
molecular fusion is administered in an amount effective to produce immunotolerance to a
substance that comprises the tolerogenic antigen.
15.     A pharmaceutically acceptable composition for use in immunoreversal of an immune
response against a substance comprising a fusion molecule that comprises an erythrocyte
binding moiety and an antigen of the substance.
16.     The composition of claim 15 wherein the tolerogenic antigen is chosen from the
group consisting of a protein, a portion of a protein, a human protein or portion thereof, a
nonhuman protein or portion thereof, a glycan, a glycan of a protein that comprises
nonhuman glycosylation, a human autoimmune antigen, a protein therapeutic for a human or
a portion thereof, and a portion of a human food.
17.     The composition of claim 15 wherein the tolerogenic antigen is chosen from the
group consisting of proteins deficient by genetic disease, proteins with nonhuman
glycosylation, nonhuman proteins, synthetic proteins not naturally found in humans, human
food antigens, human transplantation antigens, and human autoimmune antigens.
                                            90

18.     The composition of any of claims 15-17 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety
specifically binds to a biomolecule chosen from the group consisting of Band 3 (CD233),
aquaporin-1, Glut-1, Kidd antigen, RhAg/Rh50 (CD241), Rh (CD240), Rh30CE (CD240CE),
Rh30D (CD240D), Kx, glycophorin A, glycophorin B (CD235b), glycophorin C (CD235c),
glycophorin D (CD235d), Kell (CD238), Duffy/DARCi (CD234), CR1 (CD35), DAF
(CD55), Globoside, CD44, ICAM-4 (CD242), Lu/B-CAM (CD239), XGI/XG2 (CD99),
EMMPRIN/neurothelin        (CD147),  JMH,     Glycosyltransferase,  Cartwright,   Dombrock,
C4A/CAB, Scianna, MER2, stomatin, BA-1 (CD24), GPIV (CD36), CD108, CD139, and H
antigen (CD173).
19.     The composition of any of claims 15-17 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is
chosen from the group consisting of a peptide ligand, an antibody, an antibody fragment, and
a single chain antigen binding domain (ScFv).
20.     The composition of any of claims 15-17      wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety
comprises an antibody, an antibody fragment or an ScFv derived from a hybridoma that
produces an antibody against an erythrocyte, with the hybridoma being chosen from the
group consisting of BRIC 4, BRIC 5, BRIC 6, BRIC 10, BRIC 14, BRIC 18, BRIC 39, BRIC
66, BRIC 68, BRIC 69, BRIC 87, BRIC 108, BRIC 110, BRIC 111, BRIC 125, BRIC 126,
BRIC 128, BRIC 145, BRIC 155, BRIC 157, BRIC 163, BRIC 170, BRIC 198, BRIC 203,
BRIC 216, BRIC 220, BRIC 221, BRIC 222, BRIC 229, BRIC 230, BRIC 231, BRIC 235,
BRIC 256, BRAC 17, BRAC 18, BGRL 1, BGRL 2, BGRL 11, BGRL 100, BRAD 3,
BIRMA D6, BIRMA D10, BIRMA K3, BIRMA K3, BIRMA 84B; 6A7; COE; and KZI.
21.     The composition of any of claims 15-20 wherein the tolerogenic antigen comprises a
mimotope of a protein.
22.     A fusion molecule comprising an erythrocyte-binding moiety and an antigen of
asparaginase.
                                           91

23.     The fusion molecule of claim 22 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises
an scFv that binds a human erythrocyte or a peptidic binding ligand chosen from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:12, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID
NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17, and conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said
sequence specifically binds an erythrocyte.
24.     A composition comprising the fusion molecule of claim 22 or 23 used for inducing
tolerance to asparaginase.
25.     A fusion molecule comprising an erythrocyte-binding moiety and an antigen of
chromogranin-A
26.     The fusion molecule of claim 25 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises
an scFv that binds a human erythrocyte or a peptidic binding ligand chosen from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:12, SEQ ID NO:13, SEQ ID NO:14, SEQ ID
NO:15, SEQ ID NO:16, SEQ ID NO:17, and conservative substitutions thereof, wherein said
sequence specifically binds an erythrocyte.
27.     A composition comprising the fusion molecule of claim 25 or 26 used for inducing
tolerance to chromogranin-A.
28.     A pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising:
                an erythrocyte-binding moiety joined to a domain that specifically binds a
        target.
29.     The composition of claim 28 wherein the target comprises a protein, with the protein
further comprising a tolerogenic antigen.
30.     The composition of claim 28 or 29 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety comprises
a peptide ligand,
31.     The composition of claim 28 or 29 wherein the erythrocyte-binding moiety is chosen
from the group consisting of an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single chain antigen
binding domain (ScFv).
                                            92

32.     The composition of any of claims 28-31 wherein the domain is chosen from the group
consisting of an antibody, an antibody fragment, and a single chain antigen binding domain
(ScFv).
33.     The composition of any of claim s 28-32 wherein the composition comprises a
member of the group chosen from a molecular fusion, a tandem scFv, a diabody, and a
tandem scFv-IgG molecule, with the erythrocyte-binding moiety and the domain being part
of said member.
34.     A pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising:
        an erythrocyte-binding moiety joined to an antigen.
35.     The composition of claim 34 wherein the antigen is a native auto-antigen.
36.     The composition of claim 34 or 35 wherein the auto-antigen is chosen from the group
consisting of a lupus erythematosis antigens.
37.     The composition of any of claims 34-36 wherein the antigen is for a therapeutic
protein.
38.     The composition of claim 37 wherein the antigen is a Factor VIII antigen.
39.     A use of the composition of any of claims 34-37 for removing undesired antibodies
from circulation.
                                            93

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                 6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne
              <120>   ERYTHROCYTE-BINDING THERAPEUTICS
              <130>   2968.07WO02
              <150>   13/206034
              <151>   2011-08-09
<removed-apn>
              <160>   128
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   erythrocyte-binding peptide
              <400>   1
              Trp Met Val Leu Pro Trp Leu Pro Gly Thr Leu Asp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   2
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Control peptide
              <400>   2
              Pro Leu Leu Thr Val Gly Met Asp Leu Trp Pro Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   3
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Epitope
              <400>   3
                                                    Page 1

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Ile Ile Asn Phe Glu Lys Leu
              1               5
              <210>   4
              <211>   28
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   4
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Pro Asn Ser Arg Trp Ile Tyr Met Thr Pro Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Pro Gly Ile Tyr Arg Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   5
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   5
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Ser Trp Ser Arg Ala Ile Leu Pro Leu Phe Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Gln Pro Val Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   6
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   6
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Tyr Ile Cys Thr Ser Ala Gly Phe Gly Glu Tyr
                                                    Page 2

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                 15
              Cys Phe Ile Asp Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   7
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   7
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Thr Tyr Phe Cys Thr Pro Thr Leu Leu Gly Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Cys Ser Val Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   8
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   8
              Gly Gln Ser Gly His Trp His Cys Gln Gly Pro Phe Ala Asn Trp Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20
              <210>   9
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   9
                                                    Page 3

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Phe Cys Thr Val Ile Tyr Asn Thr Tyr Thr Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Pro Ser Ser Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   10
<removed-apn>
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   10
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Ser Val Trp Tyr Ser Ser Arg Gly Asn Pro Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Thr Gly Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   11
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   11
              Pro Asn Ser Arg Trp Ile Tyr Met Thr Pro Leu Ser Pro Gly Ile Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg
              <210>   12
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
                                                    Page 4

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   12
              Ser Trp Ser Arg Ala Ile Leu Pro Leu Phe Lys Ile Gln Pro Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   13
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   13
              Tyr Ile Cys Thr Ser Ala Gly Phe Gly Glu Tyr Cys Phe Ile Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   14
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   14
              Thr Tyr Phe Cys Thr Pro Thr Leu Leu Gly Gln Tyr Cys Ser Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   15
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   15
              His Trp His Cys Gln Gly Pro Phe Ala Asn Trp Val
              1               5                   10
              <210>   16
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
                                                    Page 5

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   16
              Phe Cys Thr Val Ile Tyr Asn Thr Tyr Thr Cys Val Pro Ser Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   17
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte Binding Peptide
              <400>   17
              Ser Val Trp Tyr Ser Ser Arg Gly Asn Pro Leu Arg Cys Thr Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   18
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide linker
              <400>   18
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser
                          20
              <210>   19
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Erythrocyte binding peptide
              <400>   19
                                                    Page 6

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              Trp Met Val Leu Pro Trp Leu Pro Gly Thr Leu Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Arg Gly
              <210>   20
<removed-apn>
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   control peptide
              <400>   20
              Pro Leu Leu Thr Val Gly Met Asp Leu Trp Pro Trp Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Arg Gly
              <210>   21
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 21
              agccggccat ggcggayatc cagctgactc agcc                             34
              <210>   22
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 22
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gttctcwccc agtc                             34
              <210>   23
                                                      Page 7

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 23
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgmtmactc agtc            34
<removed-apn>
              <210>   24
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 24
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgytracac agtc            34
              <210>   25
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 25
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtratgacmc agtc            34
              <210>   26
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 26
              agccggccat ggcggayatt magatramcc agtc            34
              <210>   27
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
                                                      Page 8

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 27
              agccggccat ggcggayatt cagatgaydc agtc            34
              <210>   28
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 28
              agccggccat ggcggayaty cagatgacac agac            34
              <210>   29
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 29
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gttctcawcc agtc            34
              <210>   30
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 30
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gwgctsaccc aatc            34
              <210>   31
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400>   31
                                                      Page 9

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              agccggccat ggcggayatt stratgaccc artc             34
              <210>   32
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 32
              agccggccat ggcggayrtt ktgatgaccc arac             34
              <210>   33
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 33
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgatgacbc agkc             34
              <210>   34
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 34
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgataacyc agga             34
              <210>   35
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 35
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgatgaccc agwt             34
              <210>   36
                                                  Page 10

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 36
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgatgacac aacc            34
<removed-apn>
              <210>   37
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 37
              agccggccat ggcggayatt ttgctgactc agtc            34
              <210>   38
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 38
              agccggccat ggcggargct gttgtgactc aggaatc         37
              <210>   39
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 39
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg tttgatttcc agcttgg         37
              <210>   40
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 11

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 40
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg ttttatttcc agcttgg         37
              <210>   41
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 41
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg ttttatttcc aactttg         37
              <210>   42
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 42
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg tttcagctcc agcttgg         37
              <210>   43
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 43
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacc taggacagtc agtttgg         37
              <210>   44
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400>   44
                                                  Page 12

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacc taggacagtg accttgg                   37
              <210>   45
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 45
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggakgtrmag cttcaggagt c   51
              <210>   46
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 46
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtbcag ctbcagcagt c   51
              <210>   47
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 47
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtgcag ctgaagsast c   51
              <210>   48
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 48
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtccar ctgcaacart c   51
              <210>   49
                                                  Page 13

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 49
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtycag ctbcagcart c   51
<removed-apn>
              <210>   50
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 50
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtycag ctbcagcart c   51
              <210>   51
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 51
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtycar ctgcagcagt c   51
              <210>   52
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 52
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtccac gtgaagcagt c   51
              <210>   53
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 14

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 53
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgaas stggtggaat c   51
              <210>   54
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 54
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggavgtgawg ytggtggagt c   51
              <210>   55
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 55
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgcag skggtggagt c   51
              <210>   56
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 56
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggakgtgcam ctggtggagt c   51
              <210>   57
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400>   57
                                                  Page 15

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgaag ctgatggart c     51
              <210>   58
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 58
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgcar cttgttgagt c     51
              <210>   59
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 59
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggargtraag cttctcgagt c     51
              <210>   60
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 60
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaagtgaar sttgaggagt c     51
              <210>   61
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 61
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggttact ctraaagwgt stg   53
              <210>   62
                                                  Page 16

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 62
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtccaa ctvcagcarc c   51
<removed-apn>
              <210>   63
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 63
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggatgtgaac ttggaagtgt c   51
              <210>   64
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 64
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgaag gtcatcgagt c   51
              <210>   65
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 65
              cccttgaagc ttgctgagga aacggtgacc gtggt                     35
              <210>   66
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 17

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 66
              cccttgaagc ttgctgagga gactgtgaga gtggt                              35
              <210>   67
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 67
              cccttgaagc ttgctgcaga gacagtgacc agagt                              35
              <210>   68
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 68
              cccttgaagc ttgctgagga gacggtgact gaggt                              35
              <210>   69
              <211>   747
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Ter 119 scFv
              <400> 69
              gaggtgaagc tgcaggagtc tggaggaggc ttggtgcaac ctggggggtc tctgaaactc   60
              tcctgtgtag cctcaggatt cactttcagg gaccactgga tgaattgggt ccggcaggct   120
              cccggaaaga ccatggagtg gattggagat attagacctg atggcagtga cacaaactat   180
              gcaccatctg tgaggaatag attcacaatc tccagagaca atgccaggag catcctgtac   240
              ctgcagatga gcaatatgag atctgattac acagccactt attactgtgt tagagactca   300
              cctacccggg ctgggcttat ggatgcctgg ggtcaaggaa cctcagtcac tgtctcctca   360
                                                  Page 18

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gccggtggtg gtggttctgg tggtggtggt tctggcggcg gcggctccgg tggtggtgga   420
              tccgacattc agatgacgca gtctccttca gtcctgtctg catctgtggg agacagagtc   480
              actctcaact gcaaagcaag tcagaatatt aacaagtact taaactggta tcagcaaaag   540
              cttggagaag ctcccaaagt cctgatatat aatacaaaca atttgcaaac gggcatccca   600
              tcaaggttca gtggcagtgg atctggtaca gatttcacac tcaccatcag tagcctgcag   660
<removed-apn>
              cctgaagatt ttgccacata tttctgcttt cagcattata cttggcccac gtttggaggt   720
              gggaccaagc tggaaatcaa acgtact                                       747
              <210>   70
              <211>   45
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 70
              actcgcggcc cagccggcca tggcggaggt gaagctgcag gagtc                   45
              <210>   71
              <211>   65
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 71
              ggagccgccg ccgccagaac caccaccacc agaaccacca ccaccggctg aggagacagt   60
              gactg                                                               65
              <210>   72
              <211>   50
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 72
              ggcggcggcg gctccggtgg tggtggatcc gacattcaga tgacgcagtc              50
                                                  Page 19

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   73
              <211>   41
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   PCR primer
              <400> 73
<removed-apn>
              gactactagg cccccgaggc cagtacgttt gatttccagc t                       41
              <210>   74
              <211>   793
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   10F7 scFv
              <400> 74
              gttattactc gcggcccagc cggccatggc ggcgcaggtg aaactgcagc agagcggcgc   60
              ggaactggtg aaaccgggcg cgagcgtgaa actgagctgc aaagcgagcg gctatacctt   120
              taacagctat tttatgcatt ggatgaaaca gcgcccggtg cagggcctgg aatggattgg   180
              catgattcgc ccgaacggcg gcaccaccga ttataacgaa aaatttaaaa acaaagcgac   240
              cctgaccgtg gataaaagca gcaacaccgc gtatatgcag ctgaacagcc tgaccagcgg   300
              cgatagcgcg gtgtattatt gcgcgcgctg ggaaggcagc tattatgcgc tggattattg   360
              gggccagggc accaccgtga ccgtgagcag cggcggcggc ggcagcggcg gcggcggcag   420
              cggcggcggc ggcagcgata ttgaactgac ccagagcccg gcgattatga gcgcgaccct   480
              gggcgaaaaa gtgaccatga cctgccgcgc gagcagcaac gtgaaatata tgtattggta   540
              tcagcagaaa agcggcgcga gcccgaaact gtggatttat tataccagca acctggcgag   600
              cggcgtgccg ggccgcttta gcggcagcgg cagcggcacc agctatagcc tgaccattag   660
              cagcgtggaa gcggaagatg cggcgaccta ttattgccag cagtttacca gcagcccgta   720
              tacctttggc ggcggcacca aactggaaat taaacgcgcg gcggcggcct cgggggccga   780
              gggcggcggt tct                                                      793
              <210>   75
                                                  Page 20

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   epitope
              <400>   75
              Ser Gly Leu Glu Gln Leu Glu Ser Ile Ile Asn Phe Glu Lys Leu
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   76
              <211>   819
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   fusion protein
              <400> 76
              gaggtgaagc tgcaggagtc tggaggaggc ttggtgcaac ctggggggtc tctgaaactc   60
              tcctgtgtag cctcaggatt cactttcagg gaccactgga tgaattgggt ccggcaggct   120
              cccggaaaga ccatggagtg gattggagat attagacctg atggcagtga cacaaactat   180
              gcaccatctg tgaggaatag attcacaatc tccagagaca atgccaggag catcctgtac   240
              ctgcagatga gcaatatgag atctgattac acagccactt attactgtgt tagagactca   300
              cctacccggg ctgggcttat ggatgcctgg ggtcaaggaa cctcagtcac tgtctcctca   360
              gccggtggtg gtggttctgg tggtggtggt tctggcggcg gcggctccgg tggtggtgga   420
              tccgacattc agatgacgca gtctccttca gtcctgtctg catctgtggg agacagagtc   480
              actctcaact gcaaagcaag tcagaatatt aacaagtact taaactggta tcagcaaaag   540
              cttggagaag ctcccaaagt cctgatatat aatacaaaca atttgcaaac gggcatccca   600
              tcaaggttca gtggcagtgg atctggtaca gatttcacac tcaccatcag tagcctgcag   660
              cctgaagatt ttgccacata tttctgcttt cagcattata cttggcccac gtttggaggt   720
              gggaccaagc tggaaatcaa acgtactcat catcaccatc atcacggtgg cggttctggc   780
              ctggagcagc tggagtctat tattaatttc gaaaaactg                          819
              <210>   77
                                                  Page 21

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   antibody portion
              <400>   77
              Tyr Val Arg Pro Leu Trp Val Arg Met Glu
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10
              <210>   78
              <211>   804
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   fusion protein
              <400> 78
              gaggtgaagc tgcaggagtc aggaggaggc ttggtgcaac ctggggggtc tctgaaactc   60
              tcctgtgtag cctcaggatt cactttcagg gaccactgga tgaattgggt ccggcaggct   120
              cccggaaaga ccatggagtg gattggggat attagacctg atggcagtga cacaaactat   180
              gcaccatctg tgaggaatag attcacaatc tccagagaca ataccaggag catcctgtac   240
              ctgcagatgg gcaatatgag atctgattac acagccactt attactgtgt tagagactca   300
              cctacccggg ctgggcttat ggatgcctgg ggtcaaggaa cctcagtcac tgtctcctca   360
              gccggtggtg gtggttctgg tggtggtggt tctggcggcg gcggctccgg tggtggtgga   420
              tccgacattc agatgacgca gtctccttca gtcctgtctg catctgtggg agacagagtc   480
              actctcaact gcaaagcaag tcagaatatt aacaagtact taaaccggta tcagcaaaag   540
              cttggagaag ctcccaaagt cctggtatat aatacaaaca atttgcaaac gggcatccca   600
              tcaaggttca gtggcagtgg atctggcaca gatttcacac tcaccatcag tagcctgcag   660
              cctgaagatt ttgccacata tttctgcttt cagcattata cttggcccac gtttggaggt   720
              gtgaccaagc tggaaatcaa acgtactcat catcaccatc atcacggtgg cggttatgtc   780
              agacctctgt gggtcagaat ggaa                                          804
              <210>   79
                                                  Page 22

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>    1026
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    fusion protein
              <400> 79
              gaggtgaagc tgcaggagtc aggaggaggc ttggtgcaac ctggggggtc tctgaaactc    60
<removed-apn>
              tcctgtgtag cctcaggatt cactttcagg gaccactgga tgaattgggt ccggcaggct   120
              cccggaaaga ccatggagtg gattggagat attagacctg atggcagtga cacaaactat   180
              gcaccatctg tgaggaatag attcacaatc tccagagaca atgccaggag catcctgtac   240
              ctgcagatga gcaatatgag atctgattac acagccactt attactgtgt tagagactca   300
              cctacccggg ctgggcttat ggatgcctgg ggtcaaggaa cctcagtcac tgtctcctca   360
              gccggtggtg gtggttctgg tggtggtggt tctggcggcg gcggctccgg tggtggtgga   420
              tccgacattc agatgacgca gtctccttca gtcctgtctg catctgtggg agacagagtc   480
              actctcaact gcaaagcaag tcagaatatt aacaagtact taaactggta tcagcaaaag   540
              cttggagaag ctcccaaagt cctgatatat aatacaaaca atttgcaaac gggcatccca   600
              tcaaggttca gtggcagtgg atctggtaca gatttcacac tcaccatcag tagcctgcag   660
              cctgaagatt ttgccacata tttctgctct cagcattata cttggcccac gtttgatggt   720
              gggaccaagc tggaaatcaa acgtactcat catcaccatc atcacggtgg cggttttgtg   780
              aaacagcatc tgtgcggtcc gcatctggtg gaagcgctgt atctggtgtg cggcgaacgt   840
              ggcttttttt ataccccgaa aagccgtcgt gaagtggaag atccgcaggt ggaacagctg   900
              gaactgggcg gcagcccggg tgatctgcag accctggccc tggaagtggc gcgtcagaaa   960
              cgtggcattg tggatcagtg ctgcaccagc atttgcagcc tgtatcagct ggaaaactat   1020
              tacaac                                                              1026
              <210>    80
              <211>    17
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    scFv
                                                  Page 23

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   80
              Ile Ser Gln Ala Val His Ala Ala His Ala Glu Ile Asn Glu Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg
<removed-apn>
              <210>   81
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 81
              agccggccat ggcggayatc cagctgactc agcc                             34
              <210>   82
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 82
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gttctcwccc agtc                             34
              <210>   83
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 83
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgmtmactc agtc                             34
              <210>   84
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 24

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 84
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgytracac agtc            34
              <210>   85
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 85
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtratgacmc agtc            34
              <210>   86
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 86
              agccggccat ggcggayatt magatramcc agtc            34
              <210>   87
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 87
              agccggccat ggcggayatt cagatgaydc agtc            34
              <210>   88
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400>   88
                                                  Page 25

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              agccggccat ggcggayaty cagatgacac agac             34
              <210>   89
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 89
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gttctcawcc agtc             34
              <210>   90
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 90
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gwgctsaccc aatc             34
              <210>   91
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 91
              agccggccat ggcggayatt stratgaccc artc             34
              <210>   92
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 92
              agccggccat ggcggayrtt ktgatgaccc arac             34
              <210>   93
                                                  Page 26

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 93
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgatgacbc agkc            34
<removed-apn>
              <210>   94
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 94
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgataacyc agga            34
              <210>   95
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 95
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgatgaccc agwt            34
              <210>   96
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 96
              agccggccat ggcggayatt gtgatgacac aacc            34
              <210>   97
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 27

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 97
              agccggccat ggcggayatt ttgctgactc agtc            34
              <210>   98
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 98
              agccggccat ggcggargct gttgtgactc aggaatc         37
              <210>   99
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 99
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg tttgatttcc agcttgg         37
              <210>   100
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 100
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg ttttatttcc agcttgg         37
              <210>   101
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400>   101
                                                  Page 28

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg ttttatttcc aactttg                   37
              <210>   102
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 102
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacg tttcagctcc agcttgg                   37
              <210>   103
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 103
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacc taggacagtc agtttgg                   37
              <210>   104
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 104
              gatggtgcgg ccgcagtacc taggacagtg accttgg                   37
              <210>   105
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 105
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggakgtrmag cttcaggagt c   51
              <210>   106
                                                  Page 29

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 106
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtbcag ctbcagcagt c   51
<removed-apn>
              <210>   107
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 107
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtgcag ctgaagsast c   51
              <210>   108
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 108
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtccar ctgcaacart c   51
              <210>   109
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 109
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtycag ctbcagcart c   51
              <210>   110
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 30

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 110
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtycar ctgcagcagt c   51
              <210>   111
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 111
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggtccac gtgaagcagt c   51
              <210>   112
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 112
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgaas stggtggaat c   51
              <210>   113
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 113
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggavgtgawg ytggtggagt c   51
              <210>   114
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400>   114
                                                  Page 31

                                                6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgcag skggtggagt c   51
              <210>   115
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
<removed-apn>
              <400> 115
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggakgtgcam ctggtggagt c   51
              <210>   116
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 116
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgaag ctgatggart c   51
              <210>   117
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 117
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgcar cttgttgagt c   51
              <210>   118
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 118
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggargtraag cttctcgagt c   51
              <210>   119
                                                  Page 32

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 119
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaagtgaar sttgaggagt c     51
<removed-apn>
              <210>   120
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 120
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc gcaggttact ctraaagwgt stg   53
              <210>   121
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 121
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggatgtgaac ttggaagtgt c     51
              <210>   122
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 122
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggatgtgaac ttggaagtgt c     51
              <210>   123
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 33

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   rimer
              <400> 123
              gttattgcta gcggctcagc cggcaatggc ggaggtgaag gtcatcgagt c            51
              <210>   124
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 124
              cccttgaagc ttgctgagga aacggtgacc gtggt                              35
              <210>   125
              <211>   70
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 125
              cccttgaccc ttgaagcttg ctgcagagac agtgaccaga gtagcttgct gaggagactg   60
              tgagagtggt                                                          70
              <210>   126
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
              <400> 126
              cccttgaagc ttgctgcaga gacagtgacc agagt                              35
              <210>   127
              <211>   35
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Primer
                                                  Page 34

                                               6628827_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 127
              cccttgaagc ttgctgagga gacggtgact gaggt                            35
              <210>   128
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Ligand
              <400>   128
              Trp Met Val Leu Pro Trp Leu Pro Gly Thr Leu Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Arg Gly
                                                  Page 35

