Il:\szp\Intrwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17131123_ .docx-I5 06 2018
                                                              ABSTRACT
A targeted therapeutic agent comprising a compound of formula (I): B-L-D, wherein: B is a
low molecular weight binding moiety for Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX); D is a drug moiety;
and L is a linker group that undergoes cleavage in vivo for releasing said drug moiety in an
active form. The drug moiety is suitably a cytotoxic agent for targeted delivery to cancer cells
expressing CAIX. The binding moiety B suitably comprises a sulfonamidothiadiazole moiety.
The binding moiety B may comprise one, two or more groups capable of binding to CAIX.
The linker group suitably comprises a disulfide bond and/or a triazole group and/or a cleavable
peptide group.

HI:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17130214 l.dx-l5/062018
                                                SMALL MOLECULE DRUG CONJUGATES
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015212733, the entire content of
which is incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to the field of small molecule targeted drug conjugates (SMDCs) for the
treatment of disease. In particular, the invention relates to SMDCs formed of a low molecular weight
ligand for binding to Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAX), conjugated to a drug by a cleavable linker for
delivery of the drug to targeted tissues or cells. In one embodiment, the present invention relates to the
application of such SMDCs for the delivery of drugs that can kill or inhibit tumour cells.
BACKGROUND
The use of cytotoxic agents is at the basis of the treatment of cancer and other pathological conditions.
Ideally cytotoxic agents should accumulate at site of disease, sparing normal tissues. In reality this does
not happen. Many anticancer drugs do not preferentially accumulate in solid tumors. Indeed, it has
been demonstrated in tumor-bearing mice that only a minimal portion of the injected drug reaches the
neoplastic mass in comparison to the amount of cytotoxic agent that reaches healthy organs.
The targeted delivery of highly potent cytotoxic agents into diseased tissues is therefore desirable for
the treatment of cancer and other serious conditions. By attaching a therapeutic effector through a
cleavable linker to a ligand specific to a marker of disease, the effector preferentially accumulates and
acts at the intended site of action, thus increasing the effectively applied dose while reducing side
effects. To date, monoclonal antibodies have been considered as the ligands of choice and, indeed,
research in the field of antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) has led to the recent approval of two ADCs
for applications in oncology: brentuximab vedotin and trastuzumab emtansine.
However, antibodies are large macromolecules and thus often have difficulties penetrating deeply into
solid tumors. In addition, they can be immunogenic and typically long circulation times can lead to
premature drug release and undesired side effects. Moreover,

                                                  2
    the production of ADCs is expensive, reflecting the need for clinical-grade manufacturing
    of antibodies, drugs and the resulting conjugates.
    The use of smaller ligands as delivery vehicles such as peptides or small drug-like
  5 molecules could potentially overcome some of the abovementioned problems. Their
    reduced size should aid tissue penetration, they should be non-immunogenic and amenable
    to classic organic synthesis thus reducing manufacturing costs. The favorable properties of
    drug conjugates using folic acid or ligands against prostate-specific membrane antigen
    (PSMA) as delivery vehicles have been demonstrated and a folate conjugate has recently
 .0 entered Phase III clinical studies.      However, only a few such conjugates have been
    successfully identified.
    W02006137092 describes the use of fluorophore-labeled Carbonic Anhydrase IX inhibitors
    for the treatment of cancers by inhibiting the activity of CAIX and thereby reversing
 .5 acidification of the extracellular environment of the tumour. There is no suggestion to use
    the CAIX inhibitors for targeting cytotoxic agents.          Further CAIX inhibitors for the
    treatment of cancer are described in W02011098610 and W02004048544.
    The present inventors have found small molecule drug conjugates that target Carbonic
    Anhydrase IX (CAIX) expressing tumors.
  0
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    According to the first aspect of the invention, therefore, there is provided a targeted
    therapeutic agent comprising a compound of formula:
25                                B-L-D                  (I),
    wherein:
    B is a low molecular weight binding moiety for a Carbonic Anhydrase;
    D is a drug moiety; and
    L is a linker group that undergoes cleavage in vivo for releasing said drug moiety in an
30  active form.
    The binding moiety B suitably binds to a tumor-associated carbonic anhydrase enzyme,
    most preferably it binds to Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX). The binding to the carbonic

                                                    3
      anhydrase is suitably selective or specific, whereby the binding moiety B accumulates in
      vivo at sites, such as tumors, where carbonic anhydrase is present at elevated levels.
      Alternatively or additionally, the binding moiety may bind to other carbonic anhydrases
      such as Carbonic Anhydrase XII.
  5
      Suitably, the compound of Formula (I) has a molecular weight less than about 8,000, more
      suitably less than about 5000, and most suitably less than about 2000.          In contrast to
      antibodies, small molecules can diffuse out of blood vessels in a matter of seconds. The
      distribution is not restricted to perivascular space, but involves also deep penetration into
 .0   tissues. This results in faster, deeper and more efficient drug targeting by the agents of the
      invention.
    In another aspect, the present invention provides a targeted therapeutic agent in accordance
    with the first aspect of the invention, for use in the treatment of a neoplastic disease,
 .5 preferably for the treatment of a solid tumor, more preferably for the treatment of renal cell
    carcinoma.
    In another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    targeted therapeutic agent according to the first aspect of the invention.
 -0
    In another aspect, the present invention provides a        product comprising a compound of
    Formula (I) as defined herein and a cleavage agent for cleaving said cleavable linker L, as a
    combined preparation for sequential administration in the treatment of cancer.
25  In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating a neoplastic disease,
    preferably a solid tumor such as renal cell carcinoma, comprising administering an effective
    amount of a pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention to a patient in
    need thereof. In embodiments, the administration of said pharmaceutical composition is
    followed after a suitable interval of time by administration of a cleavage agent for cleaving
30  said cleavable linker L.

                                                    4
    Any feature described herein as suitable, optional, or preferred in relation to any one aspect
    of the invention may likewise be suitable, optional or preferred in relation to any other aspect
    of the invention.
  5
      Brief Description of the Figures
      Fig. 1 shows chemical structures of ligand-linker-dye conjugates synthesised for in vitro
      binding and in vivo targeting studies;
      Fig. 2 shows structures and synthesis of small molecule drug conjugates according to the
 .0   present invention;
      Fig. 3 shows fluorescence measurements of organ uptake of ligand-linker-dye conjugate
      using a ligand of the type used in the conjugates of the present invention, compared to
      uptake into the same organs of an untargeted conjugate;
      Fig. 4 shows fluorescence measurements of organ uptake of ligand-linker-dye conjugate
 .5   using a ligand of the type used in the conjugates of the present invention at 1 hour, 2 hours
      and 4 hours after administration of the conjugate;
      Fig. 5 shows graphs of weight loss versus time for test animals treated with three different
      dosage regimens of a ligand-linker-drug conjugate according to the invention;
      Fig. 6 shows graphs of (a) tumor volume versus time for growth of SKRC52 xenografts in
 .0   balb/c nu/nu mice treated 5x on 5 consecutive days with two different conjugates 7a and 8a
      according to the invention and with two corresponding untargeted drug conjugates, and (b)
      measured body weight change associated with the treatment;
      Fig. 7 shows graphs of (a) tumor volume versus time for growth of SKRC52 xenografts in
      balb/c nu/nu mice treated 5x on 5 consecutive days with a further conjugate 9a according to
25    the invention and with a corresponding untargeted drug conjugates and with two
      conventional antitumor drugs, and (b) measured body weight change associated with the
      treatments;
      Fig. 8 shows hydrolytic stability of drug conjugates 7a, 8a and 9a in PBS at pH 7.4 and
      37C as determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (7a
30    and 8a) and high-performance liquid chromatography (9a);
      Fig. 9 shows structures of a monovalent ligand for CAIX and a dye-conjugate thereof;
      Fig. 10 shows structures of a bivalent ligand for CAIX and a dye-conjugate thereof;

                                                  5
     Fig. 11 shows the structures of a targeted bivalent drug conjugate B7 according to the
     present invention and an untargeted control B8;
     Fig. 12 shows tumor growth curves of animals injected with 8 x 35 nmol unconjugated
     ligand B2, bivalent drug conjugate B7, control conjugate B8 or vehicle as control. Data
  5  represent averages ± standard errors;
     Fig. 13 shows a schematic representation of a member of the DNA-encoded self
     assembling chemical (ESAC) library binding to its target protein CAIX.          The library
     displays two pharmacophores A and B and is formed by hybridization of two individually
     synthesised single-stranded sub-libraries A and B, resulting in a combinatorial library of A
 .0  x B = 111,100 members;
     Fig. 14 shows a plot of the results of high-throughput DNA sequencing (HTDS) results of
     reactions against CAIX for the ESAC library. The x/y plane represents the library member
     barcodes of sub-library A and sub-library B, and the z-axis shows the sequence counts
     normalised to 100, cut-off level 1000.      Selection conditions were high-density protein
 .5  coating (1.0 gm CAIX) and five washing steps;
     Fig. 15 shows the chemical structure of untargeted IRDye 750 conjugate C6 used for flow
     cytometry analysis and in vivo imaging experiments;
     Fig. 16 shows chemical structures and dissociation constants measured "off-DNA" by FP
     and SPR of synthesized monovalent and bivalent conjugates with different linker lengths;
  o0 Fig. 17 shows the chemical structure of targeted monovalent and bivalent IRDye 750
     conjugates C1c and C5c used for flow cytometry analysis and in vivo imaging experiments;
     Fig. 18 shows flow cytometry analysis of IR-dye conjugates binding to CAIX expressing
     SKRC52 cells: (a) untreated cells, (b) untargeted conjugate C6, (c) targeted monovalent
     conjugate C1c, (d) targeted bivalent conjugate C5c;
25   Fig. 19 shows comparative uptake data for different organs in a mouse having renal
     carcinoma of a radiolabelled anti-CAIX targeted ligand versus a radiolabelled untargeted
     ligand;
     Fig. 20 shows a reaction scheme for the synthesis of a targeted cytotoxic drug conjugate
     according to the present invention having the drug auristatin linked to a small molecule
30   binding moiety through a valine-citrulline containing peptide linker that is cleavable by
     Cathepsin B; and
     Fig. 21 shows data observed for mouse tumor size versus time for three dosage regimes of
     the drug conjugate of Fig. 20

                                                  6
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
  5 meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, such as in the arts of
    peptide chemistry, cell culture, nucleic acid chemistry and biochemistry.             Standard
    techniques are used for molecular biology, genetic and biochemical methods (see Sambrook
    et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3rd ed., 2001, Cold Spring Harbor
    Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY; Ausubel et al., Short Protocols in Molecular
 .0 Biology (1999) 4th ed., John Wiley & Sons, Inc.).         All publications cited herein are
    incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for the purpose of describing and
    disclosing the methodologies, reagents, and tools reported in the publications that might be
    used in connection with the invention.
 .5 Unless otherwise stated, the following definitions apply to chemical terms used in
    connection of compounds of the invention and compositions containing such compounds.
    Alkyl refers to a branched or unbranched saturated hydrocarbyl radical. Suitably, the alkyl
    group comprises from about 3 to about 30 carbon atoms, for example from about 5 to about
 .0 25 carbon atoms.
    Alkenyl refers to a branched or unbranched hydrocarbyl radical containing one or more
    carbon-carbon double bonds. Suitably, the alkenyl group comprises from about 3 to about
    30 carbon atoms, for example from about 5 to about 25 carbon atoms.
25
    Alkynyl refers to a branched or unbranched hydrocarbyl radical containing one or more
    carbon-carbon triple bonds. Suitably, the alkynyl group comprises from about 3 to about 30
    carbon atoms, for example from about 5 to about 25 carbon atoms.
30  Halogen refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, preferably fluorine or chlorine.
    Cycloalkyl refers to an alicyclic moiety, suitably having 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 carbon atoms. The
    group may be a bridged or polycyclic ring system. More often cycloalkyl groups are

                                                   7
    monocyclic. This term includes reference to groups such as cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl,
    cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, norbornyl, bicyclo[2.2.2]octyl and the like.
    Aryl refers to an aromatic ring system comprising 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16
  5 ring carbon atoms. Aryl may be a polycyclic ring system, having two or more rings, at least
    one of which is aromatic. This term includes reference to groups such as phenyl, naphthyl,
    fluorenyl, azulenyl, indenyl, anthryl and the like.
    The prefix (hetero) herein signifies that one or more of the carbon atoms of the group may
 .0 be substituted by nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, silicon or sulfur.           Heteroalkyl groups
    include for example, alkyloxy groups and alkythio groups.        Heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl
    groups herein may have from 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 , 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 ring atoms, at
    least one of which is selected from nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, silicon and sulfur. In
    particular, a 3- to 10-membered ring or ring system and more particularly a 5- or 6
 .5 membered ring, which may be saturated or unsaturated.               For example, selected from
    oxiranyl, azirinyl, 1 ,2-oxathiolanyl, imidazolyl, thienyl, furyl, tetrahydrofuryl, pyranyl,
    thiopyranyl, thianthrenyl, isobenzofuranyl, benzofuranyl, chromenyl, 2H-pyrrolyl, pyrrolyl,
    pyrrolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolyl, imidazolidinyl, benzimidazolyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazinyl,
    pyrazolidinyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, dithiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, pyridyl, pyrazinyl,
  0 pyrimidinyl, piperidyl, piperazinyl, pyridazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, especially
    thiomorpholino, indolizinyl, 1,3-Dioxo-       1 ,3-dihydro-isoindolyl , 3H-indolyl, indolyl,
    benzimidazolyl,     cumaryl,    indazolyl, triazolyl,   tetrazolyl,   purinyl,  4H-quinolizinyl,
    isoquinolyl,    quinolyl,   tetrahydroquinolyl,   tetrahydroisoquinolyl,      decahydroquinolyl,
    octahydroisoquinolyl, benzofuranyl, dibenzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl, dibenzothiophenyl,
25  phthalazinyl, naphthyridinyl, quinoxalyl, quinazolinyl, quinazolinyl, cinnolinyl, pteridinyl,
    carbazolyl,  [beta] -carbolinyl, phenanthridinyl,     acridinyl, perimidinyl, phenanthrolinyl,
    furazanyl, phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl, chromenyl, isochromanyl, chromanyl,
    3,4-dihydro-2H-isoquinolin- 1-one, 3,4-dihydro-2H-isoquinolinyl, and the like.
30  Where a substituent herein is a peptide, the peptide suitably comprises from 1 to 100 amino
    acid residues, for example from about 2 to about 30 amino acid residues.

                                                  8
    Where a substituent herein is an oligosaccharide, the oligosaccharide suitably comprises
    from 1 to 100 saccharide residues, for example from about 2 to about 30 saccharide
    residues.
  5 "Substituted" signifies that one or more, especially up to 5, more especially 1, 2 or 3, of
    the hydrogen atoms in said moiety are replaced independently of each other by the
    corresponding number of substituents. The term "optionally substituted" as used herein
    includes substituted or unsubstituted. It will, of course, be understood that substituents are
    only at positions where they are chemically possible, the person skilled in the art being able
 .0 to decide (either experimentally or theoretically) without inappropriate effort whether a
    particular substitution is possible. For example, amino or hydroxy groups with free
    hydrogen may be unstable if bound to carbon atoms with unsaturated (e.g. olefinic) bonds.
    Additionally, it will of course be understood that the substituents described herein may
    themselves be substituted by any substituent, subject to the aforementioned restriction to
 .5 appropriate substitutions as recognised by the skilled person.
    Substituents may suitably include halogen atoms and halomethyl groups such as CF 3 and
    CCl 3 ; oxygen containing groups such as oxo, hydroxy, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkoxy,
    alkoyl, alkoyloxy, aryloxy, aryloyl and aryloyloxy; nitrogen containing groups such as
 .0 amino, alkylamino, dialkylamino, cyano, azide and nitro; sulfur containing groups such as
    thiol, alkylthiol, sulfonyl and sulfoxide; heterocyclic groups which may themselves be
    substituted; alkyl groups, which may themselves be substituted; and aryl groups, which may
    themselves be substituted, such as phenyl and substituted phenyl. Alkyl includes substituted
    and unsubstituted benzyl.
25
    Where two or more moieties are described as being "each independently" selected from a
    list of atoms or groups, this means that the moieties may be the same or different. The
    identity of each moiety is therefore independent of the identities of the one or more other
    moieties.
30
    Derivative. A derivative includes the chemical modification of a compound. Examples of
    such modifications include without limitation the replacement of a hydrogen by a halo
    group, an alkyl group, an acyl group or an amino group and the like. Derivatives further

                                                 9
    include esters and the like that can undergo hydrolysis to release the compound.
    Derivatives further includes salts of the compound.       The modification may increase or
    decrease one or more hydrogen bonding interactions, charge interactions, hydrophobic
    interactions, van der Waals interactions and/or dipole interactions.
  5
    Analog. This term encompasses any enantiomers, racemates and stereoisomers, as well as
    all pharmaceutically acceptable salts and hydrates of such compounds.
    Target
 .0 The present invention targets Carbonic Anhydrase, in particular Carbonic Anhydrase IX
    (CAIX) proteins that are expressed on tumours. CAIX is over-expressed in many different
    forms of cancer such as glioblastoma, colorectal and breast cancer as a marker of hypoxia,
    while being almost undetectable in normal adult tissues, thus representing a very attractive
    antitumor target. In renal cell carcinoma it is often constitutively expressed and is among
 .5 the best-characterized cell-surface markers of this disease
    Binding Moiety
    Suitably, the binding moiety is a low molecular weight binding moiety. Thus, the binding
    moiety is preferably not an antibody or an antibody fragment.        Suitably, the molecular
 10 weight of the binding moiety is less than about 10,000, preferably less than about 3000,
    most preferably less than about 1000. In embodiments, the binding moiety (ligand) is a
    peptide.    In other embodiments, the binding moiety (ligand) is not a peptide.         The
    possibility to step away from antibodies and to use small organic or inorganic molecules as
    ligands allows those molecules to have complexity with is amenable to chemical synthesis.
25  The core of the structures can vary from pure organic compounds to structures that are
    based on peptide scaffolds and even inorganic structures such as boron and other clusters
    The binding moiety may be based on a compound that is known to bind strongly to the
    target.   Alternatively, the binding moiety may be identified by one or more known
30  screening methods for identifying compounds that bind selectively to the target protein of
    interest.

                                                   10
    For example, improved variants of the ligands described below, or new ligands for binding
    selectively to target proteins of interest, can be found by screening methods using modern
    medicinal chemistry technologies, e.g. DNA-encoded chemical library technologies as
    described in W02009077173 and by R.E. Kleiner et al. in Chemical Society Reviews 40
  5 5707-5717 (2011), L. Mannocci et al. in Chemical Communications 47, 12747-12753
    (2011) and S. Brenner et al. in Proceedingsof the NationalAcademy of Sciences of the USA
    89 5381-5383 (1992). An example of a screening method used to identify the best binding
    moiety for CAIX from a library of 111,100 small organic molecules is described in more
    detail below.
 .0
    The binding moiety must tolerate attachment to the rest of the conjugate while maintaining
    binding affinity for its target. Suitably, the conjugate exhibits a binding affinity to its target
    (typically recombinant CAIX) such that the resulting complex has KD             less than about
    50nM, more suitably less than about 30nM, less than about 20nM, less than lOnM, less than
 .5 5nM, less than 2nM, or less than lnM.
    Carbonic anhydrases are thought to have a catalytic mechanism which relies upon an active
    site which contains a coordinated zinc ion.          Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as
    acetazolamide and methazolamide which have terminal sulfonamido groups are thought to
  0 act by forming an adduct between the zinc ion and the terminal nitrogen of the sulfonamide.
    Accordingly, the binding moieties in the conjugates according to the present invention
    suitably have a terminal sulfonamide (-SO 2NH 2 ), sulfamate (-OSO 2 NH 2 ) or sulfamide (
    NHSO 2NH 2) group. Most suitably, the terminal group is a sulphonamide group. Suitably,
    the terminal sulphonamide, sulfamate or sulfamide group is bonded to an aryl group, for
25  example to form an arylsulfonamido group -ArSO 2NH2 .
    The aryl group in these embodiments typically has a single ring or two fused rings. The aryl
    group may be carbocyclic or heterocyclic and may be substituted or unsubstituted.
    Typically, small substituents are preferred such as Me, Et, OH, MeO, CF 3, F, CI, Br, I and
30  CN. Whether or not the Ar group is substituted, two ring positions are taken up with the
    terminal sulfonamide group and the bond to the rest of the conjugate. These two ring
    positions may be at any point on the Ar ring.

                                                   11
    Suitably, the aryl group is a thiadiazolyl group.     In these embodiments, the ligand suitably
    comprises the following terminal moiety (TI):
                                                 -S         SO 2 NH2
    Suitably, the remainder of the conjugate is bonded to the thiadiazolyl group through an
  5 amide group, whereby the binding moiety (ligand) comprises the following terminal moiety
    having a structure similar to the terminal moiety of acetazolamide (T2):
                                 /-         HN          S         SO 2 NH 2
    In other embodiments, the above terminal moiety is modified by 4-N methylation of the
    thiadiazole group whereby the binding moiety (ligand) comprises the following terminal
 .0 moiety having a structure similar to the terminal moiety of of methazolamide (T3):
                                              N         S         SO 2NH 2
                                             H3Ci
    The binding moieties used in the present invention are not limited to sulfonamido
    derivatives. For example, coumarin ligands are also known to bind to CAIX. The skilled
    person using the techniques described herein and common general knowledge will be able
 .5 to identify further suitable ligands for use as the binding moiety.
    In embodiments, the binding moiety B may be a univalent binding moiety or a multivalent
    binding moiety, for example a bivalent binding moiety.              The term "univalent binding
    moiety" refers to a binding moiety comprising a single ligand for binding to CAIX.          The
20  term "multivalent binding moiety" refers to a binding moiety having two or more binding
    ligands (which may be the same or different) for binding to the target entity. Suitably, the
    binding moiety is bivalent.      The two or more binding ligands are separated by suitable
    spacer groups on the multivalent binding moieties. The use of multivalent binding moieties
    can provide enhanced binding of the binding moiety to the target.
25
    Suitably, in these embodiments at least one of the two or more binding ligands comprises a
    terminal moiety

                                                 12
                               /-         HN          S        SO 2 NH 2
    or
                                           N          S        SO 2NH 2
                                           H3Ci
  5
    In these embodiments binding moiety is suitably a bivalent binding moiety comprising a
    first binding ligand comprising a terminal moiety as defined above and a second binding
    ligand selected from the group consisting of ligands having a terminal moiety as defined
    above (an embodiment of this type having the formula B7 is shown in Fig. 11) and ligands
 .0 having the terminal group
                                           OH
                                                R          OH
    wherein R' is H or Cl-C7 alkyl, Cl-C7 alkenyl, or Cl-C7 heteroalkyl, optionally
    substituted with one, two or three substituents, and preferably R' is methyl.
15  In embodiments of the latter type, the binding moiety suitably comprises or consists
    essentially of:

                                              13
                                                       NN   SO 2NH 2
                                                o         I
                                                          S
                                                      NH
         o                     N N
             O                 N/
      N
      H
            HN
                 R
  wherein R is selected from the group consisting of:
                    OH
  R=
                OO
                                OH
                                     OH
  R=
5                                                OH
                               HOH
  R=      0
                                       OH
  and

                                                  14
                                             OH
                        COOH
              0    HN              COOH
                        O    HN
                                      0      RI
                                                          OH
    wherein R' is H or Cl-C7 alkyl, Cl-C7 alkenyl, or Cl-C7 heteroalkyl, optionally
    substituted with one, two or three substituents, and preferably R' is methyl.
  5
    Suitably, the binding moiety has a binding affinity for CAIX such that the KD for binding of
    a ligand-fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugate wherein the dye conjugate has structure as
    shown in Fig. 1 to recombinant CAIX in vitro as determined by fluorescence polarization
 .0 analysis as described herein is less than about 50nM, preferably less than about 20nM, more
    preferably less than about 15nM.
    Linker
    The linker attaches the binding moiety to the drug moiety. The linker may be a bifunctional
 .5 or a multifunctional moiety which can be used to link one or more drug moieties and binder
    moieties to form the SMDC. In embodiments, the conjugates of the present invention have
    a linker that links one drug moiety to one binding moiety (which may be univalent or
    multivalent).
20  The cytotoxic payloads should stably remain attached to the ligand while in circulation, but
    should be released when the conjugate reaches the site of disease.
    Release mechanisms depend on a cleavable bond or other cleavable structure that is present
    in in the linker.  The cleavable structure may be similar to those specific to antibodies or
25  other small molecules linked to cytotoxic payloads. Indeed the nature of the ligand is
    independent on that respect. Therefore we can envisage pH-dependent [Leamon, C.P. et al
    (2006) Bioconjugate Chem., 17, 1226; Casi, G. et al (2012) J. Am. Chem. Soc., 134, 5887] ,
    reductive [Bernardes, G.J. et al (2012) Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.. 51. 941; Yang, J. et al

                                                  15
   (2006) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 103, 13872] and enzymatic release[Doronina S.O. et al
   (2008) Bioconjugate Chem, 19, 1960; Sutherland, M.S.K. (2006) J. Biol. Chem, 281,
   10540]. In a specific setting, when functional groups are present on either the ligand or
   payloads (e.g. thiols, alcohols) which allow the creation of a cleavable bond, a linkerless
 5 connection can be established thus releasing intact payloads, which simplifies substantially
   pharmacokinetic analysis. A non-exhaustive list of moieties, which have cleavable bonds
   and which may be incorporated into linkers, is shown in the following table:
              Linker                Structure                   Release mechanism
                                       0
                                       AN"
                                       SH
              amide                            R2    H          Proteolysis
                                           5N        N
                                         1
                                       R     H
              ester                                             hydrolysis
                                           0
              carbamate                 0     N   HR            hydrolysis
                                    R H, Me
                                        R
              hydrazone                     N                   hydrolysis
                                               0
                                           H
   wherein the substituents R and R" in the above formulas may suitably be independently
   selected from H, halogen, substituted or unsubstituted (hetero)alkyl, (hetero)alkenyl,
   (hetero)alkynyl, (hetero)aryl, (hetero)arylalkyl, (hetero)cycloalkyl, (hetero)cycloalkylaryl,
   heterocyclylalkyl, a peptide, an oligosaccharide or a steroid group. Suitably R and R are
15 independently selected from H, or Ci-C7 alkyl or heteroalkyl. More suitably, R and R are
   independently selected from H, methyl or ethyl.

                                                  16
    Suitably, the conjugate is stable to hydrolysis. That is to say, less than about 10% of the
    conjugate undergoes hydrolysis in PBS pH7.4 at 370 C after 24 hours, as determined by
    HPLC.
  5 Accordingly, the linker suitably comprises as its cleavable bond a disulfide linkage since
    these linkages are stable to hydrolysis, while giving suitable drug release kinetics at the
    target in vivo, and can provide traceless cleavage of drug moieties including a thiol group,
    such as DM1.
 .0 Suitably, the linker may be polar or charged in order to improve water solubility of the
    conjugate. For example, the linker may comprise from about 1 to about 20, suitably from
    about 2 to about 10, residues of one or more known water-soluble oligomers such as
    peptides, oligosaccharides,      glycosaminoglycans,    polyacrylic acid or salts thereof,
    polyethylene glycol, polyhydroxyethyl (meth) acrylates, polysulfonates, etc. Suitably, the
 .5 linker may comprise a polar or charged peptide moiety comprising e.g. from 2 to 10 amino
    acid residues.   Amino acids may refer to any natural or non-natural amino acid.          The
    peptide linker suitably includes a free thiol group, preferably a C-terminal cysteine, for
    forming the said cleavable disulfide linkage with a thiol group on the drug moiety. A
    suitable peptide linker of this type is -Cys-Asp-Arg-Asp-.
 -o
    Suitably, the linker is linked to the ligand through a 1,2,3-triazole ring formed by 1,3
    cycloaddition of alkyne and azide. The drug and binding moieties are suitably linked to the
    3 and 5 positions of the triazole ring. The triazole ring may optionally be substituted at the
    4 position. The triazole is thought to improve binding of the ligand to CAIX. For example,
25  the binding moieties identified above may be linked through a triazole group to form the
    following terminal moiety of the conjugate:
                            N                            HN          S        SO2 NH2
                        N
30  More generally, the conjugates according to the present invention may have the following
    formula:

                                                  17
                                                          N
                                                     N                Sp       B
                         D--    S    -S-' ,Hy,.
                                            H     SP              R
    wherein: Hy is a hydrophilic moiety for improving the solubility of the conjugate, for
    example a hydrophilic oligomer as defined above such asa peptide group as defined above.
  5 S-S represents the cleavable disulfide bond between the drug moiety D and the linker.
    Suitably, the disulfide bond is formed between a -SH group on the linker, for example the
    SH group of a cysteine residue (preferably terminal cysteine) of the peptide and a -SH
    group present in the active form of the drug D, for example the terminal -SH group of
    DM1. In this way, reductive cleavage of the disulfide bond in vivo results in traceless
 .0 release of the drug in its active form.
    Sp are spacer groups, which may be independently selected from optionally substituted
    straight or branched or cyclic C1 -C6 alkylene or alkenylene, optionally including one or
    more carbonyl carbons or ether or thioether 0 or S atoms or amine N atoms in the chain.
 .5 The first Sp group is suitably linked to the peptide residue by a terminal carbonyl forming
    an amide linkage with the terminal amino group of the peptide, as shown for example in the
    formula 9a in Fig. 2.
    The triazole is optionally substituted at the 4 position by group R, whereby group R is
20  selected from H or any of the substituent groups defined herein, or R is substituted or
    unsubstituted (hetero)alkyl, (hetero)alkenyl, (hetero)alkynyl, (hetero)aryl, (hetero)arylalkyl,
    (hetero)cycloalkyl, (hetero)cycloalkylaryl, heterocyclylalkyl, a peptide, an oligosaccharide
    or a steroid group. Suitably R is selected from H, halogen, halomethyl, or C1-C7 alkyl or
    heteroalkyl. More suitably, R is selected from H, methyl or ethyl, and most suitably R is H.
25
    Alternatively or additionally to one or more of the linker elements described above, the
    linker in the conjugates of the present invention may comprise a cleavable peptide unit.
    The peptide unit sequence is specifically tailored so that it will be selectively enzymatically
    cleaved from the drug moiety by one or more proteases present on the cell surface or the
30  extracellular regions of the target tissue. The amino acid residue chain length of the peptide

                                                  18
    unit suitably ranges from that of a single amino acid to about eight amino acid residues.
    Numerous specific cleavable peptide sequences suitable for use in the present invention can
    be designed and optimized in their selectivity for enzymatic cleavage by a particular tumor
    associated enzyme e.g. a protease. Cleavable peptides for use in the present invention
  5 include those which are optimized toward the proteases MMP-1, 2 or 3, or cathepsin B, C
    or D. Especially suitable are peptides containing the sequence Val-Cit, which are cleavable
    by Cathepsin B.      Cathepsin B is a ubiquitous cysteine protease. It is an intracellular
    enzyme, except in pathological conditions, such as metastatic tumors or rheumatoid
    arthritis. Therefore, non-internalizing conjugates of the present invention produced with
 .0 cathepsin B-cleavable linkers are stable in circulation until activated in pathological tissue.
    In these embodiment, the linker moiety suitably further comprises, adjacent to the peptide
    sequence, a "self-immolative" linker portion. The self-immolative linkers are also known
    as electronic cascade linkers. These linkers undergo elimination and fragmentation upon
 .5 enzymatic cleavage of the peptide to release the drug in active, preferably free form. The
    conjugate is stable extracellularly in the absence of an enzyme capable of cleaving the
    linker. However, upon exposure to a suitable enzyme, the linker is cleaved initiating a
    spontaneous self- immolative reaction resulting in the cleavage of the bond covalently
    linking the self-immolative moiety to the drug, to thereby effect release of the drug in its
 .0 underivatized or pharmacologically active form. In these embodiments, the self-immolative
    linker is coupled to the ligand moiety through an enzymatically cleavable peptide sequence
    that provides a substrate for an enzyme to cleave the amide bond to initiate the self
    immolative reaction. Suitably, the drug moiety is connected to the self-immolative moiety
    of the linker via a chemically reactive functional group pending from the drug such as a
25  primary or secondary amine, hydroxyl, sulfhydryl or carboxyl group.
    Examples of self-immolative linkers are PABC or PAB (para- aminobenzyloxycarbonyl),
    attaching the drug moiety to the ligand in the conjugate (Carl et al (1981) J. Med. Chem.
    24: 479-480; Chakravarty et al (1983) J. Med. Chem. 26: 638-644). The amide bond linking
30  the carboxy terminus of a peptide unit and the para-aminobenzyl of PAB may be a substrate
    and cleavable by certain proteases. The aromatic amine becomes electron-donating and
    initiates an electronic cascade that leads to the expulsion of the leaving group, which
    releases the free drug after elimination of carbon dioxide (de Groot, et al (2001) Journal of

                                                  19
    Organic Chemistry 66 (26): 8815-8830). Further self-immolating linkers are described in
    W02005/082023.
    In these embodiments, the linker suitably further comprises a spacer unit linked to the
  5 binding moiety, for example via an amide, amine or thioether bond. The spacer unit is of a
    length that enables e.g. the cleavable peptide sequence to be contacted by the cleaving
    enzyme (e. g. cathepsin B) and suitably also the hydrolysis of the amide bond coupling the
    cleavable peptide to the self-immolative moiety X. Spacer units may for example comprise
    a divalent radical such as alkylene, arylene, a heteroarylene, repeating units of alkyloxy
 .0 (e.g. polyethylenoxy, PEG, polymethyleneoxy) and alkylamino (e.g. polyethyleneamino),
    or diacid ester and amides including succinate, succinamide, diglycolate, malonate, and
    caproamide.
    In yet other embodiments, the linker in the conjugates of the present invention may
 .5 comprise a glucuronyl group that is cleavable by glucoronidase present on the cell surface
    or the extracellular region of the target tissue.   It has been shown that lysosomal beta
    glucuronidase is liberated extracellularly in high local concentrations in necrotic areas in
    human cancers, and that this provides a route to targeted chemotherapy (Bosslet, K. et al.
    Cancer Res. 58, 1195-1201 (1998)).
 -O
    The number of drug and linker moieties per binding moiety, i.e. drug loading value, is
    suitably 1 to about 8, more suitably 1 or 2, and most suitably 1.
25  Drug
    In one embodiment, the drug is a cytotoxic agent (other than a radioactive isotope) that
    inhibits or prevents the function of cells and/or causes destruction of cells. Examples of
    cytotoxic agents include chemotherapeutic agents, and toxins such as small molecule toxins
    or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial, fungal, plant or animal origin, including
30  synthetic analogues and derivatives thereof. The cytotoxic agent may be selected from the
    group consisting of an auristatin, a DNA minor groove binding agent, a DNA minor groove
    alkylating agent, an enediyne, a lexitropsin, a duocarmycin, a taxane, a puromycin, a
    dolastatin, a maytansinoid and a vinca alkaloid or a combination of two or more thereof.

                                                     20
     In one embodiment the drug is a chemotherapeutic agent selected from the group consisting
     of a topoisomerase inhibitor, an alkylating agent (eg. nitrogen mustards; ethylenimes;
     alkylsulfonates;    triazenes;    piperazines;    and    nitrosureas),   an    antimetabolite    (eg
     mercaptopurine,      thioguanine,     5-fluorouracil),   an    antibiotics   (eg.    anthracyclines,
  5  dactinomycin, bleomycin, adriamycin, mithramycin. dactinomycin) a mitotic disrupter (eg.
     plant alkaloids - such as vincristine and/or microtubule antagonists - such as paclitaxel), a
     DNA intercalating agent (eg carboplatin and/or cisplatin), a DNA synthesis inhibitor, a
     DNA-RNA transcription regulator, an enzyme inhibitor, agene regulator, a hormone
     response modifier, a hypoxia-selective cytotoxin (eg. tirapazamine), an epidermal growth
 .0  factor inhibitor, an anti-vascular agent (eg. xanthenone 5,6-dimethylxanthenone-4-acetic
     acid), a radiation-activated prodrug (eg. nitroarylmethyl quaternary (NMQ) salts) or a
     bioreductive drug or a combination of two or more thereof.
     The chemotherapeutic        agent may selected from the group consisting of Erlotinib
 .5  (TARCEVA@),          Bortezomib      (VELCADE@),         Fulvestrant    (FASLODEX®),         Sutent
     (SU1 1248), Letrozole (FEMARA@), Imatinib mesylate (GLEEVEC@),                          PTK787/ZK
     222584,    Oxaliplatin     (Eloxatin®.), 5-FU       (5-fluorouracil),    Leucovorin,     Rapamycin
     (Sirolimus, RAPAMUNE®.), Lapatinib (GSK572016), Lonafarnib (SCH 66336), Sorafenib
     (BAY43-9006), and Gefitinib (IRESSA®.), AG1478, AG1571 (SU 5271; Sugen) or a
  o0 combination of two or more thereof.
     The chemotherapeutic agent may be an alkylating agent - such as thiotepa, CYTOXAN®
     and/or cyclosphosphamide; an alkyl sulfonate - such as busulfan, improsulfan and/or
     piposulfan; an aziridine - such as benzodopa, carboquone, meturedopa and/or uredopa;
25   ethylenimines and/or methylamelamines - such as altretamine, triethylenemelamine,
     triethylenepbosphoramide,       triethylenethiophosphoramide        and/or    trimethylomelamine;
     acetogenin - such as bullatacin and/or bullatacinone; camptothecin; bryostatin; callystatin;
     cryptophycins;     dolastatin;   duocarmycin;      eleutherobin;     pancratistatin;   sarcodictyin;
     spongistatin; nitrogen mustards - such as chlorambucil, chlornaphazine, cholophosphamide,
30   estramustine,    ifosfamide,    mechlorethamine,       mechlorethamine      oxide    hydrochloride,
     melphalan, novembichin, phenesterine, prednimustine, trofosfamide and/or uracil mustard;
     nitrosureas - such as carmustine, chlorozotocin, fotemustine, lomustine, nimustine, and/or
     ranimnustine;    dynemicin; bisphosphonates        - such as clodronate;        an esperamicin; a

                                                    21
    neocarzinostatin     chromophore;     aclacinomysins,   actinomycin, authramycin,        azaserine,
    bleomycins,     cactinomycin,    carabicin,    carminomycin,    carzinophilin,    chromomycinis,
    dactinomycin, daunorubicin, detorubicin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine, ADRIAMYCIN@.
    doxorubicin     -   such   as  morpholino-doxorubicin,       cyanomorpholino-doxorubicin,         2
  5 pyrrolino-doxorubicin      and/or    deoxydoxorubicin,     epirubicin,   esorubicin,    idarubicin,
    marcellomycin, mitomycins - such as mitomycin C, mycophenolic acid, nogalamycin,
    olivomycins,       peplomycin,     potfiromycin,     puromycin,      quelamycin,      rodorubicin,
    streptonigrin, streptozocin, tubercidin, ubenimex, zinostatin, zorubicin; anti-metabolites
    such as methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); folic acid analogues - such as denopterin,
 .0 methotrexate, pteropterin, trimetrexate; purine analogues - such as fludarabine, 6
    mercaptopurine, thiamiprine, thioguanine; pyrimidine analogues - such as ancitabine,
    azacitidine, 6-azauridine, carmofur, cytarabine, dideoxyuridine, doxifluridine, enocitabine,
    floxuridine; androgens - such as calusterone, dromostanolone propionate, epitiostanol,
    mepitiostane, testolactone; anti-adrenals - such as aminoglutethimide, mitotane, trilostane;
 .5 folic acid replenisher - such as frolinic acid; aceglatone; aldophosphamide glycoside;
    aminolevulinic acid; eniluracil; amsacrine; bestrabucil; bisantrene; edatraxate; defofamine;
    demecolcine; diaziquone; elformithine; elliptinium acetate; an epothilone; etoglucid;
    gallium nitrate; hydroxyurea; lentinan; lonidainine; macrocyclic depsipeptides such as
    maytansine     and    ansamitocins;   mitoguazone;    mitoxantrone;    mopidanmol;       nitraerine;
  0 pentostatin; phenamet; pirarubicin; losoxantrone; podophyllinic acid; 2-ethylhydrazide;
    procarbazine; razoxane; rhizoxin; sizofiran; spirogermanium; tenuazonic acid; triaziquone;
    2,2',2"-trichlorotriethylamine; trichothecenes - such as        verracurin A, roridin A and/or
    anguidine; urethan; vindesine;        dacarbazine; mannomustine; mitobronitol; mitolactol;
    pipobroman; gacytosine; arabinoside; cyclophosphamide; thiotepa; taxoids - such as
25  TAXOL@.        paclitaxel,   abraxane,    and/or   TAXOTERE@,          doxetaxel;    chloranbucil;
    GEMZAR@.          gemcitabine;    6-thioguanine;    mercaptopurine;     methotrexate;     platinum
    analogues - such as cisplatin and carboplatin; vinblastine; platinum; etoposide; ifosfamide;
    mitoxantrone; vincristine; NAVELBINE@, vinorelbine; novantrone; teniposide; edatrexate;
    daunomycin;      aminopterin; xeloda;      ibandronate; topoisomerase      inhibitor RFS 2000;
30  difluoromethylomithine (DMFO); retinoids - such as retinoic acid; capecitabine; and
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids, derivatives or combinations of two or more of any
    of the above.

                                                  22
    The drug may be a tubulin disruptor including but are not limited to: taxanes - such as
    paclitaxel  and docetaxel, vinca alkaloids,        discodermolide,  epothilones     A and B,
    desoxyepothilone, cryptophycins, curacin A, combretastatin A-4-phosphate, BMS 247550,
    BMS 184476, BMS 188791; LEP, RPR 109881A, EPO 906, TXD 258, ZD 6126,
  5 vinflunine, LU 103793,        dolastatin  10, E7010, T138067 and T900607, colchicine,
    phenstatin,   chalcones,    indanocine,    T138067,     oncocidin,  vincristine,    vinblastine,
    vinorelbine, vinflunine, halichondrin B, isohomohalichondrin B, ER-86526, pironetin,
    spongistatin 1, spiket P, cryptophycin 1, LU103793 (cematodin or cemadotin), rhizoxin,
    sarcodictyin,   eleutherobin,   laulilamide, VP-16     and D-24851     and pharmaceutically
 .0 acceptable salts, acids, derivatives or combinations of two or more of any of the above.
    The drug may be a DNA intercalator including but are not limited to: acridines,
    actinomycins, anthracyclines, benzothiopyranoindazoles, pixantrone, crisnatol, brostallicin,
    CI-958, doxorubicin (adriamycin), actinomycin D, daunorubicin (daunomycin), bleomycin,
 .5 idarubicin,   mitoxantrone,    cyclophosphamide,      melphalan,   mitomycin     C,   bizelesin,
    etoposide, mitoxantrone, SN-38, carboplatin, cis-platin, actinomycin D, amsacrine, DACA,
    pyrazoloacridine, irinotecan and topotecan and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids,
    derivatives or combinations of two or more of any of the above.
 .0 The drug may be an anti-hormonal agent that acts to regulate or inhibit hormone action on
    tumours - such as anti-estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators, including, but
    not limited to, tamoxifen, raloxifene,         droloxifene,  4-hydroxytamoxifen,     trioxifene,
    keoxifene, LY 117018, onapristone, and/or fareston toremifene and pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts, acids, derivatives or combinations of two or more of any of the above.
25  The drug may be an aromatase inhibitor that inhibits the enzyme aromatase, which
    regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands - such as, for example, 4(5)-imidazoles,
    aminoglutethimide, megestrol acetate, AROMASIN@. exemestane, formestanie, fadrozole,
    RIVISOR@. vorozole, FEMARA@. letrozole, and ARIMIDEX@ and/or anastrozole and
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids, derivatives or combinations of two or more of any
30  of the above.

                                                      23
       The drug may be an anti-androgens - such as flutamide, nilutamide, bicalutamide,
       leuprolide, goserelin and/or troxacitabine and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids,
       derivatives or combinations of two or more of any of the above.
  5    The drug may be a protein kinase inhibitor, a lipid kinase inhibitor or an anti-angiogenic
       agent.
       In a preferred embodiment, the drug is a maytansinoid, in particular DM1, or a tubulin
       disruptor.    Preferably, the drug in its active form comprises a thiol group, whereby a
 .0    cleavable disulfide bond may be formed through the sulfur of the thiol group to bond the
       drug to the linker moiety in the conjugates of the invention.
       The drug may be used in unmodified or modified form. Combinations of drugs in which
       some are unmodified and some are modified may be used.           For example, the drug may be
 .5    chemically modified. One form of chemical modification is the derivatisation of a carbonyl
       group - such as an aldehyde.
       According to one embodiment, the drug is modified to allow the incorporation of the linker.
       For example, a drug comprising a hydroxyl group may be converted to the corresponding 2
  o0   ethanethiol carbonate or 2-ethanethiol carbamate thereby introducing thiol groups for
       disulphide linkage as discussed above.
       The drug can also be a cytokine (e.g., an interleukin, a member of the TNF superfamily, or
       an interferon.
25
       SMDCs
       The drug moiety of the SMDC may not be cleaved from the linker until the SMDC binds to
       its target cell or tissue.
30   In one embodiment, the SMDCs described herein are not substantially internalized into a cell.
     Such a "non-internalizing" drug conjugate has the property of reacting in physiological
     conditions (at 37'C and pH 7) in vivo or in vitro, with binding partners on the cell surface
     (e.g. cell surface antigens) or in the extracellular matrix without being internalized in the cells

                                                    24
    by a process of active endocytosis (such as receptor/antigen mediated endocytosis).         It is
    possible that some of the non-internalizing specific binding moiety could be taken up
    intracellularly by fluid phase endocytosis. However, the amount of fluid phase endocytosis
    will depend linearly on the extracellular binding moiety concentration and temperature and
  5 can therefore be distinguished from mediated endocytosis in order to distinguish non
    internalizing binding moieties and conjugates according to the present invention.
      The use of non-internalizing compounds provides advantages. For example, internalization
 .0   efficiency is difficult to measure in vivo, thus remaining a "black box" for drug
      development.     Moreover, it is difficult to ensure that all diseased cells are targeted by
      internalizing compounds, especially those cells which are further away from blood vessels.
      In contrast, the cleavage of the SMDCs of the present invention in the extracellular space
      allows the drug to diffuse to neighboring cells and kill them. It is also envisaged that dying
 .5   cells will liberate cleavage agents (e.g. cysteine or glutathione) that will activate more of
      the drug from the SMDC resulting in self-amplification of the toxic effects.
      Accordingly, the linker that is used in the SMDC should be stable enough compared to the
      rate of blood clearance of the compound but labile enough compared to the residence time
  0   of the compound at the target site. From these considerations, a half-life of the conjugate in
      the region of about 1 hour to about 50 hours - such as about 10 to about 50 hours or about
      20 to about 50 hours may be acceptable, especially when vascular tissues or cells are
      targeted. The half-life herein refers to the half-life of the conjugate in mouse serum in vitro
      at 37 0 C as determined by HPLC. Advantageously therefore, the SMDCs described herein
25    may have improved lability and/or stability in vitro and/or in vivo which makes them
      particularly suitable for controlled drug release, especially at vascular tissues, cells and
      tumours.
      Suitably, the SMDC shows a high affinity for CAIX expressing tumors when administered
30    systemically.    Suitably, a tumor-to-blood concentration ratio of at least about 5:1, for
      example at least about 10:1 is achieved 1 hour after injection of 3nm of the conjugate into
      nude mice having subcutaneous SKRC52 tumors.

                                                 25
    Suitably, the SMDC inhibits, retards or prevents growth of a tumour when administered in a
    therapeutically effective amount.
    Treatment
  5 The SMDCs described herein may be used to treat disease.              The treatment may be
    therapeutic and/or prophylactic treatment, with the aim being to prevent, reduce or stop an
    undesired physiological change or disorder. The treatment may prolong survival as
    compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.
 .0 The disease that is treated by the SMDC may be any disease that might benefit from
    treatment. This includes      chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those
    pathological conditions which predispose to the disorder.      One particular disease that is
    applicable to treatment by the present invention is neoplastic disease such as cancer that can
    be treated via the targeted delivery of cytotoxic agents. Non-limiting examples of cancers
 .5 that may be treated include benign and malignant tumours; leukemia and lymphoid
    malignancies, including breast, ovarian, stomach, endometrial, salivary gland, lung, kidney,
    colon, thyroid, pancreatic, prostate or bladder cancer. The disease may be a neuronal, glial,
    astrocytal,  hypothalamic    or other glandular,     macrophagal,    epithelial, stromal and
    blastocoelic disease; or inflammatory,       angiogenic or an immunologic disease. An
 .0 exemplary disease is a solid, malignant tumour.
    The term "cancer" and "cancerous" is used in its broadest sense as meaning the
    physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell
    growth. A tumour comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include, but
25  are not limited to, carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma, sarcoma, and leukemia or lymphoid
    malignancies. Further     examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer (e.g.,
    epithelial squamous cell cancer), lung cancer including small-cell lung cancer, non-small
    cell lung cancer ("NSCLC"), adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the
    lung, cancer of the peritoneum, hepatocellular cancer, gastric or stomach cancer including
30  gastrointestinal  cancer,   gastrointestinal stromal tumour     (GIST), pancreatic     cancer,
    glioblastoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, liver cancer, bladder cancer, hepatoma, breast
    cancer, colon cancer, rectal cancer, colorectal cancer, endometrial or uterine carcinoma,
    salivary gland carcinoma, kidney or renal cancer, prostate cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid

                                                   26
    cancer, hepatic carcinoma, anal carcinoma, penile carcinoma, as well as head and neck
    cancer.    Based on established evidence of expression of CAIX, it is expected that the
    present invention will be suitable in particular for the treatment of glioblastoma, lung
    cancer, head and neck cancer, cervical cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, and,
  5 especially, renal cell carcinoma.
    For the prevention or treatment of disease, the dosage of a SMDC will depend on an array
    of different factors - such as the type of disease to be treated, the severity and course of the
    disease, whether the molecule is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes,
 .0 previous therapy, the patient's clinical history and response to the protein, and the discretion
    of the attending physician.
    The molecule may be administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments.
    Depending on the type and severity of the disease, between about 1 ug/kg to 15 mg/kg of
 .5 drug may be used as an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient, whether,
    for example, by one or more separate administrations, or by continuous infusion. A typical
    daily dosage might range from about 1 ug/kg to 100 mg/kg or more. An exemplary dosage
    of drug may be in the range of about 0.1 to about 10 mg/kg of patient weight.
    When treating cancer, the therapeutically effect that is observed may be a reduction in the
 .0 number of cancer cells; a reduction in tumour size; inhibition or retardation of cancer cell
    infiltration into peripheral organs; inhibition of tumour growth; and/or relief of one or more
    of the symptoms associated with the cancer.
    In animal models, efficacy may be assessed by physical measurements of the tumour during
25  the treatment, and/or by determining partial and complete remission of the cancer. For
    cancer therapy, efficacy can, for example, be measured by assessing the time to disease
    progression (TTP) and/or determining the response rate (RR).
    Pharmaceutical compositions
30  The SMDCs described herein may be in the form of pharmaceutical compositions which
    may be for human or animal usage in human and veterinary medicine and will typically
    comprise any one or more of a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, carrier, or excipient.
    Acceptable carriers or diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art,

                                                   27
    and are described, for example, in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing
    Co. (A. R. Gennaro edit. 1985). The choice of pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or diluent
    can be selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard
    pharmaceutical practice. The pharmaceutical compositions may comprise as - or in addition
  5 to - the carrier, excipient or diluent any suitable binder(s), lubricant(s), suspending agent(s),
    coating agent(s), solubilising agent(s).
    Preservatives, stabilisers, dyes and even flavouring agents may be provided in the
    pharmaceutical composition. Examples of preservatives include sodium benzoate, sorbic
 .0 acid and esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid. Antioxidants and suspending agents may be also
    used.
    There may be different composition/formulation requirements dependent on the different
    delivery systems. By way of example, the pharmaceutical composition may be formulated
 .5 to be administered using a mini-pump or by a mucosal route, for example, as a nasal spray
    or aerosol for inhalation or ingestable solution, or parenterally in which the composition is
    formulated by an injectable form, for delivery, by, for example, an intravenous,
    intramuscular or subcutaneous route. Alternatively, the formulation may be designed to be
    administered by a number of routes.
  0
    If the agent is to be administered mucosally through the gastrointestinal mucosa, it should
    be able to remain stable during transit though the gastrointestinal tract; for example, it
    should be resistant to proteolytic degradation, stable at acid pH and resistant to the
    detergent effects of bile.
25
    Where appropriate, the pharmaceutical compositions may be administered by inhalation, in
    the form of a suppository or pessary, topically in the form of a lotion, solution, cream,
    ointment or dusting powder, by use of a skin patch, orally in the form of tablets containing
    excipients such as starch or lactose, or in capsules or ovules either alone or in admixture
30  with excipients, or in the form of elixirs, solutions or suspensions containing flavouring or
    colouring agents, or the pharmaceutical compositions can be injected parenterally, for
    example, intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously. For parenteral administration,
    the compositions may be best used in the form of a sterile aqueous solution which may

                                                    28
     contain other substances, for example, enough salts or monosaccharides to make the
     solution isotonic with blood. For buccal or sublingual administration the compositions may
     be administered in the form of tablets or lozenges which can be formulated in a
     conventional manner.
  5
     The SMDC may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable or active
     salt. Pharmaceutically-acceptable salts are well known to those skilled in the art, and for
     example, include those mentioned by Berge et al, in J.Pharm.Sci., 66, 1-19 (1977).             Salts
     include, but are not limited, to sulfate, citrate, acetate, oxalate, chloride, bromide, iodide,
 .0  nitrate, bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate, isonicotinate, lactate, salicylate, acid citrate,
     tartrate, oleate, tannate, pantothenate, bitartrate, ascorbate, succinate, maleate, gentisinate,
     fumarate,      gluconate,    glucaronate,     saccharate,     formate,     benzoate,     glutamate,
     methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and pamoate (i.e.,
     1,1'-methylene-bis-(2-hydroxy-3-naphthoate)) salts.
 .5
     The routes for administration (delivery) may include, but are not limited to, one or more of
     oral (e.g. as a tablet, capsule, or as an ingestable solution), topical, mucosal (e.g. as a nasal
     spray or aerosol for inhalation), nasal,           parenteral   (e.g. by an injectable form),
     gastrointestinal,   intraspinal,  intraperitoneal,   intramuscular,    intravenous,    intrauterine,
  o0 intraocular, intradermal, intracranial, intratracheal, intravaginal, intracerebroventricular,
     intracerebral,    subcutaneous,     ophthalmic     (including    intravitreal  or    intracameral),
     transdermal, rectal, buccal, vaginal, epidural, sublingual.
     Typically, a physician will determine the actual dosage which will be most suitable for an
25   individual subject. The specific dose level and frequency of dosage for any particular
     patient may be varied and will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the
     specific compound employed, the metabolic stability and length of action of that
     compound, the age, body weight, general health, sex, diet, mode and time of administration,
     rate of excretion, drug combination, the severity of the particular condition, and the
30   individual undergoing therapy.
     The formulations may be packaged in unit-dose or multi-dose containers, for example
     sealed ampoules and vials, and may be stored in a freeze-dried lyophilizedd) condition

                                                 29
    requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example water, for
    administration. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from
    sterile powders, granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Exemplary unit
    dosage formulations contain a daily dose or unit daily sub-dose, or an appropriate fraction
  5 thereof, of the active ingredient.
    Combination Therapy
    A SMDC may be combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation, or dosing
    regimen as combination therapy, with a second compound having therapeutic properties.
 .0 The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen
    preferably has complementary activities to the SMDC of the combination such that they do
    not adversely affect each other.
    The second compound may be selected from the group consisting of a protein, antibody,
 .5 antigen-binding fragment thereof, a drug, a toxin, an enzyme, a nuclease, a hormone, an
    immunomodulator, an antisense oligonucleotide,         an siRNA, a boron compound, a
    photoactive agent, a dye and a radioisotope or a combination of two or more thereof.
    The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen.
 .0 When administered sequentially, the combination may be administered in two or more
    administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration, using separate
    formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation, and consecutive administration in
    either order, wherein there is a time period while both (or all) active agents simultaneously
    exert their biological activities.
25
    As noted above, the SMDCs of the invention achieve optimal tumor:organ ratios some time
    after administration, when the SMDC has had the opportunity to localize at the site of the
    disease, while clearing from blood and healthy organs.       Thus, it would be desirable to
    provide controlled release of the toxic payload from the SMDC at a controlled time interval
30  after administration.    This can be achieved by administering an effective amount of a
    cleavage agent for cleaving the linker L at a later time point following SMDC
    administration, in order to trigger an efficient release of the drug payload when suitable
    tumor:blood and tumor:organ ratios have been achieved.            The time interval between

                                                 30
    administration of the SMDC and administration of the cleavage agent may, for example, be
    from about 10 minutes to about 12 hours, suitably from about 30 minutes to about 6 hours,
    more suitably from about 1 hour to about 2 hours.
  5 Thus, the combination products according to the invention include a product comprising a
    compound of Formula (I) as defined above and a cleavage agent for cleaving the cleavable
    linker L, as a combined preparation for sequential administration in the treatment of cancer.
    Suitably, either: (a) linker L comprises a disulphide bond and the cleavage agent comprises
 .0 a reducing agent such as cysteine, N-acetylcysteine, ordithiothreitol; or (b) linker L
    comprises an amide linkage and the cleavage agent comprises a hydrolase such as a
    protease; or (c) linker L comprises an ester linkage and the cleavage agent comprises a
    hydrolase such as an esterase.
 .5 The cleavage agent is administered in an amount effective to achieve the desired release of
    the toxic payload from the SMDC in vivo. For example, between about 1 ug/kg to 15
    mg/kg of drug may be used as an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient,
    whether, for example, by one or more separate administrations, or by continuous infusion.
    An exemplary dosage of cleavage agent may be in the range of about 0.1 to about 10 mg/kg
  0 of patient weight.
    The above products for combined administration and methods of treatment by sequential
    administration of drug conjugate and cleavage agent are also applicable to antibody-drug
    conjugates as to conjugates in which the ligand is a low molecular weight entity. Thus,
25  combination products and methods in which the SMDC is an antibody-drug conjugate
    (ADC) comprising as the binding moiety an antibody or antibody fragment that binds
    selectively to CAIX are encompassed within these aspects of the invention.
    Substituents
30  The chemical compounds described herein may comprises substituents. In particular, the
    compounds may contain one or more hydroxy, alkyl especially lower (C1 -C6 ) alkyl, e.g.
    methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec- butyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl and other pentyl

                                                   31
    isomers, and n-hexyl and other hexyl isomers, alkoxy especially lower (C1 -C6 ) alkoxy, e.g.
    methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy etc., alkinyl, e.g. ethinyl, or halogen (e.g. fluoro) substituents.
    Chemical synthesis
  5 The compounds described herein may be prepared by chemical synthesis techniques.
    It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that sensitive functional groups may need to be
    protected and deprotected during synthesis of a compound. This may be achieved by
    conventional techniques, for example as described in "Protective Groups in Organic
    Synthesis" by T W Greene and P G M Wuts, John Wiley and Sons Inc. (1991), and by
 .0 P.J.Kocienski, in "Protecting Groups", Georg Thieme Verlag (1994).
    It is possible during some of the reactions that any stereocentres present could, under
    certain conditions, be epimerised, for example if a base is used in a reaction with a substrate
    having an optical centre comprising a base-sensitive group. It should be possible to
 .5 circumvent potential problems such as this by choice of reaction sequence, conditions,
    reagents, protection/deprotection regimes, etc. as is well-known in the art.
    The compounds and salts of the invention may be separated and purified by conventional
    methods.
 -O
    General techniques
    The practice of the present invention employs, unless otherwise indicated, conventional
    methods of chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, genetics, immunology
    and pharmacology, known to those of skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in
25  the literature. See, e. g. , Gennaro, A. R., ed. (1990) Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,
    18th ed., Mack Publishing Co.; Hardman, J. G., Limbird, L. E., and Gilman, A. G., eds.
    (2001) The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 10th ed., McGraw-Hill Co.; Colowick,
    S. et al., eds., Methods In Enzymology, Academic Press, Inc.; Weir, D. M. , and Blackwell,
    C. C., eds. (1986) Handbook of Experimental Immunology, Vols. I-IV, Blackwell Scientific
30  Publications; Maniatis, T. et al., eds. (1989) Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd
    edition, Vols. I-III, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; Ausubel, F. M. et al., eds. (1999)
    Short Protocols in Molecular Biology, 4th edition, John Wiley & Sons; Ream et al., eds.
    (1998) Molecular Biology Techniques: An Intensive Laboratory Course, Academic Press;

                                                     32
     Newton, C. R., and Graham, A., eds. (1997) PCR (Introduction to Biotechniques Series),
     2nd ed., Springer Verlag.
     The invention will now be further described by way of Examples, which are meant to serve
  5  to assist one of ordinary skill in the art in carrying out the invention and are not intended in
     any way to limit the scope of the invention.
     EXAMPLES
 .0  (A) Monovalent Binding Moieties
     Reference compounds having formulas la-6c shown in Fig. 1 were prepared for studies of
     binding by ligand-linker-dye conjugates to CAIX in vitro and in vivo.                Conjugates
     according to the present invention having formulas 7a, 8a and 9a as shown in Fig. 2 were
     prepared according to the scheme in Fig. 2 and studied in vitro and in vivo as described
 .5  below. Reference conjugates 7b, 8b and 9b as shown in Fig. 2 having the drug and linker
     moieties but no binding moiety were also prepared according to the scheme shown in Fig. 2
     for comparative studies.
     General Chemical Procedures
  o0 Proton (H) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were recorded on a Bruker AV400
     (400 MHz) or a Bruker AVIJI500 (500 MHz) spectrometer. Carbon ( C) NMR spectra
     were recorded on a Bruker AV400 (100 MHz) spectrometer or on a Bruker AVIJI500 (125
     MHz) spectrometer. Chemical shifts are given in ppm using residual solvent as the internal
     standard. Coupling constants (J) are reported in Hz with the following abbreviations used to
25   indicate splitting: s = singlet, d  = doublet, t   = triplet, q = quartet, m = multiplet. High
     resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) spectra were recorded on a Bruker Daltronics maXis
     ESI-QTOF mass spectrometer. Calculated and exact m/z values are reported in Daltons.
     Analytical and preparative reversed-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography (RP
30   HPLC) were performed on an Waters Alliance HT RP-HPLC with PDA UV detector, using
     a Synergi 4gm, Polar-RP 150 x 10 mm column at a flow rate of 4 mL min-' with linear

                                               33
   gradients of solvents A and B (A = Millipore water with 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid [TFA], B
   = MeCN).
   Anhydrous solvents for reactions were purchased from Acros or Fluka. Peptide grade
 5 dimethyl formamide (DMF) for solid phase synthesis was bought from ABCR. All other
   solvents were used as supplied by Fisher Chemicals, Merck or Aldrich in HPLC or
   analytical grade. IRDye750 N-hydroxysuccinimidyl (NHS) ester was purchased from Licor,
   Alexa546 NHS ester from Invitrogen, N-Boc protected (S)-1-chloromethyl-6-hydroxy-1,2
   dihydrobeno[e]indole (seco CBI) from Anthem Bioscience. DM1 was purchased from
.0 Concortis Biosystems. All other reagents were purchased from Aldrich, Acros, ABCR or
   TI and used as supplied. All reactions using anhydrous conditions were performed using
   oven-dried glassware under an atmosphere of argon. Brine refers to a saturated solution of
   sodium chloride. Silica for flash column chromatography was purchased from Sigma.
.5 Preparation of Previously Described Compounds
   Compounds 6c and 11 - 17 were prepared according to previously described methods as
   summarized in the following table.
   Structure                                        Number             Reference
                           H                0
                       0N0
                                          H
   -Os                                so3
                                   -                6c                 [6]
          N+                    N
          -OS                 so 3
             N       s
               0
                    N        6                      15
     HD                            M-                                  [7]
     0
                 6.            DMI-SMe

                                                        34
                         NO
                                                               16               [8]
                 c CI0O
    N    S          N                                          17               [9]
  HO                      N
   0 -\N            O     N-                                   18               [10]
          H
  BocHN --     01'O-          NH2                              19               [11]
  HOOC      N3
                                                              20                [12]
                        c
  H2NOzS       N      N   N                                   21                [13]
                   N    N    C
                   H
  HN
  OHN -,yOH O                                                 22                [14]
            0
  H2N    S    SO  2NH2                                        23                [15]
        N-N
                   N24                                                          [16]
  Chemical Synthesis of New Compounds
5 N1-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-N4-(5-sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2
  yl)succinamide fluorescein conjugate - la
                                                                              0
                                                                       O            H
                                  0                           HN    S               N     //SONH2
                                                                HN            0   0   N-N
                               N      H      FITC, DIPEA, DMF
           NH2                 H      N   S                           -O
                                          S-SO2NH 2               HOOC      0
                                    0   N'Nj
                                                                         OH

                                                           35
    25 (7.0 mg, 17 gmol) and fluoresceinisothiocyanate                    (FITC, 6.7 mg, 17 gmol) were
    dissolved in dimethylformamide (DMF, 1 mL) and diisopropylethylamine (DIPEA, 8 gL,
    48 gmol) was added. The reaction was stirred for 2 h at room temperature, diluted with
    MeOH (1 mL) and purified over reversed-phase HPLC (80% A / 20% B to 20% A / 80% B
  5 over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by mass spectrometry (MS) were
    pooled and lyophilized to give the product as a yellow powder (12 mg, 16 gmol, 95%).
     H-NMR (400 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]                  =  8.31 (s, 1H), 7.91 (d, J =  7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (d, J
    =   7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.02 (d, J           = 8.5 Hz, 2H), 6.92 (s, 2H), 6.79 (d, J    =  8.5 Hz, 2H), 3.85 (br,
    2H), 3.75 (t, J         =  4.8 Hz, 2H), 3.72-3.65 (m, 4H), 3.58 (t, J    =  5.4 Hz, 2H), 3.38 (t, J =  5.4
 .0 Hz, 2H), 2.85 (t, J          = 6.8 Hz, 2H), 2.66 (t, J =  6.8 Hz, 2H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 )
    6 [ppm]      =   180.8, 172.3 172.2, 171.3, 171.2, 169.0, 164.6, 161.4, 159.9, 152.4, 147.6, 141.8,
    129.5, 127.0, 124.5, 116.7, 113.0, 110.3, 102.7, 70.1, 69.6, 68.9, 44.1, 39.0, 30.7, 29.8,
    signals from PEG linker predicted to overlap; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for
    C 3 3 H3 4 N 7 0 1 IS 3 , 800.1473; found 800.1470.
 .5
    N1-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-N4-(5-sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2
    yl)succinamide Alexa546 conjugate - lb
                 H2NO2S
                              'N                                             H    SO3        SO3 H*
                         S      IN                                                      O0       N
                       HN
                     NH             DIPEA, DMF          HN                                   CI
                                    Alexa546 NHS ester
                        0IEA                                0
                                                                        0H>
                     O                                   D        N          NI
                                                                  H        O        >N SO2NH2
                         NH2                                               0
20
    To 25 (212 gg, 517 nmol) in DMF (2.1 gL) was added Alexa546 NHS ester (100 gg, 86
    nmol). DIPEA (2 gL, 12 gmol) and DMF (50 gL) were added and the mixture stirred for 2
    h at room temperature. The reaction was diluted with MeOH (50 gL) and purified over
    reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions
25  containing the product as identified through its characteristic UV/VIS spectrum (),nax = 550

                                                    36
   nm) were pooled, lyophilized and dissolved in 100 gL PBS pH 7.4 to give a dark purple
   solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by measuring the
   absorbance at 556 nm(esse        = 112,000 M- 1 cm-) of stock samples diluted 1:100 into PBS pH
   7.4 (443 gM, 44 nmol, 51 %).
 5 HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C 5 2H 65 Cl 3 N 9 0 17 S5 , 1352.2162; found 1352.2157.
   N1-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-N4-(5-sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2
   yl)succinamide IRDye750 conjugate - Ic
        H2 NO2
                                                           H                   0
              N                                                              H
                                                                                        -6SO2 NH 2
           NH     O
                 _______             -S                         N                 HN N
                                                                      3
                 DIPEADMF
             O   IRDye750 NHS ester        N+
              NH2                         -0 3S               S0 3
   To 25 (131 gg, 320 nmol) in DMSO (13 gL) was added IRDye750 NHS ester (194 gg, 163
   nnmol) in DMSO (25 gL) followed by DMF (100 gL) and DIPEA (10 gL, 60 gmol). The
   solution was stirred for 6 h at room temperature and then directly purified over reversed
   phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30 min). Fractions containing dye
15 conjugate were identified through their characteristic UV/VIS spectrum (tax          =  750 nm),
   pooled, lyophilized and dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO, 100 gL) to give a dark
   green stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by measuring
   the absorbance at 750 nm (s7 5 0     = 260,000 M-1 cm-) of stock samples diluted 1:200 into PBS
   pH 7.4 (1.02 mM, 102 nmol, 63%).
20 HRMS: (m/z) [M + Na] 2 - cacld. for C61H77N8NaO 19 S6 , 720.1769; found 720.1760.
   (S)-N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-3-methyl-2-(4-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-1H-1,2,3
   triazol-1-yl)butanamide fluorescein conjugate - 2a

                                                  37
                                                                            H
                                                                        O   Nl,   O
                                                  H2NO 2S                N       H      O
                                 H                                    N N        HN f
                             0   N       O          1. DCM, TFA                   JANH
        H 2NO2S              N                      2. FFTC, DIPEA, DMF
                          N=N       BocHN
                                                                            HOOC
                                                                            0         0        OH
    26 (20 mg, 36 gmol) was dissolved in a mixture of dichloromethane (DCM, 0.5 mL) and
    TFA (0.5 mL) and stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The solvents were removed under
    reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in DMF (0.5 mL). DIPEA (31 gL, 187 gmol)
  5 was added followed by FITC (14 mg, 36 gmol). The reaction was stirred for 2 h at room
    temperature, diluted with MeOH (0.5 mL) and purified over reversed-phase HPLC (80% A
    / 20% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions containing product by MS were pooled
    end lyophilized to give the product as a bright yellow powder (18 mg, 23 gmol, 64%).
    1H-NMR      (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]    =  10.07 (br s, 1H), 8.86 (s, 1H), 8.75 (t, J  = 5.4
 .0 Hz, 1H), 8.28 (s, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 8.10 (d, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (d, J=6.7 Hz, 2H), 7.74
    (d, J=7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (d, J    = 8.3 Hz, 1H), 6.66-6.54 (m, 6H), 5.07 (d, J  =   10.3 Hz, 1H),
    3.68 (br s, 2H), 3.60-3.56 (m, 6H), 3.48 (t, J   =   5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.41-3.19 (m, 2H), 2.49-2.45
    (m, 1H), 1.01 (d, J   = 6.6 Hz, 3H), 0.73 (d, J  =  6.6 Hz, 3H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO
    d6 ) 6 [ppm]   = 181.1, 169.0, 167.9, 160.2, 159.1, 158.8, 152.5, 147.3, 145.7, 143.6, 141.8,
 .5 134.3, 129.5, 126.8, 125.8, 124.6, 121.9, 117.0, 114.5, 113.2,110.3, 102.7, 70.1, 70, 69.6,
    69.2, 68.9, 44.2, 31.6, 19.2, 19.1;HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C4 0H 42N 7 0 1oS2 ,
    844.2429; found 844.2430.
    (S)-N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-3-methyl-2-(4-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-1H-1,2,3
20  triazol-1-yl)butanamide IRDye750 conjugate - 2c

                                                           38
               SO 2 NH2
                            1. DCM, TFA                       H             O     N
                            2. DIPEA, DMF                0    N                       \ /  SO 2NH 2
                               IRDye750 NHS ester
             N '
              N- N       O
                        -O (S                                           so,
                       O                    N+                    N
                                               -                S
                    BocHN
    26 (178 gg, 321 nmol) in DMSO (34 gL) was added to a mixture of TFA (100 gL) and
    DCM (100 gL). The reaction was stirred for 1 h at room temperature and the solvent
    removed under reduced pressure. To the residual solution was added IRDye750 NHS ester
  5 (194 gg, 163 nnmol) in DMSO (25 gL) followed by DMF (100 gL) and DIPEA (10 gL, 60
    gmol). The solution was stirred for 6 h at room temperature and then directly purified over
    reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30 min). Fractions
    containing dye conjugate were identified through their characteristic UV/VIS spectrum
    (nax  =  750 nm), pooled, lyophilized and dissolved in DMSO (100 gL) to give a dark green
 .0 stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by measuring the
    absorbance at 750 nm (s7 5 0        = 260,000 M-1 cm-1) of stock samples diluted 1:200 into PBS pH
    7.4 (662 gM, 66 nmol, 40%).
    HRMS: (m/z) [M + Na] 2 - calcd. for C68H85N8NaO18 S5 , 742.2247; found 742.2233.
 .5 4-((4-((2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)amino)-6-chloro-1,3,5-triazin-2
    yl)amino)benzenesulfonamide fluorescein conjugate - 3a
    H2NO2S                                            H2 NQ2 S
            HN 2      NH      BocHN         1. DCM, TFA                NH     NI N                  OH
                   N NN                 O 2. FITC, DIPEA, DMF       N lN      O
              CI      N    N       O                            CI    N     O       HOOC         0
                           H
                                                                                            0
    28 (7.5 mg, 14 gmol) was dissolved in a mixture of DCM (1 mL) and TFA (1 mL) and
    stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure
20  and the residue dissolved in DMF (1 mL). FITC (5.4 mg, 14 gmol) was added followed by
    DIPEA (23 gL, 139 gmol) and the reaction stirred for 3 h at room temperature. MeOH (1
    mL) was added and the crude reaction mixture purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A

                                                     39
    / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS
    were pooled and lyophilized to yield the title compound as a bright yellow powder (8.1 mg,
    11 gmol, 76%).
  5 IH-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , two rotamers) 6 [ppm]           =  10.31 (br s, 1H), 10.23 (br s, 1H),
    9.96 (br s, 2H), 8.21 (br s, 2H), 8.02 (br s, 1H), 7.86-7.77 (m, 2H), 7.69-7.64 (m, 3H), 7.16
    (m, 2H), 7.10 (d, J      =  8.3 Hz, 1H), 6.61-6.48 (m, 6H), 3.61-3.38 (m, 12H); "C-NMR (125
    MHz, DMSO-d 6 , two rotamers, signals of PEG linker predicted to overlap) 6 [ppm]                 =
    181.1, 169.0, 168.5, 166.0, 160.2, 159.3, 159.0, 157.3, 152.4, 142.5, 141.9, 141.0, 139.6,
 .0 138.3, 129.5, 127.2, 127.0, 126.9, 124.5, 122.61, 120.0, 113.1, 110.5, 102.7, 70.1, 70.0,
    69.1, 68.5, 68.9, 49.1, 44.1; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C3 6H3 4 ClN 8 0 9 S 2 , 821.1573;
    found 821.8567.
    4-((4-((2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)amino)-6-chloro-1,3,5-triazin-2
 .5 yl)amino)benzenesulfonamide IRDye750 conjugate - 3c
                                                                                        CI
                  SO 2 NH 2                                   H                       N 'N
                                                                                   N    N   NH
                                                           O0        O
                                                                                   H
       CI    N    NH
          N1.                  CM, TA           -03                               S0 3      SO 2 NH 2
            HN
                          2. DIPEA, DMF
                             IRDye750 NHS ester       N                     N-'
                            NHBoc                     0 3S                S03
    28 (174 gg, 328 nmol) in DMSO (19 gL) was added to a mixture of TFA (100 gL) and
    DCM (100 gL). The reaction was stirred for 1 h at room temperature and the volatile
    solvents removed under reduced pressure. To the residual solution, IRDye750 NHS ester
20  (194 gg, 163 nnmol) in DMSO (25 gL) was added followed by DMF (100 gL) and DIPEA
    (10 gL, 60 gmol). The solution was stirred for 6 h at room temperature and then directly
    purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30 min).
    Fractions containing dye conjugate were identified through their characteristic UV/VIS
    spectrum (Xmax    =  750 nm), pooled, lyophilized and dissolved in DMSO (100 gL) to give a
25  dark green stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by

                                                    40
    measuring the absorbance at 750 nm (Fys5          =  260,000 M- 1 cm- 1) of stock samples diluted
    1:100 into PBS pH 7.4 (510 gM, 51 nmol, 31 %).
    HRMS: (m/z) [M] 3- called. for C64 H 77 ClN 9 0 17 S5 , 479.4582; found 479.4569.
  5 (E)-N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-3-((4-((4
    sulfamoylphenyl)diazenyl)phenyl)amino)propanamide                IRDye750 conjugate - 4c
       SO 2 NH 2                                                       H                   0
                                                                   0             N          "
                                                                                         H
                                                                                                 NH
       N N          1. DCM, TFA
                                        I    -0 3S                               So3
                    2. DIPEA, DMF
                        IRDye750 NHS ester                                    \ /              N
        HN                  NHBoc                   N                      N
                  0       ?
               HN     0                                                                       SO 2 NH 2
                             0-O                      3S                  Sos
    29 (188 gg, 320 nmol) in DMSO (20 gL) was added to a mixture of TFA (100 gL) and
    DCM (100 gL). The reaction was stirred for 1 h at room temperature and the volatile
 .0 solvents removed under reduced pressure. To the residue, IRDye750 NHS ester (194 gg,
    163 nnmol) in DMSO (25 gL) was added followed by DMF (100 gL) and DIPEA (10 gL,
    60 gmol). The solution was stirred for 6 h at room temperature and then directly purified
    over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30 min). Fractions
    containing dye conjugate were identified through their characteristic UV/VIS spectrum
15  (Xmax =  750 nm), pooled, lyophilized and dissolved in DMSO (100 gL) to give a dark green
    stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by measuring the
    absorbance at 750 nm      (- 750 = 260,000 M-1 cm-1) of stock samples diluted 1:100 into PBS pH
    7.4 (390 gM, 39 nmol, 24%).
    HRMS: (m/z) [M + Na] 2 - calcd. for C7 0 H8 5N 8NaO18 S 5 , 754.2247; found 754.2248.
20
    N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-sulfamoylbenzamide               fluorescein conjugate
    5a

                                                           41
         SO 2 NH 2
                                                                    SO 2 NH 2         H   H
                                             1 DCM, TFA                            (N 'IN                   OH
                     -_       , ,  ,   N    O2. FTC, DIPEA, DMF      /0'                S      Os
              O    NO       O        ~NHBoc                       O    N        OHO
           H                                                           H                          I |
                                                                                                   0
    31 (5.0 mg, 12 gmol) was dissolved in a mixture of DCM (0.5 mL) and TFA (0.5 mL) and
    stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The solvents were removed under reduced pressure and
    the residue dissolved in DMF (0.5 mL). DIPEA (31 gL, 187 gmol) was added followed by
  5 FITC (4.5 mg, 12 gmol). The reaction was stirred for 2 h at room temperature, diluted with
    MeOH (0.5 mL) and purified over reversed-phase HPLC (80% A / 20% B to 20% A / 80%
    B over 20 min). Fractions containing product by MS were pooled end lyophilized to give
    the product as a bright yellow powder (6.3 mg, 10 gmol, 83%).
 .0 1H-NMR         (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , only SO 2NH 2 but not NH and OH visible) 6 [ppm]                =  8.74
    (t, J= 5.2 Hz, 1H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 8.00 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.90 (d, J= 8.1 Hz,
    2H), 7.74 (d, J     =  7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (d, J      =  8.2 Hz, 1H), 6.65-6.54 (m, 6H), 3.68 (br s, 2H),
    3.61-3.56 (m, 8H), 3.47-3.42 (m, 2H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , signals from PEG
    linker predicted to overlap) 6 [ppm]            =  181.05, 169.0, 165.8, 160.0, 159.1, 158.8, 152.3,
 .5 152.4, 147.5, 146.7, 141.8, 137.8, 129.5, 128.3, 127.0, 126.1, 124.6, 116.9, 113.1, 110.2,
    102.7, 70.1, 70.0, 69.3, 68.9, 44.2; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C3 4 H 3 3N 4 0 1oS2 ,
    721.1633; found 720.1620.
    N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-sulfamoylbenzamide                      IRDye750 conjugate - 5c
                                                                   H                          0
                                                               0   N          '     O'      N
                                                                                                      SO 2NH2
          SO2NH2         1. DCM, TFA             03S                                      S0 3
                         2. DIPEA,
                            IRDye750 NHS ester
             H
             N               O       NHBoc
             H
20                                                        0 3S                   S0 3
    31 (138 gg, 320 nmol) in DMSO (29 gL) was added to a mixture of TFA (100 gL) and
    DCM (100 gL). The reaction was stirred for 1 h at room temperature and the volatile

                                                     42
    solvents removed under reduced pressure. To the residual solution, IRDye750 NHS ester
    (194 gg, 163 nnmol) in DMSO (25 gL) was added followed by DMF (100 gL) and DIPEA
    (10 gL, 60 gmol). The solution was stirred for 6 h at room temperature and then directly
    purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30 min).
  5 Fractions containing dye conjugate were identified through their characteristic UV/VIS
    spectrum (max        = 750 nm), pooled, lyophilized and dissolved in DMSO (100 gL) to give a
    dark green stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by
    measuring the absorbance at 750 nm         ( 750  = 260,000 M- 1 cm- 1) of stock samples diluted
    1:200 into PBS pH 7.4 (1.23 mM, 123 nmol, 75%).
 .0 HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]2 - calcd. for C62 H 7 8N 50 18 S5, 1340.395 1; found 1340.3932.
    tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate            fluorescein conjugate - 6a
                                                                            H    H
                                                                            N    N           ~    OH
                                                                            O
                                                                                             1
                                                                       0
                                         NHo               BcN''         ,,      HOOC          0
      H2N        OO             NHBoc FITC, DIPEA, DMF     BocHNIHC
                                                                                           0
    19 (10 mg, 40 gmol) and FITC (16 mg, 41 gmol) were dissolved in DMF (1 mL) and
 .5 DIPEA (10 gL, 48 gmol) was added. The reaction was stirred for 2 h at room temperature,
    diluted with MeOH (1 mL) and purified over reversed-phase HPLC (80% A / 20% B to
    20% A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled
    and lyophilized to give the product as a yellow powder (18 mg, 29 gmol, 72%).
    1
20   H-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]           =  8.45 (br, 1H), 7.76 (br, 1H), 7.18 (d, J= 8.3 Hz,
    1H), 6.71-6-69 (m, 2H), 6.37-6.56 (m, 4H), 3.63-3.53 (m, 8H), 3.39 (t, J           = 6.0, 2H), 3.07
    (br, 2H), 1.35 (s, 9H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]                =   180.9, 169.0, 159.9,
    156.0, 152.4, 147.4, 141.8, 129.5, 129.7, 127.0, 124.5, 116.7, 113.0, 110.3, 110.2, 102.7,
    78.1, 70.1, 70.0, 69.7, 68.9, 67.02, 44.0, 28.6; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for
25  C3 2 H3 6N 3 0 9 S, 638.2167; found 638.2160.
    tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate            Alexa546 conjugate - 6b

                                                    43
                                                                    H    SO3-    SO3 H*
                                                                    N         O       N
               H2 N
                                                                        CI       coo
                                                  O
                         O               a     N HN:                     S       CI
                        DIPEA, DMF
                O       Alexa546 NHS ester
                  NHBoc
                                               O -~NHBoc
    To 19 (233 gg, 943 nmol) in DMSO (6 gL) was added Alexa546 NHS ester (100 gg, 86
    nmol). DIPEA (2 gL, 12 pmol) and DMF (50 gL) were added and the mixture stirred for 2
    h at room temperature. The reaction was diluted with MeOH (50 gL) and purified over
  5 reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions
    containing the product as identified through its characteristic UV/VIS spectrum were
    pooled (Xmax    = 550 nm), lyophilized and dissolved in 100 gL PBS pH 7.4 to give a dark
    purple solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined by measuring the
    absorbance at 556 nm (     556 = 112,000 M- cm-1) of stock samples diluted 1:100 into PBS pH
 .0 7.4 (555 gM, 56 nmol, 65%).
    HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]- calcd. for C5 1H 67 Cl 3 N 5 0 15 S3 , 1190.2856; found 1190.2859.
    AAZ Targeted CBI Carbonate - 7a
                           N
                                 0~
                             0
        11CI'~~                      NH                HN    NH2                          N  SH
        112, MeOH            N        NNSO2NHN
                                0                                                      NH
                                                           0
                                       HOOC   0               H            NN
                                                H        H
                           0               HOOC        HOOC
15  AAZ targeted charged linker 11a (7.8 mg, 8.6 pmol) and 12 (5.1 mg, 7.2 pmol) were
    dissolved in degassed MeOH (0.5 mL) and stirred for 6 h at room temperature. The reaction
    mixture was directly purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B
    over 20 min), fractions containing the product by MS were pooled and lyophilized to give
    the title compound as a white powder (5.5 mg, 3.7 pmol, 47%).
20

                                                              44
     H-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]                    =  11.57 (s, 1H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.31 (br s, 3H), 8.20
    (d, J   =  7.5 Hz, 1H), 8.06 (d, J       =  8.5 Hz, 1H), 8.03 (br s, 2H), 7.89 (d, J        =  8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.85
    (s, 1H), 7.63 (t, J= 8.0, 1H), 7.53 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (s, 1H), 7.21 (br s, 4H), 7.13 (d,
    J  =   2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.02 (s, 1H), 4.87 (t, J           =  10.0 Hz, 1H), 4.63-4.52 (m, 5H), 4.45-4.40 (m,
  5 1H), 4.29-4.26 (m, 6H), 4.10 (dd, J               =  11.2, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 4.00 (dd, J        = 11.2, 6.9 Hz, 1H),
    3.84 (s, 3H), 3.51-3.49 (m, 2H), 3.25-3.21 (m, 1H), 3.14-3.11 (m, 2H), 3.07-3.02 (m, 3H),
    2.90 (s, 6H), 2.73-2.57 (m, 6H), 2.55-2.45 (m, 2H), 2.13 (t, J                   =  7.1 Hz, 2H), 1.96-1.90 (m,
    2H), 1.81-1.73 (m, 3H), 1.55-1.40 (m, 5H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]2 - called. for
    C6 0 H7 8 ClN 1 7 0 19 S 4 , 751.7110; found 751.7109.
 .0
    Untargeted CBI Carbonate - 7b
                                   NN
                                            0
                                       0
                              C1~                 NH                    HN      NH 2
      11lb                                      -~
             12, MeOH                   N                                    NH                               O
                                                    HOOC     0    H               H               NeN
                                   O    O       9,"SS             H
                                                                  N.)   -'        H
                                                                                  N               N/
                                          o~               H             H           o
                                      SHOOC                            HOOC          O
    Activated carbonate 12 (5.0 mg, 7.1 gmol) and untargeted charged linker 11b (10 mg, 14
    gmol) were dissolved in degassed MeOH (0.5 mL) and stirred for 6 h at room temperature.
 .5 The reaction mixture was directly purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to
    20% A / 80% B over 20 min), fractions containing the product by MS were pooled and
    lyophilized to give the title compound as a white powder (4.1 mg, 3.1 gmol, 43%).
    1H-NMR
                  (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]             =  11.57 (s, 1H), 8.37 (s, 1H), 8.21 (d, J= 7.4 Hz,
20  1H), 8.17 (br s, 2H), 8.06 (d, J          =  8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.96 (d, J     =  7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.89 (d, J    = 8.5 Hz,
    1H), 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.64 (t, J         = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (t, J     =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.40-6.77 (br, 4H), 7.31
    (s, 1H), 7.13 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (s, 1H), 4.86 (t, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H), 4.63-4.41 (m, 7H),
    4.30-4.21 (m, 5H), 4.10 (dd, J           =   11.1, 2.8 Hz, 1H), 4.00 (dd, J       =  11.2, 7.0 Hz, 1H), 3.85 (s,
    3H), 3.54-3.52 (m, 2H), 3.22-2.98 (m, 6H), 2.92 (s, 6H), 2.75-2.66 (m, 2H), 2.59 (t, J                     = 7.6
25  Hz, 2H), 2.54-2.47 (m, 2H), 2.24 (t, J             =  7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.13 (t, J    =  7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.82-1.70 (m,
    5H), 1.53-1.41 (m, 5H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C5 8 H 7 5 CNI3 0 1 8 S2 , 1340.4477;
    found 1340.4466.

                                                          45
    AAZ Targeted CBI Carbamate - 8a
                           N
                                   0
                             0
         11aC0'~                        NH                    HN "-rNH2                              SH
                             N                                     NH                         NNSO2 NH2
         13, MeO
                                         HOOCH 2   O    H               H                    NH
                         0    N                         N      N        N        N
                           o                     HI        0  H
                                               HOOC          HOOC
    AAZ targeted charged linker 11a (7.6 mg, 8.3 gmol) and activated carbamate 13 (2.7 mg,
  5 3.8 gmol) were dissolved in degassed MeOH (0.5 mL) and stirred for 6 h at room
    temperature. The reaction mixture was directly purified over reverse-phased HPLC (95% A
    / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min), fractions containing the product by MS were
    pooled and lyophilized to give the title compound as a white powder (2.0 mg, 1.3 gmol,
    35%).
 .0 1H-NMR       (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , mixture of 2 rotamers) 6 [ppm]              = 13.00 (br s, 1H), 12.39
    (br s, 1H), 11.54 (s, 1H), 9.72 (br s, 1H), 8.32 (s, 2H), 8.24-8.18 (m, 3H), 8.14-8.10 (m,
    1H), 8.03-7.97 (m, 2H), 7.92-7.86 (m, 1H), 7.83 (s, 1H), 7.62-7.58 (m, 1H), 7.51-7.44 (m,
    2H), 7.32-7.01 (m, 7H), 4.85 (t, J           =  10.6 Hz, 1H), 4.61-4.47 (m, 4H), 4.43-4.38 (m, 1H),
    4.30-4.19 (m, 5H), 4.11-4.08 (m, 1H), 3.99-3.89 (m, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.63-3.53 (m, 4H),
 .5 3.25-2.96 (m, 8H), 2.93 (s, 6H), 2.75-2.57 (m, 6H), 2.53-2.47 (m, 2H), 2.13 (t, J             =  7.0 Hz,
    2H), 1.96-1.90 (m, 2H), 1.78-1.68 (m, 3H), 1.54-1.40 (m, 5H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]r
    calcd. for C6 1H 81 ClN 18 0 18 S4 , 758.2268; found 758.2267.
    Untargeted CBI Carbamate - 8b
                                 N
                                           0~
                         CI                    NH                     HN     NH2
       11 b                                   -~
             13, MeOH                N                                     NH                      0
                                          0      HOOC     0                0             N N            OH
                                             IH                   YH
                              O      N-       SS"AN                   *I N     N        N
                                 Y                      H'             H
20                                                    HOOC            HOOC
    Activated carbamate 13 (5.0 mg, 6.9 gmol) and untargeted charged linker 11b (10 mg, 14
    gmol) were dissolved in degassed MeOH (0.5 mL) and stirred for 6 h at room temperature.

                                                    46
    The reaction mixture was directly purified over reverse-phased HPLC (95% A / 5% B to
    20% A / 80% B over 20 min), fractions containing the product by MS were pooled and
    lyophilized to give the title compound as a white powder (5.1 mg, 3.7 gmol, 54%).
    1H-NMR
                (500 MHz, DMSO-d6 , mixture of 2 rotamers) 6 [ppm]       =  12.4 (br s, 3H) 11.54 (s,
  5 1H), 8.24-8.14 (m, 4H), 8.03-7.87 (m, 3H), 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.63-7.47 (m, 3H), 7.32-6.82 (m,
    7H), 4.85 (t, J   =  10.0 Hz, 1H), 4.62-4.53 (m, 3H), 4.50-4.44 (br m, 1H), 4.43-4.37 (br m,
    1H), 4.30-4.20 (m, 5H), 4.11-4.07 (m, 1H), 3.99-3.87 (m, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.64-3.50 (m,
    4H), 3.25-2.95 (m, 8H), 2.93 (s, 6H), 2.75-2.58 (m, 4H), 2.53-2.46 (m, 2H), 2.25 (t, J= 7.4
    Hz, 2H), 2.12 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.84-1.68 (m, 5H), 1.56-1.38 (m, 5H); HRMS: (m/z) [M
 .0 + 2H] 2 - calcd. for C59 H79ClNI4017 S2 , 677.2433; found 677.2430.
    Targeted DM1 Conjugate - 9a
                       O OH                                   H
                                010
                     O
                                                       HN   NH2                               2H
          1aDM1, DMF   H HHNN
                                     N    O                                       0
                                                                                  O
                             0OO   b                      O1             N            NH
                                          HOOC         HOOC
    CysAspArgAsp-Linker-AAZ 11a (40 mg, 40 [tmol) was dissolved in degassed MeOH (5
 .5 mL) and 2,2'-dipyridyldisulfide (13.2 mg, 60 [tmol) was added. The mixture was stirred at
    room temperature for 12 h and added drop wise to ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL). The
    precipitate was collected by centrifugation, re-dissolved in MeOH and precipitated again
    with ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL) and dried under vacuum to give the activated disulfide
    as a white residue (20 mg, 20 [umol, 49%). An aliquot of the activated disulfide (8 mg, 7.8
20  [tmol) was dissolved in DMF (500 [tL) and DM1 free thiol (5.5 mg, 7.4 [tmol) added. The
    reaction was allowed to stand at room temperature for 48 h after which the product was
    recovered by reversed phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min).
    Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled and lyophilized to yield the
    title compound as an off white powder (9.0 mg, 5.5 gmol, 74%).
25  HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]2 - calcd. for C6 5H 94 ClN 17 0 2 3 S4 821.7634; found 821.7633.
    Untargeted DM1 Conjugate - 9b

                                                    47
                            O'
                       H OH
                  0    N
                    O              0HN                                NH 2
      11b      -    H'   H                                          |
           DM1, DMF                   N                            NH
                             0              IIO                                              0
                               O           HOOC    0               O                NN          OH
                                                       H                H
                                                                        NNN/
                             N          SNN
                                               HOOC          HOOC
    CysAspArgAsp-Linker-COOH 11b (21 mg, 28 [tmol) was dissolved in degassed MeOH (5
    mL) and reduced with TCEP'HCl (16 mg, 56 [tmol) for 2 h at room temperature. 2,2'
  5 Dipyridyldisulfide (25 mg, 114 [tmol) was added and the mixture stirred for 12 h at room
    temperature. The reaction was precipitated into ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL), the product
    collected by centrifugation, re-dissolved in MeOH (5 mL) and precipitated again with ice
    cold diethyl ether (40 mL). The precipitate was dried under vacuum to give the activated
    disulfide as a white residue (20 mg, 23 [umol, 83%). An aliquot of the activated disulfide
 .0 (10 mg, 12 [tmol) was dissolved in DMF (500 [tL) and DM1 free thiol (8.6 mg, 12 [imol)
    was added. The reaction was allowed to stand at room temperature for 48 h after which the
    product was recovered by reversed phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20
    min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled and lyophilized to yield
    the title compound as an off white powder (7.0 mg, 4.7 gmol, 40%).
 .5 HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]2 - calcd. for C63 H 92 CN     3 0 22 S2 , 740.7799; found 740.7792.
    N-(5-sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)hex-5-ynamide           - 10
                0                                                            0    N-N
                                                                               N4   S-SO  2NH 2
           HO                    1. Oxalyl Chloride, DCM                       N    S
                                 2. 23, DMAP, TEA, DMF                         H
20
    A solution of 5-hexynoic acid (1.4 mL, 12.9 mmol) and DMF (50 gL) in DCM (50 mL)
    was cooled on ice and oxalyl chloride (1 mL, 11.7 mmol) was added drop wise over 15
    min. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature, stirred until evanescence
    ceased and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The yellow liquid was added drop
25  wise to a solution of 23 (2.3 g, 12.9 mmol) and pyridine (943 gL, 25.8 mmol) in DMF (15
    mL) and the reaction stirred for 3 h at room temperature. The solvent was removed under

                                                    48
    reduced pressure and the residue purified by flash column chromatography (EtOAc) to give
    the product as an off-white solid (2.8 g, 79%).
    1H-NMR     (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]        = 2.81 (t, J  = 2.6 Hz, 1H), 2.65 (t, J =  7.4 Hz,
    2H), 2.24 (td, J   = 7.1, 2.6 Hz, 2H), 1.84-1.77 (m, 2H); "C-NMR (100 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6
  5 [ppm]  =  171.5, 164.2, 160.9, 83.6, 71.8, 33.6, 23.1, 17.2; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for
    C8 HIIN 40 3S6 , 275.0267; found 275.0268.
    CysAspArgAsp-Linker-Acetazolamide - 1la
                                     HN     NH 2
                                                                              N'N   SO 2 NH 2
                                          NH
             HOOCH 2 0         H               H                             NH
             HS       NO             .,       N              N
                       H T        0H
 .0                  HOOC           HOOC
    Commercially available pre-loaded Fmoc-Cys(Trt) on Tentagel resin (500 mg, 0.415 mmol,
    RAPP Polymere) was swollen in DMF (3           x 5 min  x  5 mL), the Fmoc group removed with
    20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 mL and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed
 .5 with DMF (6     x 1 min  x 5 mL). The peptide was extended with Fmoc-Asp(tBu)-OH, Fmoc
    Arg(Pbf)-OH and Fmoc-Asp(tBu)-OH in the indicated order and then capped with 5-azido
    valerate. For this purpose, the Fmoc protected amino acid or azido acid (3.0 eq), HBTU (3.0
    eq), HOBt (3.0 eq) and DIPEA (6.0 eq) were dissolved in DMF (5 mL), the mixture was
    allowed to stand for 1 min at room temperature and then reacted with the resin for 1 h under
20  gentle agitation. After washing with DMF (6          x  1 min    x 5 mL) the Fmoc group was
    removed with 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 min and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the
    resin washed with DMF (6        x   1 min x  5 mL) before the next coupling step was initiated.
    After coupling of 5-azido-valerate, a solution of Cul (0.3 eq), TBTA (0.3 eq) and alkyne 10
    (6 eq) in a mixture of DMF (2.5 mL) and THF (2.5 mL) was prepared and reacted with the
25  resin for 2 h at room temperature. After washing with DMF (3        x 1 min x 5 mL), 50 mM aq.
    EDTA solution (3 x 1 min x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL) and DCM (3 x 1 min x 5
    mL), the compound was cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of TFA (4.5 mL), TIS
    (250 gL) and H 2 0 (250 gL) for 2 h at room temperature. The resin was washed with TFA
    (1 x 5 min   x  5 mL) and the combined cleavage and washing solutions added drop-wise to

                                                       49
    ice cold diethyl ether (100 mL). The precipitate was collected by centrifugation and the
    product purified by reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min).
    After lyophilization the title compound was collected as a white powder (135 mg, 0.14
    mmol, 33%).
  5 1H-NMR
               (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]          =  13.00 (s, 1H), 8.31 (s, 2H), 8.23-8.20 (m, 2H),
    7.98 (d, J  = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.93 (d, J    =   7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (br m, 1H), 7.53 (br m, 1H), 7.27
    7.06 (br m, 4H), 4.59-4.51 (m, 2H), 4.40-4.36 (m, 1H), 4.27 (t, J          =  6.7 Hz, 2H), 4.21-4.20
    (m, 1H), 3.06-3.04 (br m, 2H), 2.87-2.47 (m, 9H), 2.38 (t, J         = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 2.14 (t, J = 7.0
    Hz, 2H), 1.95-1.90 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.69 (m, 3H), 1.54-1.39 (m, 5H); "C-NMR (125 MHz,
 .0 DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]    = 172.7, 172.5, 172.3, 172.1, 171.7, 171.6, 171.5, 170.9, 164.7, 161.5,
    157.2, 146.5, 122.3, 54.9, 52.7, 50.1, 49.9, 49.3, 40.9, 36.3, 36.2, 34.7, 29.6, 29.4, 35.9,
    25.2, 24.8, 24.6, 22.5; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C3 0 H4 7 N 14 0 13 S3 , 995.1966; found
    995.1964.
 .5 CysAspArgAsp-Linker-COOH - 11b
                                          HN        NH2
                                                  NH
                                                                             N         OH
                    HOOCH 2   0     H                   H                              OH
                   HS "'            N      .,,,         N              N
                            H                  H
                          HOOC            HOOC
    Commercially available pre-loaded Fmoc-Cys(Trt) on Tentagel resin (500 mg, 0.415 mmol,
20  RAPP polymere) was swollen in DMF (3             x  5 min  x  5 mL), the Fmoc group removed with
    20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 mL and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed
    with DMF (6      x 1 min  x  5 mL). The peptide was extended with Fmoc-Asp(OtBu)-OH,
    Fmoc-Arg(Pbf)-OH and Fmpc-Asp(OtBu)-OH in the indicated order and then capped with
    5-azido-valerate. For this purpose, the Fmoc protected amino acid or azido acid (3.0 eq),
25  HBTU (3.0 eq), HOBt (3.0 eq) and DIPEA (6.0 eq) were dissolved in DMF (5 mL), the
    mixture was allowed to stand for 1 min at room temperature and then reacted with the resin
    for 1 h under gentle agitation. After washing with DMF (6          x 1 min  x 5 mL) the Fmoc group
    was removed with 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 min and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and
    the resin washed with DMF (6      x 1 min     x 5 mL) before the next coupling step was initiated.

                                                     50
    After coupling of 5-azido-valerate, a solution of Cul (0.3 eq), TBTA (0.3 eq) and 5
    hexynoic acid (6 eq) in a mixture of DMF (2.5 mL) and THF (2.5 mL) was prepared and
    reacted with the resin for 2 h at room temperature. After washing with DMF (3          x 1 min x 5
    mL), 50 mM aq. EDTA solution (3 x 1 min x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL) and DCM
  5 (3  x  1 min  x 5 mL), the compound was cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of
    TFA (4.4 mL), phenol (250 gL), water (250 gL) and TIPS (100 gL) for 2 h at room
    temperature. The resin was washed with TFA (1              x  5 min  x   5 mL) and the combined
    cleavage and washing solutions added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100 mL). The
    precipitate was collected by centrifugation and the product purified by reversed-phase
 .0 HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). After lyophilization the title
    compound was collected as a white powder (116 mg, 0.16 mmol, 43%).
    1H-NMR      (500 MHz, MeOH-d 4 ) 6 [ppm]       =  7.81 (s, 1H), 4.58-4.51 (m, 2H), 4.30-4.23 (m,
    4H), 3.09 (t, J  = 6.9 Hz, 2H), 2.91-2.60 (m, 8H), 2.25 (t, J      = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.18 (t, J = 7.4
    Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.77 (m, 5H), 1.65-1.48 (m, 5H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]               =
 .5 174.6, 173.6, 172.7, 172.2, 172.0, 171.6, 171.4, 170.7, 157.1, 146.7, 122.3, 54.8, 52.7, 49.9,
    49.8, 49.3, 40.8, 36.2, 34.7, 33.4, 33.1, 29.6, 25.8, 25.1, 24.8, 24.7, 22.5; HRMS: (m/z) [M
    + H]- calcd. for C2 8 H 46NiO0  12 S, 745.2934; found 745.2931.
    Seco CBI drug carbonate pyridyl disulfide - 12
 -0
                                                                                         0
                           0a                                                      HN             N'
                              I                                                N
                        NI I+                    I                             N
                  N                                      DMAP, DM
                                       S,   O  0                           0    O'    sS   N~
            C0                 N  S
             OH                 -              0
    Seco CBI drug 14 (10 mg, 20 gmol, 1 eq), activated carbonate 16 (7.2 mg, 20 gmol, 1 eq)
    and NN-dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP, 2.4 mg, 50 gmol, 2.5 eq) were dissolved in DMF
25  (2 mL) and stirred for 5 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with
    MeOH (2 mL) and purified over HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min).
    Fractions containing the desired product my MS were pooled and lyophilized to yield the
    title compound as an off white powder (10.1 mg, 14.3 gmol, 72%).

                                                        51
    1H-NMR
                (400 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]           =  8.45 (br s, 1H) 8.34 (s, 1H), 7.94-7.81 (m, 4H),
    7.66 (dt, J   = 6.9, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (dt, J       =  6.9, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (s, 1H), 7.26 (m, 1H),
    7.06 (s, 1H), 6.99 (s, 1H), 4.70-4.61 (m, 2H), 4.58 (t, J          = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.33 (t, J  = 4.9 Hz,
    2H), 4.24-4.20 (m, 1H), 4.00 (dd, J          =  11.4, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 3.71 (dd, J    =  11.3,
  5 8.2 Hz, 1H), 3.60 (t, J     =   4.9 Hz, 2H), 3.25 (t, J  =  6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.06 (s, 6H); "C-NMR (125
    MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]            =  160.3, 159.3, 153.8, 150.0, 149.2, 146.9, 143.4, 141.2, 137.9,
    132.9, 129.7, 128.7, 127.5, 125.1, 123.8, 122.9, 122.7, 121.6, 121.4, 120.6, 120.0, 110.6,
    107.8, 106.7, 93.8, 66.3, 64.5, 56.6, 54.8, 46.3, 42.5, 42.0, 37.0; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]*
    called. for C3 5H 3 6ClN 4 0 6 S2 , 707.1759; found 707.1761.
 .0
    Seco CBI Drug carbamate pyridyl disulfide - 13
                                                                                             0
                              0         N          O                                            O
             C-                                      N                               HN
                                                                                  N
                  N        NH             +                                           0
                                                S'       DMAP,IDMF
              OH                                                               0   N         S
    Seco CBI drug 14 (10 mg, 20 gmol, 1.0 eq), activated carbamate 17 (12 mg, 92 gmol, 4.6
 .5 eq) and DMAP (10 mg, 100 gmol, 5.0 eq) were dissolved in DMF (2 mL) and stirred for 12
    h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH (2 mL) and purified
    over HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions containing the
    desired product my MS were pooled and lyophilized to yield the title compound as an off
    white powder (9.5 mg, 13 gmol, 65%).
20  1H-NMR
                (400 MHz, MeOD-d 4, mixture of two rotamers) 6 [ppm]               =  8.42-8.23 (br m, 2H),
    7.96-7.73 (m, 4H), 7.60-7.37 (m, 2H), 7.32 (s, 1H), 7.35-7.24 (m, 1H), 7.16-7.14 (m, 1H),
    7.04-7.03 (2s, 1H), 4.74-4.65 (m, 2H), 4.31 (t, J           =  4.7 Hz, 2H), 4.30-4.21 (m, 1H), 4.07
    4.00 (m, 2H), 3.84-3.82 (2s, 3H), 3.87-3.62 (m, 2H), 3.60 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 3.36-3.11 (m,
                           13
    5H), 3.05 (s, 6H);        C-NMR (125 MHz, MeOD-d 4 ) 6 [ppm]             =  161.8, 161.7, 161.1, 160.8,
25  157.0 156.6, 151.5, 150.6, 149.1, 144.9, 142.9, 142.8, 139.1, 134.6, 131.3, 128.8, 126.3,
    124.1, 123.8, 123.7, 123.6, 122.6, 122.2, 121.5, 121.5, 112.9, 112.6, 109.5, 108.0, 107.9,
    95.5, 98.4, 66.2, 58.1, 56.4, 56.3, 47.8, 44.0, 43.6, 37.5, 37.4, 35.8, 35.7; HRMS: (m/z) [M
    + H]- calcd. for C3 6H 39 ClN 5 0 5 S2 , 720.2076; found 720.2074.

                                                   52
    Seco CBI Drug - 14
                                                                                    0        N
                                                                  CI              -      0
                  Cl
                                                                        N        NH
                        NBoc
                                  1. HCI, EtOAc                             0
                                  2. EDCHCI, DMF
                               HO               O   -N            OH
                  OH            0     N
                                      H
  5
    N-Boc protected seco CBI (50 mg, 150 gmol, 1.0 eq) was dissolved in 4 M HCl in dry
    EtOAc (5 mL) and stirred for 6 h at room temperature. The solvent was removed under
    reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in 3 mL DMF and cooled on ice. EDC'HCl (86
    mg, 450 gmol, 3.0 eq) was added followed by indole 18 (61 mg, 220 gmol, 1.3 eq), the
 .0 mixture warmed to room temperature and allowed to stir for 12 h. MeOH (3 mL) was added
    and the crude reaction mixture purified over HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over
    20 min). Fractions containing the desired product my MS were pooled and lyophilized to
    yield the title compound as an off-yellow powder (44.1 mg, 89.5 gmol, 60%).
     H-NMR (400 MHz, MeOD-d4) 6 [ppm]            = 8.10 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (s, 1H), 7.61 (d, J
15  =  8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.37 (td, J  =  6.8, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (td, J  = 6.8, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (s, 1H),
    6.91 (s, 1H), 6.87 (s, 1H), 4.49-4.38 (m, 2H), 4.13 (t, J   =  4.8 Hz, 2H), 3.96-3.92 (m, 1H),
    3.80 (dd, J   =  11.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.44-3.39 (m, 3H), 2.91 (s, 6H); "C-NMR
    (100 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]         =  173.0, 162.4, 155.8, 151.6, 144.9, 143.4, 134.6, 131.6,
    130.9, 128.6, 124.6, 124.5, 123.5, 122.2, 117.0, 109.5, 107.9, 101.5, 95.5, 66.0, 58.1, 56.8,
20  56.3, 47.5, 43.9, 43.6; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C27 H29 ClN 3 0 4 , 494.1841; found
    494.1843.
    N1-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-N4-(5-sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2
    yl)succinamide - 25
25

                                                            53
                                            1. HATU, DIPEA,
                 -    H               NH2      AAZSucc, DMF      H2N     O    O     N
    0                  N1O            NHN
                                        2   2. TFA, TIS,
                                                      U H20 "     HNOON                      N  (S    SO 2NH2
                                                                                          0     N-N
    Commercially available pre-loaded O-Bis-(aminoethyl)ethylene glycol on trityl resin (500
    mg, 0.3 mmol, Merck Millipore) was swollen in DMF (3                       x 5 min  x  5 mL). 4-oxo-4-((5
  5 sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)amino)butanoic acid (AAZSucc, 166 mg, 0.59 mmol) and
    HATU (228 mg, 0.60 mmol) were dissolved in DMF (5 mL) and DIPEA (200 gL, 1.2
    mmol) was added. The solution was immediately reacted with the resin for 30 min at room
    temperature. The resin was washed with DMF (6 x 1 min x 5 mL), DCM (3 x 1 min x 5
    mL) and cleaved with 95% TFA / 2.5% H2 0 / 2.5% triisopropylsilane (TIS, 5 mL total
 .0 volume) for 1 h at room temperature and washed with TFA (1                        x  1 min     x 5 mL). The
    combined cleavage and wash solutions were poured into cold Et2 0 (40 mL), the precipitate
    collected by centrifugation and purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20%
    A / 80% B over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled and
    lyophilized to give the product as a white powder (48 mg, 0.12 mmol, 3 9%).
 .5 1H-NMR       (400 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]             =  3.60 (t, J =  5.0 Hz, 2H), 3.55 (m, 4H), 3.45 (t, J
    =  5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.27 (t, J     =  5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.02 (t, J        = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 2.75 (t, J     = 5.6 Hz, 2H),
    2.54 (t, J    =  6.2 Hz, 2H); "C-NMR (100 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]                    =   174.3, 173.0, 166.4,
    163.1, 71.4, 71.3, 70.7, 67.9, 40.7, 40.3, 31.5, 30.9; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for
    C 12 H2 3 N 60 6S2 , 411.1115; found 411.1116.
20
    (S)-tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-(3-methyl-2-(4-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1
    yl)butanamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate - 26
                                                                                    H
         COOH
                                                                                 0  N       O -"O          NHBoc
                 N    /    SO2NH 2                           H2 NO2S             N
               N                   1. EDC-HCI, NHS, DMF                       N=N
                                   2. 19, DIPEA, DMF
25
    To a solution of 27 (64 mg, 0.20 mmol) in DMF (2 mL) was added NHS (25 mg, 0.22
    mmol) and EDC*HCl (42 mg, 0.22 mmol) and the mixture was stirred for 1 h at room
    temperature. A solution of 19 (54 mg, 0.22 mmol) and DIPEA (110 gL, 0.67 mmol) in
    DMF (1 mL) was added and the reaction stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The solvent

                                                        54
    was removed under reduced pressure, the residue dissolved in DCM (5 mL) and the
    solution washed with H 2 0 (1 x 5 mL), brine (1 x 5 mL), dried over Na 2 SO 4 and the solvent
    removed under reduced pressure. Purification by flash column chromatography over silica
    (EtOAc) gave the product as a white solid (63 mg, 0.11 mmol, 57%).
  5 1H-NMR      (400 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]           =   8.75 (br m, 1H), 8.69 (s, 1H), 8.05 (d, J =6.6
    Hz, 2H), 7.98 (d, J =6.6 Hz, 2H), 3.61-3.56 (m, 6H), 3.53-3.37 (m, 4H), 3.22 (t, J           = 5.6 Hz,
    2H), 2.65-2.56 (m, 1H), 1.44 (s, 9H), 1.12 (d, J           =  6.7 Hz, 3H), 0.84 (d, J =  6.6 Hz, 3H);
    "C-NMR (100 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]                =  170.0, 158.5, 147.5, 144.5, 135.5, 128.0, 127.0,
    122.3, 80.1, 71.7, 71.6, 71.3, 71.1, 70.3, 41.2, 40.7, 33.0, 28.8, 19.6, 19.2; HRMS: (m/z) [M
 .0 + H]- calcd. for C 2 4 H 3 8N 6NaO 7 S, 577.2415; meas. 577.2415.
    (S)-3-methyl-2-(4-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)butanoic               acid - 27
               SO 2 NH 2
                                                                        COOH
                              HOOC      N3
                          +                                   3W    )'      N
                                               C u2SO 4 , T     ,
                                                               TA                          S 2N H2
                                               Ascorbate, H20,               N
                                                    tBuOH
 .5
    Ethynyl benzene sulfonamide (54 mg, 0.3 mmol), azido valine 20 (42 mg, 0.3 mmol) and
    tris-(benzyltriazolylmethyl)amine (TBTA, 0.3 mg, cat.) were dissolved in a mixture of
    tBuOH (3.7 mL), a 0.04 M CuSO 4 solution in PBS pH 7.4 (2.0 mL) and a 0.1 M sodium
    ascorbate solution in PBS pH 7.4 (1.7 mL) and stirred for 12 h at room temperature. All
20  solvents had previously been de-gassed and flushed with Ar. The reaction was poured onto
    25 mL H2 0 acidified to pH 2.0 and the mixture extracted with EtOAc (4 x 20 mL), the
    pooled organic phases washed with brine and dried over MgSO 4 . The solvent was removed
    under vacuum and the residue purified over silica (20% MeOH in DCM with 0.1% Et 3N) to
    yield the product as a white solid (70 mg, 72%).
25  1H-NMR      (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]         =  8.86 (s, 1H), 8.10 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.90 (d, J
    =  8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (s, 1H), 5.24 (d, J       =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 2.64-2.55 (m, 1H), 1.00 (d, J     = 6.7
    Hz, 3H), 0.88 (d, J       =  6.7 Hz);  1C-NMR      (100 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]       =  169.6, 145.0,
    143.2, 133.7, 126.3, 125.4, 122.6, 68.3, 30.4, 19.0, 18.3; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]m calcd. for
    C 13Hi 5N 4 Na 2 O 4 S, 369.0604; found 369.0609.
30

                                                        55
    tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-((4-chloro-6-((4-sulfamoylphenyl)amino)-1,3,5-triazin-2
    yl)amino)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate - 28
                                                       H 2NO 2 S
                             CI
      H2NO 2 S           N      N                                       NH
                                    'JI- JLI                         N 1 1N
                      N      N    C      19, DIPEA, DMF              N
                      H                                          C      N                        NHBoc
                                                                            H
  5
    21 (160 mg, 0.64 mmol), 14 (204 mg, 0.64 mmol) and DIPEA (105 gL, 0.64 mmol) were
    dissolved in DMF (5 mL) and stirred for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was
    diluted with H2 0 (15 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 10 mL). The combined organic
    fractions were washed with 10% w/v aq. LiCl solution (1 x 10 mL), brine (1            x  10 mL) and
 .0 dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue
    purified over silica (EtOAc) to give the product as a white solid (239 mg, 66%).
    1H-NMR
                (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , mixture of two rotamers) 6 [ppm]            = 10.39-10.30 (m, 1H),
    8.27 (br s, 1H), 7.93 (d, J    =  8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.85 (d, J     =  8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (m, 2H), 7.25 (s,
    1H), 7.23 (s, 1H), 6.74-6.73 (m, 1H), 3.57-3.32 (m, IH), 3.05 (m, 2H), 1.37 (s, 9H); "C
 .5 NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , mixture of two rotamers, several signals overlap) 6 [ppm]                    =
    169.0, 168.5, 166.0, 165.9, 164.2, 163.7, 156.0, 142.6, 142.5, 138.3, 138.2, 127.1, 126.8,
    120.0, 119.8, 78.1, 70.1, 70.0, 69.9, 69.6, 69.1, 68.8, 67.1, 39.0, 28.7; HRMS: (m/z) [M +
    H]- calcd. for C 20 H 30 ClN7NaO 6 S, 554.1559; found 554.1555.
20  (E)-tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-(3-((4-((4-sulfamoylphenyl)diazenyl)phenyl)amino)
    propanamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate - 29
                                                                          O                     SO 2 NH 2
                                                                                      N.
                                  SO 2NH 2                            HN               N
     HO               N N    NN
                    H                    1. EDC.HCI, HOBt, DMF                H
              N  N                       2. 19, DIPEA, DMF
              H                                                    BocHN
25  To 30 (20 mg, 57 gmol) dissolved in DMF (1 mL) was added HOBt (8.7 mg, 57 gmol)
    followed by EDC'HCl (12.2 mg, 64 gmol). After stirring the reaction for 1 h at room
    temperature a solution of 19 (15.8 mg, 64 mmol) and DIPEA (20 gL, 122 gmol) in DMF

                                                        56
    (0.5 mL) was added. The mixture was stirred for 1 h at room temperature, diluted with
    MeOH (1.5 mL) and purified over reversed-phase HPLC (80% A / 20% B to 20% A / 80%
    B over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled and
    lyophilized to give the product as an orange powder (26 mg, 45 mmol, 79%).
  5 1H-NMR       (400 MHz, MeOD-d 4 ) 6 [ppm]         =  8.02 (d, J  =  8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.91 (d, J =   8.8 Hz,
    2H), 7.83 (d, J   = 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.76 (d, J     =  9 Hz, 2H), 3.60 (s, 4H), 3.58-3.49 (m, 6H), 3.40
    (t, J =   5.5 Hz, 2H), 3.23-3.20 (m, 2H), 2.56 (t, J         =  6.7 Hz, 2H), 1.45 (s, 9H); "C-NMR
    (125 MHz, MeOD-d 4) 6 [ppm]            =  170.8, 156.1, 154.7, 153.2, 144.3, 143.3, 127.4, 126.3,
    122.4, 112.2, 78.1, 70.0, 69.9, 69.6, 69.5, 39.1, 35.4, 28.7; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd.
 .0 for C 2 6H3 8N 6NaO 7 S, 601.2415; found 601.2416.
    (E)-3-((4-((4-sulfamoylphenyl)diazenyl)phenyl)amino)propanoic                 acid - 30
                SO 2NH2                                       0/                           SO 2NH 2
                                                     -HO                      N,,
                            1. NaNO 2 , HCI, H2 0                  N
                           2. 22, NaOH, H20                        N
                NH2                                                H
 .5 Sulfanilamide (85 mg, 0.49 mmol) was dissolved in 40% aq. HCl (1.3 mL) and cooled to 0
    'C. A solution of NaNO 2 in water (300 gL) was added drop-wise over 5 min and the
    reaction stirred on ice for 15 min. The yellowish solution was slowly added to a suspension
    of 22 (129 mg, 0.37 mmol) in 10M aq. NaOH (1 mL) and DMF (1 mL) and stirred for 2 h
    at room temperature. The dark red solution was acidified with 6 N HCl, extracted with
20  EtOAc (6 x 10 mL), dried over Na 2 SO 4 and the solvent removed under reduced pressure.
    Recrystallization of the dark red residue gave the product as a red solid (32 mg, 25%).
    1H-NMR       (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]         =  7.95 (d, J  =  8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.88 (d, J =   8.6 Hz,
    2H), 7.77 (d, J   = 8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.44 (s, 2H), 9.94 (br s, 1H), 6.74 (d, J     =  8.9 Hz, 2H), 3.40 (t,
    J     6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.56 (t, J                          13
       =                               =  6.4 Hz, 2H);        C-NMR (100 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]          =
25  172.9, 154.1, 152.6, 143.8, 142.9, 126.8, 125.8, 121.9, 111.7, 38.4, 33.4; HRMS: (m/z) [M
    + H]- calcd. for C15 H 17 N 4 0 4 S, 349.0965; found 349.0967.
    tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-(4-sulfamoylbenzamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate                  - 31

                                                         57
                   SO 2 NH 2                                        SO 2NH 2
                                  1. EDC-HCI, NHS, DMF
                                  2. 19, DIPEA, DMF                          0             NHBoc
              0       OH                                        0     N0
                                                                      H
    To a solution of 4-carboxybenzenesulfonamide (46 mg, 0.23 mmol) in MeCN (2 mL) was
    added NHS (29 mg, 0.25 mmol) followed by EDC'HCl (48 mg, 0.25 mmol). After stirring
  5 for 4 h at room temperature more EDC'HCl (24 mg, 0.13 mmol) was added and the reaction
    stirred for a further 1 h at room temperature. A solution of 19 (52 mg, 0.21 mmol) and
    DIPEA (140 gL, 0.85 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added. After stirring for 10 h at room
    temperature, the reaction was filtered through a pad of silica eluting with EtOAc, the
    solvent removed under reduced pressure and the residue purified over silica (EtOAc to 10%
 .0 MeOH in EtOAc) to give the product as a white solid (61 mg, 0.14 mmol, 67%).
    1H-NMR      (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ) 6 [ppm]           =   8.71 (br m, 1H), 8.00 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.90
    (d, J  = 8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.46 (br s, 2H), 6.76 (br m, 1H), 3.55-3.33 (m, 10H), 3.06-3.05 (m,
    2H), 1.37 (s, 9H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]                   = 165.8, 156.1, 146.7, 137.7,
    128.3, 126.1, 78.1, 70.0, 69.9, 69.6, 69.2, 67.1, 39.1, 28.7; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd.
 .5 for C 18H2 9 N 3 NaO 7 S, 454.1618; found 454.1623.
    Propagation of Errors
    During data analysis standard deviations were propagated according to formula (1) as
    recommended by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.2
                                            og =      -ia..(     oi      (1)
20  Where f    = f(x 1 , x 2, ... xn), a1 is the standard deviation of function f and og is the standard
    deviation of xi.
    Determination of Ligand KD by Fluorescence Polarization Measurement
    Fluorescently labeled ligands (2 mg) were dissolved in DMSO (100 gL) and diluted 1:2000
25  into PBS pH 7.4 to determine the stock's concentration by absorbance measurement at 495
    nm (F495  =   72,000 M- 1 cm-1). Recombinant CAIX was expressed as described previously[3 ],
    dialyzed against assay buffer (50 mM tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane [TIRS] pH 7.4

                                                      58
    containing 1 mM ZnSO 4) at 4 'C overnight and the protein concentration determined by
    absorbance measurement at 280 nm      (F 2 8 0 = 35,075 M- 1 cm-1).
    In a black 384-well plate in assay buffer (30 gL) fluorescently labeled ligands (5 nM from
    appropriately diluted DMSO stocks, final DMSO content adjusted to 0.001%) were
  5 incubated with increasing concentrations of recombinant carbonic anhydrase IX (4.6 gM to
    140 pM in steps of 1:2) for 1 h at room temperature. The fluorescence polarization (FP) was
    measured on a Spectra Max Paradigm multimode plate reader (Molecular Devices).
    Experiments were performed in triplicate, mean FP values divided by the top-plateau signal
    and the fractional FP value fit to equation (2) using KaleidaGraph 4.0 (Synergy Software).
 .0             FP = ([P]O + [L]O + KD)     -              + [L] 0
                                                        0o([P]     + KD) 2 - 4[P]L]
                                                                                 0    (2)
    Where FP is the fractional fluorescence polarization, [P]o the total protein concentration,
    [L]o the total concentration of the fluorescently labeled ligand and KD the dissociation
    constant in nM.
 .5 Measured values of KD for fluorophore-linker-ligand complexes were: la 12.6          1.0 nM; 2a
    18.1    1.3 nM; 3a 46.8   1.2 nM; 5a 218        9 nM. 4a could not be determined due to its dark
    quenching properties.     Reference example 6a did not bind to the CAIX.              Thus, the
    acetazolamide (AAZ) ligand of la appears to be the most promising.
    Competitive Fluorescence Polarization Measurement of KD
  0 In a black 384-well plate in assay buffer (see above, 40 gL) fluorescently labeled probe la
    (5 nM from appropriately diluted DMSO stocks) and recombinant carbonic anhydrase IX
    (25 nM) were incubated with increasing concentrations of unlabeled ligand (2.5 gM to 76
    pM in steps of 1:2) for 1 h at room temperature. The FP was measured on a Spectra Max
    Paradigm multimode plate reader (Molecular Devices). Experiments were performed in
25  triplicate and data analyzed as described by Wang and co-workers. 4
    This method was used to determine KD for the unlabeled drug-linker-ligand conjugates
    prepared as shown in Fig. 2. KD values are given in brackets + standard errors of fit. The
    following values of KD were determined: 7a 7.3 ±0.5 nM; 8a 40.3 ±2.6 nM; 9a 26.5 ±2.5
    nM. The KD for 7b was > 1 ptM. Thus, targeted conjugates 7a, 8a and 9a retain binding
30  affinity for recombinant CAIX in vitro whereas untargeted controls 7b, 8b and 9b do not
    exhibit strong binding.

                                                  59
     Cell Culture
     SKRC52 and HEK cells were maintained in RPMI medium (Invitrogen) supplemented with
     10% fetal calf serum (FCS, Invitrogen) and antibiotic-antimycotic (AA, Invitrogen) at 37
  5  'C and 5% CO 2 . A549 cells were maintained in F-12K medium (Invitrogen) supplemented
     with 10% FCS (Invitrogen) and AA (Invitrogen) at 37 'C and 5% CO 2 . For passaging, cells
     were detached using trypsin with ethylenediaminetetraacetic            acid (EDTA)      0.05%
     (Invitrogen) when reaching 90% confluence and re-seeded at a dilution of 1:10.
     Cell surface expression of CAIX on different cell lines used in this study were analyzed by
 .0  flow cytometry using aCAIX (a Santa Cruz biotechnology polyclonal rabbit anti human
     CAIX antibody). A suitably labeled anti rabbit IgG antibody was used for detection. It was
     found that SKRC52 cells constitutively express high levels of CAIX.         In contrast, A549
     cells express only very low levels of CAIX under normoxic conditions. Since they maintain
     strong attachments to culture plates, we used these cells as negative controls in experiments
 .5  requiring multiple washing steps of attached cells.     It was found that HEK cells do not
     express detectable levels of CAIX under normoxic culture conditions. They can easily be
     detached from culture plates with EDTA and were thus used as negative controls in most
     flow cytometry experiments.
  10 In Vitro Cytotoxicity Assay
     SKRC52 or A549 cells were seeded in 96-well plates in their appropriate culture medium
     (100 gL) at a density of 5000 cells per well and allowed to grow for 24 h. The medium was
     replaced with medium containing different concentrations of test substance (100 gL, 300
     nM - 15 pM in 1:3 dilution steps) and plates were either:
25   (a) incubated for 72 hours in the presence of the toxic substance, or
     (b) incubated for 1 h under standard culture conditions, followed by removal of the medium
     containing the toxic substance, gently washing the cells fresh medium once and adding new
     medium (100 gL) and incubating for 72 h under culture conditions.
     MTS cell viability dye (20 gL, Promega) was added, the plates were incubated for 1 h
30   under culture conditions and the absorbance at 490 nm measured on a Spectra Max
     Paradigm multimode plate reader (Molecular Devices). Experiments were performed in

                                                     60
     triplicate and average cell viability calculated as measured background corrected
     absorbance divided by the absorbance of untreated control wells. EC50 values were
     determined by fitting data to the four-parameter logistic equation.
  5  The EC50 values found for various cytotoxic compounds and conjugates against CAIX
     expressing SKRC52 cells were as follows:
     Condition (a): 14 55 5 pM; 7a 21 7 pM; 7b 96 +33 pM; DM1 4.3 +0.5 pM; DM1SMe
     0.5 +0.0 pM; 9a 41 9 pM; 9b 31 6 pM.
     Condition (b): 14 1.0 +0.1 nM; 7a 0.7 +0.1 nM; 7b 1.4 +0.3 nM; DM1 45                    10 nM;
 .0  DM1SMe 5.8 +1.1 nM; 9a *; 9b *.
     These results show that the conjugates 7a and 9a according to the invention release the
     cytotoxic drug moiety in effective amounts over 72 hours under Condition (a). However,
     DM1 conjugates 9a and 9b did not exhibit sufficient cytotoxicity for measurement of
 .5  ECso values in the 1 hour timescale of Condition (b) at concentrations up to 300nM,,
     reflecting the relatively long half-life of these conjugates as further discussed below.
     Ligand Binding Analysis by Flow Cytometry
     Cells were detached from culture plates using a 50 mM EDTA solution in phosphate
  o0 buffered saline (PBS) pH 7.4, counted and suspended to a final concentration of 1.5 x 106
     cells mL-1 in a 1%v/v solution of FCS in PBS pH 7.4. Aliquots of 3 x 105 cells (200 gL)
     were spun down and resuspended in solutions of IRDye750 (Licor) labeled ligands (30 nM)
     in a 1%v/v solution of FCS in PBS pH 7.4 (200 gL) and incubated on ice for 1 h. Cells
     were washed once with 200 gL 1% v/v solution of FCS in PBS pH 7.4 (200 gL), spun
25   down, resuspended in 1%v/v solution of FCS in PBS pH 7.4 (300 gL) and analyzed on a
     FACS Canto flow cytometer (BD Bioscience). FlowJo Version 8.7 (Treestar) was used for
     data analysis and visualization. Results were as follows:
     (1)    Flow cytometry analysis of binding of ligand-IRDye750 conjugates 1c-6c (Figure 1)
30          to CAIX expressing SKRC52 cells.
     Cells were detached with EDTA, treated with 30 nM dye conjugate for 1 h at 0 'C, washed
     and analyzed. Only lc binds strongly enough to result in a strong fluorescence shift after
     washing of cells. Given their higher KD, conjugates 2c-5c probably dissociate too quickly to

                                                  61
     be detected. Conjugate 6c, which lacks a ligand for CAIX, only shows little residual
     binding.
     (2)   Flow cytometry analysis of binding of ligand-IRDye750 conjugates 1c-6c (Figure 1)
  5        to CAIX negative HEK cells.
     Cells were detached with EDTA, treated with 30 nM dye conjugate for 1 h at 0 'C, washed
     and analyzed. In the absence of a specific binding interaction, there is little difference
     between cells treated with CAIX ligand-dye conjugates and untreated cells.
  0) Flow cytometry analysis of binding of ligand-Alexa546 conjugates lb and 6b to (a) CAIX
     expressing SKRC52 and (b) HEK cells lacking CAIX on their cell surface.
     Cells were detached with EDTA, treated with 30 nM dye conjugate for 1 h at 0 'C, washed
     and analyzed. (a)      Only the conjugate bearing a ligand for CAIX can bring about an
     increase in fluorescence intensity. The conjugate lacking the ligand does not give rise to a
 .5  shift relative to untreated cells. (b) As expected in the absence of a cell surface receptor
     none of the conjugates can bring about a shift in fluorescence intensity to the right.
     Ligand Internalization Analysis by Flow Cytometry
     SKRC52 or A549 cells were seeded in 6-well plates in their appropriate culture medium (2
     mL) at a density of 1.5 x 105 cells per well and allowed to grow for 24 h under culture
  o0 conditions. The medium was replaced with medium containing IRDye750 (Licor) labeled
     probes lc or 6c (2 mL, 30 nM) and plates incubated for 1, 2 or 4 h under standard culture
     conditions. After washing with PBS pH 7.4 (2 x 2 mL), Trypsin-EDTA 0.05% (500 gL,
     Invitrogen) was added and plates incubated under standard culture conditions for 15 min.
     Medium (500 gL) was added, cells pelleted and resuspended in PBS pH 7.4 containing 1%
25   v/v FCS (150 gL). After incubating for 15 min on ice, cells were labeled for 30 min on ice
     with rabbit anti human CAIX IgG (1:100, Santa Cruz) in PBS pH 7.4 containing 1% FCS
     (150 gL), washed with PBS pH 7.4 containing 1%FCS (2 x 150 gL) and labeled for 30 min
     on ice with goat anti rabbit IgG Alexa488 conjugate (1:100, Invitrogen) in PBS pH 7.4
     containing 1% FCS (150 gL). After washing with PBS pH 7.4 containing 1%FCS (2 x 150
30   gL), cells were pelleted and resuspended in PBS pH 7.4 containting 1% v/v FCS and
     propidium iodide (300 gL, 1 gg mL-1, Invitrogen) and analyzed on a FACS Canto flow
     cytometer (BD Bioscience). FlowJo Version 8.7 (Treestar) was used for data analysis and
     visualization. To inhibit uptake mechanisms, cells were pre-incubated with medium

                                                 62
    containing 0.2 % NaN3 for 1 h and the NaN3 concentration maintained throughout the entire
    experiment. Alternatively, all steps were performed at 0 'C or an excess of AAZ (100 gM)
    was added to the culture medium.
    CAIX positive SKRC52 cells attached to culture plates were incubated with medium
  5 containing 30 nM 1c for 1 h at 37 'C. Detachment with trypsin resulted in cells with higher
    fluorescence intensity than cells treated with non-binding conjugate 6c or untreated cells. b)
    Aliquots of the same cells which had been treated with 1c and detached with trypsin were
    stained with an anti CAIX antibody (aCAIX AB) followed by an Alexa488 labeled
    secondary antibody (20 AB) at 0 'C which upon flow cytometry analysis gave a
 .0 superimposable histogram to cells treated with secondary antibody only. We concluded that
    trypsin treatment had removed all surface bound CAIX and the fluorescence shift of 1c
    labeled cells in a) must come from internalized conjugate. Cells detached from solid
    support using EDTA and stained as before gave rise to a 1Ox shift in fluorescence intensity
    to the right compared to baseline giving us confidence that CAIX detection by FCAS did
 .5 indeed work.
    To further support the claim that we were observing active uptake processes, we decided to
    repeat the experiment under conditions inhibiting uptake. SKRC52 cells were pre-treated
    with medium containing 0.2% w/v NaN3 for 1 h before incubation with 30 nM lc and 0.2%
  0 w/v NaN 3 at 37 'C for 1 h. NaN 3 is known to be an inhibitor of active uptake processesl1
    and indeed fluorescent signal was shifted to baseline. The same effect was achieved when
    incubating with 1c in the presence of excess AAZ as a competitive ligand or when
    incubating at 0 'C, which also inhibits active uptake processes.
     Extending the incubation time with 30 nM 1c at 37 'C from 1 h to 2 h and 4 h we did not
25  see a markedly increased signal. We thus concluded that although some internalization
    takes place, it is inefficient over time.
    Finally, active uptake of CAIX binding conjugate lc into CAIX negative A549 cells was
    tested as above. Since no shift in fluorescence intensity over baseline was observed, it was
30  concluded that lc was not taken up into A549 cells. This is expected in the absence of a cell
    surface receptor for 1c.
    Ligand Internalization Analysis by Confocal Microscopy

                                                  63
    SKRC52 cells were seeded into 4-well cover slip chamber plates (Sarstedt) at a density of
    104  cells per well in RPMI medium (1 mL, Invitrogen) supplemented with 10% FCS, AA
    and 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES, 10 mM) and allowed to
    grow for 24 h under standard culture conditions. The medium was replaced with medium
  5 containing lb or 6b (30 nM), after 1 h Hoechst 33342 nuclear dye (Invitrogen) was added
    and randomly selected colonies imaged on an Axiovert 200M confocal microscope (Zeiss).
    Stability Determination by Mass Spectrometry
    Targeted carbonate or carbamate 7a or 8a (30 gg) was dissolved in PBS pH 7.4 (1.5 mL)
 .0 and incubated at 37 'C under gentle agitation. Aliquots (100 gL) were removed at different
    time points and diluted 1:1 with an internal standard of etodolac (TCI Chemicals) in MeOH
    (20 gg mL-1). Small molecules were separated from salts using an Oasis WAX online
    sample preparation column (Waters) on an Alliance HT separation module (50 gL
    injections, 0.3 mL min-' 0. 1%aq. HCOOH for 3 min followed by 0.3 mL min-' MeCN for 7
 .5 min, Waters) and analyzed by mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (MS/MS) on a Quattro
    API spectrometer (Waters) monitoring appropriate multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)
    transitions for 8a, 8b and etodolac as standard. Measurements were performed in triplicate,
    peaks integrated and the fraction of intact test compounds calculated as fraction of signal at
    time t divided by signal at time zero. Since signals due to etodolac were constant over time
  0 a further correction using the internal standard as reference was omitted. For stability
    measures in mouse serum, compounds were dissolved in freshly thawed mouse plasma
    (Invitrogen), aliquots taken at different time points and diluted with an equal volume of
    MeCN. After vigorous vortexting for 1 min, protein precipitate was spun down and the
    supernatant analyzed as above.
25
    Half lives of 7a and 8a in mouse plasma at 37 'C as determined by mass spectrometry
    (MS/MS) were 43 minutes and 61 minutes, respectively. Errors were < 1 min.
    Stability Determination by High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC)
    Targeted DM1 conjugate 9a (230 [tg, 140 nmol) was dissolved in PBS pH 7.4 (1 mL) and
30  incubated at 37 'C under gentle agitation. Aliquots (100 [aL) were removed at different time
    points and diluted 1:1 with an internal standard soltuion of etodolac (TCI Chemicals) in
    MeCN (20 gg mL-1). Water (600 [tL) was added and aliquots of this mixture (50 [tL)

                                                    64
    analyzed over a Syngergi RP Polar column (150          x 4.6 mm, 4 [tm, Phenomenex) on an
    Alliance HT separation module (1 mL min-' 5% MeCN in 0.1% aqueous TFA to 100%
    MeCN over 20 min, Waters). Analytes were detected using a Water 2996 photo array
    UV/VIS detector (Waters). Measurements were performed in triplicate, peaks integrated
  5 and the fraction of intact test compounds calculated as fraction of signal at time t divided by
    signal at time zero. Since signals due to etodolac were constant over time a further
    correction using the internal standard as reference was omitted. For stability measures in
    mouse serum, compounds were dissolved in freshly thawed mouse plasma (Invitrogen),
    aliquots taken at different time points and diluted with an equal volume of MeCN. After
 .0 vigorous vortexting for 1 min, protein precipitate was spun down and the supernatant
    analyzed as above.
    As expected, the carbonate 7a (t,/ 2      = 15 h) was less stable in PBS at 37 'C than the
    carbamate 8a (t,/ 2 > 24 h). No decomposition was observed for the DM1 conjugate 9a
    under the same conditions (Figure 8). The stability of 7a and 8a was reduced in mouse
 .5 serum in vitro (t,/ 2 = 43 and 61 min respectively), but occurred in a time range compatible
    with the preferential accumulation of the AAZ conjugates at the tumor site. The DM1
    conjugate 9a was significantly more stable in mouse serum (t,/ 2  = 20 h).
    Animal Studies
    All animal experiments were conducted in accordance with Swiss animal welfare laws and
 .0 regulations under the license number 42/2012 granted by Veterinaeramt des Kanton Zurich.
    Implantation of Subcutaneous SKRC52 Tumors
    SKRC52 cells were grown to 80% confluence and detached with Trypsin-EDTA 0.05%
    (Invitrogen). Cells were washed with PBS pH 7.4 once, counted and resuspended in PBS to
25  a final concentration of 6.7  x  107 cells mL-1. Athymic balb/c nu/nu mice, 8-10 weeks of age
    (Charles River) were anesthetized with isofluorane and aliquots of 1    x 107  cells (150 gL of
    suspension) injected subcutaneously into their lower back.
    IVIS Imaging
    Mice bearing subcutaneous SKRC52 tumors (200 - 300 mm 3 in size) were injected
30  intravenously with IRDye750 (Licor) labeled CAIX ligands 1c-6c (up to 10 nmol)
    dissolved in 5% v/v DMSO in PBS pH 7.4 (150 gL). Mice were anesthetized with
    isoflurane and in vivo fluorescence images acquired on an IVIS Spectrum imaging system

                                                 65
    (Xenogen, exposure Is, binning factor 8, excitation at 745 nm, emission filter at 800 nmf
    number 2, field of view 13.1). Images were taken after 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 8 h and 12 h and 24 h.
    Food and water was given ad libitum during that period.
    Near infrared images of SKRC52 were obtained from xenograft bearing mice 1-12 h after
  5 intravenous injection of 3 nmol ligand-IRDye750 conjugates 1c-5c             and untargeted
    conjugate 6c as negative control (see Figure 1 for structures). Only the AAZ conjugate lc
    gave good tumor to background contrast and was thus selected as a basis for further
    development of a targeted conjugate.
 .0 Already 1 h after the intravenous injection of 1 nmol lc the tumor could clearly be seen
    against background. The injection of 3 nmol gives a stronger and longer lasting signal with
    good tumor to background contrast at early time points and was thus used for further
    imaging studies. A dose of 10 nmol saturates the fluorescence detector with the parameters
    used at early time points but leads to an even longer lasting signal.
 .5
    After administration of 2c the tumor was barely visible; all other conjugates did not reach
    the tumor in levels above background fluorescence. Untargeted conjugate 6c also does not
    reach the tumor and is also cleared faster from the animal than ligand-IRDye750
    conjugates.
 .0 Mice were subsequently sacrificed by cervical dislocation. Heart, lung, kidney, liver,
    spleen, a section of the intestine (100 - 150 mg), skeletal muscle (100 - 150 mg) and the
    tumor were extracted and imaged individually using above parameters. Qualitatively, a
    decrease in targeting performance from 1c to 5c could be observed and very little tumor or
    organ accumulation from untargeted conjugate 6c. This confirms that binding affinity of the
25  targeting ligand for CAIX is an important determinant for accumulation inside the tumor
    and in vitro profiling of dye conjugates by FP and flow cytometry has predictive value for
    in vivo targeting performance.
    Biodistribution Analysis
30  Mice (groups of 3 per time point and compound) bearing subcutaneous SKRC52 tumors
                    3.
    (200  - 300 mm in size) were injected intravenously with IRDye750 (Licor) labeled probes
    lc or 6c (3 nmol) dissolved in 5% v/v DMSO in PBS pH 7.4 (150 gL). After 1 h, 2 h or 4 h

                                                  66
    animals were sacrificed, organs extracted as above, cut into small pieces, weighed and
    suspended in 1:1 w/v organ homogenization buffer containing EDTA (40 mM), proteinase
    K (6 mg/ml), Triton X-100 (1.6     1d/ml) and trace amounts of DNase 1 in PBS pH 7.4 (100
    gL per 100 mg of tissue). The suspension was homogenized on a TissueLyser organ
  5 homogenizer (Quiagen, 25 Hz, 10 min), incubated for 2 h at room temperature and 100 gL
    of the homogenate transferred to a black 96-well plate. A standard dilution series of lc in
    homogenization buffer (750 nM - 47 nM, 25 - 1.5 % ID g-1 in steps of 1:2) was spotted
    alongside the organ samples in triplicate. Fluorescent images of plates were recorded on an
    IVIS Spectrum imaging system (Xenogen, parameters as above) and analyzed using Living
 .0 Image software version 4.3.1 (Caliper Life Science) using the built-in region of interest
    (ROI) tools. Dye concentrations in organ samples in % of injected dose per gram of tissue
    (% ID g-1) were inferred from fluorescence intensities originating from the corresponding
    well by comparison with the standard dilution series.
 .5 The results are shown graphically in Figs. 3 and 4.     Fig. 3 shows organ accumulations are
    reported in units of percent of injected dose per gram of tissue (% ID g- 1). a) 1 h after
    intravenous administration of 3 nmol lc (blue) and 6c (red) b) 2 h after intravenous
    administration of 3 nmol lc (blue) and 6c (red) c) 4 h after intravenous administration of 3
    nmol lc (blue) and 6c (red) d) Calibration curve (average of triplicates) for the conversion
 .0 of fluorescence intensity to %ID g- 1. Error bars indicate standard deviations. All data points
    are averages of three mice.
    Accumulation of lc in the tumor was rapid and efficient with 13.4 ± 3.0 %of injected dose
    per gram of tissue (% ID g-1) after only 1 h (Figure 2b, Supporting Figures 10 and 11). This
    result compares favorably with previous work on antibody-based targeting of CAIX
25  expressing tumors, where only markedly lower tumor uptake values (a maximum of 2.4 ±
    0.2 % ID g-1) could be detected. 2 71 In our case, the dye conjugate 1c, however,
    progressively dissociated from the tumor (residence         tJ2    1 h), suggesting that an
    improvement of CAIX binding affinity may further contribute to efficient tumor targeting
    performance.
30
    A tumor-to-blood ratio of 13.8:1 was observed 1 h after intravenous injection of 1c and
    further improved to 79.2:1 after 4 h. Tumor-to-organ ratios for excretory organs ranged
    between 0.2:1 for liver and 1.4:1 for kidneys after 1 h but a high level of selectivity was

                                                   67
    observed for other organs (e.g., 27.6:1 for tumor to heart after 1 h). Since AAZ is a CA
    ligand with broad isoform selectivity, the observed differential uptake patterns are probably
    strongly influenced by relative CA expression levels in different tissues and the
    accessibility of the antigen (e.g., intracellular CAII can be expected to be inaccessible to
  5 our charged molecules). Importantly, tumor targeting was clearly dependent on the CAIX
    binding moiety, as revealed by the 22-fold higher tumor accumulation at 1 h of the AAZ
    based targeted dye conjugate lc compared to the non-targeted dye 6c. Assuming that 6c is a
    good model for the tissue distribution of "naked" (i.e., untargeted) anticancer agents, this
    comparison highlights the potential impact of ligand-based drug delivery of therapeutically
 .0 relevant doses of drugs into neoplastic masses.
    Fig. 4 shows biodistribution analysis of lc in balb/c nu/nu mice bearing subcutaneous
    SKRC52 tumors including stomach and blood values 1, 2 and 4 h after giving 3 nmol of the
    dye conjugate intravenously. Organ accumulations are reported in units of %ID g- 1. Error
 .5 bars indicate standard deviations. Data shown are averages of three mice.
    Analysis of Tumor Penetration
    Mice bearing subcutaneous SKRC52 tumors (200 - 300 mm 3 in size) were injected
    intravenously with Alexa546 (Invitrogen) labeled probes lb or 6b (50 nmol) dissolved in
    PBS pH 7.4 (150 gL). After 1 h, 2 h or 4 h animals were injected with a solution of Hoechst
 10 33342 (Invitrogen, 5.4 mM) in saline (150 gL) and sacrificed after 5 min. Organs were
    extracted as above and flash-frozen in Neg-50 cryo medium (Thermo Scientific) using
    liquid nitrogen. After warming to -20 'C, samples were cut into sections of 10 gm width
    and directly imaged on an Axioskop 2 fluorescence microscope (Zeiss).
    It was found that although the conjugate has already started penetrating into the tumor after
25  30 min, staining of the tumor with lb is initially highest in well-perfused areas. Later, the
    staining becomes more homogeneous. After 2 h the staining becomes weaker as the
    conjugate is starting to get washed out of the tumor. Fluorescence due to 6b cannot be
    detected inside the tumor, which is in accordance with the lack of macroscopic
    accumulation observed with 6c.
30  Microscopic analysis of organs showed strong fluorescence due to lb inside the tumor and
    the intestine. The latter probably is due to hepatobilary excretion of the dye conjugate. An
    observed layer of fluorescence in the stomach most likely corresponds to gastric mucosal

                                                     68
      epithelial cells, which express CAIX under normal conditions. Kidney and liver also
      showed some fluorescence as a result of conjugate excretion through these organs.
      Dosage
  5   Estimation of the recommended therapy dose of a) 7a and b) 8a in nude mice was
      performed by studying different dosages using a schedule of five injections on five
      consecutive days compared to vehicle (5% DMSO in PBS pH 7.4). The dosage regimens
      were 0.4nmol/day, 1.3nmol/day, 4.Onmol/day and 13.3nmol/day. One mouse was used for
      each regimen. When the animal did not lose more than 5% of its initial body weight over 15
   10 days after the initial injection, it was assumed, that the dose was well tolerated.
      The study showed that 7a was tolerated up to 4.Onmol/day, but poorly tolerated at
      13.3nmol/day. The study further showed that 8a was well tolerated up to and including
      13.3nmol/day.
 .5
      Estimation of the recommended therapy dose and schedule of DM1 conjugate 9a was
      studied in SKRC52 tumor bearing nude mice. One mouse was used for testing each dosing
      scheme. Injections were given daily starting on day 0 in 5% DMSO in PBS pH 7.4 (150
      [tL). The results are shown in Fig. 5. Six doses of 60 nmol 9a were tolerated with only
  0   minimal weight loss. Since the animals in this study weighed on average 18% less than
      those used in the therapy study, a dose of 70 nmol per injection was used for the therapy
      experiment. The number of injections was also increased from 6 to 7 on 7 consecutive days.
      Therapy Experiments
25    SKRC52 xenograft tumors were implanted into balb/c nu/nu mice (Charles River) as
      described above. After 14 days, mice were randomly assigned into therapy groups of 5 or 6
      animals and treatment started. 5 doses of 4 nmol 7a,b, 8a,b or 7 doses of 70 nmol 9a,b each
      in PBS pH 7.4 (150 gL) containing 5% DMSO were given on 5 or 7 consecutive days and
      one group was treated with vehicle (5% DMSO in PBS pH 7.4). In the case of 7-9b an
30    equimolar amount of AAZ was added to the injection solution to control for a possible
      antitumor activity of CAIX inhibitors. Sorafenib and sunitnib were administered at a
      standard dose of 30 mg/kg as described previously.5 1 Animals were weighed and tumor
      sizes measured daily and the tumor volume calculated according to the formula (long side)

                                                  69
    x  (short side) 2 x 0.5. Animals were sacrificed when the body weight fell by more than 15%
    relative to the first therapy day or when tumors reached a volume of >2000 mm3 . Prism 6
    (GraphPad Software) was used for data analysis (regular two-way ANOVA with the
    Bonferroni test).
  5
    Results are shown in Figs. 6 and 7. Error bars give standard errors. The therapeutic results
    obtained with the duocarmycin-AAZ conjugates only indicated a modest tumor growth
    inhibition effect (Figure 6a). Nevertheless, targeted carbonate 7a gave rise to statistically
    significant tumor growth retardation compared to mice that only received vehicle (p <
 .0 0.0001) and mice receiving untargeted conjugate 7b plus equimolar amounts of AAZ (p <
    0.05). The carbamate-based constructs 8a and 8b did not lead to any retardation in tumor
    growth. It seems reasonable that the low affinity of 8a towards the antigen (KD= 40.3 ± 2.6
    nM versus KD= 7.3 ± 0.5 nM for 7a) and inefficient extracellular activation may have been
    partly responsible for this effect. The treatment could be performed with a weight loss
 .5 lower than 15% of body weight (Figure 6b).
    For the DM1 conjugate 9a, a potent anti-tumor effect was observed at doses, which gave
    only minimal toxicity (i.e., no detectable body weight loss giving 7x 70 nmol of DM1
    conjugate 9a on 7 consecutive days). During the treatment period tumors shrank and
    continued to reduce in volume for 7 additional days. Only 20 days after the start of
 .0 treatment, tumors started regrowing, as a consequence that mice had not received any
    additional drug treatment. Importantly, neither sorafenib nor sunitinib, which represent the
    most commonly used chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of kidney cancer, exhibited
    any detectable antitumor effect, in line with previous reports in different models of kidney
    cancer. These findings suggest that the targeted delivery of potent cytotoxic agents may
25  provide a therapeutic advantage compared to the current standard of care. DM1 may be a
    particularly suitable payload for the development of targeted cytotoxics, since the presence
    of e.g., an ester moiety in its structure may facilitate its detoxification in clearance-related
    organs, thus sparing healthy tissues.
    (B) Bivalent Binding Moieties

                                                 70
    A comparative study of the tumour targeting performance of monovalent and
    bivalent ligands to carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX) in renal cell carcinoma was
    performed as follows.
    Synthesis of Fluorescence Labeled Targeting Ligands
  5 Monovalent acetazolamide (AAZ) derivative BI and bivalent AAZ derivative B2
    having the structures shown in Figs. 8 and 9 were synthesised using standard Fmoc
    solid phase peptide chemistry.      These binding moieties were fluorescence labelled
    with IRDye 750 to provide fluorescence labelled monovalent and bivalent ligands B3
    and B4. The synthesis methods were as follows.
 .0
    Synthesis of AAZTL - BI
    Commercially available polystyrene Wang p-nitrophenyl carbonate resin (250 mg, 0.15
    mmol) was swollen in DMF (5 mL for 5 min) and reacted with a solution of 2,2'-(ethane
    1,2-diylbis(oxy))diethanamine (250 [tL), DIPEA (500 [tL) and DMAP (2.5 mg) in DMF
 .5 (4.5 mL) for 12 h at room temperature under shaking. The resin was washed with DMF (3 x
    5 mL for 1 min), MeOH (3x 5 mL for 1 min) and again DMF (3x 5 mL for 1 min). A
    solution of 5-azido valeric acid (65 mg, 0.45 mmol), HATU (171 mg, 0.45 mmol) and
    DIPEA (148 [tL, 0.9 mmol) was prepared and immediately reacted with the resin for 1 h at
    room temperature under shaking. After washing with DMF (6       x 1 min  x 5 mL) a solution of
  0 Cul (2.9 mg, 0.015 mmol), TBTA (8 mg, 0.015 mmol) and alkyne 10 (123 mg, 0.45 mmol)
    in a mixture of DMF (1 mL) and THF (1 mL) was prepared and reacted with the resin for
    24 h at room temperature. After washing with DMF (3      x 1 min  x  5 mL), 50 mM aq. EDTA
    solution (3 x 1 min x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL) and DCM (3          x  1 min x 5 mL), the
    compound was cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of TFA (2.2 mL), TIS (50 gL),
25  H2 0 (50 gL), m-cresol (100 [tL) and thioanisol (100 [tL) for 2 h at room temperature. The
    resin was washed with TFA (1    x 5 min  x 2.5 mL) and the combined cleavage and washing
    solutions added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100 mL). The precipitate was collected
    by centrifugation and the product purified by reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20%
    A / 80% B over 20 min). After lyophilisation the title compound was collected as a white
30  powder (78 mg, 0.14 mmol, 95%).
    1H-NMR
               (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]    =  13.01 (s, 1H), 8.32 (s, 2H), 7.89-7.82 (m, 5H),
    4.28 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.58-3.50 (m, 6H), 3.38 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 2H), 3.18 (m, 2H), 3.00 (m,
    2H), 2.65 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.59 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.09 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.94 (m,

                                                 71
    2H), 1.75 (m, 2H), 1.42 (m, 2H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]           = 172.5, 172.4,
    164.8, 161.5, 146.4, 122.4, 70.1, 69.8, 69.6, 67.1, 49.4, 39.1, 38.8, 35.0, 35.7, 29.8, 24.8,
    24.6, 22.6; HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- called. for C19H 34 N 90 6 S2 548.2068; found 548.2071.
  5 Synthesis of B2
    Commercially available polystyrene Wang p-nitrophenyl carbonate resin (500 mg, 0.3
    mmol) was swollen in DMF (5 mL for 5 min) and reacted with a solution of 2,2'-(ethane
    1,2-diylbis(oxy))diethanamine (500 [tL), DIPEA (500 [tL) and DMAP (5 mg) in DMF (4
    mL) for 12 h at room temperature under shaking. The resin was washed with DMF (3x 5
 .0 mL for 1 min), MeOH (3x 5 mL for 1 min) and again DMF (3x 5 mL for 1 min). A solution
    of Fmoc-Lys(Fmoc)-OH (532 mg, 0.9 mmol), HBTU (341 mg, 0.9 mmol), HOBt (138 mg,
    0.9 mmol) and DIPEA (298 [tL, 1.8 mmol) was prepared and immediately reacted with the
    resin for 1 h at room temperature under shaking. After washing with DMF (6        x 1 min x  5
    mL) the Fmoc group was removed with 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 min and 2
 .5 x  10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed with DMF (6 x 1 min x 5 mL) before the next
    coupling step was initiated. In the following, the peptide was extended with Fmoc
    Asp(OtBu)-OH twice followed by 5-azido-valerate. For this purpose, a solution of acid (1.2
    mmol), HATU (465 mg, 1.2 mmol) and DIPEA (397 [tL, 2.4 mmol) was prepared in DMF
    (5 mL) and reacted with the resin for 1 h at room temperature under gentle agitation. Each
  0 coupling was followed by a washing step with DMF (6             x 1 min  x  5 mL) and Fmoc
    deprotection as described above. After coupling of the azide, a solution of Cul (76 mg, 0.12
    mmol), TBTA (21 mg, 0.12 mmol) and alkyne 10 (329 mg, 1.2 mmol) in a mixture of DMF
    (2.5 mL) and THF (2.5 mL) was prepared and reacted with the resin for 48 h at room
    temperature. After washing with DMF (3     x  1 min x  5 mL), 50 mM aq. EDTA solution (3     x
25  1 min x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL) and DCM (3 x 1 min x 5 mL), the compound was
    cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of TFA (4.4 mL), TIS (100 gL), H2 0 (100
    gL), m-cresol (200 [tL) and thioanisol (200 [tL) for 2 h at room temperature. The resin was
    washed with TFA (1     x 5 min   x 5 mL) and the combined cleavage and washing solutions
    added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100 mL). The precipitate was collected by
30  centrifugation, dissolved in aq. MeCN and lyophilised to yield the title compound as an off
    white powder (468 mg, 0.3 mmol, quant.).
    IH-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]        =  13.09 (s, 2H), 8.37 (s, 4H), 8.29-8.26 (m, 3H),
    8.14 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.91 (s, 2H), 7.80-7.78 (m, 3H), 7.71 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (t, J

                                                    72
    =  5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.60-4.48 (m, overlaps with broad H 2 0 peak), 4.33 (t, J      = 7.0 Hz, overlaps
    with broad H 2 0 peak), 4.19-4.13 (m, overlaps with broad H 2 0 peak), 3.64-3.59 (m, 6H),
    3.44 (t, J= 6.3 Hz, 2H), 3.27-3.23 (m, 2H), 3.05-3.00 (m, 4H), 2.77-2.48 (m, overlaps with
    solvent peak), 2.20 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 4H), 2.04-1.96 (m, 4H), 1.86-1.78 (m, 4H), 1.74-1.63 (br
  5 m, 1H), 1.61-1.16 (br m, 9H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- called. for C5 4 H 83 N 2 2 0             23 S4
    1535.4879; found 1535.4868.
    Synthesis of B3
    To IRDye750 NHS ester (100 [tg, 84 nmol) in DMSO (10 [tL) and DMF (100 [tL) was
 .0 added acetazolamide derivative B1 (200 [tg, 366 nmol) in DMSO (20 [tL) and DIPEA (2
    [tL, 12 [tmol). The mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 h and then
    directly purified over reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30
    min). Fractions containing dye conjugate were identified through their characteristic
    UV/VIS spectrum (Amax     = 750 nm), pooled, lyophilised and dissolved in DMSO (50 gL) to
 .5 give a dark green stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction yield were determined
    by measuring the absorbance at 750 nm       ( 7 50 = 260,000 M- 1 cm- 1) of stock samples diluted
    1:200 into PBS pH 7.4 (640 jaM, 32 nmol, 38%).
    HRMS: (m/z) [M + 4H]- calcd. for C68 H 92N 1 1 0 19 S6 1558.4890; found 1558.4844.
 10 Synthesis of B4
    To IRDye750 NHS ester (100 jg, 84 nmol) in DMSO (10 jaL) and DMF (100 jaL) was
    added B2 (200 jg, 130 nmol) in DMSO (20 jaL) and DIPEA (2 jaL, 12 jamol). The mixture
    was allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 h and then directly purified over reversed
    phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 40% A / 60% B over 30 min). Fractions containing dye
25  conjugate were identified through their characteristic UV/VIS spectrum (tmax          = 750 nm),
    pooled, lyophilised and dissolved in DMSO (50 gL) to give a dark green stock solution. Its
    concentration and the reaction yield were determined by measuring the absorbance at 750
    nm (   750 = 260,000 M- 1 cm- 1) of stock samples diluted 1:200 into PBS pH 7.4 (287 jaM, 14
    nmol, 17%).      HRMS: (m/z) [M + 4H]- calcd. for C10 3 H 1 4 1N 2 4 0 3 6 S8 2545.7700; found
30  2545.7703.
    Binding Performance by Surface Plasmon Resonance

                                                  73
     Binding experiments of monovalent and bivalent AAZ derivatives to CAIX using
     surface plasmon resonance indicated a fast association for both compounds (ka             =
     1.48x106 M-'s-1 and kai    =  1.28x 106 M-IS-1, ka2 = 1.36x106 RU- 1 respectively). Whilst
     monovalent ligand B1 completely dissociated from the CAIX-coated surface within
  5  seconds (kd  =  0.015 s-1, Kd  = 10.5 nM), bivalent compound B2 exhibited no apparent
     dissociation and could only be removed with harsh acid treatment (Figure 1b).
     Binding Performance by Flow Cytometry
     Flow cytometry was performed as described above with monovalent and bivalent
 .0  near infrared dye conjugates B3 and B4 and negative control conjugates lacking the
     ligand on CAIX-positive SKRC52 cells and CAIX-negative HEK cells5 . The results
     indicated a clear ligand- and receptor-dependent binding to cells. The shift in
     fluorescence intensity for bivalent conjugate B4 was more pronounced than the one
     observed for monovalent B3, which is consistent with the results obtained from SPR.
 .5  In Vivo Investigation of Targeting Performance
     Further studies tested the ability of near infrared dye conjugates B3 and B4 to localise to
     CAIX-expressing SKRC52 xenografts in vivo. Both dye conjugates strongly accumulated in
     the tumour, as revealed by whole animal near infrared fluorescence imaging and by analysis
     of the extracted organs.     While the initial clearance profile was comparable for both
  10 targeted molecules, the bivalent conjugate B4 exhibited a significantly longer residence on
     the tumour. Twenty-four hours after injection, the integrated fluorescence signal in
     the tumour from bivalent conjugate B4 was 40%, while the monovalent conjugate B3
     had decayed to 14% of its initial value (p           =  0.002; unpaired two-sided t-test;
     Supplementary Figure 4).
25
     To gain a better understanding of the absolute tumour uptake of monovalent dye
     conjugate B3 compared to bivalent B4 and tumour to organ selectivity, organs were
     extracted, tissues homogenised and fluorescence intensity measured on a per gram
     basis. Comparison to a standard dilution series of IRDye750 in organ homogenate
30   allowed the measurement of absolute uptake levels into organs, as percent injected
     dose per gram (% ID g-1 ). Bivalent dye conjugate B4 exhibited a >3-fold higher
     absolute accumulation in tumours compared to monovalent B3 at 24 h (5.3 ± 0.6

                                                  74
    versus 1.4 ± 0.6 %IDg-l). Compound B4 thus compares very favourably with
    recently described monoclonal antibodies against CAIX. While uptake into heart,
    spleen, muscle and circulation in blood relative to tumour was low (tumour:organ >
    30), slightly lower tumour to organ ratios were observed for kidneys and stomach for
  5 both conjugates. Interestingly, tumour:liver and tumour:intestine ratios were lower
    for monovalent B3 than for bivalent B4 whilst B4 exhibited a higher tumour:lung
    ratio than B3.
    Synthesis of Drug Conjugates
 .0 Targeted and untargeted drug conjugates B7 and B8 having the structures shown in Fig. 10
    were prepared as follows. Compound B7 is a bivalent conjugate according to the
    present invention and has the same bivalent targeting scaffold as B2 and B4. B8 is a
    reference example having a similar scaffold but no AAZ targeting ligands.
 .5 Synthesis of B7
    Bivalent targeted linker B11 (20 mg, 13 [tmol), TCEP.HCl (7.6 mg, 27 [imol) and DIPEA
    (2 [tL) were dissolved in degassed DMF (500 [tL). After 1 h 2,2'-dipyridyldisulphide (11.7
    mg, 53 [tmol) was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 h, diluted
    with NMP (500 [tL) and was added drop wise to ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL). The
  o precipitate was collected by centrifugation, re-dissolved in DMF (200 [tL) and NMP (200
    [tL) and precipitated again with ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL) and dried under vacuum to
    give the activated disulphide as a white residue (18 mg, 11 tmol, 85%). An aliquot of the
    activated disulphide (15 mg, 9 [tmol) was dissolved in DMF (400 [tL) and DM1 free thiol
    (7 mg, 9 [tmol) added. The reaction was allowed to stand at room temperature for 48 h after
25  which the product was recovered by reversed phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80%
    B over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled and
    lyophilised to yield the title compound as an off white powder (9.5 mg, 4 [tmol, 47%).
    1H-NMR
               (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]     =  12.98 (s, 2H), 8.31 (s, 4H), 8.22-8.15 (m, 4H),
    8.07 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.85 (s, 2H), 7.69-7.59 (m, 2H), 7.12 (s, 1H), 6.89 (s, 1H), 6.61
30  6.52 (m, 3H), 5.92 (br s, 1H), 5.57-5.52 (m, 1H), 5.30-5.29 (m, 1H), 4.52-4.43 (m, 5H),
    4.39-4.34 (m, 1H), 4.27 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 4H), 4.19-4.16 (m, 1H), 4.08-4.03 (m, 1H), 3.92
    3.90 (m, 3H), 3.53-2.41 (m, overlap with solvent peak), 2.13-2.12 (m, 4H), 2.04-2.01 (m,

                                                   75
     1H), 1.97-1.91 (m, 4H), 1.79-1.73 (m, 4H), 1.67-1.54 (m, 4H), 1.51-1.10 (m, 21H), 0.77 (s,
     3H);
     HRMS: (m/z) [M + 2H]2 - called. for C8 6H1 19 ClN 2 4 0 3 3 S6 1122.3270; found 1122.3279.
  5  Synthesis of B8
     Bivalent untargeted linker B12 (20 mg, 17 [tmol), TCEP.HCl (19 mg, 68 [imol) and DIPEA
     (10 [tL) were dissolved in degassed DMF (1 mL). After 1 h 2,2'-dipyridyldisulphide (22
     mg, 100 [tmol) was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 h, diluted
     with NMP (500 [tL) and was added drop wise to ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL). The
 .0  precipitate was collected by centrifugation, re-dissolved in DMF (200 [tL) and NMP (200
     [tL) and precipitated again with ice cold diethyl ether (40 mL) and dried under vacuum to
     give the activated disulphide as a white residue (45 mg, product + side products). An
     aliquot of the residue (15 mg) was dissolved in DMF (400 [tL) and DM1 free thiol (7 mg, 9
     [tmol) was added. The reaction was allowed to stand at room temperature for 48 h after
 .5  which the product was recovered by reversed phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80%
     B over 20 min). Fractions containing the desired product by MS were pooled and
     lyophilised to yield the title compound as an off white powder (7.4 mg, 3.9 [umol, 42%).
     1H-NMR     (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]     =  8.22-8.09 (m, 5H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.64-7.58 (m,
     2H), 7.12 (s, 1H), 6.89 (s, 1H), 6.61-6.52 (m, 3H), 5.93 (s, 1H), 5.55 (dd, J= 9.1, 14.8 Hz,
  o0 1H), 5.32-5.28 (m, 1H), 4.56-4.43 (m, 6H), 4.27 (t, J= 6.85 Hz, 4H), 4.20-4.17 (m, 1H),
     4.05 (t, J= 12.2 Hz, 1H), 3.91 (s, 3H), 3.49-2.41 (m, overlap with solvent peak), 2.25 (t, J=
     7.4 Hz, 4H), 2.15 (m, 4H), 2.04-2.02 (br m, 1H), 1.80-1.73 (m, 8H), 1.62-1.10 m, 24H),
     0.77 (s, 3H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C8 2 H1 16 ClN 16 0 31 S2 1919.7117; found
     1919.7098.
25
     Synthesis of B9
                                                  0
                       H2N
                                                                    N
                                               H
                                                                    NzzN
                                                                                   OH
                                                                                0
30   Commercially available polystyrene Wang p-nitrophenyl carbonate resin (250 mg, 0.15
     mmol) was swollen in DMF (5 mL for 5 min) and reacted with a solution of 2,2'-(ethane-

                                                    76
    1,2-diylbis(oxy))diethanamine (250 [tL), DIPEA (500 [tL) and DMAP (2.5 mg) in DMF
    (4.5 mL) for 12 h at room temperature under shaking. The resin was washed with DMF (3x
    5 mL for 1 min), MeOH (3x 5 mL for 1 min) and again DMF (3x 5 mL for 1 min). A
    solution of 5-azido valeric acid (65 mg, 0.45 mmol), HATU (171 mg, 0.45 mmol) and
  5 DIPEA (148 [tL, 0.9 mmol) was prepared and immediately reacted with the resin for 1 h at
    room temperature under shaking. After washing with DMF (6              x  1 min  x 5 mL) a solution of
    Cul (2.9 mg, 0.015 mmol), TBTA (8 mg, 0.015 mmol) and 5-hexynoic acid (51 mg, 50 [iL,
    0.45 mmol) in a mixture of DMF (1 mL) and THF (1 mL) was prepared and reacted with
    the resin for 24 h at room temperature. After washing with DMF (3               x  1 min   x 5 mL), 50
 .0 mM aq. EDTA solution (3 x 1 min x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL) and DCM (3 x 1 min
    x 5 mL), the compound was cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of TFA (2.2 mL),
    TIS (50 gL), H2 0 (50 gL), m-cresol (100 [tL) and thioanisol (100 [iL) for 2 h at room
    temperature. The resin was washed with TFA (1            x   5 min    x   2.5 mL) and the combined
    cleavage and washing solutions added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100 mL). The
 .5 precipitate was collected by centrifugation and the product purified by reversed-phase
    HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). After lyophilisation the title
    compound was collected as a white powder (21 mg, 54 [umol, 36%).
    1H-NMR     (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]         = 7.90-7.86 (m, 5H), 4.29 (t, J        =  7.0 Hz, 2H),
    3.60-3.51 (m, 6H), 3.40 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 2H), 3.20 (q, J= 5.8 Hz, 2H), 3.00-2.96 (m, 2H),
  0 2.62 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.26 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.10 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.85-1.74 (m,
    4H), 1.46-1.42 (m, 2H); "C-NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]                    =  174.8, 172.4, 146.7,
    122.3, 70.1, 69.8, 69.5, 67.2, 49.4, 39.0, 38.9, 35.0, 33.6, 29.8, 24.9, 24.8, 22.7; HRMS:
    (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C17 H3 2 N 5 0 5 386.2398; found 386.2403.
25  Synthesis of B1O
                                                                      NH2
                                                                   0O
                                                               O
                             HOOC                       0   NH              COOH
                                        H
                                                                   H
                     N          N               N           N               N            N
                        IH                      H           H               H
       HO
                  N:N
                                H
                                    0
                                   HOOC
                                         ~-0                       COOH
                                                                                         N N_
                                                                                                      OH
           0                                                                                       0

                                                 77
    Commercially available polystyrene Wang p-nitrophenyl carbonate resin (500 mg, 0.3
    mmol) was swollen in DMF (5 mL for 5 min) and reacted with a solution of 2,2'-(ethane
    1,2-diylbis(oxy))diethanamine (500 [tL), DIPEA (500 [tL) and DMAP (5 mg) in DMF (4
  5 mL) for 12 h at room temperature under shaking. The resin was washed with DMF (3x 5
    mL for 1 min), MeOH (3x 5 mL for 1 min) and again DMF (3x 5 mL for 1 min). A solution
    of Fmoc-Lys(Fmoc)-OH (532 mg, 0.9 mmol), HBTU (341 mg, 0.9 mmol), HOBt (138 mg,
    0.9 mmol) and DIPEA (298 [tL, 1.8 mmol) was prepared and immediately reacted with the
    resin for 1 h at room temperature under shaking. After washing with DMF (6       x 1 min x 5
 .0 mL) the Fmoc group was removed with 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 min and 2
    x  10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed with DMF (6 x 1 min x 5 mL) before the next
    coupling step was initiated. In the following, the peptide was extended with Fmoc
    Asp(OtBu)-OH twice followed by 5-azido-valerate. For this purpose, a solution of acid (1.2
    mmol), HATU (465 mg, 1.2 mmol) and DIPEA (397 [tL, 2.4 mmol) was prepared in DMF
 .5 (5 mL) and reacted with the resin for 1 h at room temperature under gentle agitation. Each
    coupling was followed by a washing step with DMF (6 x 1 min x 5 mL) and Fmoc
    deprotection as described above. After coupling of the azide, a solution of Cul (76 mg, 0.12
    mmol), TBTA (21 mg, 0.12 mmol) and 5-hexyonic acid (440 [tL, 1.2 mmol) in a mixture of
    DMF (2.5 mL) and THF (2.5 mL) was prepared and reacted with the resin for 48 h at room
  0 temperature. After washing with DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL), 50 mM aq. EDTA solution (3 x
    1 min  x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min x 5 mL) and DCM (3        x 1 min x 5 mL), the compound was
    cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of TFA (4.4 mL), TIS (100 gL), H2 0 (100
    gL), m-cresol (200 [tL) and thioanisol (200 [tL) for 2 h at room temperature. The resin was
    washed with TFA (1     x 5 min  x 5 mL) and the combined cleavage and washing solutions
25  added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100 mL). The precipitate was collected by
    centrifugation and the product purified by reversed-phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A /
    80% B over 20 min). After lyophilisation the title compound was collected as a white
    powder (64 mg, 53 [umol 17%).
    1H-NMR     (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]     =  8.25-8.22 (m, 3H), 8.09 (d, J  = 8.1 Hz, 1H),
30  7.85 (s, 2H), 7.78-7.73 (br m, 3H), 7.66 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 1H), 4.55
    4.44 (m, 4H), 4.29 (t, J  = 7.0 Hz, 4H), 4.14-4.09 (m, 2H), 3.60-3.55 (m, 6H), 3.40 (t, J=
    6.2 Hz, 2H), 3.22-3.19 (m, 2H), 3.01-2.92 (m, 4H), 2.73-2.44 (m, overlap with solvent
    peak), 2.26 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 4H), 2.15 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 4H), 1.85-1.74 (m, 7H), 1.70-1.60 (br m,

                                                             78
    1H), 1.55-1.14 (br m, 9H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- called. for C 5 0 H79N 4 O 2 1 1211.5539;
    found 1211.5515.
    Synthesis of B11
  5
                                                                   SH
                                                                        COOH
                                        HOOC                    0    NH           COOH
                                         0           0                  0    H
                               /)               N         N                  N             N
                HNH          N                0   -0                                        N'        N
                                             HOOC      H                     COOH HN
                                                                                                    0   S
    H 2NO 2S  NN                                                                                        N  SO
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                             NH2
    Commercially available pre-loaded Fmoc-Cys(Trt) on Tentagel resin (500 mg, 0.415 mmol,
    RAPP Polymere) was swollen in DMF (3                    x 5 min       x 5 mL), the Fmoc group removed with
 .0 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 mL and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed
    with DMF (6        x  1 min    x  5 mL). A solution of Fmoc-Lys(Fmoc)-OH (736 mg, 1.25 mmol),
    HBTU (472 mg, 1.25 mmol), HOBt (191 mg, 1.25 mmol) and DIPEA (412 [tL, 2.5 mmol)
    was prepared and immediately reacted with the resin for 1 h at room temperature under
    shaking. After washing with DMF (6                x  1 min    x   5 mL) the Fmoc group was removed with
 .5 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 min and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed
    with DMF (6        x  1 min   x  5 mL) before the next coupling step was initiated. In the following,
    the peptide was extended with Fmoc-Asp(OtBu)-OH twice followed by 5-azido-valerate.
    For this purpose, a solution of acid (1.7 mmol), HATU (643 mg, 1.7 mmol) and DIPEA
    (549 [tL, 3.3 mmol) was prepared in DMF (5 mL) and reacted with the resin for 1 h at room
20  temperature under gentle agitation. Each coupling was followed by a washing step with
    DMF (6       x  1 min  x 5 mL) and Fmoc deprotection as described above. After coupling of the
    azide, a solution of Cul (106 mg, 0.17 mmol), TBTA (29 mg, 0.17 mmol) and alkyne 10
    (455 mg, 1.7 mmol) in a mixture of DMF (2.5 mL) and THF (2.5 mL) was prepared and
    reacted with the resin for 48 h at room temperature. After washing with DMF (3                      x 1 min  x
25  5 mL), 50 mM aq. EDTA solution (3                x  1 min    x  5 mL), DMF (3      x 1 min x  5 mL) and DCM
    (3    x  1 min   x  5 mL), the compound was cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture of
    TFA (4.4 mL), TIS (100 gL), H2 0 (100 gL), m-cresol (200 [tL) and thioanisol (200 [tL) for
    2 h at room temperature. The resin was washed with TFA (1                          x  5 min  x  5 mL) and the
    combined cleavage and washing solutions added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100
30  mL). The precipitate was collected by centrifugation and the product purified by reversed-

                                                          79
    phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). After lyophilisation the title
    compound was collected as a white powder (68 mg, 45 [umol, 10%).
    IH-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]                =   13.01 (s, 2H), 8.32 (s, 4H), 8.21 (t, J= 7.5 Hz,
    3H), 8.09 (d, J   =   8.1 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.87 (s, 2H), 7.74 (d, J= 7.84 Hz,
  5 1H), 7.61 (t, J   =  5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.55-4.45 (m, overlap with broad water peak), 4.40-4.34 (m,
    overlap with broad water peak), 4.29 (t, J           =  7.0 Hz, overlap with broad water peak), 4.24
    4.22 (m, overlap with broad water peak), 3.07-2.94 (br m, 2H), 2.90-2.41 (m, overlap with
    solvent peak), 2.15 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 4H), 1.99-1.92 (m, 4H), 1.82-1.74 (m, 4H), 1.71-1.24 (br
    m, 10H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + H] called. for C5 1H 7 4N 2 1 0 2 3 S5 1508.3864; found 1508.3861.
 .0
    Synthesis of B12
                                                   SH
                                                         COOH
                           HOOC                 0     NH            COOH
                                                        0           60
                            0           0
                 /N               N                  N              N         N
                       IH                 H          H              H
    HO                            HOOC'                      COOH   H                  OH
        0                                                                            0
 .5 Commercially available pre-loaded Fmoc-Cys(Trt) on Tentagel resin (500 mg, 0.415 mmol,
    RAPP Polymere) was swollen in DMF (3                x   5 min    x 5 mL), the Fmoc group removed with
    20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 mL and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed
    with DMF (6     x  1 min    x   5 mL). A solution of Fmoc-Lys(Fmoc)-OH (736 mg, 1.25 mmol),
    HBTU (472 mg, 1.25 mmol), HOBt (191 mg, 1.25 mmol) and DIPEA (412 [tL, 2.5 mmol)
20  was prepared and immediately reacted with the resin for 1 h at room temperature under
    shaking. After washing with DMF (6           x  1 min     x   5 mL) the Fmoc group was removed with
    20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 1 min x 5 min and 2 x 10 min x 5 mL) and the resin washed
    with DMF (6     x 1 min    x  5 mL) before the next coupling step was initiated. In the following,
    the peptide was extended with Fmoc-Asp(OtBu)-OH twice followed by 5-azido-valerate.
25  For this purpose, a solution of acid (1.7 mmol), HATU (643 mg, 1.7 mmol) and DIPEA
    (549 [tL, 3.3 mmol) was prepared in DMF (5 mL) and reacted with the resin for 1 h at room
    temperature under gentle agitation. Each coupling was followed by a washing step with
    DMF (6    x 1 min   x   5 mL) and Fmoc deprotection as described above. After coupling of the
    azide, a solution of Cul (106 mg, 0.17 mmol), TBTA (29 mg, 0.17 mmol and 5-hexyonic
30  acid (609 [tL, 1.7 mmol) in a mixture of DMF (2.5 mL) and THF (2.5 mL) was prepared

                                                 80
    and reacted with the resin for 48 h at room temperature. After washing with DMF (3          x 1
    min  x 5 mL), 50 mM aq. EDTA solution (3      x  1 min  x 5 mL), DMF (3 x 1 min   x 5 mL) and
    DCM (3    x  1 min  x 5 mL), the compound was cleaved by agitating the resin with a mixture
    of TFA (4.4 mL), TIS (100 gL), H20 (100 gL), m-cresol (200 [tL) and thioanisol (200 [iL)
  5 for 2 h at room temperature. The resin was washed with TFA (1       x 5 min  x  5 mL) and the
    combined cleavage and washing solutions added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (100
    mL). The precipitate was collected by centrifugation and the product purified by reversed
    phase HPLC (95% A / 5% B to 20% A / 80% B over 20 min). After lyophilisation the title
    compound was collected as a white powder (147 mg, 0.12 mmol, 30%).
 .0 IH-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 [ppm]          =  8.22-8.19 (m, 3H), 8.08 (d, J  = 8.9 Hz, 1H),
    8.02 (d, J  =  7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.72 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.59-7.56 (m, 1H), 4.56
    4.43 (m, 3H), 4.37-4.34 (m, 1H), 4.27-4.20 (m, 4H), 3.03-2.92 (m, 2H), 2.87-2.39 (m,
    overlap with solvent peak), 2.25 (t, J= 7.35 Hz, 4H), 2.13 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 4H), 1.83-1.21 (br
    m, 16H); HRMS: (m/z) [M + H]- calcd. for C 4 7 H 7 0N 13 021S 1184.4524; found 1184.4508.
 .5
    Properties of Drug Conjugates
    Both the targeted drug B7 and untargeted B8 were equally toxic in vitro. If
    conjugates were        internalised   in a receptor-dependent       fashion and activated
    intracellularly, targeted conjugate B7 would be expected to accumulate in CAIX
 .0 expressing cells and to be more toxic than untargeted drug B8. This does not seem to
    be the case. The present inventors thus hypothesised that the conjugate would
    accumulate at the tumour site, where reducing agents (e.g., glutathione released from
    dying cells) would cleave the disulfide bond in extracellular space and lead to drug
    release. DM1 would then diffuse into adjacent cells to act on its intracellular target.
25
    A preliminary dose finding study with conjugate B7 was conducted. Even a dose as
    low as 6 nmol on 8 consecutive days led to substantial tumour shrinkage. Five doses
    of 48 nmol within six days completely eradicated the tumour but showed some
    toxicity. Finally, a therapeutic schedule of 35 nmol on 8 consecutive days was used,
30  which was well-tolerated in SKRC52 tumour bearing mice (Fig. 11). On the              12 th day
    after the start of treatment, two mice were tumour free and the average tumour
    volume for all mice had dropped from 200 mm3 initial tumour volume to below 50
    mm3 . The two mice with complete regression and one from the dose escalation study

                                                81
    were tumour free 90 days after start of therapy and were thus considered cured. The
    remaining tumours regrew. Importantly, control conjugates lacking the targeting
    ligand, or bivalent scaffold B2 without the payload did not have a statistically
    significant antitumor effect.
  5
     (C) Binding Moieties by Screening of a DNA-encoded Library
    Chemical technologies for the discovery of high-affinity protein binders provide techniques
 .0 to go beyond naturally-occurring ligands for disease targeting applications. Combinatorial
    chemical libraries of unprecedented size can be constructed and screened by tagging
    organic molecules with DNA fragments, serving as amplifiable identification barcodes
    [group Liu; group Neri]. DNA-encoded chemical libraries, first postulated by Lemer and
    Brenner [REF], can be synthesized with one or two sets of molecules displayed at the
 .5 extremities of complementary DNA strands, yielding single- or dual-pharmacophore
    chemical libraries, respectively.
    The present inventors have studied a novel DNA-encoded self-assembling chemical
    (ESAC) library, containing 111,100 small molecules in order to identify a new bivalent
  0 binding moiety for CAIX.
    Synthesis of DNA-encoded self-assembling chemical (ESAC) library
    A dual pharmacophore ESAC library of 111,100 compounds was synthesised using a novel
    chemical strategy which allows the sequence-based identification and quantification of
25  library members. The Encoded Self-Assembling Chemical (ESAC) library was constructed
    by hybridizing two individually synthesized and purified single-stranded sublibraries A and
    B. Chemical compounds carrying a carboxylic acid, anhydride, N-hydroxysuccinimide ester
    or isothiocyanate groups were coupled to the primary amino group at the 5'-end (sublibrary
    A) or 3'-end (sublibrary B) of modified oligonucleotides to produce the library as shown in
30  Fig. 13.
    Sub-library A Synthesis.
    The synthesis of the DNA-encoded sub-library A of 550 compounds has been described by
    Dumelin, C.E., Scheuermann, J., Melkko, S. & Neri, D. in Bioconjugate chemistry 17, 366-

                                                 82
    370 (2006). In short, 48-mer oligonucleotides (IBA GmbH) carrying a free amino group at
    the 5'-end (o-aminohexyl phosphate diester) were reacted with activated carboxylic acid-,
    sulfonyl chloride- or isothiocyanate-containing building blocks to give the corresponding
    amide, sulfonamide and thiourea conjugates. Oligonucleotide sequences followed the
  5 pattern 5'-GGA GCT TCT GAA TTC TGT GTG CTG XXX XXX CGA GTC CCA TGG
    CGC AGC-3', where XXX XXX represents the coding sequence (6 nucleotides) that
    unambiguously identifies each individual library member.
    Sub-library B Synthesis.
 .0 Sub-library B was built using 41-mer 3'-amino-modified oligonucleotides, which were
    coupled with activated Fmoc-protected amino acid, carboxylic acid, carboxylic acid
    anhydride and sulfonyl chloride building blocks to give the corresponding amide or
    sulfonamide conjugates. All library compounds were coupled initially to the same
    oligonucleotide of the sequence 5'-CAT GGG ACT CG ddd ddd CAG CAC ACA GAA
 .5 TTC AGA AGC TCC-3' (IBA GmbH), which was designed to be complementary to the
    sub-library A oligonucleotides and contained a 6 nucleotide abasic spacer region (d,
    deoxyabasic), which allows promiscuous duplex formation with the coding region of sub
    library
 .0 Conjugation of Fmoc---protectedamino acids and carboxylic acids with 3'-amino-modified
    sub -libraryB oligonucleotide:
    Fmoc-protected amino acids or carboxylic acids in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 12.5 al, 100
    mM), 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide (EDC) in DMSO (12 al, 100 mM),
    N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (S-NHS) in 2:1 DMSO/H 2 0, (10 al, 333 mM) were added to
25  DMSO (215 [d) and allowed to stand at 30 'C for 30 min. Subsequently, a mixture of
    aminomodified sub-library B oligonucleotide in H 2 0 (5       1al,5 nmol) and triethylamine
    hydrochloride in H20 (TEA - HCl,       50  1d500 mM, pH 10.0) was added and the reaction
    kept at 30 'C for 12 h. Carboxylic acid conjugation reactions were quenched with
    tris(hydroxylmethyl)aminomethane hydrochloride in H20 (Tris - HCl, 20 1al,500 mM, pH
30  8.1) at 30 'C for 1 h. Fmoc-protected amino acid conjugation reactions were quenched and
    deprotected with Tris in H20 (5 1al,  1 M) and TEA (5 [d) at 30 'C for 1 h. After quenching
    and deprotection, the DNA-compound conjugate was precipitated with EtOH before
    purifying by HPLC. The separated and collected oligonucleotide-compound conjugates

                                                83
    were vacuum-dried overnight, redissolved in H20 (100 [d), and analysed by ESI-LC
    MS3 1.
    Conjugation     of    sulfonyl   chlorides   with3'-- -amino---modified sub---library   B
  5 oligonucleotide:
    Sulfonyl chlorides in acetonitrile (MeCN, 25 al, 100 mM) were mixed with sodium
    hydrogen carbonate in H20 (25 al, 1 M, pH 9.0), MeCN (100 [d), H2 0 (95 [d) and
    subsequently reacted with amino-modified sub-library B oligonucleotide in H2 0 (5 al, 5
    nmol) at 30 'C for 12 h. The reaction was quenched with Tris - HCl (20 al, 500 mM, pH
 .0 8.1) at 30 'C for 1 h. After quenching the DNA-compound conjugate was precipitated with
    EtOH before purifying by HPLC. The separated and collected oligonucleotide-compound
    conjugates were vacuum-dried overnight, redissolved in H 2 0 (100 [d), and analysed by
    ESI-LC-MS. The separated and collected oligonucleotide-compound conjugates were
    vacuum-dried overnight, redissolved in H20 (100 [d), and analysed by ESI-LCMS.
 .5
    Conjugation of carboxylic acid anhydrides with 3'-amino---modified sub-library B
    oligonucleotide:
    Carboxylic acid anhydrides in DMSO (25 al, 100 mM) were mixed with sodium hydrogen
    phosphate in H20 (25 al, 500 mM, pH 7.1), DMSO (195 [d), H20 (35 [d) and subsequently
  0 reacted with amino-modified sub-library B oligonucleotide in H20 (5 1al,5 nmol) overnight
    at 30 'C. The reaction was quenched with Tris - HCl (20 1al,  500 mM, pH 8.1) at 30 'C for
    1 h. After quenching the DNA-compound conjugate was precipitated with EtOH before
    purifying by HPLC3 1. The separated and collected oligonucleotide-compound conjugates
    were vacuum-dried overnight, redissolved in H20 (100 [d), and analysed by ESI-LC-MS.
25  To unambiguously label library members in sub-library B, individual oligonucleotide
    compound conjugates were extended with a unique identifier sequence. For this purpose,
    202 39-mer code oligonucleotides of sequence 5'-CCT GCA TCG AAT GGA TCC GTG
    XXX XXX XX GCA GCT GCG C-3' (IBA GmbH) were used, where XXX XXX XX
    denotes an 8-digit code region. The 202 HPLC-purified oligonucleotide-compound
30  conjugates were ligated to these coding oligonucleotides with the help of a chimeric
    (DNA/RNA) adapter oligonucleotide (5'-CGA GTC CCA TGG CGC AGC TGC-3', bold:
    RNA portions), which is complementary to both, the sub-library B oligonucleotide-

                                                 84
    compound       conjugates   and the sub-library   B code oligonucleotides.       The adapter
    oligonucleotide was eventually removed by RNase H (New England Biolabs) treatment.
    Ligation protocol: Sub-library B oligonucleotide-compound conjugate in H 2 0 (50 al, 2
  5   M), sub-library B code oligonucleotide in H2 0 (10      PI, 15 [M), sub-library B chimeric
    RNA/DNA adapter oligonucleotide in H 2 0 (10       l, 30 [M), lOx ligation reaction buffer (10
         New England Biolabs) and H 2 0 (19.5 pl) were mixed and heated up to 90 'C for 2 min
      1al,
    before the mixture was allowed to cool down to 22 'C. T4 DNA ligase (0.5                l, New
    England Biolabs) was added and ligation performed at 16 'C for 10 hours before
 .0 inactivating the ligase at 70'C for 15 min.
    Library hybridization and code transfer to sub-library A strand.
    To obtain the final library, sub-libraries A and B were first hybridized, resulting in a
    combinatorial collection of duplexes, where each member of sub-library A could pair with
 .5 each member of sub-library B. For the unambiguous identification of any dual
    pharmacophore combination by high-throughput sequencing, coding information for A and
    B need to be given on the same DNA strand. This was achieved by a Klenow polymerase
    assisted sublibrary A strand extension of the A/B heteroduplexes, which transferred the
    coding information from the sublibrary B strand onto the sublibrary A strand Hybridization
  0 and Klenow-encoding protocol: Sub-library A in H2 0 (115          l, equimolar mixture of all
    library members, total concentration 864 nM), and sub-library B in H20 (100       l, equimolar
    mixture of all library members, total concentration 1 [M), lOx NEB2 reaction buffer (100
      1al,
         New England Biolabs) and H 2 0 (685 pl) were mixed and heated up to 90 'C for 2 min,
    then
25  cooled down to 22 'C. The hybridized library was purified with nucleotide removal
    columns (Qiagen, elution with 6 x 140      1lQiagen EB buffer on six separate columns). For
    Klenow-encoding, hybridized and purified ESAC library in EB buffer (800 PI), lOx NEB2
    reaction buffer (100    l, New England Biolabs), deoxynucleotide (dNTP) solution mix (100
      1al,500 [tM, final concentration 50 [tM, New England Biolabs) and Klenow fragment (10
30  [t1, New England Biolabs) were mixed and incubated at 37 'C for 30 min.
    Cloning, expression and biotinylation of CAIX.

                                                  85
     Recombinant His6-tagged human CAIX was cloned and expressed as described by J.K.
     Ahlskog et al. in British Journal of Cancer 101, 645-657 (2009). The protein was
     chemically biotinylated with EZ-Link NHS-Biotin (Thermo             Scientific) for affinity
     screening according to supplier's instructions.
  5
     Affinity screening of the ESAC library against CAIX.
     Affinity selections were performed using a KingFisher magnetic particle processor (Thermo
     Scientific). Streptavidin-coated magnetic beads (0.1 mg) were resuspended in PBS (100 al,
     50 mM NaPi, 100 mM NaCl, pH 7.4) and subsequently incubated with biotinylated CAIX
 .0  (100 al, 0.1 [tM or 1.0 [tM concentration) for 30 min with continuous gentle mixing. CAIX
     coated beads were washed three times with PBST (200 al, 50 mM NaPi, 100 mM NaCl,
     0.05 % v/v Tween 20, pH 7.4) that was supplemented with biotin (100 [M) in order to
     block remaining binding sites on streptavidin, and subsequently incubated with the ESAC
     library (100 al, 100 nM total concentration, in PBST) for 1 h with continuous gentle
 .5  mixing. After removing unbound library members by washing five times with PBST (200
     [d), beads carrying bound library members were resuspended in buffer EB (100              al,
     QlAquick PCR purification kit, Qiagen) and the DNA-compound conjugates separated
     from the beads by heat denaturation of streptavidin and CAIX (95 'C for 5 min). The DNA
     of eluted library members was amplified by PCR, introducing at the same time additional,
  o0 selection-specific DNA barcodes, and submitted to Illumina@ high-throughput DNA
     sequencing.
     In multiple selection experiments, the A-493/B-202 pair of pharmacophores was found to
     be highly enriched (Fig. 14), compared to the unselected library and to the other library
25   members after CAIX selection (>200-fold enrichment):

                                                86
                                                OH
                                A-49
                                      H
                                      N
                                             O              OH
                                B-202 (Acetazolami~de)
                                                O     N-N
                                       H                  >    S- r',NH
                                                   N        SOH
                                DNA
    In Vitro Binding Studies
    A-493 and B-202 were first conjugated with fluorescently labelled 8-mer complementary
  5 amino-modified locked nucleic acids (LNATM), allowed to form a heteroduplex structure
    and submitted to fluorescence polarization         affinity measurements     against CAIX.
    Fluorescence polarization (FP) measurements were performed by incubating 5 nM
    fluorescently labelled probe and recombinant human Carbonic Anhydrase IX with
    increasing concentrations for 1 h at 22 'C. The FP was measured on a Spectra Max
 .0 Paradigm multimode plate reader (Molecular Devices).            On LNA TM, the A-493/B-202
    combination revealed a dissociation constant of 14.6 ± 0.7 nM, whereas B-202
    (acetazolamide) alone had a Kd of 34.9 ± 0.9 nM.
    Synthesis of CAIX ligands with and without Fluorophores
15  Next, linked chemical compounds having binding moieties with and without fluorophores
    having the structures shown in Fig. 16 were synthesized using standard solid-phase
    coupling procedures using various spacers, containing a modification site for an optional
    fluorophore conjugation.     Representative syntheses (compounds C5a and C5c) were
    performed as follows.
20
    N-[4,4-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)pentanoyl]-p-aspartyl-p-aspartyl-N-{2-[2-(2-aminoethoxy)
    ethoxy]ethyl}-6-(4-{4-oxo-4-[(5-sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)amino]butyl}-      1H-1,2,3
    triazol-1-yl)-L-norleucinamide (C5a)

                                                    87
    Commercially available pre-loaded O-bis-(aminoethyl)ethylene glycol on trityl resin (200
    mg, 0.12 mmol) was swollen first in DCM (3         x  5 min x 2 ml) and then in DMF (3 x 5 min
    x  2 ml). Fmoc-protected azidolysine (142 mg, 0.36 mmol), HBTU (137 mg, 0.36 mmol),
    HOBt-H 2 0 (55 mg, 0.36 mmol) and DIPEA (119 al, 0.72 mmol) were dissolved in DMF (2
  5 ml), the mixture was allowed to stand at 22 'C for 15 min and then reacted with the resin
    for
    1 h under gentle agitation. After washing with DMF (6          x 1 min  x 2 ml) the Fmoc group
    was removed with 20 % piperidine in DMF (1 x 2 min x 2 ml and 2 x 10 min x 2 ml) and
    the resin washed with DMF (6       x  1 min x 2 ml) before the peptide was extended 2x with N
 .0 a-Fmoc-L-aspartic      acid   a-tert-butyl   ester   (148   mg,   0.36  mmol)    and 4,4-bis(4
    hydroxyphenyl)valeric acid (103 mg, 0.36 mmol) in the indicated order using the same
    coupling (HBTU/HOBt-H 2 0/DIPEA) and Fmoc-deprotection (20 % piperidine in DMF)
    conditions mentioned before. After the last peptide coupling step, a solution of Cul (2.3 mg,
    0.01 mmol), TBTA (6.4 mg, 0.01 mmol) and alkyne 10 (99 mg, 0.36 mmol) in a mixture of
 .5 DMF (1 ml) and THF (1 ml) was prepared and reacted with the resin at 22'C for 2 h. After
    washing with DMF (6       x 1 min    x 2 ml), the compound was cleaved by agitating the resin
    with a mixture of TFA (4.5 ml), TIPS (250 [d) and H 2 0 (250 [d) at 22 'C for 2 h. The resin
    was washed with TFA (1      x  5min   x 2 ml) and the combined cleavage and washing solutions
    added drop-wise to ice cold diethyl ether (50 ml). The precipitate was collected by
  0 centrifugation and the product purified by reversed-phase HPLC (95 % A / 5 % B to 20 %
    A / 80 % B over 30 min). After lyophilization the title compound was collected as a white
    powder (49 mg, 46 [tmol, 38 % yield).
    1H-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 13.01 (s, 1H), 9.19 (br. s, 2H), 8.33 (s, 2H), 8.19 (d, J=
    8.0, 1H), 8.09 (d, J= 7.9, 1H) 7.91 (d, J= 8.1, 1H), 7.88 (t, J= 6.0, 1H), 7.84 (s, 1H), 7.79
25  (br. s, 3H), 6.92 (d, J= 8.4, 4H), 6.64 (d, J= 8.4, 4H), 4.54 - 4.44 (m, 2H), 4.24 (t, J= 7.2,
    2H), 4.17 (td, J= 8.3, 5.5, 1H), 3.58 (t, J= 5.3, 2H), 3.56 - 3.50 (m,4H), 3.38 (t, J= 6.1,
    2H), 3.24 - 3.15 (m, 2H), 2.97 (sext, J= 5.6, 2H), 2.65 (t, J= 7.5, 2H), 2.64 - 2.55 (m, 4H),
    2.51 - 2.41 (m, 2H), 2.17 (t, J= 8.2, 2H) 1.94 (quin, J= 7.5, 2H), 1.88 - 1.82 (m, 2H), 1.75
    (quin, J= 7.5, 2H), 1.66 - 1.60 (m, 1H), 1.53 - 1.46 (m, 1H), 1.45 (s, 3H), 1.28 - 1.17 (m,
30  2H). 13C- NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 172.84, 172.79, 172.30, 172.04, 171.62, 169.19,
    169.09, 164.33, 161.09, 154.96, 146.06, 139.65, 139.58, 127.81, 121.84, 114.68, 69.68,
    69.46, 68.85, 66.70, 52.34, 49.08, 48.70, 43.86, 38.70, 38.53, 37.14, 36.95, 36.75, 34.27,

                                                 88
    31.36,   31.27, 29.44, 27.39, 24.42, 24.23, 22.28. HRMS (ESI): m/z called. for
    C45H63N12015S2 [M+ H]+: 1075.3972; found: 1075.3966.
    N-[4,4-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)pentanoyl]-p-aspartyl-p-aspartyl-N-[2-(2-{2-[(5-{4-[(6E)
  5 6-{(2E)-2-[3,3-dimethyl-5-sulfo-1-(4-sulfobutyl)-1,3-dihydro-2H-indol-2-ylidene]     ethyl
    idene}-2-{(E)-2-[3,3-dimethyl-5-sulfo-1-(4-sulfobutyl)-3H-indolium-2-yl]ethenyl}
    cyclohex-1-en-1-yl]phenyl}pentanoyl)amino]ethoxy}ethoxy)ethyl]-6-(4-{4-oxo-4-[(5
    sulfamoyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)amino]butyl}-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)-L-norleucinamide
    (C5c)
 .0
    To C5a (161 [tg, 150 nmol) in DMSO (16.1 [d) was added IRDye® 750 NHS ester (99 [tg,
    83 nmol) in DMSO (10 [l) followed by DMF (100 [l) and DIPEA (2 al, 12 [amol). The
    solution was stirred at 22 'C for 2 h and then quenched with sodium hydrogen carbonate
    (100 al, 100 mM, pH 8.0) before purifying over reversed-phase HPLC (95 % A /5 % B to
 .5 40 % A / 60 % B over 30 min). Fractions containing dye conjugate were identified through
    their characteristic UV/VIS spectrum (Xmax     = 756 nm), pooled, lyophilized and dissolved
    in DMSO (50 [l) to give a dark green stock solution. Its concentration and the reaction
    yield were determined by measuring the absorbance at 756 nm (756      = 260'000 M-1 cm-1)
    of stock samples diluted 1:200 into PBS (pH 7.4): 1.00 mM, 50 nmol, 60 % yield. HRMS
 10 (Dual MALDI/ESI): m/z calcd. for C94H121N14028S6                 [M+]: 2085.6793; found:
    2085.6793.
    The binding affinities of the synthetic compounds of Fig. 16 were then characterized by
25  fluorescence polarization and by surface plasmon resonance, as follows.
    Affinity   determination     of CAIX      ligands   by   fluorescence   polarization   (FP)
    measurements.
    Fluorescein labelled ligands (5 nM diluted with PBS from DMSO stocks, final DMSO
30  content adjusted to 0.001 %) were incubated at 22 'C for 1 h in a black 384-well plate
    (Greiner, non-binding) in PBS (pH 7.4) with increasing concentrations of CAIX to a final
    volume of 60 [d. The fluorescence anisotropy was measured on a Spectra Max Paradigm
    multimode plate reader (Molecular Devices). Experiments were performed in triplicate and

                                                89
    the mean anisotropy values fitted to the following equation using KaleidaGraph 4.1.3
    (Synergy Software),
                   A=      ([P     [L],I + K,)  ([P/L 1      + 1A   - 4[P, l,    }
    where A is the anisotropy, [P]0 the total protein concentration, [L]0 the total concentration
  5 of the fluorescently labelled ligand and KD the dissociation constant.
    Affinity determination of CAIX ligands by surface plasmon resonance (SPR)
    measurements.
    Surface plasmon resonance experiments were carried out at room temperature (25 'C) using
 .0 a BiacoreTM T200 instrument and CM5 chips (GE Healthcare). For all measurements, a
    PBS buffer (pH 7.4) containing DMSO (5 % v/v) and P20 surfactant (0.05 % v/v, GE
    Healthcare) was used. CAIX protein was immobilized on the chip at about 3,000 response
    units using EDC - HCl and NHS as described by the instrument manufacturer. Serial
    dilutions of unlabelled compounds (0.08 nM to 620 nM in steps of 1/2) were used as
 .5 analytes. After each cycle, the sensor surface was regenerated by a short treatment with
    DMSO (50 % v/v) in H2 0. Sensorgrams were solvent corrected and the binding kinetics
    were analysed with the BiacoreTM T200 evaluation software (version 2.0) using a 1:1
    Langmuir binding model.
 10 The best binders featured an Asp-Asp moiety in the linker (C5a and C5b) and a Kd value of
    0.2 ± 0.1 nM by fluorescence polarization in solution. SPR measurements gave slightly
    higher dissociation constants. The best binder appeared to be the one with the longest
    linker.
25  The binding properties of the best A-493/B-202 conjugate were further studied on SK-RC
    52 human kidney cancer cells by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. For this purposes the
    fluorescein moiety was replaced with a fluorescent near-infrared dye (IRDye* 750).
    Compounds lacking the B moiety or both A/B moieties were used as controls in the
    experiment.
30
    Cell culture.

                                                  90
    SK-RC-52 and HEK cells were maintained in RPMI medium (Invitrogen) supplemented
    with fetal calf serum (10 % v/v, FCS, Life Technologies) and Antibiotic-Antimycotic (AA,
    Life Technologies) at 37 'C and 5 % CO2 . For passaging, cells were detached using
    Trypsin-EDTA 0.05 % (Life Technologies) when reaching 90 % confluence and re-seeded
  5 at a dilution of 1:10.
    Ligand binding analysis by flow cytometry.
    Cells were detached from culture plates using EDTA (50 mM) solution in PBS (pH 7.4),
    counted and suspended to a final concentration of 1.5 x 106 cells ml-1 in a solution of FCS
 .0 (1 % v/v) / PBS (pH 7.4). Aliquots of 3 x 105 cells (200 [d) were spun down and
    resuspended in solutions of IRDye@ 750 (Licor) labelled ligands (30 nM) in FCS (1 % v/v)
    in PBS (200 al, pH 7.4) and incubated at 4 'C for 1 h. Cells were washed once with 200 1d
    FCS (1 % v/v)/
    PBS (pH 7.4), spun down, resuspended in a solution of propidium iodide (30 [aM, Sigma
 .5 Aldrich) in FCS (1 % v/v) / PBS (300 1tl,pH 7.4) and analysed on a FACS Canto flow
    cytometer (BD Bioscience). FlowJo Version 8.7 (Treestar) was used for data analysis and
    visualization.
    These experiments showed that the IRDye 750 labeled compound C5c (Fig. 17) stained
  0 cells more strongly than the corresponding IRDye 750 labeled acetazolamide control Cla
    (Fig. 17). These results are shown in Fig. 18.
    In Vivo Binding Studies
    For IVIS imaging experiments, mice bearing subcutaneous SK-RC-52 tumors were injected
25  intravenously with 3 nmol IRDye* 750 labelled CAIX ligands C1c, C5c and C6 (Figs.
    15,17) dissolved in 5% v/v DMSO in PBS pH 7.4 (150 [tL). Mice were anesthetized with
    isoflurane and fluorescence images acquired on an IVIS Spectrum imaging system
    (Xenogen, exposure Is, binning factor 8, excitation at 745 nm, emission filter at 800 nm, f
    number 2, field of view 13.1). Food and water was given ad libitum between measurements.
30  Mice were subsequently sacrificed by cervical dislocation. Heart, lung, kidney, liver,
    spleen, a section of the intestine, skeletal muscle and the tumour were extracted and imaged
    individually using above parameters.

                                                91
    The untargeted dye C6 did not preferentially localize to the tumor at any time point, in full
    analogy to conventional chemotherapeutic agents. The acetazolamide derivative C1c
    exhibited a rapid preferential accumulation in the tumor, but gradually dissociated from the
    neoplastic mass over time. By contrast, the high-affinity bidentate A-493/B-202 ligand C5c
  5 exhibited a selective and long-lasting tumor targeting. The tumor targeting efficiency of
    C5c and C1c (18 % and 3.7 % injected dose per gram of at 24 h, respectively) favourably
    compared to the biodistribution data obtained in the same animal model using two high
    affinity human monoclonal antibodies in IgG format.
 .0 Preparation of a Radiolabelled Ligand having CAIX Binding Property
    An anti-CAIX ligand having the following chemical structure:
                               H
 .5 was radiolabelled with Technetium 99m as follows. 50 gL ligand (1.2 mM) in degassed
    PBS pH 7.4 was mixed with 50 gL SnCl 2 (4 mg/mL) freshly prepared solution in degassed
    MQ water, 100 gL Na glucoheptonate (200 mg/mL) freshly prepared in degassed MQ
    water, and 600 gL TBS pH 7.4. The solution was degassed for at least 5 min by bubbling
    nitrogen. 200 gL 99mTc generator eluate (ca. 200 MBq) was added to the solution, which
20  was then heated to 90 'C for 20 min and left to cool to room temperature.
    Evaluation of Biodistribution of Radiolabelled anti-CAIX Ligand
    The biodistribution performance of the Technetium 99m labelled ligand in mice was
    assessed as follows. Balb/c nu/nu mice were injected subcutaneously with 107 SKRC52
25  renal cell carcinoma cells. Established SKRC52 tumors were allowed to grow to an average
    size of 500mm 3 before receiving intravenous injections of the the radiolabelled ligand. An
    untargeted / irrelevant ligand was also radiolabelled with Technetium 99m and used as
    negative control.

                                                 92
    Six hours after injection mice were sacrificed, individual organs were excised and analyzed
    for radiolabelled ligand uptake.
    The results expressed as Injected dose per gram of tissue are shown in Fig. 19 It can be
  5 seen that the CAIX ligand strongly localized in the tumor as compared to the untargeted
    ligand.
    Synthesis of an Auristatin Drug Conjugated to a Small Molecule CAIX Binding
    Moiety having a Peptide Linker that is Cleavable by Cathepsin B
 .0
    The reaction scheme and the structure of the drug conjugate of this example according to
    the present invention are shown in Fig. 19.
    The peptide AAZ-triazole-AspArgAspCys-COOH (1) was prepared as described previously
 .5 (Krall et. al., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 4231). A solution of 1 (4.5 mg, 5 gmol) in
    degassed PBS pH 7.4 (1 mL) was added to commercially available Maleimido Caproyl
    Valine Citrulline Para-Amino Benzyl carbamate of Mono Methyl Auristatin E (MC-VC
    PAB-MMAE (2), 6.5 mg, 4.9 gmol) and allowed to stand at room temperature for 5 min.
    MMAE is the toxic moiety. MC-VC-PAB is the cleavable linker.
 -O
    The mixture was purified over HPLC (Synergi RP Polar, 5% MeCN in 0.1% aq. TFA to
    80% over 20 min) and product containing fractions identified by low-resolution mass
    spectrometry. After lyophilization the product was collect as a white powder (7.5 mg, 3.4
    gmol, 68%). HRMS: (m/z)[M + 2H_] C9 8Hi 53N2 50 28 S3, 1112.0234; found 1112.0237.
25
    Evaluation of the Antitumor Activity of the Auristatin conjugate with CAIX binding
    moiety and Cathepsin B-Cleavable Peptide Linker.
30  The antitumor activity of the drug conjugate according to the present invention as shown in
    Fig. 19 was evaluated as follows. The results are shown graphically in Fig. 20.

HI:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17130214_.docx-1506/2018
                                                             - 93
Balb/c nu/nu mice were injected subcutaneously with               107 SKRC52 renal cell carcinoma cells.
Established SKRC52 tumors were allowed to grow to an average size of 700mm 3 before receiving
intravenous injections of the SMDC at the following doses and schedules: 50nm on day 1 only; 25 nm
each on day 1 and day 2; and 10nm each on days 1,2,3,4 and 5. Tumor volumes were recorded daily
with the aid of a digital caliper. A significant antitumor activity was observed even at the lowest dose
of 10 nmoles.
Fig. 20 shows that a strong antitumor activity of the SMDC was observed in the SKRC52 renal cell
carcinoma model established in nude mice. The regression of tumors with the size of 700mm 3 was
observed with different doses and treatment regimes.
All patent documents and other references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
The above embodiments of the invention have been described for the purpose of illustration only.
Many other embodiments falling within the scope of the accompanying claims will be apparent to the
skilled reader.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires otherwise, the
word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or to any
matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any
form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms
part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
REFERENCES
[1] T. Iwakiri, M. Okumura, M. Hidaka, Y. Kumagai, E. Ichihara, Y. Kawano, K. Arimori, J. Apple.
Toxicol. 2008, 28, 329.
[2] H. H. Ku, J. Res. Nat. Bur. Stand. Sec. C: Eng. Inst. 1966, 70C, 263.
[3] J. K. Ahlskog, C. Schliemann, J. Marlind, U. Qureshi, A. Ammar, R. B. Pedley, D. Neri, Br. J.
Cancer 2009, 101, 645.

ll:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17130214
                             _.docx-1506/2018
                                                   - 94
[4] Z. Nikolovska-Coleska, R. Wang, X. Fang, H. Pan, Y. Tomita, P. Li, P. P. Roller, K. Krajewski, N.
G. Saito, J. A. Stuckey, S. Wang, Anal. Biochem. 2004, 332, 261.
[5] K. Frey, C. Schliemann, K. Schwager, R. Giavazzi, M. Johannsen, D. Neri, J. Urology 2010, 184,
2540.
[6] M. Steiner, K. Gutbrodt, N. Krall, D. Neri, Bioconj. Chem. 2013, 24, 234.
[7] E. Oroudjev, M. Lopus, L. Wilson, C. Audette, C. Provenzano, H. Erickson, Y. Kovtun, R. Chari,
M. A. Jordan, Mol. Cancer. Ther. 2010, 9, 2700.
[8] M. Lapeyre, J. Leprince, M. Massonneau, H. Oulyadi, P. Y. Renard, A. Romieu, G. Turcatti, H.
Vaudry, Chemistry 2006, 12, 3655.
[9] A. El Alaoui, F. Schmidt, M. Amessou, M. Sarr, D. Decaudin, J. C. Florent, L. Johannes, Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 6469.
[10] L. F. Tietze, F. Major, Eur. J. Org. Chem. 2006, 2314.
[11] R. N. Zuckermann, et al, J. Med. Chem. 1994, 37, 2678.
[12] J. T. t. Lundquist, J. C. Pelletier, Org. Lett. 2001, 3, 781.
[13] F. Carta, V. Garaj, A. Maresca, J. Wagner, B. S. Avvaru, A. H. Robbins, A. Scozzafava, R.
McKenna, C. T. Supuran, Bioorg.Med. Chem. 2011, 19, 3105.
[14] K. M. Amore, N. E. Leadbeater, T. A. Miller, J. R. Schmink, Tet. Lett. 2006, 47, 8583.
[15] A. W. Schuttelkopf, L. Gros, D. E. Blair, J. A. Frearson, D. M. van Aalten, I. H. Gilbert, Bioorg.
Med. Chem. 2010, 18, 8334.
[16] G. Chouhan, K. James, Org. Lett. 2011, 13, 2754.

                                             95
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1. A binding moiety (B) for Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX), wherein the binding moiety
     comprises:
                                                      NN   SO2NH2
                                               C         S
                                                     NH
         0                    N   N
      N
      H     :
           HN,
 wherein R is selected from the group consisting of:
                   OH
       R       ='
                   oOH
                                    OH
                           NN
 R=
                         H
                                    F
             0             0
         o                 OOH
                                                  OH
                                      OH
 and

                                               96
                                          OH
                      COOH
            0    HN             COOH        /
                      0    HN
                                                       OH
wherein R' is H or C1C7 alkyl, Cl-C7 alkenyl, or Cl-C7 heteroalkyl, optionally substituted
with one, two or three substituents, and preferably R' is methyl.
2. The binding moiety (B) according to claim 1, wherein the binding moiety is univalent,
bivalent or multivalent.
3. A targeted therapeutic agent comprising the binding moiety according to claim 1 or 2.
4. The targeted therapeutic agent of claim 3, wherein said binding moiety further comprises a
drug moiety.
5. The targeted therapeutic agent of claim 4, wherein the drug moiety is a cytotoxic agent.
6. A method of treating a disease expressing elevated levels of CAIX, the method comprising
administering the targeted therapeutic agent of claim 4.
7. A method of treating a disease expressing elevated levels of CAIX, the method comprising
administering the targeted therapeutic agent of claim 5.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the disease is a renal cell carcinoma.
9. The targeted therapeutic agent of claim 3, wherein said binding moiety further comprises a
label.

                                               97
10. A method of diagnosing a disease displaying elevated levels of CAIX, the method
comprising administering the targeted therapeutic agent of claim 9.
11. Use of a targeted therapeutic agent of claim 4 or claim 5 in the manufacture of a
medicament for treating a disease expressing elevated levels of CAIX.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                 <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2701><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                        <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713> <U+2704><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+271B><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+271C><U+2722><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2718> <U+2723><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2724><U+2727><U+2715><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2713> <U+2605><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2729><U+272A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+272B><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+271C><U+2724><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2727><U+2724><U+2717> <U+270D><U+271A><U+2719><U+272D><U+2724><U+2717><U+272A><U+271E><U+2718><U+271B>
              <U+2713> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2701><U+2605><U+272E><U+270D><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2713> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2714> <U+272E><U+270D><U+2711><U+2730><U+2721><U+272E><U+2605><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2730><U+2704><U+2731><U+2605><U+2605> <U+272F>
              <U+2713> <U+272F> <U+2714> <U+2605><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2704><U+2605><U+2732><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2713> <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2733> <U+272F><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2734><U+271D><U+2735>
              <U+2713> <U+2731> <U+2714> <U+2605><U+2704> <U+272F><U+2732><U+2704><U+2605><U+2732><U+2704><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713> <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2733> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2701><U+2731><U+2702><U+2704><U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2713> <U+2731> <U+2714> <U+2605><U+2704> <U+272F><U+2732><U+2704><U+272F><U+2732><U+2605><U+2734>
              <U+2713> <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2733> <U+272F> <U+2734><U+2734><U+2734><U+272F><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2713> <U+2731> <U+2714> <U+2605><U+2704> <U+272F><U+2732> <U+2732> <U+2704>
              <U+2713> <U+2735><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2731>
              <U+2713> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272A><U+271E><U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2718><U+2727><U+271B><U+2715><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2702><U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2714>    <U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+2737><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2738><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+2739><U+2715><U+271C><U+2715><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+273A><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2720><U+273B><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+271C> <U+273C><U+2718><U+273C><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2719><U+273D><U+2718><U+2727>
              <U+2713><U+272F><U+2704><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2738><U+271B><U+273C> <U+2738><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2738><U+271B><U+273C> <U+270D><U+273B><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2704><U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+272F><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+272C><U+270C><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+2739><U+2715><U+271C><U+2715><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+273A><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2720><U+273B><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2719><U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2718><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2724><U+273E><U+2732><U+2725><U+2715><U+273E><U+2727><U+272A><U+2727><U+273B> <U+2738> <U+271A><U+2739> <U+272E><U+270D><U+2711><U+2730><U+2721><U+272E><U+2605><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2730><U+2704><U+2731><U+2605><U+2605> <U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2714>   <U+2729><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2706><U+2739><U+2718><U+272A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2727><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2714>   <U+273F><U+2605><U+2731><U+2740><U+271D><U+271D><U+273F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2740>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+270D><U+271A><U+2716><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717> <U+271B><U+2718><U+273A><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271C><U+2718> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272A><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+272A><U+2729><U+273E><U+2715><U+2717><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+271B><U+2725><U+273B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+2715><U+2739><U+2715><U+2718><U+271B> <U+2718><U+272A><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2715><U+2719><U+2716><U+2715><U+2736><U+2715><U+2716><U+2724><U+272A><U+2725>
                      <U+2725><U+2715><U+273E><U+2727><U+272A><U+2727><U+273B> <U+2729><U+2718><U+2729><U+273E><U+2718><U+2727> <U+271A><U+2739> <U+272E><U+270D><U+2711><U+2730><U+2721><U+272E><U+2605><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2730><U+2704><U+2731><U+2605><U+2605> <U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+272F><U+2704><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+272A><U+2717><U+271C><U+271E><U+271E><U+271C><U+271E><U+2717> <U+272A><U+272A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271C><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271C><U+271E><U+2717><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719> <U+271C><U+2717><U+272A><U+2717><U+271E><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272A><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271C><U+2717><U+271C><U+272A><U+2717><U+271C>                    <U+272F><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2704><U+2714> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+272C><U+270C><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+2739><U+2715><U+271C><U+2715><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+273A><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2720><U+273B><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2719><U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2718><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2724><U+273E><U+2732><U+2725><U+2715><U+273E><U+2727><U+272A><U+2727><U+273B> <U+2733> <U+271A><U+2739> <U+272E><U+270D><U+2711><U+2730><U+2721><U+272E><U+2605><U+2704> <U+2731><U+2730><U+2704><U+2731><U+2605><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2741>
                    <U+2716><U+2718><U+271B><U+2715><U+2717><U+2719><U+2718><U+2716> <U+271E><U+271A> <U+273E><U+2718> <U+271C><U+271A><U+2729><U+273C><U+2725><U+2718><U+2729><U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+272A><U+2727><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2724><U+273E><U+2732><U+2725><U+2715><U+273E><U+2727><U+272A><U+2727><U+273B> <U+2738> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2719><U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2718><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718><U+271B> <U+271A><U+2739>
                    <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270F><U+272C> <U+270C><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2605>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2714>   <U+2729><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2706><U+2739><U+2718><U+272A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2727><U+2718>
                                                     <U+272E><U+272A><U+2717><U+2718>

                                                 <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2701><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2714>   <U+273F> <U+2605><U+2740><U+271D><U+271D><U+273F> <U+2701><U+2740>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2738><U+273E><U+272A><U+271B><U+2715><U+271C> <U+271B><U+273C><U+272A><U+271C><U+2718><U+2727> <U+2727><U+2718><U+2717><U+2715><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+272F><U+2704><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2702>
              <U+271C><U+272A><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+272A><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+271C><U+272A><U+2717> <U+271C><U+272A><U+271C><U+272A><U+271C><U+272A><U+2717><U+272A><U+272A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271C><U+272A><U+2717><U+272A><U+272A><U+2717><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C> <U+271C>                <U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2704><U+2714> <U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+272C><U+270C><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+2739><U+2715><U+271C><U+2715><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+273A><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2720><U+273B><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+271C> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2719><U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2718><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2714>   <U+2729><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2706><U+2739><U+2718><U+272A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2727><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2714>   <U+273F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2740><U+271D><U+271D><U+273F><U+2605><U+2734><U+2740>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2719><U+2605><U+2605> <U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2605><U+2734> <U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271E><U+2718><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2732><U+2716><U+2715><U+2717><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271C><U+271A><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2727><U+2718><U+2717><U+2715><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+272F><U+2704><U+2704><U+2714> <U+272F>
              <U+271C><U+271C><U+271E><U+2717><U+271C><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272A><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+271C><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2719><U+2717> <U+271C><U+272A><U+2717><U+271C><U+271E><U+2717><U+271C><U+2717><U+271C>                   <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2704><U+2714> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2714> <U+2605>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+272C><U+270C><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+2605> <U+2702><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+2739><U+2715><U+271C><U+2715><U+272A><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2718><U+273A><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2720><U+273B><U+2719><U+271E><U+2722><U+2718><U+271E><U+2715><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2715><U+2729><U+2718><U+2727><U+2715><U+271C> <U+273F><U+272C><U+270C><U+2738><U+2730><U+2737><U+270C><U+2738><U+2740> <U+272A><U+2716><U+272A><U+273C><U+271E><U+2718><U+2727> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2719><U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2718><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2714>   <U+2729><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2706><U+2739><U+2718><U+272A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2727><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2714>   <U+273F><U+272F><U+2740><U+271D><U+271D><U+273F><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2737><U+270C><U+2738> <U+273C><U+271A><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2714>   <U+2729><U+2715><U+271B><U+271C><U+2706><U+2739><U+2718><U+272A><U+271E><U+2724><U+2727><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2714>   <U+273F> <U+272F><U+2740><U+271D><U+271D><U+273F> <U+2701><U+2740>
              <U+2713><U+2605><U+2605><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2737><U+270C><U+2738> <U+273C><U+271A><U+2727><U+271E><U+2715><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+272F><U+2704><U+2704><U+2714> <U+2731>
              <U+271C><U+2717><U+272A><U+2717><U+271E><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272A><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271C><U+2717><U+271C><U+272A><U+2717><U+271C><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271C>                                      <U+2605>
                                                    <U+272E><U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605>

