                                         ABSTRACT
              A system and method for operating a ballast car hopper door includes
logic and control circuitry, a hydraulic actuator, a door position sensor, and one or more
sensors operable to measure system operational parameters. During normal operation
of the hopper door the logic and control circuitry records the system operational
parameters. In the event of failure, or absence, of the door position sensor the control
circuitry compares real-time data to recorded data to maintain operation and correct
positioning of the hopper door.

       1/5
           CCl
             Q.-=
--   0
   --             |O

                        SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPERATING
                            A BALLAST CAR HOPPER DOOR
                                       BACKGROUND
[0001]         Conventional railroads in the United States and elsewhere are typically
formed by a compacted sub-grade, a bed of gravel ballast, wooden or concrete cross
ties positioned upon and within the ballast, and parallel steel rails secured to the ties.
Variations of construction occur at road and bridge                crossings and in other
circumstances. The ballast beneath and between the ties stabilizes the positions of the
ties, keeps the rails level, and provides some cushioning of the composite structure for
loads imposed by rail traffic.      However, vibrations from the movement of tracked
vehicles over the rails and weathering from wind, rain, ice, and freeze and thaw cycles
all contribute to compacting, dislodging, and displacement of some of the ballast over
time. Thus, in addition to other maintenance activities, it is necessary to replace ballast
periodically to maintain the integrity and safety of railroads.
[0002]         Replacement ballast is typically delivered or distributed to the areas along
a track in which it is needed using specially designed ballast hopper cars that include a
hopper structure holding a quantity of ballast, a ballast chute at the bottom of the hopper
in fluid communication with the hopper, and at least one power operated ballast hopper
door positioned in the chute.     The power operated hopper door typically includes a
linear hydraulic actuator controlled via logic control circuitry to selectively open or close
the door to control the discharge of ballast. The hopper door is pivotably attached, with
                                              1

an upper end and a distal end of the door moving in opposite directions about the pivot
point as the actuator rotates the door between desired positions.
[0003]         In typical operation the door is moveable between: a mid, closed position
in which the upper end of the door blocks the chute opening so that no ballast can exit
the hopper; an open, inboard position in which the distal end of the door is positioned
inboard such that ballast is directed from the chute towards the inside of the car,
between the rails; and an open, outboard position in which the distal end of the door is
positioned outboard such that ballast is directed from the chute towards the outside of
the car.
[0004]         Typical ballast hopper cars include a front hopper and a rear hopper, with
each hopper having two transversely spaced doors, one to the left side of the car and
one to the right. Thus, each ballast hopper car typically includes four separate hopper
doors to control the discharge of ballast. Each hopper door is independently controlled
to discharge ballast outside the rails on the left and/or the right sides of the hopper car,
or between the rails, as desired and as controlled by the logic and control circuitry.
[0005]         Because railroad companies typically maintain hundreds or thousands of
miles of track on a recurring schedule, the ballast replacement component of track
maintenance is typically a major undertaking in terms of equipment, materials, traffic
control, labor, and management. Thus, reliable operation of the ballast hopper doors is
essential to the efficient and effective operation of the ballast distribution process.
                                              2

                                        SUMMARY
[0006]         Embodiments of the invention are defined by the claims below, not this
summary. A high-level overview of various aspects of the invention is provided here to
introduce a selection of concepts that are further described in the Detailed-Description
section below.     This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential
features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used in isolation to
determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. In brief, this disclosure describes,
among other things, systems and methods for operating a ballast car hopper door in the
event of failure or absence of a hopper door position sensor.
[0007]         In one embodiment, the hopper door system includes a hydraulic linear
actuator operable between extended and retracted positions, with hydraulic pressure
supplied by a hydraulic pump system. The actuator is coupled to the hopper door by a
linkage mechanism such that movement of the actuator main ram is translated to
movement of the hopper door. Logic and control circuitry provides command signals to
an electro hydraulic servo valve which in turn directs hydraulic pressure to the actuator
to achieve a desired hopper door position. A position sensor mounted in or on the
actuator, hopper door, or linkage mechanism provides an electrical signal to the logic
and control circuitry corresponding to a position of the hopper door.
[0008]         In addition to the actuator position sensor, the system includes at least
one pressure sensor operable to measure hydraulic system pressure. The sensors are
in communication with the logic and control circuitry and provide an electrical signal
corresponding to the respective parameter.       In alternative embodiments, the system
includes a temperature sensor operable to measure the ambient temperature in which
the system is operating, additional pressure and flow sensors to measure hydraulic
                                             3

system parameters at additional locations in the hopper door hydraulic systems, and
limit switches operable to detect positions of mechanical components.
[0009]         In one aspect, the hopper door system is operable to detect a failure of the
door position sensor. A position sensor failure can be detected by logic and control
circuitry sensing an open or short circuit in the position sensor circuitry, sensing a failure
of supply voltage to the sensor, sensing an out of range signal or reading from
monitored position sensor data, or sensing that the position sensor signal or data does
not change when the actuator has been commanded to move.
[0010]         In another aspect, during normal operation of the hopper door system the
logic and control circuitry monitors data from the various sensors, including the door
position sensor and the hydraulic pressure sensor, and logs or records that system
parameter data into memory. In conjunction with the system parameter data, the logic
and control circuitry records a time signal to allow the recorded data points to be
temporally correlated so that a timeline of system parameter data over the course of a
particular command and operation is established. For example, upon commanding the
hopper door to open inwardly from a closed position, the logic and control circuitry
monitors and records a time signal along with system parameter data from the door
position sensor, the hydraulic pressure sensor, and other system sensors.
[0011]         The recorded data is stored locally for further access by the logic and
control circuitry, and can be offloaded to an external storage device and/or to a
computer or database for further review and analysis.
[0012]         In yet another aspect, in the event of a detected failure of the door position
sensor, or in the absence of a door position sensor, the logic and control circuitry
                                               4

operates and determines the position of the hopper door by comparing real-time system
parameters to previously recorded system parameter data and discerning that the real
time data correlates to that recorded data, indicating that the desired hopper door
operation was performed. For example, using system parameter data recorded during
normal operation of the hopper door being commanded to its open inwardly position, the
logic and control circuitry commands the door to the open inwardly position and
compares the real-time system parameter data - e.g., time and pressure - to the
previously recorded data for that operation.      If the real-time system parameter data
correlates within a predetermined tolerance to the recorded system parameter data, the
logic and control circuitry ascertains that the desired command was performed correctly,
and the door moved to the open inwardly position. In alternative embodiments, the logic
and control circuitry uses predetermined default values in place of recorded system
parameter data.
[0013]        Thus, operation of the hopper door and determination of the door's
position can be attained in the event of failure of the actuator position sensor.      In
alternative embodiments, the door position sensor is eliminated entirely from the system
and operation of the hopper door is effected via the logic and control circuitry using
system parameter data from other system sensors.
                                               5

                            DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014]        Illustrative embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with
reference to the attached drawing figures, and wherein:
[0015]        FIG. 1 is a side elevational view of a hopper car and a control car for
distributing ballast depicted in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present invention;
[0016]        FIG. 2 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of two ballast
discharge chutes associated with a hopper of the hopper car and each including a
ballast door and actuator depicted in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present invention;
[0017]        FIG. 3 is diagrammatic schematic view of a system for operating a ballast
car hopper door in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
[0018]        FIGS. 4 and 5 are flow diagrams depicting a method for controlling a
ballast car hopper door in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
invention.
                                            6

                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]         The subject matter of select embodiments of the invention is described
with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. But the description itself is not
intended to necessarily limit the scope of claims. Rather, the claimed subject matter
might be embodied in other ways to include different components, steps, or
combinations thereof similar to the ones described in this document, in conjunction with
other present or future technologies. Terms should not be interpreted as implying any
particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except
when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.         The terms "about" or
"approximately" as used herein denote deviations from the exact value in the form of
changes or deviations that are insignificant to the function.
[0020]         Embodiments of the invention include apparatus, systems, and methods
for controlling the operation of a ballast car hopper door. Various embodiments employ
various techniques for detecting the operability of a hopper door position sensor,
monitoring and recording hopper door system parameter data, and comparing real-time
system parameter data during operation of the hopper door with previously recorded
and/or stored system parameter data to operate the hopper door and determine its
position.
[0021]         Looking first to FIGS. 1 and 2, a portion of a ballast delivery consist 10
includes a hopper car 12 and a control car 14. The hopper car 12 and control 14 are
typically a part of a larger consist comprising a plurality of hopper cars and control cars,
with at least one power or propulsion unit for propelling the consist along a railway 13.
In one embodiment, the consist includes one control car 14 for approximately each thirty
hopper cars 12, although other ratios may be employed.
                                              7

[0022]          Each hopper car 12 includes two longitudinally adjacent hoppers 16, with
left and right ballast chutes 18 formed at the lower portion of each hopper 16. The
sloped configuration of the hoppers 16 and chutes 18 directs ballast in the chute
downwardly towards the bottom of the car for disbursement along a rail track.
[0023]          An elongated, pivotably mounted ballast door 20 is positioned at the
bottom of each chute 18 and is operable to control the flow of ballast from the
respective chute. When the door 20 is positioned at its midpoint, the upper portion of
the door is positioned to cover the bottom opening of the ballast chute 14 to prevent
ballast from exiting the hopper 16. When the upper end of the door 20 is rotated
inwardly, towards the inside of the car with the lower end of the door 20 angled outward
relative to the car, the bottom opening of the ballast chute 18 is uncovered so that
ballast falls from the chute and onto the outwardly sloping ballast door 20 which directs
the downwardly flowing ballast toward the outside of the car. And, when the upper end
of the door 20 is rotated outwardly, towards the outside of the car with the lower end of
the door 20 angled inward relative to the car, the bottom opening of the ballast chute 18
is uncovered so that ballast falls from the chute and onto the inwardly sloping ballast
door 20 which directs the downwardly flowing ballast toward the inside of the car,
between the rails.
[0024]          Each door 20 is operated by hydraulically powered linear actuator 22
connected to a rotatable linkage mechanism 24 extending from one end of the door 20.
The linkage mechanism 24 translates the linear movement of the actuator 22 to
rotational movement of the door 20, moving the door 20 between its open and closed
positions as the actuator 22 is extended and retracted.
                                             8

 [00251        Each hopper car 12 includes logic and control circuitry 26 operable to
command and control the operation of the actuator 22 to open and close the hopper
door 20, and to monitor a door position signal from the actuator 22, and from other
system sensors and parameters, as will be described in more detail below. The logic
and control circuitry 26 may be standalone circuitry configured to control and operate
just the hopper door system, or the circuitry may be a part of a car control unit or CCU
that controls and/or monitors the operation of multiple systems on the car.
 [0026]        Most preferably, the logic and control circuitry includes one or more
 processors operable to execute a series of programmed instructions and one or more
 memory devices operable to store programmed instructions for execution by the
circuitry, and one or more memory devices operable to store system data parameters
obtained by the logic and control circuitry monitoring the various sensors in the system.
 [0027]        Each hopper car 12 and control car 14 may include solar panels 30 and
 batteries 34 to supply power to the logic and control circuitry or CCU, or to other
systems located on the car. The control car 14 may include one or more generators 38
configured to supply power to the car, with a wiring bus between cars operable to
distribute power along the consist. Each car may further include a GPS receiver 32
 positioning system operable to provide a geographic location of the car.
 [0028]        As depicted in FIG. 1, the control car 14 is configured similarly to the
 hopper car 12, and may function as a hopper car for ballast distribution, except that the
control car includes a master controller 40 in communication with a plurality of hopper
cars 12 via their respective CCUs. In one exemplary embodiment, the logic and control
circuitry 26 on the hopper car 12 is in communication with the master controller 40
                                             9

which provides commands to the logic and control circuitry 26 to operate the hoper
doors so that ballast is distributed along the track as commanded.
[0029]         The master controller 40 preferably includes a computing device having
information compiled from a spreading survey or other information relating to a desired
disbursement of ballast and the current location of the hopper car so that ballast can be
distributed from the hopper car in the desired manner.        Most preferably the master
controller 40 is in communication with one or more navigation systems 34 located on at
least one of the cars, the consist may further include other communications components
36 configured to transmit and receive data over satellite, cellular, radio, telephone, or
other long and/or short range communications networks.
[0030]         Communication between the master controller 40 and the logic control
circuitry 26 may be through a communications bus or wireline, or may be via other wired
or wireless means. Thus, upon command from the logic and control circuitry, any of the
hopper door actuators may be commanded to direct the associated hopper door to an
open or closed position to achieve the desired disbursement of ballast.
[0031]         Turning to FIG. 3, a schematic diagram of a hydraulic hopper door control
system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is
referenced generally by the numeral 100. The hopper door control system includes a
hydraulic pump 102 in fluid communication with a hydraulic fluid reservoir 104 so that
the pump is operable to provide pressurized hydraulic fluid to the system. The pressure
outlet 106 of the pump 102 is in fluid communication with an electro hydraulic servo
valve 108 operable to direct pressurized hydraulic fluid to a linear actuator 110 through
valve ports 112, 114 supplying pressurized hydraulic fluid to the actuator body or
                                              10

housing 115 to extend and retract actuator piston or ram 116 relative to the actuator
body 115. Logic and control circuitry 118 is in electrical communication with the servo
valve 108, with a signal from the logic and control circuitry 118 commanding the valve to
a desired position to achieve a desired movement of the actuator 110 and in particular
movement of ram 116 relative to actuator body 115. As depicted in FIG. 3, the actuator
110 can be commanded to a mid-position 120, a retracted position 122, and an
extended position 124, with the servo valve 108 directing pressurized hydraulic fluid to
the appropriate ports 112, 114 to achieve the desired positioning of the actuator 110. A
door position sensor 126 positioned internally or externally to the actuator 110 is in
communication with the logic and control circuitry 118 and is operable to provide an
electrical signal to the circuitry corresponding to the position of the ram 116 of the
actuator 110 relative to the actuator body 115.
[0032]         The system 100 further includes: a temperature sensor 132 operable to
provide a signal to the logic and control circuitry 118 corresponding to the ambient
temperature in which the system is operating and a pressure transducer 138 operable
to provide an electrical signal corresponding to the hydraulic system pressure to the
logic and control circuitry 118.
[0033]          It should be understood that the hydraulic actuator 110 and logic and
control circuitry 118 correspond to the actuator and logic and control circuitry discussed
with respect to the exemplary embodiment of FIGS. 1-2.
[0034]          It should be further understood that the arrangement and configuration of
the system depicted in the schematic diagram of FIG. 3 is exemplary and not limiting,
and that variations on that configuration are within the scope of the present invention.
                                              11

For example, the system may include additional components and/or sensors than those
depicted - the hydraulic system may include an accumulator, or the components may
be positioned and arranged other than as depicted in the schematic diagram. Similarly,
the positioning and arrangement of the temperature and pressure sensors may vary
within the scope of the present invention. For example, the pressure sensors may be
positioned directly adjacent the ports of the hydraulic actuator.
[0035]        Additionally, the system may include fewer or more sensors than those
depicted in the exemplary schematic diagram of FIG. 3, such as including additional
pressure sensors, flow sensors, and temperature sensors. Furthermore, variations in
the types of sensors employed in the system are contemplated by the present invention.
For example, while the actuator position sensor is depicted as a resistive element, other
types of sensors, such as encoders or linear variable differential transformer (LVDT)
sensors may likewise be employed, with the position sensor located internally or
externally to the actuator. In alternative embodiments, the position sensor may be a
rotary sensor placed on the hopper door pivot or on the linkage mechanism. It should
be understood that as used herein, "door position" and "actuator position" may be used
interchangeably as the door is mechanically coupled to the actuator such that they
move in tandem. Thus, the position of the door is directly related to the position of the
ram 116 of the actuator 110 such that the door position sensor may physically be
located on or in either the actuator 110 or the door 20. These and other variations are
within the scope of the present invention.
[0036]        With the components and sensors of the hopper door control system set
forth, exemplary operation of the hopper door system will now be described with
                                             12

reference to the flow diagram depicted in FIGS. 4 and 5, and with reference back to the
system depicted in FIGS. 1-3 as described above.        It should be understood that the
logic and steps of operation depicted and described in FIGS. 4 and 5 are preferably
implemented in the logic and control circuitry of the system described above, and that
the logic and control circuitry is in communication with the sensors and components of
the system as previously described.
[0037]        Looking to FIG. 4, the process starts at step 200, either when the logic
and control circuitry is turned on or initiated, or when the master controller 40
commands the logic and control circuitry 26 to perform an operation, i.e., issues a
command to move the hopper car door 20 to a desired position.
[0038]        At step 202, the logic and control circuitry 26 determines whether the
hopper door position sensor 126 is operational. Operability of the sensor 126 can be
determined by various measurements and logical comparisons performed by the logic
and control circuitry 26 with respect to the electrical signals supplied to, and received
from, the sensor 126. In the case of a resistive or inductive type position sensor, the
circuitry 26 can detect an open circuit or short circuit, can detect whether the supply
voltage to the sensor is within a desired range, or can detect if the position signal
voltage is outside of an allowable tolerance. In the case of an encoder type position
sensor, the circuitry can detect operable communication with the sensor and can detect
any fault codes sent by the sensor. Regardless of the type of sensor 126, if the logic
and control circuitry 26 determines that the door position sensor 126 is operating
properly, the process proceeds to step 204.
                                            13

[00391          At step 204, the logic and control circuitry commands the hopper door 20
(via a command to the servo valve 108 and corresponding movement of the actuator
110) to a desired position for distributing ballast from the hopper - by moving the hopper
door 20 inwardly or outwardly to an open position - or for containing ballast - by moving
the hopper door 20 to its center, closed position.
[0040]          Proceeding to step 206, with the command to move the door 20 issued,
the logic and control circuitry monitors the door position sensor 126 to ascertain that the
door begins to move after being commanded to do so. If so, at step 208 the logic and
control circuitry 26 monitors and records system parameter data from the sensors
located throughout the system, preferably including the door position sensor 126, the
system hydraulic pressure transducer 138, the ambient temperature sensor 132, and
combinations thereof. All of the system parameter data from the various sensors is
initially captured and recorded into memory located in the logic and control circuitry 26,
or in communication with the logic and control circuitry. A time signal is recorded
simultaneously with the sensor data so that each recorded data point for each system
parameter can be temporally correlated with the other recorded data points so that a
timeline of the reaction of the system parameters during the course of the commanded
operation can be constructed.
[0041]          Upon completion of the commanded movement, at step 210 the logged
data is saved into a data record that indicates the commanded operation and the time
and date of the operation.      The recorded data record is preferably stored to a non
volatile memory within the logic and control circuitry 26. Most preferably, the recorded
                                              14

data is also transferred from the logic and control circuitry to an external storage device
or computer system for permanent storage and for further analysis and processing.
[0042]         With the desired movement of the hopper door commanded and
completed, the process returns to step 202 to monitor the operability of the door position
sensor 126.
[0043]         Looking again to block 202, if the logic and control circuitry 26 determines
that the door position sensor 126 is not operational, the process proceeds to step 212 of
FIG. 5, where the logic and control circuitry 26 determines whether the hopper door 20
is currently in an open state or a closed state. Determination of the position of the door
20 can be based on the current data from the door position sensor 26, the last known
state of the door 20, by determining whether vertical pressure is on the door based on
the load condition of the car preprogrammed or sensed by the logic and control circuitry,
or by combinations of those data points. If it is determined that the door 20 is currently
in a closed position, no ballast is being discharged from the hopper 16, so the door 20
can be left at that position.
[0044]         At step 212, with the door position sensor 126 failed and the door 20 not
currently open, the process proceeds to step 214 where the logic and control circuitry
26 notes a fault in the door system (i.e., the failed door position sensor 126), and sets a
flag in the logic and control circuitry 26 that the ballast hopper car position sensor 126
has a fault. At step 216 further operation of that hopper door 20 is stopped until the
system can be repaired. Preferably, the fault flag identifies the particular ballast hopper
door 20 that was determined to be inoperable. Most preferably, the logic and control
circuitry 26 further communicates the detected fault to a master controller 40.
                                              15

[00451          Returning to step 212, with the logic and control circuitry 26 having
detected that the door position sensor 126 is not operational and that the hopper door
20 is currently open, ballast is potentially being erroneously discharged from the hopper
car 12. Thus, the logic and control circuitry 26 will attempt to operate and close the
door 20 in the absence of an operable door position sensor 126.
[0046]          At step 218 the logic and control circuitry 26 determines whether there
exists any previously recorded data corresponding to the desired operation - i.e.,
moving the hopper door 20 from an open position to a closed position - as would have
been recorded as described with respect to steps 204 through 210 of the process.
[0047]          If the logic and control circuitry 26 determines that there is previously
recorded data for the desired operation, at step 220 that previously recorded data is
moved or read into memory of the logic and control circuitry. At step 222, the logic and
control circuitry 26 determines from the previously recorded data the time it previously
took to move the hopper door 20 from the open to the closed position, and issues a
command to the servo valve 108 for that same amount of time, commanding the hopper
door 20 to the closed position. While that command is executing, i.e., as the hopper
door 20 is moving to the closed position, the logic and control circuitry 26 compares the
real-time system parameter data - e.g., the hydraulic pressure - to the data recorded
from the previous correct operation of closing the hopper door 20.
[0048]      If the real-time system parameter data correlates to the corresponding
recorded system parameter data within an allowable tolerance, the logic and control
circuitry 26 determines that the hopper door 20 closed properly. For example, the data
recorded during normal operation of the hopper door may indicate a pressure drop at
                                              16

the initial movement of the hopper door, and a gradual pressure increase when the
hopper door reaches the closed position - all occurring over a specific time interval. If
the real-time data correlates closely to that recorded data, e.g., the initial pressure drop
and final pressure spike, all over the same time period, are within an allowable
tolerance, then the logic and control circuitry determines that the hopper door has
closed correctly.
[0049]         In one exemplary embodiment, the logic and control circuitry differentiates
between the operation of hopper door when the ballast car is loaded with material, and
when the ballast car is not loaded, or empty.       For example, when the ballast car is
loaded with ballast material, that material exerts a force, or vertical pressure, against a
closed hopper door. When the door is commanded open from that closed position the
pressure of the material against the door causes the door to move less slowly than
when there is no material in the car and thus no vertical pressure exerted on the hopper
door. Similarly, a door commanded to a closed position moving against the pressure of
a ballast load will move more slowly than a door moving against no load.               Thus,
preferably, the logic and control circuitry is preprogrammed with information as to the
load status of the car, and the expected timing of movement of the door is accounted for
by the logic and control circuitry. In alternative embodiments, the logic and control
circuitry receives real-time or updated information regarding the load status of the
hopper car and adjusts the door timing parameters accordingly.
[0050]        With the door 20 thus moved to the closed position, the process proceeds
to step 214, where the fault with the position sensor 126 is flagged.
                                             17

[00511        Returning to step 218, if the logic and control circuitry 26 has not
previously recorded system parameter data for a corresponding normal door operation,
the process proceeds to step 224 where predetermined default values for the system
parameter data are used to compare to real-time system parameter data to determine
whether the subsequent hopper door 20 closing operation is successful. Preferably, the
predetermined default values are derived from data recorded from hopper door test
systems or from other hopper door systems in operation.         Alternatively, the default
values can be calculated or estimated.
[0052]        In alternative embodiments, the system and method of the present
invention allow full operation of a ballast car hopper door 20 - i.e., moving the door to
any desired open or closed position - in the event of failure of the door position sensor
126.
[0053]        In further embodiments, the system and method allow full operation of a
ballast car hopper door in a system that does not include a door position sensor.
[0054]        In those alternative embodiments, profiles of recorded system parameter
data under various operating conditions -such as varying temperatures, ballast loads,
etc. - are obtained for various operations of the hopper door and stored in memory
accessible by the logic and control circuitry. For example, moving the hopper door from
the closed position to the open inboard position and vice versa, moving the hopper door
from the closed position to the open outboard position and vice versa, moving the
hopper door from the open inboard to the open outboard position, and any other
variations of operation desired.    During operation of the door the real-time system
parameter data -e.g., pressure and temperature- is compared to the system parameter
                                             18

data recorded in the corresponding profile.        If the real-time system parameter data
compares within an allowable tolerance to the recorded system parameter data, the
logic and control circuitry determines that the commanded door operation was
successful. Thus, in a system that does not include a door position sensor, the hopper
door can be controlled using recorded system parameter data.
[0055]         In further alternative embodiments, the recorded data is offloaded to an
external computer system and analyzed and/or averaged to obtain default values for
use by the logic and control circuitry in the event no operation of the door system has
yet been recorded. In other embodiments, the system includes further sensors, such as
additional pressure, flow, and temperature sensors which provide additional data to the
logic and control circuitry that is used in the recorded system parameter data profile in a
manner similar to that just described.
[0056]         From the above, it can be seen that the system and method of the present
invention can be employed to ensure that a hopper door can be closed in the event of a
fault with a door or actuator position sensor to ensure that ballast is not erroneously
discharged during that failure, and can be used to control the operation of a hopper door
in a system without a door position sensor.
[0057]         While the system and method of the present invention have been
described herein with respect to a hopper door system comprising a linear hydraulic
actuator, it should be understood that the system and method of the present invention
may similarly be employed in conjunction with other system configurations and power
sources.    For example, the hopper door actuator may be electrically or pneumatically
operated, or the actuator may be a rotary actuator configured to directly rotate the
                                               19

hopper door into a desired position.       In an electrically actuated system voltage and
current parameters may be monitored and recorded rather than pressure parameters,
however the operation of the system and method remains essentially unchanged.
[0058]          Many different arrangements of the various components depicted, as well
as components not shown, are possible without departing from the scope of the claims
below.     Embodiments of the technology have been described with the intent to be
illustrative rather than restrictive.  Alternative embodiments will become apparent to
readers of this disclosure after and because of reading it.            Alternative means of
implementing the aforementioned can be completed without departing from the scope of
the claims below. Identification of structures as being configured to perform a particular
function in this disclosure and in the claims below is intended to be inclusive of
structures and arrangements or designs thereof that are within the scope of this
disclosure and readily identifiable by one of skill in the art and that can perform the
particular function in a similar way. Certain features and sub-combinations are of utility
and may be employed without reference to other features and sub-combinations and
are contemplated within the scope of the claims.
[0059]          It will be understood that the term "comprise" and any of its derivatives
(eg comprises, comprising) as used in this specification is to be taken to be inclusive of
features to which it refers, and is not meant to exclude the presence of any additional
features unless otherwise stated or implied.
[0060]         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
                                              20

[00611        It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not
restricted in its use to the particular application described. Neither is the present
invention restricted in its preferred embodiment with regard to the particular elements
and/or features described or depicted herein. It will be appreciated that various
modifications can be made without departing from the principles of the invention.
Therefore, the invention should be understood to include all such modifications in its
scope.
                                           21

                             CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.     A system for operating a ballast car hopper door, comprising:
       an actuator mechanically coupled to a hopper door, the actuator
operable to move the hopper door between open and closed positions;
       a position sensor coupled to the hopper door and operable to
generate an electrical signal corresponding to a position of the hopper
door;
       at least one system sensor operable to measure at least one
system parameter corresponding to movement of the hopper door,
wherein the system parameter is not a position of the hopper door; and
        logic and control circuitry in communication with the position sensor
and the system sensor, wherein the logic and control circuitry:
       determines whether the position sensor is functioning properly
using data obtained from the position sensor;
       commands the actuator to move the hopper door to a desired
position; and
        if the position sensor is not functioning properly, monitors real-time
data from the at least one system sensor as the hopper door moves and
compares the real-time data to corresponding stored data to determine
that the hopper door moved as commanded.
                                22

              2.     The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one system sensor is
selected from the group consisting of: pressure sensors, flow sensors, temperature
sensors, voltage sensors, current sensors, and combinations thereof.
              3.     The system of claim 1, wherein the logic and control circuitry
further:
              records into memory real time data from the at least one system sensor as
the hopper door moves.
              4.     The system of claim 3, wherein the logic and control circuitry
further:
              records into memory a time signal to temporally correlate data recorded
from the at least one system sensor.
              5.     The system of claim 1, wherein the stored data is derived from
previously-recorded data obtained from the at least one system sensor.
              6.     The system of claim 1, wherein the stored data is predetermined
calculated data.
              7.     A system for operating a ballast car hopper door, comprising:
                     an actuator mechanically coupled to the hopper door to move the
              hopper door between open and closed positions;
                                           23

                     at least one system sensor operable to measure at least one
              system parameter corresponding to movement of the hopper door,
              wherein the system parameter is not a position of the hopper door; and
                     logic and control circuitry in communication with the system sensor,
              wherein the logic and control circuitry:
                     commands the actuator to move the hopper door to a desired
              position; and
                     monitors real-time data from the at least one system sensor as the
              hopper door moves and compares the real-time data to corresponding
              stored data to determine that the hopper door moved as commanded.
              8.     The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one system sensor is
selected from the group consisting of: pressure sensors, flow sensors, temperature
sensors, voltage sensors, current sensors, and combinations thereof.
              9.     The system of claim 7, wherein the logic and control circuitry
further:
              records into memory real time data from the at least one system sensor as
the hopper door moves.
              10.    The system of claim 9, wherein the logic and control circuitry
further:
              records into memory a time signal to temporally correlate data recorded
from the at least one system sensor.
                                             24

              11.    The system of claim 7, wherein the stored data is derived from
previously-recorded data obtained from the at least one system sensor.
              12.    The system of claim 7, wherein the stored data is predetermined
calculated data.
              13.    A system for operating a ballast car hopper door, comprising:
                     an actuator mechanically coupled to a hopper door;
                     at least one system sensor operable to measure at least one
              system parameter corresponding to movement of the hopper door;
                     logic and control circuitry in communication with the system sensor,
              wherein the logic and control circuitry:
                     commands the actuator to move the hopper door to a desired
              position; and
                     monitors real-time data from the at least one system sensor as the
              hopper door moves and compares the real-time data to corresponding
              stored data to determine that the hopper door moved as commanded.
              14.    The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one system sensor is
selected from the group consisting of: pressure sensors, flow sensors, temperature
sensors, voltage sensors, current sensors, and combinations thereof.
              15.    The system of claim 14, wherein the logic and control circuitry
further:
                                             25

              records into memory real time data from the at least one system sensor as
the hopper door moves.
              16.    The system of claim 15, wherein the logic and control circuitry
further:
              records into memory a time signal to temporally correlate data recorded
from the at least one system sensor.
              17.    The system of claim 13, wherein the stored data is derived from
previously-recorded data obtained from the at least one system sensor.
              18.    The system of claim 13, wherein the stored data is predetermined
calculated data.
              19.    The system of claim 13, further comprising a position sensor
coupled to the hopper door and in communication with the logic and control circuitry, the
position sensor operable to provide an electrical signal corresponding to a position of
the hopper door to the logic and control circuitry.
                                            26

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
