H:\kxg\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KXG\ 15954826_1.docx - 3/ 11/2017
ABSTRACT
A process for producing a titanium load-bearing structure, which comprises cold-gas
dynamic spraying of titanium particles on to a suitably shaped support member, and a
titanium load-bearing structure so-produced.

WO 2013/149291                       PCT/AU2013/000318
                           - 1/2
                           7
                       85
                                 8     10
    2               46
                                   9
                          Figure 1
   Titanium Deposit
 Titanium -Aluminium
 Interface
 Aluminium Substrate
                          Figure 2

H:\kxg\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KXG\ 15954826_1.docx - 3/ 11/2017
   A PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A TITANIUM LOAD-BEARING STRUCTURE
This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013243224, the entire contents
of which are incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD OF INVENTION
The present invention relates to the production of structures from titanium and titanium
alloys. The present invention also relates to structures produced in accordance with the
present invention.
BACKGROUND TO INVENTION
Titanium and titanium alloys have high strength to weight ratio, high stiffness and
excellent corrosion resistance. For these reasons it is desirable to use such materials to
produce load-bearing structures, such as bicycle frames. Current manufacturing methods
for producing titanium/titanium alloy load bearing structures, such as bicycle frames,
typically involve forming individual tubular frame components (by vacuum casting and
deformation processes to produce the desired component profile) followed by assembly
and welding of the various components to produce the frame. As titanium/titanium alloys
have a high affinity for oxygen, high temperature processing such as welding must take
place in a protective (reducing) atmosphere. Overall, this conventional approach is
time-consuming, energy and labour intensive, and thus costly. As a result the use of
titanium/titanium alloys has been somewhat limited to such things as aerospace,
biomedical and high end sports products. The constraints associated with conventional
manufacturing methodologies are impeding more widespread use of titanium and titanium
alloys.
Against this background it would be desirable to offer a process for the manufacture of
titanium/titanium alloy load-bearing structures that does not suffer these problems.

 WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -2
    SUMMARY OF INVENTION
    Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for producing a titanium
    load-bearing structure, which comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying of titanium particles
 5  on to a suitably shaped support member.
    The present invention also provides a titanium load-bearing structure produced in
    accordance with the present invention.
10  In this specification, unless otherwise indicated, the term "titanium" is used denote
    titanium per se and titanium alloys. Thus, the process of the present invention may be
    applied to produce titanium load-bearing structures and titanium alloy load-bearing
    structures.
15  Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
    otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
    be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
    but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
20  The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
    or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
    admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived
    from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
    endeavour to which this specification relates.
25
    BRIEF DISCUSSION OF DRAWING
    Embodiments of the present invention are illustrated with reference to the accompanying
    non-limiting drawing in which:
30

  WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  -3
     Figure 1 is a schematic diagram showing a cold spray system for deposition of titanium on
     a bicycle frame scaffold;
     Figure 2 is a micrograph of cold sprayed titanium on an aluminium support member
 5   (etched); and
     Figure 3 is a. scanning electron micrograph of the interface between titanium and
     aluminium.
10   DETAILED DISCUSSION
     The use of cold spray in accordance with the present invention enables titanium particles to
     be deposited in the solid state and at extremely high speed on to a suitable support member
     (also referred to herein as a "scaffold").         Advantageously, this eliminates many
15   intermediate high temperature manufacturing process steps that might otherwise be
     required, such as melting, rolling and welding of titanium. Such steps typically require a
     controlled atmosphere to prevent titanium oxidation.       The elimination of such process
     steps may also be beneficial in terms of energy consumption and carbon emissions.
20   The usd of cold spray in accordance with the present invention may also lead to a reduction
     in materials input, elimination of mould and melting cost and/or reduction of reworking
     and finishing for titanium products. Accordingly, the use of cold spray in accordance with
     the present invention may decrease manufacturing costs and enhance manufacturing
     efficiency and rate, with corresponding commercial benefits.
25
     Cold-gas dynamic spraying (cold spraying) is a known process that has been used for
     applying coatings to surfaces.    In general terms, the process involves feeding (metallic
     and/or non-metallic) particles into a high pressure gas flow stream which is then passed
     through a converging/diverging nozzle that causes the gas stream to be accelerated to
30   supersonic velocities (normally above 1000 m/s), or feeding particles into a supersonic gas
     stream after the nozzle throat. The particles are then directed to a surface to be deposited.

  WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -4
     The process is carried out at relatively low temperatures, below the melting point of the
     substrate and the particles to be deposited, with a coating being formed as a result of
     particle impingement on the substrate surface. The fact that the process takes place at
     relatively low temperature allows thermodynamic, thermal and/or chemical effects, on the
 5   surface being coated and the particles making up the coating, to be reduced or avoided.
     This means that the original structure and properties of the particles can be preserved
     without phase transformations etc. that might otherwise be associated with high
     temperature coating processes such as plasma, HVOF, arc, gas-flame spraying or other
     thermal spraying processes. The underlying principles, apparatus and methodology of cold
10   spraying are described, for example, in US 5,302,414.
     The use of cold spraying in the context of the present invention allows the production of
     titanium load-bearing structures to be greatly simplified and made more economic. In the
     process of the present invention, cold-gas dynamic spraying is used to deposit and build up
15  .a layer of titanium on a shaped support member. This approach avoids the need to make
     and join together individual components in order to yield a final structure. In particular, in
     accordance with the present invention cold spray avoids the need to weld titanium
     components together. The process of the invention may be regarded as a process for
     producing a load-bearing structure that would otherwise (i.e. conventionally) have been
20   produced by welding together of individual structure components. Put another way, the
     load-bearing structure produced in accordance with the invention is formed as a unitary
     construction as opposed to having been assembled by making and joining together various
     components.
25   The process of the invention is used to produce a load-bearing structure and in doing so
     seeks to leverage off the desirable material properties of titanium noted above. The term
     "load-bearing structure" is used to denote a structure the function of which is to bear a
     load. The load-bearing structure may take the form of a frame that is a basic structure on
     to which other components are fitted. By way of example, the frame may be for an
30   aerospace or nautical vessel or motor vehicle, or it may be a frame for a bicycle,

  WO 2013/149291                                                         PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -5
    motorcycle, motor scooter, wheelchair, hang glider or luggage. The present invention is
    believed to be particularly well suited to making bicycle and motorcycle frames.
    The load-bearing structure may be of monocoque design in which the (titanium) surface of
 5  the structure itself provides load-bearing functionality. By way of example, in this case,
    the load-bearing structure may be motorcycle or motor,scooter fairing.
    The load-bearing structure may be a final product or it may be a component of a final
    product. For example, in the case of a bicycle, the invention may be applied to produce the
10  main frame. The load bearing structure may also be flat or shaped, and for example ,used
    in building construction
    In the process of the present invention, cold spraying is used to deposit and build-up a
    layer of titanium on the surface of a support member. The shape and configuration of the
15  support member will reflect the intended shape of the load-bearing structure to be
    produced. In this respect the support member may be regarded as a scaffold or skeleton.
    The material used for the support member must be one that is not deformed when titanium
    is cold sprayed on to it. After all, the support member provides a foundation upon which
20  titanium is deposited and any deformation of it may lead to defects and/or departure in
    manufacturing tolerances in the structure being produced. The mechanical properties, cost
    and/or the ease with which the support member can itself be produced may influence
    material selection for the support member.       The support member may be made up of
    individual components that are joined together or it may be a unitary structure, for example
25  a moulded structure.
    In embodiments of the invention, after cold spraying has been completed and a sufficient
    thickness of titanium deposited on it (based on the intended use of the load-bearing
    structure), the support member is removed to produce a free-standing titanium
30  load-bearing structure.

  WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  -6
     Removal of the support member may be important when it is desired to keep the weight of
     the structure down as far as possible. Depending upon complexity of design and access to
     it, the support member may be removed by a variety of methods. For example, the support
     member may be removed by mechanical means. This may involve breaking or machining
 5   away of the support member. In the case of breaking the support member, the support
     member may be formed of a material (such as a ceramic) that is suitably rigid and
     temperature resistant to allow formation of the load-bearing structure on a surface of the
     support member, but that is suitably fragile to allow the support member to be broken and
     removed when separation of the support member and structure is required.
10
     Separation of the titanium and support member may also be achieved by relying on
     differences in thermal expansion coefficients between the titanium and support member.
     In this case, separation of the structure from the support member may be achieved by
     heating or cooling the titanium structure and the support member.
15
     In this embodiment the thickness of the titanium structure formed by cold spraying must be
     adequate to satisfy structural requirements in those regions where the support member has
     been removed. Thus, the thickness of the titanium will be application driven. By way of
     example, for a bicycle frame, the titanium thickness may range from 1-5 mm.
20
     As a further alternative, the support member may be removed by being dissolved or
     melted.    For example, if the support material is aluminium this can be removed by
     dissolution in sodium hydroxide. Of course, whatever the approach used for removing the
     support member, this should not adversely impact on the titanium structure that has been
25   produced.
     In an alternative embodiment the support member is not removed after cold spraying has
     been completed. In this case, the support member may contribute desirable properties to
     the load-bearing structure that has been produced and in this case the load-bearing
30   structure/support member should be regarded as a composite (or hybrid) structure.

  WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  -7
     In a slight variation of this embodiment it may be desired to retain the support member at
     specific locations and remove the support member from other locations within the structure
     that has been produced. For example, it may be desired to retain the support member in
     regions of the structure that in use will experience high load and remove the support
 5   member from lower load regions. In this way it is possible to tailor the properties of the
     load-bearing structure even further, whilst keeping weight down.
     This embodiment also raises further design possibilities. For example, the material of the
     support member may be chosen based on properties that the support member will
10   contribute to the load-bearing structure.     Additionally, or alternatively, regions of the
     support member may vary in thickness and/or design based on the position those regions
     will occupy in the load-bearing structure that is produced. Additionally, or alternatively,
     regions of the support member may be made of different materials based on the position
     those regions will occupy in the load-bearing structure that is produced.          It will be
15   appreciated from this that the process of the invention provides significant design and
     outcome flexibility. In particular, more complex shapes of the titanium structure may be
     produced than with current technologies.
     The surface of the support member to be coated with particles will influence the
20   characteristics of the corresponding surface of the structure that is produced. Preferably,
     the surface of the support member to be coated is smooth and defect-free.
     Another possible advantage of the present invention is that the composition that is applied
     by cold spraying may be varied as cold spraying proceeds, and this may provide flexibility
25   in terms of product characteristics. For example, it may be desirable to vary the grade of
     titanium (or type of titanium alloy) used in order to meet location specific load-bearing
     requirements in the structure being produced. Regions that are less load-sensitive may be
     formed of lower quality (or lower grade) and thus cheaper materials.
30   In another embodiment the thickness of the titanium deposited may be varied in order to
     meet location specific requirements of the structure being produced. For example, regions

  WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                   -8
     of the structure expected to experience high loads may be made thicker than regions likely
     to encounter lower loads. Of course, if the structure is to be produced using multiple
     materials, then the compatibility of the different materials must be considered. Should two
     or more of the proposed materials be incompatible in some way (e.g., coherence/bonding),
 5   it may be necessary to separate the incompatible materials by one or more regions of
     mutually compatible material(s).
     It will be appreciated that these embodiments relating to the titanium to be deposited may
     be applicable whether or not the support member is removed after cold spraying.
10
     The average size of the titanium particles that are cold sprayed is likely to influence the
     density of the resultant deposition on the support member. Preferably the deposition is
     dense and free from defects, connected micro-voids (leakage) and the like, since the
     presence of such can be detrimental to quality. Typically, the size of the particles applied
15   by cold spraying is from 5 to 40 microns with an average particle size of about 25 microns.
     One skilled in the art will be able to determine the optimum particle size or particle size
     distribution to use based on the morphology of the powder and characteristics of the
     structure that is to be formed.    Generally, the thickness of the titanium layer will be
     developed gradually during the cold spray process.
20
     Particles suitable for use in the present invention are commercially available.       Useful
     grades of titanium include commercial purity titanium, especially grade 2 and 3. Useful
     titanium allo ys are commercially available and include titanium aluminium vanadium
     alloys such as Titanium 64 (6% aluminium 4% vanadium).
25
     The cold spray apparatus used for implementation of the method of the present invention is
     likely to be of conventional form and such equipment is commercially available or
     individually built. In general terms, the basis of the equipment used for cold spraying will
     be as described and illustrated in US 5,302,414. Such cold spraying apparatus may be
30   combined with equipment for holding and manipulating the support member, as required.
     Multiple nozzles may be used in tandem for cold spraying.

  WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  -9
    After cold spraying has been completed, the structure that has been produced may be given
     a surface finish, for example it may be ground, machined or polished according to the end
    user specifications. It is possible that other components or parts will be secured to the.
 5   structure, such as brackets and the like, and this may be done in conventional manner.
    That said, it is possible that cold spray may be used to form brackets and the like as an
     integral part of the structure.
     The present invention may have particular utility for producing bicycle or motorcycle
10   frames. The invention may be applied to manufacture a frame directly from titanium
     powder by deposition of titanium particles onto an appropriately shaped support member.
     Utilising cold spray technology in accordance with the present invention, titanium particles
     at velocities well above supersonic speeds impact on -the support member to form a
     metallurgical bond and deposit on the surface to form a seamless titanium shell, creating a
15   monocoque structure over the support member. Melting is not involved in this process
     providing significant cost saving for implementation of protective atmosphere for titanium
     manufacturing. Rapid deposition of material is achievable due to extremely fast deposition
     of particles, which makes the process a cost effective and less labour intensive. In fact, the
     process has potential to be fully automated.
20
     It will be appreciated that the present invention may be implemented in a variety of
     embodiments including those listed below. It will be appreciated that certain embodiments
     may be combined, whereas others are clearly mutually exclusive.
25   - In a broadest embodiment the present invention provides a process for producing a
     titanium load-bearing structure, which comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying of titanium
     particles on to a suitably shaped support member.
     - A major advantage of the present invention is that it enables load-bearing structures to be
30   produced that would otherwise necessitate welding of individual components together. As
     explained above, welding of titanium components has associated practical constraints.

  WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -10
     Advintageously, the present invention provides a process for producing a titanium
     load-bearing structure that avoids the need to weld together individual components, which
     comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying of titanium particles on to a suitably shaped support
     member. In this embodiment the load-bearing structure is formed as a unitary construction
 5   rather than being assembled of individual components.
        After formation of the load-bearing structure, it may be desirable to remove the support
     member. For example, this may be beneficial with respect to reducing the weight of the
     titanium structure.    In this embodiment the present invention provides a process for
10   producing a titanium load-bearing structure, which comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying
     of titanium particles on to a suitably shaped support member to produce the load-bearing
     structure followed by removal of the support member.
     - In another embodiment after formation of the load-bearing structure, the support member
15   (or a portion of the support member) is retained. In this case the support member may be
     employed to impart beneficial properties to the structure or to a part of the structure, such
     as enhanced rigidity or strength. In this embodiment the final product of the process is a
     composite structure comprising titanium and the support member.            Here the present
     invention provides a process for producing a titanium composite load-bearing structure,
20   which comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying of titanium particles on to a suitably shaped
     support member. Aluminium or an aluminium alloy may be preferred as material for the
     support member.
     - The load-bearing structure may be of monocoque design.          This may provide weight
25   reduction and savings in materials consumption. In this embodiment the present invention
     provides a process for producing a titanium load-bearing structure of monocoque design,
     which comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying of titanium particles on to a suitably shaped
     support member.
30   - The present invention may have particular utility in the manufacture of a bicycle or
     motorcycle frame. Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for producing a

  WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
    titanium bicycle or motorcycle frame, which comprises cold-gas dynamic spraying of
    titanium particles on to a suitably shaped support member. In this embodiment it may be
    preferred for at least part of the support member to be retained following cold-spraying
    thereby producing a composite structure. The support member may contribute to the final
 5  properties of the frame. Preferably, the support member is formed of aluminium or an
    aluminium alloy. When compared with conventional the manufacture of titanium bicycle
    and motorcycle frames, the invention provides advantages as follows:
       Titanium frame is directly fabricated/from titanium powder. In conventional fabrication
10  methods, titanium is manufactured through casting (under protective atmosphere) and a
     series of deformation processes to produce a profile. These titanium profiles are welded to
     final frame. Unlike current processes in this invention melting, profile fabrication and
    joining of titanium parts are not required.      Such conventional steps tend to be labour
     intensive and time consuming.
15
     - Weight savings and corrosion resistance. The density of titanium (4.6 g/cm 3 ) is almost
     half that of steels (7.8 g/cm 3 ). This lower density provides improved weight savings.
     Superior corrosion resistance of titanium also eliminates any extra processing to provide
     for surface protection.
20
     - The process of the invention is a rapid and low cost process with capability of highly
     automated fabrication process.
     - Flexibility in fabrication of complicated shapes and thus great scope for design and
25   development of new products.
     - Green process.      This invention eliminates melting and joining processes in the
     manufacturing cycle thereby decreasing carbon footprint of the fabrication process. It also
     avoids the use of volatiles as used in polymer composite construction.
30

  WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -12
     The present invention may find particular value in producing bicycle frames. Such frames
     tend to have a complex shape and are typically formed by welding of individual frame
     members together.     The present invention therefore represents an attractive alternative
     manufacturing approach.
 5
     In the following process steps and practical considerations are discussed in the context of
     producing a bicycle frame using the process of the present invention. It will be appreciated
     however that these process steps and practical considerations will have relevance to the
     production of other types of load bearing structures.
10
     The complex shape of a bicycle frame may require examination of nozzle configuration for
     successful deposition and development of a cold spray (direct) manufacturing system. In
     this regard an important manufacturing consideration is how the nozzle can be positioned
     and possibly moved so that complex angles of the frame can be formed.
15
     Here it may be appropriate to employ a moveable (e.g. rotatable) stage to which the
     scaffold may be attached.        Movement of the stage may be controlled using a
     programmable computer system. Cold spray operating parameters may also be varied in
     order to optimise deposition on the scaffold.
20
     It may be appropriate to attach the cold spray nozzle to a robot arm that is moveable under
     computer control. However, in this case care must be taken to avoid or limit wear and tear
     in gas hose(s) and/or power cables attached associated with cold spray equipment as this
     may cause crack formation and attendant safety issues.         In view of this, it may be
25   preferable to keep the cold spray nozzle stationary and to move the scaffold relative to the
     nozzle. The scaffold may therefore be attached to a robot arm that is moveable under
     computer control.
     Implementation of the invention may also involve design optimisation with respect to load
30   bearing, weight and cost estimation of the final product. For example, Autodesk software
     may be used to develop CAD/CAM models to estimate stress distribution and deflection

  WO 2013/149291                                                         PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                - 13
     of the scaffold material. Following titanium deposition relevant mechanical properties of
     the product may be measured and/or modelled.         From such work a template may be
     developed providing the capability to estimate product weight and load bearing capacity
     based on scaffold thickness and titanium deposit thickness.
 5
     An advanced robot system may be used to provide sophisticated movements necessary to
     achieve suitable cold spraying of a scaffold.     The robot may use special software to
     demonstrate development and execution of the robot program in a virtual world. Transfer
     and execution of the developed program from virtual world to real deposition conditions
10   may be applied to demonstrate a successful path that is extremely cost effective in relation
     to time required for direct manufacturing process, down time for the cold spray equipment,
      and personnel required. An example of a successful approach is given below.
     Virtual Robot Programfor sub-size scaffold
15
     A program was developed in virtual environment for a sub-sized 'scaffold that was
     designed using commercially available CAD software. In this regard, any 3D drawing
     software that can produce ".SAT" file should be acceptable. A sub-sized scaffold instead
     of full size scaffold was designed to achieve outcomes rapidly in respect of virtual
20   programming.
     Development of Advanced Algorithm
     The sophisticated shape of a scaffold with many joins and angles required a sophisticated
25   robot program with considerable number of (deposition) targets (>4000) and paths for
     successful deposition. Programming this large number of targets is extremely challenging
     and time consuming. To overcome this, an advanced algorithm may be developed within
     the software to considerably decrease the number of targets required for the developer to
     program. In this algorithm each part of the scaffold is considered as a module with 16
30   main targets that are programmed by the developer and extra targets are created by

  WO 2013/149291                                                            PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  - 14
     algorithm. This approach saves a considerable amount of time for programming. Overall,
     the targets within the algorithm have to satisfy the following conditions.
     1. Being within the robot arm reach in relation to the cold spray nozzle exit.
 5
     2. Optimised for deposition of titanium (cold spray nozzle angle and distance).
     3. No collision with cold spray nozzle or other objects in the vicinity of robot arm.
10   The final stage of the development of this type of direct manufacturing system is to
     examine the virtual robot program in real laboratory conditions.        High precision robot
     movement may be tested by exposing a sub-size scaffold to a supersonic jet of cold
     sprayed titanium particles. Predicting supersonic jet behaviour may be challenging due to
     generation of complex turbulence from interaction of the jet with curved and angled
15   surfaces of the scaffold. This requires execution of virtual program under real conditions.
     Robot Parameters
     For cost effective direct manufacturing in accordance with the invention the robot speed
20   may be increased for faster production. It has been found however that the main effect of
     increased robot linear speed on deposition of titanium was a decrease in titanium deposit
     thickness. This thinning effect may be compensated by increasing the cold spray system
     feed rate (powder output). The robot linear speed does not have a significant effect on the
     efficacy of titanium deposition due to the extremely rapid particle velocity involved
25   (>1000m/s). This is almost 4 orders of magnitude faster than the typical robot speed. This
     presents a unique advantage for cold spray technology to achieve a consistent and rapid
     direct manufacturing process that eliminates production processes which involve time
     consuming welding and profile fabrication processes.

  WO 2013/149291                                                            PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -15
     Improvement of Surface Quality
     The surface quality/surface finish of the cold sprayed product may be important for
     marketing of the product. A variety of surface finishes may be achieved, including mirror
 5   finish, anodizing of different colour and other market driven reflective surfaces. A highly
     reflective surface may be achieved by suitable polishing of deposited titanium.
     Virtual Robot Programfor Full Size Scaffold
10   To achieve direct manufacturing for a full sized scaffold will involve:
     1. Achievement of full robot arm reach for programmed targets; and
     2. Prevention of near miss and collision of large scaffold with cold spray nozzle
15       equipment and other objects in the vicinity during execution of the program.
     The spray nozzle position may be optimised for a full size scaffold after positioning
     simulations to achieve the best robot arm reach for all scaffold components. A "home"
     position may be defined to bring the scaffold to its original position after execution of each
20   program module. For rapid production a scaffold may be divided into parts, for example
     two halves such as a front and mirror half. Each part then has its own module for
     programming targets.
     Further to this, a calibration module may be required to set up the nozzle in relation to the
25   robot arm and scaffold in real deposition conditions. This is important in order to ensure
     that scaffold and nozzle are in precisely the same positions in space as simulated in the
     virtual program. A series of modules may be developed in the virtual program to deposit
     titanium on the whole scaffold structure. The key to success of the virtual programming is
     to achieve robot arm reach for all targets without any near miss and collisions, for
30   individual targets.

  WO 2013/149291                                                             PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                   -16
     Successful Manufacturingofa full size Titanium bicycle frame
     The first step for titanium deposition on a suitable scaffold involves calibration of the
     manufacturing system to achieve precise positions for scaffold and cold spray nozzle in
 5   space as per simulations in the robot virtual station. This is extremely important due to the
     fact that if nozzle and scaffold are out of alignment almost all of the programmed targets in
     virtual program would be out of position under real deposition conditions. This could lead
     to lack of deposition on certain areas and perhaps collisions of scaffold with nozzle. A
     calibration process may be devised to overcome these challenges.
10
     Calibrationofscaffold in respect to cold spray nozzle
     Accurate positioning of the scaffold in respect to the cold spray nozzle was important due
     to requirement for targets coordinates, in real deposition condition, to resemble robot
15   virtual station. To achieve such accuracy scaffold had to be precisely positioned in respect
     to the robot arm and scaffold holder. A shaft may be designed to attach the scaffold to a
     robot arm with a pin to hold the scaffold in position. Desirably, the proposed calibration is
     fully automated, with the scaffold automatically adjusting its position with respect to the
     robot arm.
20
     A calibration program may be developed to examine accurate positioning of the scaffold in
     respect to the nozzle tip. In this program angular calibration of the scaffold with respect to
     cold spray nozzle tip is possible. This calibration process for manufacturing is mainly
     developed for precise linear and angular positioning. This is particularly essential for
25   future development of newly design scaffolds with potential for fully automated
     calibration system.
     Deposition of titanium
30   The next step after calibration of the manufacturing system and alignment of cold spray
     nozzle and scaffold is deposition of titanium. Execution of a developed robot program has

  WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  -17
     led to successful production the first directly manufactured titanium bicycle frame by cold
     spraying of titanium powder. The following detail is given by way of illustration and
     should not be taken as limiting.
 5  An aluminium scaffold, in the desired shape of a bicycle frame, was constructed by
    joining (welding) aluminium tubing with a wall thickness of 0.5mm. On this scaffold was
    deposited an approximately 1 mm thick titanium layer in some 45 minutes. This time
    could be reduced by faster titanium feed rates and higher robot speeds. Notably, this
    compares with a production time of approximately 2 days using traditional welding
10  processes.
    The cold spray titanium deposit is in the form of a shell around the scaffold. This unique
     structure did not involve any joining and welding. This is believed to represent a paradigm
     shift in how such complicated structures are made.
15
    The scaffold material may be removed leaving a titanium shell by dissolution of the
     scaffold in a suitable solution, such as caustic soda.
     However, it is equally possible that the scaffold structure may be kept as part of the
20  titanium bicycle frame to exploit uniquely combined properties of titanium and aluminium
     in a low density composite structure.
     Titanium contributes a number of desirable properties including strength, lightness and
     durability.   Such properties are very beneficial in a high performance bicycle.          In
25   accordance with this embodiment it may also be possible to produce bicycle frames for
     more "mainstream" usage. In such cases light weight can be achieved using a combination
     of an aluminium scaffold (density 2.6 g/cm 3) and a cold sprayed titanium outer shell/layer
     (density 4.6 g/cm 3). This should be compared to a typical steel having a density of about
     7 g/cm 3 . The cost of the frame may be controlled by varying the ratio of aluminium to
30  titanium used. The resultant frame will still be less bulky than an all aluminium frame

  WO 2013/149291                                                         PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                 -18
    which must use mass to compensate for relatively low strength of aluminium (compared
    with the strength of titanium).
    Embodiments of the present invention are illustrated with reference to the accompanying
 5  non-limiting example.
    EXAMPLES
    Example 1
10
    Materialsand Methods
    Cold Spray System
    A schematic of cold spray system that is may be used to deposit titanium powder on a
15  suitably shaped scaffold is shown in Figure 1.
    Key to Figure 1:
     1      Enclosure
20  2       Gas source (typically nitrogen, helium or a mixture of both)
    3       Gas supplied at high pressure
    4       Heater
    5       Titanium powder feed
    6       Electric heater
25  7       Laval nozzle
    8       Supersonic jet of titanium particles
    9       Scaffold
     10     Robot
30  Nitrogen, helium gas or a mixture of them under high pressure passes through a heating
    system and a converging/diverging nozzle. Rapid expansion of gas at the nozzle exit leads

  WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  -19
     to acceleration of the gas to well above supersonic speeds and significant decrease in gas
     temperature.    Injection of titanium powder into the cold spray gas stream results in
     acceleration of the particles to supersonic speed.     This results in titanium particles to
     achieve the required kinetic energy for cold spray deposition and bonding with the
 5   scaffold.
     Table 1 below shows the optimised parameters for successful deposition of cold spray
     titanium on an aluminium scaffold. It is worth noting that successful deposition can be
     achieved using range of operational parameters. This is because variation of temperature
10   and pressure of the gas can each create conditions that lead to a critical velocity for
     deposition of titanium particles.       Further, acceleration above this critical velocity
     contributes to densification of the titanium deposit and a change in mechanical properties
     of the coating produced.
15   Table 1 shows cold spray parameter ranges found to be useful for successful deposition of
     a grade 2 titanium powder on an aluminium scaffold in accordance with the present
     invention.

  WO 2013/149291                                                           PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                  - 20
                     Parameter      Cold spray               Range
                     number         parameters
                     1              Career Gas type          Nitrogen
                     2              Gas Pressure             2.5-3.5 MPa
                     3              Gas Temperature          450-850 0 C
                     4              Powder Feed Rate         1.5-10 kg/hour
                     5              Standoff Distance        25-40 mm
                                    (Distance between
                                    nozzle exit and
                                    scaffold)
                     6              Powder Type              Titanium grade 2
                                                             irregular shape
                     7              Titanium Particle Size   5-40 microns
                                    Range
     Robot
 5   A robot is used to manipulate the scaffold in front of the cold spray nozzle. Movement of
     the scaffold is controlled very accurately by a computer-controlled robot arm which is
     programmed to follow a programmed path at a defined speed.
     Scaffold
10
     The scaffold is a thin structure (0.5mm or greater in thickness) on which titanium can be
     deposited. In this way titanium forms a seamless shell over the scaffold. In this invention
     aluminium is preferably used as scaffold material due to its light weight, density
     (2.7 g/cm 3) and affordable price. However, in principle, any material that titanium can be
15   deposited using cold spray could be used for the scaffold.

  WO 2013/149291                                                         PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                -21
     Example 2
     As noted above, the present invention is believed to have particular utility in the
     manufacture of bicycle frames. This example details the steps and processes involved in
 5   making such a frame.      It is to be appreciated however that the steps and processes
     described may be applied to produce other products in accordance with the present
     invention.
     Optimisation of Deposition Process
10
     To optimise titanium deposition process, a series of experiments were designed to
     determine the critical cold spray parameters.    Titanium particles were applied by cold
     spraying to an unalloyed aluminium (1100 type) scaffold to produce a titanium bicycle
     frame structure.
15
     The deposition was made on particularly designed tube shape samples with a dome shape
     at one end. The dome shape allowed for examination of deposition on curved surfaces.
     Some of the scaffold pieces were also machined in half to examine the effect of split line
     on titanium deposition. Experimentation on split specimens is believed to be particularly
20   important for future development of monocoque type structures.
     Results showed successful deposition on the edge, with dome shape, and middle sections
     of the specimens. Investigation of the cold spray nozzle angle showed that a 45' jet angle,
     perpendicular to the specimen axis, improved the filling effect of the deposit for the
25   samples with split line. A similar improvement in titanium deposit filling the split line was
     observed when the sample was rotated at 200 rpm with jet angle at 45*.
     Table 2 below shows cold spray parameters that were determined for deposition on this
     type of substrate.

 WO 2013/149291                                                         PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                - 22
                   I        Cold spray nozzle type        Nozzle type 27 TC,
                                                          CGTA00027 (Short
                                                          Nozzle)
                   2        Cold spray gas                6800 C
                            temperature
                   3        Cold spray gas pressure       28 bar
                   4        Powder feed rate              2 RPM on the powder
                                                          feeder disk
                   5        *Powder feeder carrier gas    5 m 3/hr
                   6        Deposition gas                Nitrogen
                   7        Standoff (Distance from       30-45 mm
                            nozzle exit and scaffold)
    Characterisationofdepositedtitanium
 5  To determine the bonding between deposited titanium and the underlying aluminium
    scaffold, optical and scanning electron microscopy were used.         Optical microscopy
    observations showed successful bond formation between titanium and aluminium without
    the presence of any delimitation or cracks (see Figure 2).
10  Scanning electron microscopy of the interface between cold spray deposited titanium and
    aluminium revealed successful interlocking between titanium deposit and substrate which
    is due to supersonic impact of titanium particles penetrating aluminium surface and
    forming a strong bond with aluminium substrate (see Figure 3).

WO 2013/149291                                                              PCT/AU2013/000318
                                                - 23
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.     A process for producing a titanium load-bearing structure, which comprises
   cold-gas dynamic spraying of titanium particles on to a suitably shaped support member.
   2.      The process of claim 1, wherein after cold-gas dynamic spraying has been
   completed the support member is removed to produce a free-standing titanium
   load-bearing structure.
   3.      The process of claim 2, wherein the support member is removed by mechanical
   means or by being dissolved or melted.
   4.      The process of claim 2, wherein the support member is removed by relying on
   differences in thermal expansion coefficients between the titanium and support member.
   5.      The process of claim 1, wherein the support member is not removed after cold-gas
   dynamic spraying has been completed so that the load-bearing structure is composite
   structure comprising titanium and the support member.
   6.      The process of claim 1, wherein after cold-gas dynamic spraying has been
   completed the support member is retained at specific locations and from other locations of
   the load-bearing structure.
   7.      The process of claim 6, wherein the support member is retained in regions of the
   load-bearing structure that in use will experience relatively high load and removed from
   regions of the load-bearing structure that in use -will experience relatively low load.
   8.      The process of claim 5, wherein the support member is formed from a material that
   has been chosen based on properties that the support member will contribute to the
   load-bearing structure.

WO 2013/149291                                                          PCT/AU2013/000318
                                               - 24
   9.      The process of claim 1, wherein the titanium that is applied by cold-gas dynamic
   spraying is of a composition that is varied as cold-gas dynamic spraying proceeds in order
   to meet location specific load-bearing requirements in the load-bearing structure.
   10.     The process of claim 1, wherein the titanium is deposited on the support member
   with varying thickness based location specific load requirements of the load-bearing
   structure.
   11.     The process of claim 1, wherein the titanium particles have a particle size of from 5
   to 40 microns with an average particle size of about 25 microns.
   12.     The process of claim 1, wherein the titanium deposited by cold-gas dynamic
   spraying has a thickness of from 50 im-1 mm.
   13.     The process of claim 1, wherein the titanium is selected from commercial purity
   titanium or an alloy of titanium, aluminium and vanadium. Particles suitable for use in the
   present invention are commercially available.
   14.     The process of claim 1, wherein the support member is moved relative to a
   cold-gas dynamic spray nozzle that is used for the cold-gas dynamic spraying.
   15.     The process of claim 1, wherein the load-bearing structure is a frame.
   16.     The process of claim 15, wherein the frame is a frame for an aerospace vessel,
   nautical vessel or motor vehicle, or a frame for a bicycle, motorcycle, motor scooter,
   wheelchair, hang glider or luggage.
   17.     The process of claim 16, wherein the frame is a bicycle frame.

WO 2013/149291                                                        PCT/AU2013/000318
                                              - 25
   18.     The process of claim 17, wherein the support member is formed of aluminium or
   an aluminium alloy and at least part of the support member is retained following cold-gas
   dynamic spraying thereby producing a composite load-bearing structure.
   19.     A titanium load-bearing structure produced in accordance with the process of
   claim 1.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
