Abstract
SAM (Solution Architecture Manager) is  an online software
solution that allows companies to develop and manage all
Solution Architectures in a web portal. Features include
managing Key Architecture Decisions  (KADDS), Managing and
tracking architecture risks and issues, tracking compliance
against companies defined architecture principals, storing
related architecture artefacts, track architecture principals,
tracking architecture dependencies and information dashboard
on overall architecture.

                                1
Title of Invention
Solution Architecture Manager   (SAM)
Summary of Invention
[0001] Companies define solution architectures for new IT
technology solutions they implement for their business needs.
Typical organisations use document based solution architecture
in a document form, known as a SAD    (Solution Architecture
Document).  There is no software solution that enables easy
management or capturing of elements of the solution
architecture information in a meaningful way.
[0002]SAM  (Solution Architecture Manager) is an online
software solution that allows companies to develop and manage
all Solution Architectures in a web portal.    Features include
managing Key Architecture Decisions    (KADD's), Managing and
tracking architecture risks  and issues, tracking compliance
against companies defined architecture principals, storing
related architecture artefacts, track architecture principals,
tracking architecture dependencies and information dashboard
on overall architecture.

                               1
Claims
1.   Allows tracking key solution architecture elements such
as managing and tracking Key Architecture Design Decisions
(KADD), architecture principals, architecture risks,
architecture issues, principal compliance, architecture
dependencies, strategic alignment and architecture debt.
2.   Provides reports, dashboards and analytics on all the
solution architectures across the company.
3.   Allows storing of related architecture artefacts and
documents.

