                                           ABSTRACT
A personal taste assessment system receives a person's ratings for various rated items,
such as wines or other beverages, and it develops a preference model for the person
based on the received ratings. When developing the preference model, the system
accesses a database of candidate items, wherein each candidate item is associated with
at least one trait value. The system retrieves from the database a value for at least one
trait for each of the rated items, identifies at least one pattern of dependency between at
least one of the retrieved trait values and at least one of the received ratings, and
determines a preference model based on the at least one pattern of dependency. The
system may use the preference model to develop a preference profile for the person,
make recommendations, and/or make predictions as to items that the person and/or a
group that includes the person may enjoy.
                                                 1

TITLE:          PERSONAL TASTE ASSESSMENT METHOD AND SYSTEM
RELATED APPLICATIONS AND CLAIMS OF PRIORITY
         [0001] This patent document claims priority to United States Provisional Patent
Application Nos. 61/669,329 filed July 9, 2012, 61/764,623 filed February 14, 2013 and
61/781,792 filed March 14, 2013, the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein
by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND
         [0002] This document describes methods and systems for determining the drivers of
consumer preferences for items, such as beverages and other consumable items.
         [0003] Currently, many systems are available to recommend products to consumers.
Such systems may include a consumer profile that includes data representing items that the
consumer previously purchased and/or rated. While these systems use past purchase data or
ratings to identify other items that the consumer may enjoy, the recommended items
generally bear a direct relationship to the consumer's previously purchased or rated items.
For example, in the context of wine, a system may learn that a consumer enjoyed a
particular California Pinot Noir. If so, it may recommend other California Pinot Noirs, or
other wines from the same vineyard as the rated wine, to the consumer.
         [0004] However, current systems lack the ability to truly assess whether the user is
likely to enjoy the recommended item. Nor do such systems have a desired level of ability
to find and recommend apparently unrelated items that the consumer is likely to enjoy.
         [0005] This document describes methods and systems directed to solving at least
some of the problems described above, and/or additional problems.
                                                1

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0006] FIG. 1 is block diagram illustrating various elements of a personal taste
assessment system.
         [0007] FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating steps that may be performed by a taste
assessment system.
         [0008] FIG. 3 is an example of a user taste profile report.
         [0009] FIG. 4 illustrates an example of a user interface for providing
recommendations.
         [0010] FIG. 5 is a graphic illustration of a trending type of contrasting preference.
         [0011] FIG. 6 is a graphic illustration of a focal type of contrasting preference.
         [0012] FIG. 7 illustrates an example of a class hierarchy.
         [0013] FIG. 8 illustrates contrasting associations between ratings and item traits
with a qualitative data type.
         [0014] FIG. 9 shows an example of data indicating a focal contrasting preference
based on two traits.
         [0015] FIG. 10 is a hierarchy of classes illustrating a user's preference of various
classes of items
         [0016] FIG. 11 is an example of a user interface for obtaining recommendations.
         [0017] FIG. 12 is a block diagram of internal computer hardware that may be used
to contain or implement program instructions according to an embodiment.
SUMMARY
         [0018] In an embodiment, a system that includes one or more processors, non
transitory computer-readable memories, and programming instructions implements a
method of assessing a person's personal taste. The system causes an electronic device to
                                                 2

output a user interface through with a user may enter, and the system may receive, a rating
set with a person's ratings for various rated items. The system will develop a preference
model for the person based on the received ratings. When developing the preference model,
the system accesses a database of candidate items, wherein each candidate item is
associated with at least one trait value. The system identifies the rated items that
correspond to the candidate items, and it retrieves from the database a value for at least one
trait for each of the rated items. The system identifies at least one pattern of dependency
between at least one of the retrieved trait values and at least one of the received ratings, and
it determines a preference model based on the at least one pattern of dependency. The
system may use the preference model to develop a preference profile for the person, and it
may prepare a report of the preference profile.
         [0019] In some embodiments, the system may receive a context for the person's
experience of one or more of the rated items and also use the context to determine the
preference model.
         [0020] When identifying a pattern of dependency, the system may identify a
polarizing or contrasting pattern of dependency. For example, the system may identify a
focal contrasting pattern associated with a group of the rated items by analyzing relative
differences in ratings for the group of rated items as a function of the items' traits by
determining that the person's ratings for the group of rated items include a focal point of
positive or negative appeal. As another example, the system may identify a polarizing
preference pattern for which the person has expressed different patterns of rating for one or
more trait values.
         [0021] As another example, the system may identify a consistent trait for which the
person's ratings exhibit a degree of dispersion such as that they are an effectively constant
function - for example, if the degree of dispersion is below a threshold. In addition, the
                                                 3

system may identify a trending trait for which there is a non-reversing upward or a non
reversing downward trend in rating values as a function of the trait values.
         [0022] In some embodiments, the system may retrieve, from the database, a value
for at least one attribute for each of the rated items. If so, it may identify, between a
plurality of the received rating values and a plurality of the retrieved attribute values, one or
more dependence patterns of the received rating values on the retrieved attribute values. It
may then use the one or more dependence patterns to determine the preference model.
         [0023] In some embodiments, the system may access the database to identify at least
one item that exhibits characteristics that, if the candidate item is rated by the person, will
improve the preference model or a preference profile for the person. If so, it may generate a
suggestion that the person rate the identified candidate item.
         [0024] In some embodiments, the system may generate an experience score for the
preference model such that the experience score is a function of the rated items in the
preference model. The function may be, for example, a function of the number of rated
items in the preference model or a function of the range of possible trait values that the rated
items cover. If the experience score is below a threshold, it may access the database to
identify at least one item that exhibits characteristics that, if the item is rated by the person,
will improve the person's preference model or a preference profile for the person. It may
then generate a suggestion that the person rate the identified item.
         [0025] In some embodiments, the system may identify a subset of the rated items;
determine that the preference model indicates a conflict between preference indicators for
one or more characteristics of the rated items in the subset; access the database to identify at
least one item that exhibits characteristics that, if the item is rated by the person, will
resolve the conflict; and generate a suggestion that the person rate the identified item.
                                                  4

         [0026] In some embodiments, the system may receive identifying information about
a non-rated item, and it may use the identifying information to access the database and
determine whether the non-rated item is in the database. If the non-rated item is in the
database, it may identify one or more characteristics of the non-rated item, and determine
whether the identified characteristics of the non-rated item correspond to one or more
indicators of preference in the preference model or a preference profile for the person.
Based on whether the identified characteristics of the non-rated item correspond to one or
more indicators of preference, the system may generate a prediction of whether the person is
likely to exhibit a preference for the non-rated item.
         [0027] In some embodiments, the system also may access a second person's
preference profile, determine that the second person's preference profile includes a second
person preference model that is similar to the determined preference model, and add the
second person's preference model to the developed preference profile. Alternatively, it may
access the database to identify at least one item that the person is expected to like based on
the person's preference profile, access a second person's preference profile; use the second
person's preference profile to determine whether the second person is also expected to like
the identified item, and if so generate a recommendation that both persons try the identified
item.
         [0028] In some embodiments, the system may predict whether or not a person will
like a particular item by receiving identifying information for an item of interest, retrieving
from the database one or more trait values and/or attribute values for the item of interest,
processing the retrieved values with the person's preference profile to determine a predicted
rating for the item, and outputting the predicted rating to the person.
         [0029] In some embodiments, the system may receive a request for a
recommendation. The request may include a pairing criterion, such as a criterion for pairing
                                                5

a beverage with a food. If so, the system may access the database to identify one or more
items that have characteristics that satisfy the pairing criterion; select one or more of the
retrieved items having characteristics that, based on the person's preference profile, the
system determines that the person is expected to like; and recommend the selected items to
the person.
         [0030] In an alternate embodiment, a personal taste assessment system includes a
database that includes attribute value for a plurality of candidate items. When the system
receives a rating set that includes a person's ratings for each of a plurality of rated items, it
use a processor to developing a preference model for the person based on the received
ratings. The system retrieves, from the database, a value for at least one attribute for each
of the rated items; identifies at least one polarizing or contrasting pattern of dependency
between at least one of the retrieved attribute values and at least one of the received ratings;
and determines the preference model based on the at least one polarizing or contrasting
pattern of dependency.
         [0031] In an alternate embodiment, a personal taste assessment system includes a
database of candidate items, wherein each candidate item is associated with at least one
attribute value. The system also includes one or more processors and a computer-readable
memory containing programming instructions that are configured to, upon execution, cause
the one or more processors to perform various functions. When performing the functions
the system may retrieve, from the database, a value for at least one characteristic for each of
the rated items; identify at least one polarizing or contrasting pattern of dependency
between at least one of the retrieved characteristic values and at least one of the received
ratings; determine a preference model based on the at least one polarizing or contrasting
pattern of dependency; use the determined preference model to develop a preference profile
for the person; save the preference profile to a memory; and upon receipt of a query from
                                                 6

the person, use the preference profile to generate a recommendation for the person. The
recommendation may include one or more of any of the following: (i) a predicted rating for
an item of interest that is identified in the query, (i) a recommendation for one of the items
that both the person and a second person that is identified in the query are expected to like,
based on information from a preference profile for the second person; or (iii) a
recommendation that the person rate one of the candidate items that exhibits characteristics
that, if the recommended candidate item is rated by the person, will improve the preference
profile for the person.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          [0032] This disclosure is not limited to the particular systems, devices and methods
described, as these may vary. The terminology used in the description is for the purpose of
describing the particular versions or embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the
scope.
          [0033] As used in this document, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include
plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise, all
technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood
by one of ordinary skill in the art. As used in this document, the term "comprising" means
"including, but not limited to."
          [0034] For the purposes of this application, a "computing device" or "electronic
device" refers to a computer or other machine having a processor and tangible, processor
readable memory that implement one or more operations according to one or more
programming instructions. Various possible elements of a computing device are described
in reference to FIG. 12.
                                                  7

         [0035] "Electronic communication" refers to any form of electronic sharing of data
and/or instructions, including physically connected or wireless communication, as well as
communication that is direct or indirect via one or more networks.
         [0036] In this document, the phrase "consumable item" is used to refer to any item
that a consumer uses and, during use, experiences at least in part via the consumer's senses
of taste, smell or touch. For example, consumable items may include food or beverage
items such as wines, spirits, beers, cheeses, tobacco products and the like. Although the
examples below often are described in the context of wine, other consumable items may be
associated with the methods and systems described below.
         [0037] Although the examples below describe the invention in the context of wine,
the invention is not limited to use in connection with items that must be literally ingested by
the user. Applications of the invention may include any consumable item that includes
sensory traits (and in some embodiments, items that the consumer may taste, smell, or touch
- optionally in addition to see and/or hear) for which whose immediate perception is the
source of utility to the user and/or forms the basis for the user's preferences for the items,
e.g. perfumes, colognes and clothing.
         [0038] The current state of the art preference profiles, such as those that may be
associated with recommendation systems, describe or identify the items that are appealing
to a user, i.e. "what" the user prefers. Various methods and systems in this document may
create a preference profile that describes the configurations of a user's preference, i.e. "how"
the user prefers. This type of preference profile provides the basis for a more complete
description of a user's preferences and a more general approach to identifying items for
them to sample.
         [0039] The system takes in a user's ratings of consumable items whose properties
are known to the system, along with optional rating context data, to generate their
                                                 8

preference profile and use it to recommend or suggest items for the user to try, predict the
appeal of untried items or report a readable profile.
         [0040] While preference profiles are almost always described in the context of
recommendation systems, such systems need not generate a preference profile or furnish
one to the user in order to properly function. This is because, in the current state of art, it is
not necessary to generate an explicit preference profile in order to predict items that may be
appealing to the user. In some current systems the user's preferences are implicitly captured
by mathematical functions and parameters whose identity and values offer no direct insight
to a user's preferences. In cases where a profile can be obtained it typically comes as a list
of the items that are known to have or are predicted to have a particular appeal to the user.
This is because the current state of the art works by learning how to associate item names or
other item identifiers with their ratings. Thus, when they are available, preference profiles
tell us only "what" items a user prefers.
         [0041] The discussion below addresses at least some of these issues by furnishing
users with a comprehensive description of their preferences. While it can be useful to learn
"what" items a user prefers, the system described below more powerfully learns "how" one
prefers items, as will be described below.
         [0042] When performing a recommendation function the system may operate at the
behest of the user to identify items, typically ones not yet rated by the user, but which the
system predicts will have a specific degree of appeal to the user. Typically, but not
necessarily, this may be a positive appeal. When performing a suggestion function the
system may identify items that, when sampled by the user, are predicted to improve the
quality of the preference profile. When predicting the appeal of an untried item, the system
may use the preference profile to extrapolate the user's rating for that item.
                                                 9

         [0043] The preference profiles generated by the methods and systems described
below address "how" one prefers items and are different from the current state of the art that
describes "what" items are preferred. To do this, the system may: (i) obtain descriptions of
the items for which the user has a definable preference; (ii) discover what about an item
drives that preference; and (iii) determine a shape, such as a representation of trends and
attributes, of the preference. One methodological difference between the two approaches to
obtaining profiles can be briefly summarized by noting that the current state of the art does
it merely by associating item descriptions with item ratings. In contrast, the preference
profiles described below are obtained by associating item descriptions, and optionally user
context data, with patterns of item ratings. Another difference is that the preference profiles
described below can be reported with varying degrees of specificity. This may be done, for
example, by separately analyzing various subsets of items and the association of their
descriptions with rating patterns.
         [0044] The methods and systems described below are useful to construct a
preference profile, to recommend and suggest items, and to predict a user's preference for
unrated items. Data may be supplied by the user, or resident in the system. The user of the
system will provide the data needed to identify items that the user has sampled, along with
the user's ratings for those items. The user may also supply information about the context
of his or her experience of those items. The system will have at its disposal information
about the properties of the items. Additionally, the system may transform this data and/or
supplement it with data computed from it. This data can be in the form of item traits or item
attributes, depending upon the nature of information being portrayed.
         [0045] The system processes the provided information in a series of steps. First, a
portion of the items rated by the user is selected for analysis. Then, the process of
preference model discovery or updating occurs on the basis of the selected items. The
                                                10

model discovery process itself may be done by first partitioning the rated items into various
subsets, then analyzing these item subsets and finally assembling preference models from
the results of the analysis. An early step in the process, item partitioning, allows the system
to determine which types of items and under what circumstances the user has manifested a
preference. In a next step in the process, analysis, the association between item
information, and optionally user data, and patterns of ratings are computed. It is here that
the shape of the user's preference for a subset of items may be determined, as well as the
characteristics of the item and context responsible for driving that preference. At least three
types of rating patterns may be considered: contrasting, polarizing and consistent. A next
step is to assemble a series of preference profiles from the preference models discovered in
the previous step. These preference profiles portray descriptions of "how" the user prefers
the items. These assembled preference profiles can be used to support the recommendation
and suggestion operations, the prediction function or may be translated into human readable
prose preference descriptions and reported to the user. Since some suggestions are owed to
the lack of a preference profile, this function may also be supported by preference model
data.
         [0046] FIG. 1 illustrates certain functional elements that may be included in a
personal taste assessment system. An electronic device 10 containing a processor,
programming instructions, a tangible computer-readable memory, and a user interface 12
may implement any of all of the system's functions. The electronic device 10 may be, for
example, a smartphone (as shown), a computing device such as a personal computer, a
laptop or tablet computer, a television set, a gaming device, or any other device having the
elements described above. The user interface 12 may include elements for user output, such
as a display or audio output. The user interface 12 also may include elements for input,
such as a keypad, microphone or camera. Optionally, two or more of these elements may be
                                                 11

combined, as in a touch-screen display which provides both input and output functions. In
addition, the system may be distributed across multiple devices, processors and/or
computer-readable memory devices.
         [0047] The electronic device 10 may be in communication with an item database 20
containing trait values about numerous consumable items that are candidates for inclusion
in the user's preference profile for rating by the user, or for recommending to the user. In
some embodiments, the items in the database may be curated, that is, selected by one or
more professionals having experience in the field of the items. Some or all of the trait
values may be assigned by the curators. Although FIG. 1 illustrates the item database as
including wine data, it may include data for other items that may be perceived or chemically
or tactilely sensed by a human, such as wines, spirits, cheeses, baked goods, frozen foods,
pre-made entrees, restaurant dishes and other consumable items. Alternatively, the database
may include trait values for items that are perceived through the sense of touch or smell,
such as clothing, cosmetics and perfumes. Although some items also may be perceived by
the senses of sight and/or hearing, for this purpose of this disclosure a trait must be
associated with at least one of the following senses: taste, smell and touch. For the purpose
of this discussion, a consumable item database, and in particular wine data, will be used as
examples.
         [0048] The electronic device also may be in communication with a memory on
which is stored a set of consumer preference data including item ratings and preference
profiles 30, which are described in more detail below. The item database 20 and consumer
preference database 30 may be stored in the electronic device's memory. Alternatively, the
databases may be stored on an external memory, as in a cloud storage application, and the
device may access the data via a communications network such as a mobile phone network
or the Internet.
                                                12

         [0049] The databases may directly communicate with the electronic device 10, or a
remote processor 40 may communicate with the database and send data to and from the
device. Any of the steps described in this document may be performed by the remote
processor 40, the electronic device 10, or a combination of those and other processing
devices. Thus, references in this document to "a processor" may include a single processor,
a group of processors, or any processor within a group of processors unless the context
clearly states otherwise.
         [0050] The item database may be a curated database of characteristics of the items
that may allow the system to serve as a surrogate for a human expert. In some
embodiments, the database may include traits and/or attributes, each of which are described
below.
         [0051] Traits are item properties that are subjectively observed or detected by a
human's chemical senses (taste or smell) or sense of touch or sight, or a combination of
such senses. Traits relate to the sensory perceptions they elicit, and may include aspects of
taste, texture, flavor, aroma, perceived sensory similarity or physical appearance. For
example, a wine may perceptually portray itself with the traits of being ruby red and fruit
forward, with vanilla notes and tasting like a typical California Cabernet Sauvignon. Trait
values are meant to capture the portrayal of an item's perceptual properties in a manner that
permits their systematic analysis. To do this a trait will have an associated value which may
be: (i) a quantitative measure such as represented by a numeric or ordinal data type (e.g., a
number on an interval scale, such as 1 to 5 or a grade, such as Low, Medium, High); (ii) a
value that may indicate status or membership such as a categorical indicator, exclusive or
non-exclusive (e.g., in the case of an exclusive binary situation, 1 or 0 or in the case of a
non-exclusive ternary indicator, strawberry and vanilla but not citrus); (iii) class indicators
consisting of a categorical indicator of class membership and a quantitative measure of
                                                13

membership strength. Examples of categorical, quantitative and class trait names in the
context of wine are Vanilla Flavor, Fruit Intensity and Napa Cabernet Style respectively. In
other embodiments the traits may not have unique associated values but instead have a
range of values. Traits of the same name may also have multiple forms of associated values
such as a numeric and ordinal representation of a quantitative aspect of a trait.
         [0052] Attributes are characteristics that are fixed and do not change in any part
based on sensory experience, i.e., they are independent of sensory experience. For example,
in the case of wine, attributes can be grape, geographic place or region of origin, climate
descriptor, vintage and the like. As with traits, attribute values can be represented by
quantitative measures, by indicators of category membership or by classes.
         [0053] The determination of what item characteristic constitutes a trait versus an
attribute turns solely on what that characteristic portrays and not on how a value for it is
obtained. If a characteristic portrays in any part how an item tastes, smells, feels, looks or
sounds then that characteristic is a trait. Thus, even if the intensity of a wine's fruit
expression was computed as a function of the wine's attributes, e.g. grape composition,
terroir, climate and wine making methods, such a value would be ascribable to a trait. Also
in cases wherein auxiliary item characteristics are computed (see later description), any such
characteristics would be considered traits if data derived from a sensory experience entered
into the computation. This is because, as defined above, such a characteristic would not be
independent of a sensory experience.
         [0054] Classes are a data type that can be used to portray relatedness among items.
This relatedness may be captured by elaborating classes into a tree-like hierarchy. For
example, a set of classes formed by a country's boroughs, cities, counties and states can be
use to portray the geographic relatedness among the residents of a country. Residents in one
borough are related to residents in another borough by virtue of all being residents of the
                                                 14

same city. Residents of a city and non-city residents of a county are all related by the fact
that they are all residents of the same county. Next, all county residents are related through
their mutual residency in the same state and all state residents are related to each other
because they all reside in the same country. The boroughs form the base classes of such a
geographic hierarchy and the higher levels of this hierarchy are formed by compounding
together related lower level classes. The class formed by all residents of the country
constitutes the apex of the hierarchy. Such a tree-like hierarchy of classes may be used to
portray the patterns of relatedness, for example as defined by perceptual similarity, among
items. A hierarchy of classes may also be used to capture non-perceptual aspects of item
relatedness by virtue of their non-sensory properties.
         [0055] In this document, the item traits and attributes collectively may be referenced
as characteristics. Throughout the document the "and/or" enumeration of these item
characteristics is used to indicate that whatever is being described is applicable to any or all
combinations of item trait and attribute values. Sometimes, for brevity, the term item
characteristics may be used, and in such cases it is to be understood to refer to any and all
combinations of the aforementioned item properties. When, due to inadvertent omission,
some but not all of the types of item characteristics are referenced, it can be assumed that
whatever is under discussion is applicable to all types of item characteristics if their absence
lessens the applicability of the described process.
         [0056] In some embodiments, the traits may be provided by an expert in the field of
the relevant items, such as a sommelier in embodiments that involve wines. Traits may
have a binary value (e.g., detected or not, present or absent), while others may have an
intensity measure (e.g., on a scale of 1 to 5). For example, wine tastes and textures may be
captured by quantitative data types that provide a numeric measure on a fixed scale that
relates to the degree of expression of a particular trait. The wine flavors may be captured by
                                                15

binary forms of categorical variables that show whether or not a particular flavor is deemed
to be present in the wine. For example, the flavor vanilla may either be detected or not.
Wine styles may be captured by a class data type which itself, is a combination of a
quantitative and a categorical variable. In a class, a categorical data type is used to indicate
membership in a given class and a quantitative data type is used to indicate the strength of
class membership, e.g. on a scale from 0 to 1. For example, given a set of perceptual wine
styles classes, e.g. California Cabernet, Napa Cabernet and Sonoma Cabernet, a red wine
may be indicated to have membership in the California Cabernet and Napa Cabernet classes
with membership strengths of 1.0 and 0.8 that, respectively, indicate the degree of taste
similarity between the wine and the tastes that the style classes typify. The associated values
of any or all of the sensory traits may be objectively determined by one or more experts,
such as members of a human tasting panel.
          [0057] Some traits also may have one or more corresponding non-sensory
representations, i.e. attributes, reflecting a characteristic that is also perceivable by the
human expert. For example, a wine's alcohol level may have an attribute value in terms of
percent by volume, either as determined analytically, as reported or as estimated by a wine
expert tasting the wine. However, the database also may capture a measure of how much
alcohol is actually perceived by the human expert. This is because the perception of alcohol
can be affected by other taste, texture and flavor traits of the wine. Thus, the embodiments
described in this document enable the system to create a profile and make recommendations
based on perception of traits such as taste, texture or flavor, rather than merely on an actual
objective degree of expression of those traits. Note that in cases where such perception may
be approximated from the values of attributes, the result is still a representation of a trait
value even if it was not derived from trait values. This is because the property of being a
trait is lodged in what is being portrayed and not in how a value is assigned to it. In some
                                                 16

embodiments, certain characteristics may be excluded from the database, or they may be
captured in the database but not used in the methods described. For example, characteristics
such as aromas, expected retail price, country of origin or other characteristics may or may
not be considered.
        [0058] Before values can be attached to class data types, the classes themselves
must be defined. As described earlier, the elaboration of classes into a hierarchy may be
used to capture information about the relatedness of items. The approach used in this
embodiment was to take relatedness to mean the similarity between classes. In the case of
wine class traits for example, a wine class trait hierarchy may be created by assembling a set
of base classes representing all of the important, perceptually distinct styles of wines. These
base classes and their perceptual properties may be determined a prioriby a wine expert.
Higher level classes may then be assembled by combining groups of the wine style base
classes in accordance with their mutual perceptual similarity to each other and mutual
perceptual dissimilarity to the rest of the base classes. This resulting set of higher level
classes may be called wine style families. The wine style family classes may be combined
into further higher level classes, that may be called wine style family groups, on the basis of
their mutual perceptual similarity with each other and dissimilarity to the rest of the wine
style families. Alternatively, a wine class trait hierarchy may be created by clustering
together a set of given base classes on the basis of numerical computations of pairwise class
similarity. For example, if the base classes are assigned quantitative and categorical trait
values then a variety of methods may be used to compute pairwise class similarity. In one
such method, these trait values may be treated as distances along orthogonal directions in an
abstract vector space and the dissimilarity between classes taken as proportional to their
separation in that space. Using such an approach a clustering algorithm may be used to
progressively combine pairs similar classes, starting with the base classes, into a hierarchy
                                                17

of classes. A higher level class is formed with each combination of classes that comprise
the hierarchy.
        [0059] For example, FIG. 7 shows an example of a class hierarchy built by
clustering wine style base classes. The left part of this illustration shows the outline of the
red wine class hierarchy that was built on a set of 15 wine style base classes. The vertical
line segments in this diagram connect together classes. The rightmost lines in the diagram
indicate the next to the lowest classes formed by connecting pairs of base classes. The
formation of intermediate level classes can be traced out by following the pairwise
connections of lower classes linked by the vertical lines. The right part of the illustration
provides information about the traits and attributes that were associated with each wine style
base class. The attributes are: the grape composition category and country of origin. The
quantitative traits are rendered as miniature bar graphs: fruit intensity (FI), mineral
intensity (MI), body (B), acidity (Ac), oak intensity (01) and tannin intensity (TI). The
indicated categorical traits are listed in the Flavors section and include the fruit (Red or
Black) and various other flavors. For illustrative purposes the base classes were explicitly
combined into four higher level classes the divisions of which are indicate by the dotted
horizontal lines. The similarity of base class traits and attributes within each of these high
level classes is readily apparent as are their dissimilarities across these classes.
        [0060] In general the assignments of items to classes and the determination of the
strength of that assignment, here taken as similarity, may be made: (i) by human experts; (ii)
computed on the basis of the item's properties; or (iii) obtained from semantic similarity
analysis of written material about the item, e.g. an item's written description, review or
bibliographic data, or (iv) a combination of preceding. The previous paragraph described
one method for determining pairwise item similarity on the basis of item properties, e.g.
taking the item traits and/or attributes as vector values in an abstract space. Another
                                                 18

systematic method deduces the similarity relationships among items via link analysis or via
graph relations such as may be done to process the connections among items such as web
pages or documents into measures of similarity. Where such systematic methods fail to
produce the desired character of similarity, human judgment can be used to generate all of
the required class assignments and similarity measures. For example, experts can
manipulate tokens representing items in a one-, two- or three-dimensional space such that
the separation between those tokens is representative of their dissimilarity. In general,
assignment of items to classes may be made for items having sufficient similarity to the
classes.
         [0061] The consumer preference database 30 may include identifiers for items that a
consumer has perceived, the consumer's ratings for those items, contextual information and
extant preference profiles. The ratings and contextual information will be described in more
detail below.
         [0062] Any or all of the steps described below may be implemented by the
electronic device as the device's processor executes programming instructions that are
stored in the device's memory. For example, the electronic device may be programmed
with a software application that performs any or all of the functions described below.
         [0063] FIG. 2 is a flow diagram that illustrates a method of assessing a person's
personal taste for consumable items, for obtaining item suggestions and recommendations,
and for obtaining rating predictions, which may be implemented by a system such as that
shown in FIG. 1. The system may maintain, or it may access via one or more
communications networks, a database of items 101 that may be rated, such as consumable
items. Each item in the database is associated with one or more sensory traits and optionally
with one or more attributes. The system may present the user with a user interface through
which the system will receive a person's rating for one or more of the items 103 that the
                                               19

person has perceived. The rating may include an ordered rating such as a number from 1 to
5; a grade such as A, B, C or D, or a descriptor such as "love it", "like it", "it's OK" (or "so
so"), or "don't like it." In some embodiments, the rating may be a single response, such as
those listed in the previous sentence. Optionally, the rating context may include responses
to one or more questions about the environment that in which the person experienced the
wine, such as "dinner out," "at a friend's home," "home with family," "free," "celebration,"
etc. or may include information generated by the system from geotag information received
from the input device, such as GPS coordinates. In various embodiments, the context may
include a date on which the consumer rated the item or on which the system received the
consumer's rating. The system may access the item database to retrieve values for the
sensory traits that are associated with the perceived items 105. The system also may
retrieve the attributes for each of the perceived items 107. For example, in the context of
wine, the attributes of these wines may be any or all of color, grape(s), style, growing
region, or year. Optionally, in addition to the wine characteristics already in the database,
selected traits and/or attributes may be contingently combined to form additional auxiliary
traits, attributes or classes. The association of items and traits with items will be maintained
in the item database (e.g., the wine data database 10 of FIG. 1). The system may select a
portion of the perceived items for use in profile construction on the basis of the item traits
and/or attributes and/or rating contexts 111. For example, the system may select only red
wine items in order to develop a profile for red wines or for red wines consumed for
vacation rating contexts in order to develop a profile for red wines consumed in a light
hearted setting.
          [0064] The system will partition the selected items into a variety of subsets based on
item traits and/or attributes and/or rating context data 113. This partitioning permits the
system to develop preference descriptions having a range of specificities, i.e. with what
                                                20

particular combination of types of items and context was the preference manifested. The
system will analyze the person's rating data in each item subset created by the partitioning
process. It will identify one or more patterns of dependency 115 between the user-assigned
ratings of the items in the subset and one or more traits and/or attributes and/or rating
contexts of the rated items. Note that the "user" may be the person who rated the items, or
it may be someone who is accessing the system with user information, such as a sales
representative or restaurant employee.
         [0065] The system will determine one or more preference models for the user using
the subsets of items created by the hierarchical partition process 117. Suitable preference
models are discovered on the basis of their ability to support various types of associations
between the ratings of the selected items and their item characteristics and/or context data.
A preference model comprises a function, such as a regression function, that portrays a
specific form of a systematic dependence between items ratings and the item traits and/or
attributes and/or their rating context. A systematic dependence may take the form of
trending, focal, polarizing and/or consistent patterns of rating dependence. In the present
embodiments these patterns of systematic dependence may include a trending contrasting
type, a focal contrasting type, a consistent type and a polarizing type as described below.
         [0066] In addition to the identity of the rating pattern, the model includes
performance metrics that describe the degree to which these associations are supported by
each item subset and other metrics that describe other aspects of that association specific to
that model. Each model also has associated with it the values of their item characteristics
and/or context data that determined the inclusion of the items into the analyzed subset. The
model also may include the identity of the item characteristics and/or rating context data
supporting the association between it and the pattern of ratings.
                                                 21

         [0067] Suitable preference models are may be discovered on the basis of their
ability to almost support various types of associations between the ratings of the selected
items and their item characteristics and/or context data. In some cases it may be determined
that such an association may be supported if additional ratings of specifically characterized
items are obtained. Identifying such preference models may form the basis for suggesting
additional items for the user to rate. Thus, preference model identification may encompass
extant and/or potential (latent) patterns of dependence.
         [0068] A preference profile is developed for one or more consumers on the basis of
those preference models whose performance metrics indicate that the item characteristics
and/or context data support a rating dependency pattern 119. The preference profile may be
a collection of preference profiles and also all of the assembled preference models. Each
profile is compiled to convey preference to a given degree of specificity and completeness.
This may be done by combining preference models in various ways and measuring, among
other things, the specificity, multiplicity, completeness, uniqueness, consequentiality and
informativeness of the preference description represented by the assemblage. These
measures, described later in this text, capture various qualities of the preference profile
description that are of importance to the user. Collectively they determine its salience.
These encoded representations of the user's preference may be stored in the consumer
preference database 30 for further use along with all of the preference models.
         [0069] Several things can be done with the preference profile developed by this
system or, equivalently, an earlier developed profile retrieved from the consumer preference
database 30. The system may present information from a user's profile in a human readable
preference profile report 121, such as in a document, electronic file or user interface screen,
and/or it may use the profile to generate suggestions 127 or recommendations 131 for the
person or make predictions of item appeal 143. Recommendations are items that the system
                                                22

identifies as being likely to be enjoyed by the user based on the user's preference profile. If
desired however, the user can request recommendations for items having any given level of
appeal, for example to check to see if their taste for previously uninteresting items has
changed. Suggestions are items that the system suggests that the user sample and rate to
help the system build a more accurate preference profile.
        [0070] For example, in one embodiment the system may evaluate the performance
metrics of the assembled preference models and identify those having low or below
acceptable levels. Since these metrics can be diagnostic of specific problems it is possible
to obtain descriptions, i.e. values for traits, attributes and/or classes, for items that, when
rated, can be expected to improve the performance metrics 125. The system would then
access the item database to retrieve items whose properties match the item information
associated with those items and present them as suggestions 127. For another example, in
one embodiment the system may review the preference profiles and process their contained
preference models to obtain the traits and/or attributes for which the patterns of preference
in the profile indicate the person would rate such items the highest, disregard the items
characteristics for which the patterns of preference in the profile indicate the person would
rate such items the lowest. The system would then access the item database to retrieve
items whose properties match the item characteristics associated with appealing items and
present them as recommendations 131. In another embodiment the universe of
recommendable items is constrained to those whose traits and/or attributes satisfy a user
supplied criterion such as user-supplied parameters (e.g., price), or one or more situational
parameters (e.g., available inventory at a retailer or distributor or pairs with a certain food).
Optionally, for a third example, the user may present an item that the user has not yet
evaluated and request an assessment of the item wherein the patterns of preference in the
                                                  23

user profile are used to generate a prediction of the user's rating for the unevaluated item
143.
         [0071] The preference profile may include information about associations between
item characteristics and/or context data and the contrasting, consistent and polarizing
patterns of ratings. These patterns describe those traits and/or attributes and/or classes that
explain ratings over a range of relatively higher and lower values, or which pin ratings to a
circumscribed range of values, or which define a split in the pattern of preference. As noted
above, some or all of the preference profile may be presented to the user by displaying,
transmitting, printing or saving a report 121. An example of a user interface 300 showing
such a report is shown in FIG. 3. As shown, the report is presented as an electronic user
interface and includes a preference section 301 that identifies items or classes of items and
expressions of degrees of preference for each listed item or class. The report may also
include a profile builder section 303 that provides the user with suggestions of items to
sample and rate to help improve the quality of the user's profile. When the user indicates
that he or she has sampled or is ready to rate the item, the user interface may present, on the
same screen or one or more different screens, a rating field 310 through which the user may
input and the system may receive the user's rating for the item. This profile builder function
will be described in more detail below. The report also may include a profile statistics
section 305 describing quantitative measurements of the user's profile, such as a number of
items rated, a number of items rated within a particular class, and/or a number of items rated
that share one or more common attributes. The report also may include a characterization
of the user's level of experience with a class or other group of items, such as a percentage or
other measure of the possible items within a class that the user has sampled.
         [0072] The report need not include all of the identified preference traits and/or
attributes and/or context data. Instead, the system may determine a subset of salient traits or
                                               24

attributes or context data for inclusion in the preference profile using any possible selection
criteria. The subset may include a first group of item descriptions and/or contexts under
which the user exhibits a contrasting pattern of preference, and a second group of item
descriptions and/or contexts under which the user exhibits a consistent pattern of preference
and a third group of item descriptions and/or contexts under which the user exhibits a
polarizing pattern of preference.
         [0073] Returning to FIG. 2, as noted above the system also may recommend 131
one or more items that the person has not yet rated. The recommendations may be
determined based on items that are in the database that have that have the characteristics
consistent with the user's preferences under the conditions specified by any given
contextual criterion. For example, when recommending an item the system may access the
person's taste profile and retrieve a set of the item characteristics associated with a high
range of ratings, then access the item database to identify at least one item having one or
more characteristics that correspond to the characteristics for which the user has exhibited a
positive preference, while omitting those items having characteristics for which the user has
exhibited a negative preference, i.e. low ratings. Optionally, the person may be permitted to
identify characteristics of recommendable items to further narrow the selection to include or
exclude items that have the identified characteristics. Recommendations may also be made
for previously rated items. For example, the user may request a recommendation for an item
that is known to be appealing but which also satisfies additional criteria, e.g. price or
suitable for pairing with a given food.
         [0074] Alternatively, recommendations may also be obtained by first selecting those
candidate items that satisfy any provided criterion for item characteristics, e.g., as described
in the previous paragraph above, and then submitting the items to the rating prediction
functionality used for predicting ratings. All items whose predicted ratings matches the
                                                25

values consistent with the appeal specified for recommendation, e.g. have high ratings, are
candidates for presentation to the user. The choice of approach, identification as described
above or screening items by prediction as described here, may have different performance
characteristics particularly if the item database is very large.
         [0075] An example of a user interface 400 that provides recommendations is shown
in FIG. 4. The interface 400 includes one or more selection fields 401 through which the
user may enter or select various criteria that the recommended item must satisfy in order for
the system to recommend it. The criteria may include, for example, one or more traits,
attributes, or other characteristics such as color, price range or maximum price, or type. The
criteria also may include a context such as a food pairing or a type of event. When
generating the recommendation, the system may require the recommended item to satisfy all
of the criteria, some of the criteria, at least a baseline set of criteria (such as color and price
range), or some combination thereof. The user interface may also include a
recommendation field 403 through which the system presents the user with
recommendations based on the criteria and the user's profile.
         [0076] In general, a recommendation system uses data for items rated by a user to
identify one or more other items to recommend to the user. Recommendation system
performance can be negatively affected by, among other things, a relative paucity of ratings
for, or an inconsistency in the ratings of, certain types of items or subsets of items. Thus,
the presently-disclosed system may also identify not-yet-rated items that, if rated, are
expected to have some utility to the recommendation system itself. The user may or may
not like the items, so the items may not necessarily be "recommended" for the user, but if
the system were to receive data regarding the user's preference for the items, the system
could use that data to improve its future recommendations for that user. Here, the
identification of items that are of direct utility to the system is called "suggesting."
                                                  26

         [0077] Thus, when suggesting item(s), the system may proffer an item that will help
the system improve the user's taste profile. For example, the system may assess the user's
experience with a particular class or other group of items (referred to in this discussion as a
category) and make suggestions for additional tastings that will help the user get more
experience with items within the category, resolve conflicting information about preferences
within a category or resolve conflicting information about the rating for a particular item.
For example, the system may assess a user's experience 123 with a category of wines, such
as "Chianti" or "South American Shiraz." The system will apply any suitable algorithm to
determine an experience score for the user's experience level with items of that category,
wherein the algorithm includes variables that include a number of wines (or other items)
tasted in the category, along with the relative variety of wines (or other items) tasted within
the category. For example, if a user has tasted ten wines within the category, if the wines all
have varying traits and attributes then the system may assign one point for each wine and
give the user an experience score of 10 for that category. However, if eight of the wines
tasted are have very similar attributes and/or traits, may assign a number less than one for
the similar wines, or the system may assign a maximum total number (e.g., 3) for the similar
wines so that the remaining five similar wines are not counted in the calculation of the
user's experience score. The score may be a numeric score or a word-based or graphic
descriptor based on a numeric score. For example, a relatively high score may show that
the user has "significant" experience a category, while a low score may show that the user
has "little" experience in a category.
         [0078] Thus, the system may identify items 125 from its database that are within the
category and suggest 129 that, if tasted and rated, those items will improve the user's
experience score for the category. These may include items the user has not yet rated and
which have attributes and/or traits that the user has not yet experienced in the user's rated
                                               27

wines, or which the user has experienced less than other attributes and/or traits as indicated
by wines rated by the user. As an example, if the user has tasted eight full-bodied, fruit
forward Chiantis but only one medium-bodied Chianti, it may suggest 127 a medium
bodied Chianti to the user. The activities to be carried out in the suggesting process may
depend upon the implementation of the recommendation system. Additional details about a
suggestion system will be presented below.
        [0079] In some embodiments, the system may provide a user with an ability to gain
more experience with a particular category of item and improve their profile with respect to
that category by supplementing the data in their profile for rated items in that category. For
example, as shown in FIG. 3, the system's user interface 303 may provide the user with a
selectable list or other set of categories. When the user selects a category from the list, the
system may suggest one or more items that, if rated by the user, will improve the user's
profile with respect to that category, or with respect to one or more characteristics of items
within the category. The items may be items that will improve the user's experience score,
as described above.
        [0080] The system may also identify items within the category having attributes
and/or traits for which the user has provided ambiguous ratings. For example, ambiguous
ratings in the context of model based on a consistent rating pattern would be manifested by
a low rating homogeneity. In the context of a model based on a contrasting preference,
ambiguity would be manifested by ratings not clustered closely enough around the trending
or focal rating patterns. This ambiguity may be measured a fitness metric that portrays how
well these ratings fit the user's preference model. In cases where the fitness metric is
marginal or below a threshold then having the user rate additional items may improve the
model fitness.
                                               28

         [0081] For example, when seeking to fit a consistent pattern of preference to a
subset of items, a user could have rated two items as "like" and two items as "don't like,"
In such a case there would be insufficient rating homogeneity to indicate a consistent
pattern of preference. However, if the fitness metric for this model is near the acceptance
threshold, it may be appropriate to suggest that the user rated one or several items that are of
the same category and/or that share a same attribute. For example, if the items sampled were
atypical, or if the context of the item experience were atypical, then such cases repeating the
item experience may reveal a preference that was masked by unusual circumstances. In the
case of a preference model based on a consistent preference, the system may identify from
its database additional items to suggest 125, having the same characteristics as the
partitioning process used to construct the subset of items associated with the item.
         [0082] More generally, for other types of preference models, as will be described
later, other methods can be used to identify other items to suggest to the user to help resolve
the apparent conflict in the user's preference model. For instance, in the case of a trending
rating dependence pattern, where the fitness metric is degraded by ratings for items having
particular characteristics, then the system would suggest further items of the same sort.
Additional ratings would resolve the question of whether the lack of model fitness was due
to atypical in the item experience or to intrinsic taste of the user.
         [0083] The system may also recognize a case wherein the ratings for one or more
particular item(s) appear to be outliers with respect to the predictions of the item ratings
made on the basis of the preference model. In contrast to the previous example, the
preference model having such outlying ratings will still have sufficient model fitness to
merit inclusion in the preference profile. It may be the case that exclusion of such outlying
item ratings is what makes the difference between a sufficient confidence in the preference
model. However, if these outlying ratings represent atypical experiences of the user with
                                                29

the item, i.e. either an unusual item realization or experience context, then further action can
help resolve whether what is being manifested is intentional or accidental preference. The
user can be directed to re-experience the outlying items or the experience items to which
they are similar and whose characteristics would merit including them in the item subset
created by the partitioning process. If the new ratings are inconsistent with those of the
outlying items then the outlying ratings can be marked as atypical and eliminated from the
preference model. Otherwise, the instance would have to be recognized as an item
preference that the profiling system cannot yet describe.
         [0084] In some embodiments, the system may recommend 131 items that the user is
likely to enjoy. Recommendation processes will be described below. For example, the
system may receive a request for a recommendation. The request may be a specific request
submitted by a user. Or it may be an automated command to provide a recommendation
whenever a user performs a certain action, such as accesses the application. The request
may include one or more criteria, such desired traits and/or attributes, a context, or other
information that the system may use to generate a recommendation for one of the items in
the database.
         [0085] An example of a user interface showing this is found in FIG. 11, which
shows an example of a user interface 1101 through which a user may request a
recommendation. The interface may include a context field 1103 in which the user
indicates whether it wants a recommendation for the user him or herself, for another user, or
for a group. For example, a group recommendation made on the basis of profile constructed
by matching and merging the preference models of multiple users. The system will access
the user's profile, another user's profile, or a group profile depending on the user's
selection. The interface also may include one or more characteristic fields 1105 where the
                                                 30

user may identify several criteria that the recommended item must (or is preferred to)
satisfy. Such characteristics may include type and price, for example.
         [0086] In some embodiments, a personal taste profile system also may contain a
prediction functionality - i.e., a process that allows a user to determine whether the user (or
another user) is likely to like a specified item, based on the relevant user's profile data. For
example, a user may be permitted to enter a user identifier 133. The system will use the
user identifier to identify a person whose profile will be used for the prediction function.
Optionally, the user can provide a context under which the item was, or is to be sampled.
Such contextual information may be relevant to the experience of the item for the situation
in which the item is to be consumed (e.g., food and wine pairings).
         [0087] The system will then receive identifying information about a specific item of
interest 135. The data may be a serial number, a universal product code, a name or other
description, scanned barcode data, a photo of a label that is processed using image
recognition technology to extract identifying information, or any other data that the system
may use to identify the item. The system will determine whether data for the specific item
of interest is available in an item database 137. If so, the system may retrieve one or more
traits and/or attributes of the item 139, process the retrieved characteristics through the
relevant user's profile 141, and generate and output to the user a predicted rating for the
item based on the process 143. The rating dependency patterns of the preferences models in
the profile determine how the item characteristics are processed. For consistent patterns the
predicted rating is the representative rating of the item subset comprising the model. In the
cases of the contrasting and polarizing patterns, the values of the item characteristics and
context data (if present) are entered into the preference model, for example as implemented
by a regression function, and the result taken as the rating prediction. The performance
metrics of the preference model will provide measures of the certainty with which the
                                                31

function's value can be taken as indicative of how the user would rate the item. This metric
and optionally others can be used to select from among the predicted values to present as
the predicted rating. When no preference model can be matched to the characteristics of the
item, i.e. this item would not have qualified for inclusion in any of the subsets generated by
the partitioning process, then a prediction can not be made and so an inconclusive result can
be returned. An inconclusive result can also occur if the performance metric(s) of none of
the preference models indicate that their results are not sufficiently reflective of how the
user would have rated the item.
         [0088] In an example of using the prediction system for wine, a user may use a
mobile electronic device to scan a barcode or QR code or capture a photo of the label of a
wine. The system may process the barcode data, or extract label data from the photo, using
any suitable optical recognition technology. When the wine is identified, the system may
access a database of curated wines to determine whether the identified wine is in the
database. If the wine is in the database, the system may retrieve from the wine database one
or more characteristics of the wine. The system would then process these attributes through
the user's profile as described above. These results are then transmitted to the user saying
that they are likely to like or dislike the wine, as the case may be. If the results are
inconclusive, the system may decline to make a prediction or report that it had an
inconclusive finding.
         [0089] When selecting a user profile, the system may default to the requesting user's
profile, unless the requesting user requests that the system access another user's profile.
         [0090] In some embodiments, the system may regenerate a new preference profile
for a user, or it may update an existing profile based on new ratings or item characteristics.
         [0091] In some embodiments, for the purposes of obtaining an item
recommendation or for expanding the user's own profile, the system may augment the user's
                                                 32

profile with portions of preference profiles from one or more users. Suitable users may be
identified first on the basis of their willingness to make their preference profiles available
for sharing. Next, an overall similarity score may be computed between the preference
models comprising user's profile and those of the users who make their profiles available for
this purpose. A first step in computing the similarity score may be identifying which of the
user's preference models match those of each of the cooperating users. This is done on the
basis of the item subset descriptions of the preference models. The system determines
whether the user and the cooperating user share the same preferences for the subset of items
in each preference model. In cases where the preference models have matching rating
dependence patterns, this can be done by computing the similarity of the model parameters.
         [0092] For example, in the case of a consistent pattern of preference, by measuring
how closely the representative ratings for the item subset compares for each user. In other
rating dependence patterns it will depend primarily on the item characteristics that support
the rating dependence and the direction of that dependence, e.g. increasing or decreasing
ratings as a function of trait intensity and, in the case of focal patterns, the focal zone of
item characteristic values. In cases where there are different rating dependence patterns for
the same subset of items, then similarity may be computed on the basis of ratings predicted
by the preference models of both users for a set of items. This set of items could be
comprised of the union of the items rated by the user and the cooperating user. The more
closely the ratings of these items are predicted by the models of both users, the more similar
their preference for the item subset on which the preference model is based.
         [0093] A collective preference similarity score may be computed for each
cooperating user and those which satisfy a similarity criterion are considered next.
Considering only the pool of qualifying cooperating users, the system may identify which of
the cooperating users' preference models are not present in the profile of the user. As in the
                                                  33

previous step, this may be done on the basis of the item characteristics that determined
inclusion of items in the subsets comprising the preference models. The preference models
so identified in this process are candidates for either adding to the user's profile or for a
basis upon which to make recommendations. Choosing which of these profiles or how
many of them to use will depend upon how the system is implemented. One may choose to
use only the candidate preference models from the cooperating user whose preference
profile was most similar to the user. Other possibilities include using only those preference
models whose item subsets are for types of items very similar to, or very different from, the
items already rated by the user. However the preference models are chosen, the system may
add them to the user's preference profile and generate an augmented profile for the user.
Alternatively, the system may add them to the collection of the user's preference models and
use the augmented collection to perform a recommendation function. This process may
then allow the system, and optionally the user, to identify other users' preference models
that are similar to the first user's models for a common collection of types of items. The
first user may then assume the cooperating user's preference models for different types of
items for which the first user does not yet have a preference model. This process allows a
user to bolster their preference profile with the experiences of other, more experienced users
who also have similar preferences for the types of items they have in common.
         [0094] In addition, the system may offer a user the ability to compose a group of
two or more selected users and recommend items that, based on the profiles for each of the
users, are expected to be liked to definable degrees by each of the users based on a merged
profile created from the users' profiles. As used in the document, an item may be expected
to be liked by multiple persons so long as none of the relevant users is expected to dislike
the item. A recommendation for several users may proceed first matching the item subset
descriptions of the preference models from all users in the group. The matching profile
                                                 34

models are merged by inverting the rating dependency functions and identifying regions of
item characteristic values for which various degrees of rating maximization can be attained
for the users comprising the group. This is straightforward in the case of matching
preference models based on the consistent pattern of dependence since no function
inversion is required. The representative rating associated with the subset of items in the
preference model of each user can be directly used. If the ratings for the group satisfy some
social welfare function, e.g. no unappealing ratings or an average appealing rating, then the
item characteristics used to form the subset can be used to identify recommendable items.
In instances where users have no matching preference models one may assume a default
rating for the item subset, e.g. So-So, but with a zero level of confidence.
        [0095] Although the examples described below illustrate retrieval of ratings, item
characteristics and user rating context data, any or all of the data points, i.e. item
characteristics, ratings or rating context data, may be adjusted, weighted or transformed to
replace or supplement the data before the item selection, pattern identification and
preference model discovery or at any other point in the profiling, suggesting, recommending
or predicting process. This disclosure is intended to cover all such embodiments. As
previously noted, the result of any such procedures that incorporates sensorial derived item
information, e.g. traits, cannot be considered an attribute because of its dependence on the
perception of the item and so therefore may be taken as a trait.
        [0096] When determining patterns of dependency, some items in the database may
be given more weight or emphasis than other items in the determination. Similarly,
individual traits and/or attributes may be given more weight or emphasis than others. This
may be done by a simple multiplier applied directly to item characteristic values or rating
values, such as by multiplying each value for the rated items by a weighting factor or by
applying such weights in potentially other manners to values calculated elsewhere in the
                                                 35

analysis methods. The system may use context information to determine how to weigh the
relevant item characteristics or ratings. For, example, when developing a wine taste profile
for the consumer, a wine that the consumer tastes on vacation in the wine's country of
origin may be perceived differently than a wine tasted at home. In addition, more recent
ratings may be given higher weights than older ratings. For example, ratings that are more
than a threshold period of time old may be assigned a weighting factor of less than 1.0 so
that they are given less importance in the preference profile than more recent ratings are
given. This also helps the system adapt the preference profile to the consumer's changing
tastes over time.
         [0097] Not all of the items rated by the consumer are necessarily passed on to the
next step for processing. One or more criteria, based on certain item characteristics and/or
contexts, may be required before an item is selected, or a context may be used as a gating
criterion for whether an item is considered. For example, in the case of wine, a selection
criterion may restrict a preference profile to consider only the past 12 months of wine
ratings. Or a user's preferences for wines consumed for pleasure may be profiled separately
from the consumer's preferences for wines consumed in professional entertainment.
         [0098] The traits for some items in the database may be approximated if they have
not actually been sensed and/or determined. For example, an expert who has not actually
tasted a wine may enter trait values that the expert thinks are representative of similar
wines. If so, when a consumer perceives and rates those wines, then when the system builds
a preference profile for the consumer those wines may be given less emphasis than wines
for which non-approximated or expert-determined trait values are available. This may be
done by giving each wine (or other item) a weight, such as a weight between 0 and 1. A
weight of 1 may indicate that the system's wine experts are fully confident in their
characterization of the wine. A weight of 0 may indicate no confidence. Weights between
                                                36

0 and 1 may reflect varying degrees of confidence. These weights, or confidence values,
may be accessed during the analysis of consumer-rated items. The calculations determining
the presence of a dependence pattern may weigh the contribution of each item in proportion
to its weight or confidence value in proportion to a weight assigned to the type of item
information under consideration. Where there is more than one type of item information
being analyzed and where their traits differ, then an overall weight may be determined for
that item, such as a mean of the weights, minimum of the weights, or other functions.
         [0099] In some embodiments, preference model discovery may be carried out in any
or all of the following three stages: partitioning, analysis of dependence patterns and
assembly of preference models. Partitioning may separate the items into various subsets
whose inclusion criteria are based on item characteristics and/or contextual information.
Analysis of dependence patterns considers each subset of rated items created by the
partitioning process and identifies patterns of dependence indicating the different forms of
preference. Assembly of preference models involves identifying the patterns of preference
discovered by analysis and appending to them information that further describes the nature
of the form of preference. This further information may include the item characteristics
and/or context data supporting the pattern of rating dependence, the item characteristics
and/or context data that determine which items qualify for inclusion in the subset of rated
items that were analyzed, or the confidence or other metrics and statistical measures
generated by the analysis. As described earlier, the first step may be applied because it will
generally be the case that no single preference profile is applicable across all types of items
or across all circumstances in which the items were sampled. Therefore, in addition to
analyzing it in its entirety, the data set may be partitioned into various subsets that will be
separately analyzed from each other. The third step adds the information required by the
profile generation to satisfy criteria such as model certainty and salience.
                                                37

         [00100] In some embodiments, the identification of preference models may
consider one or more subsets of the selected items and determine which of them exhibit
specific patterns of association between the consumer-assigned ratings and the values of one
or more item characteristics and context data. This may be done by partitioning the selected
items into various subsets and then analyzing the various subsets of the selected wines
generated by the partitioning process. The point of partitioning the selected wines is that it
is unlikely that a single description of preference is applicable to all of the items perceived
by the consumer. It is much more likely that the consumer will have different preferences
for different types of items and/or in different circumstances of consumption. By
partitioning the wines along the lines of the individual traits and/or attributes and/or
contexts, we may find and describe the preferences applicable to each of these types of
wines and circumstances. For example, in the example of wines, the selected wines may be
partitioned into four subsets according to the season of the year in which the wine was
tasted. These subsets may again be partitioned according to the presence and absence of
wood flavor in the wines. The types of items for which the user will have a exhibit a pattern
of preference will generally not be known a priori. One approach to ensuring that the
partitioning process includes such items of preference is to create item subsets on the basis
of every conceivable combination of item characteristics and/or context data. A less
exhaustive approach entails making assumptions about the types of items for which users
will typically form patterns of preference, an approach requiring expertise in the domain of
the items and what drives the preferences for those items.
         [00101] In some embodiments, determining a pattern of dependency may include
identifying one or more trending contrasting preferences for the person. Identifying a
trending contrasting preference may include: (i) identifying a single item characteristic or a
piece of ordinal or categorical rating context data associated with the ratings and by
                                                38

determining that the person's rating trends in concert with the item characteristic or context
information; or (ii) identifying two or more item characteristics and/or rating context data
and by determining that the item's rating trends in concert with some combination of
intensities or values of the multiple sources of information. A rating may be considered to
be trending if it exhibits a non-reversing upward or non-reversing downward trend in rating
values as a function of the trait values.
         [00102] An example of this for quantitatively valued data is shown in FIG. 5, which
shows how a particular person's ratings for wines may increase as the wines' acid intensity
trait increases, while the person's preference, as reflected by the rating values, may decrease
as the wines' fruit intensity trait decreases. This data indicates that the person has a
preference for wines that is driven by two different wine traits. One aspect of preference is
driven by a dependence on acid intensity and the other on fruit intensity. This will manifest
itself as the user's preference for wines that exhibit both a high acid intensity and a low fruit
intensity and a preference against wines that exhibit both a low acid intensity and a high
fruit intensity. Identifying a trending contrasting preference may also include: (i) identifying
a single categorical or class valued item characteristic or context data associated with rated
items by determining that the person's rating trends in concert with some ordering of the
categorical values or classes; or (ii) identifying two or more item characteristics and/or
context data associated with rated items by determining that the ratings trend in concert with
some ordering of the Cartesian product of the categories and/or class values.
         [00103] In other embodiments, identifying a pattern of dependency may include
identifying one or more focal contrasting preferences for the user. Identifying a focal
contrasting preference may include: (i) identifying an item characteristic or quantitative or
ordinal piece of rating context data associated with a group of rated items for which the
rating set includes both relatively maximal ratings and minimal ratings; (ii) determining that
                                                 39

the person's ratings for the group of rated items includes a focal zone of maximal or
minimal ratings representing positive or negative appeal over a circumscribed span of item
characteristic or context data values. An example of this is shown in FIG. 6, which shows
how a particular person's ratings for wines varied based on the wines' fruit intensity. Here,
the person enjoyed wines having either a high or a low fruit intensity, but did not enjoy
wines that were in the middle of the spectrum. Thus, the focal point in the middle of the
spectrum indicates that the user expresses a negative preference to wines of only moderate
fruit intensity, or a preference for wines with either high or low (but not moderate) fruit
intensity. Identifying a focal contrasting preference may also include (i) identifying one or
more item characteristics and/or context data associated with a group of rated items for
which the rating set includes maximal and minimal ratings; (ii) determining that the ratings
for the group of rated items include a focal zone of maximal or minimal values for a convex
hull of values in the Cartesian product of the item characteristic and/or context data values.
An example of this is shown in FIG. 9 where a closed, central region of values for the
Cartesian product of the Trait 1 and Trait 2 values encompass of zone of maximal ratings.
         [00104] In some embodiments, determining a pattern of dependency may include
identifying one or more consistent preference patterns for the person. Identifying a
consistent preference pattern may include: (i) determining the set of item trait, attribute,
and/or rating context data values that were used by the partitioning process to identify the
subset of items being considered; (ii) measuring a representative rating for the subset of
items created by the partitioning process; (iii) measuring the extent to which the item ratings
are dispersed around the representative rating, i.e. the rating homogeneity; (iv) determining
whether the rating homogeneity meets the criterion established for finding a consistent
pattern of preference.
                                                40

        [00105] In some embodiments, determining a pattern of dependency may include
identifying one or more polarizing preference patterns for the person. A polarizing
preference model indicates that the person clearly exhibits a pattern of rating dependence,
e.g. contrasting or consistent, for some trait values to one side of a threshold value, but the
person's feelings about other values for the trait are either unclear, as the user may have
given both high and low ratings to items exhibiting that trait at values outside of the
threshold value, or show a different pattern of dependence. An example is a person who
consistently likes highly acidic wines, but who has an inconsistent range of opinions about
low acidity wines.
        [00106] Analysis Methods.
        [00107] A goal of the analysis methods described in this document is to determine
whether a given subset of items fits any of the previously defined patterns of dependencies
between ratings and item characteristics and/or rating context data. In addition, results of
the analysis methods may also provide predictions of the ratings as a function of item
characteristics and/or context data and the verified pattern of dependence. Further, the
analysis methods may also provide an estimate of the consequentiality of the item
characteristic and/or context data values supporting the pattern of dependency. This is done
by calculating the cumulative joint empirical probability of those data over the extremes of
their values. The analysis methods may provide other information that may be of use to the
preference profile assembly process. Therefore, the following will describe implementations
that use widely understood analysis methods in order to portray how an embodiment may
operate.
        [00108] Every item subset created by the partitioning process undergoes all of the
forms of analysis described in the following. These methods seek to discover how well the
item ratings fit the previously defined patterns of dependence. Some of these methods
                                                41

examine the dependence between the item rating and selected item characteristics and/or
context data. This dependence may be sought as a function of just one or two elements of
item and/or context data, although in principle more than two elements of data may be
examined. One reason for seeking rating dependence as a function of fewer than three
elements of data is to preserve the usefulness of the human readable preference description
since incorporating too many drivers of preference in it may be confusing. Which of the
item characteristics and/or context data to consider as a driver of rating dependence will
depend upon the nature of the items, how preferences for them are determined and decisions
about how to implement the system. Some choices may be driven by the nature of the data,
e.g. colinearity. In wine for example, one probably would not use the Body and Alcohol
intensity traits when seeking rating dependence because these traits may track each other.
One may expect to exclude the item characteristics and/or context data that were used to
determine the subset of items under analysis and the selection of which of the rated items
for which a profile is to be generated. This exclusion is due to the fact that such data may
have constant values.
         [00109] Contrasting Patterns of Dependence.
         [00110] Referring again to FIGs. 5 and 6, contrasting preference may be diagnosed
here by 1) detecting a non-reversing upward or downward trend in ratings as a function of
one or more item characteristics and/or rating context data (trending case) or 2) detecting a
peaking or dipping trend in these variables (focal case). This may be done using a form of
cumulative link model regression called ordered logit regression. (Other forms of this
approach, such as proportional hazards or ordered probit, could be more appropriate for
other types of items.) The ordered logit model handles situations in which the response
variable has an ordinal data type, e.g. an item rating. The model predictors can have
quantitative, ordinal or categorical data types or a mixture of them. This regression method
                                               42

can therefore be more suitable for our application than linear regression because the latter
presupposes a linear relationship between the levels of the response variable. Since the
response variable is a rating, it cannot be assumed that its levels are linearly related, e.g. that
the distance between the middle rating and the highest rating is the same as that between it
and the lowest rating. This regression can also be more suitable for analyzing categorical
data types than using measures of association such as Pearson's chi-squared or Fisher's Test
because these do not take into account the ordered nature of the ratings.
        [00111] The following will illustrate a few examples of how the ordered logit
regression can be used to detect signs of contrasting preference. The upper two plots of FIG.
5 give a graphical view of how wine ratings for an archetypical "acid freak" depend on the
acidity and fruit intensity of the red wines tasted. The plotted circles show how the wine
ratings (plotted vertically) varied as a function of the values of the wine trait (plotted
horizontally). A little random jitter was added to the wine trait values so that the circles
would not plot over each other. Overall the ratings increased with increasing acidity and
decreased with increasing fruit intensity. The regression analysis sought to interpret these
data as evidence for an upward or downward trend and plotted the predicted trend as a solid
line running through and around the data points. The goodness of fit measures for both of
these analyses were within the acceptable range with acidity being fit better than fruit
intensity by two-thirds. Two trending preference models, parametrized by the regression
procedure, were therefore produced indicating an increasing contrasting preference for
acidity and a decreasing contrasting preference for fruitiness. This stage of analysis also
looks for a pattern of preference as a function of combinations of item information. When
the acidity and fruit intensity values were linearly combined, the regression fit a trending
rating dependence pattern twice as well as when acidity was analyzed alone. The bottom left
plot shows symbols representing ratings plotted at positions representing the values of the
                                                43

fruit intensity (vertical axis) and acidity (horizontal axis). The parallel diagonal lines are
contours at each rating level that divide up this plot into regions that indicate the
regression's prediction of how the user maps combinations of acidity and fruit intensity into
ratings. It shows that the ratings increase in the upper-left to lower-right direction,
indicating that the user prefers higher acidity while simultaneously lower fruit intensity.
The lower right plot shows a narrower, but more easily interpreted view of the regression
results. Here the ratings are plotted versus a linear combination of the acidity and the fruit
intensity. The solid line shows the rating prediction made by the regression as a function of
this combination of wine traits and it is a much tighter fit to the data than the single trait
model.
         [00112] FIG. 5 portrays an instance of preferences that can be described with
different degrees of specificity. A compact, less specific, way of describing the driver of
this person's preference is that he or she prefers high acidity to low acidity. The preference
running against fruit intensity is less accurately defined and so could be a secondary finding.
A more accurate but less compact, more specific, description of preference includes the
additional effect of fruit intensity. If desired, both assessments may be made available to
the user, and this presentation may include displaying the assessments in order of
prominence. Since acid intensity and fruit intensity strongly and negatively co-vary in the
sample of wines tasted, it is natural to assume that the preference against fruitiness is driven
by the stronger preference for acidity. However, since there is a stronger preference model
fit from the combination of fruit intensity and acid intensity, it suggests that the fruit
intensity is an independent driver of preference and carries additional information.
         [00113] A goal of looking for a trending contrasting pattern of dependence may be
to be able to say that a person's taste runs along with the degree of expression and/or
presence of particular things about the item itself and/or the circumstances of the
                                                 44

consumer's perception of that item. Informally described, a trending contrasting pattern of
dependence is a case where the ratings trend with the monotonic, i.e. single direction,
expression of an item characteristic and/or piece of context data. Examples applicable to
wine are that the consumer likes more over less tannin, or likes the presence of woody
flavors and dislikes the absence of those flavors. There can be a case where ratings show a
statistically detectable increase in preference with increasing tannin intensity, where tannin
intensity is a type of item information that has an ordered data type. It can also be a case
where ratings for wines having a woody flavor are statistically higher than the ratings of
those wines that don't, where woody flavor is a type of item information that has a
categorical data type. It can also be the case where ratings change as a function of both
tannin intensity and the presence of a woody flavor, thus depending multiple types of data.
         [00114] More formally described, a trending contrasting pattern of dependence is
manifested by a verifiable association between the item ratings and the monotonic
progression of the values of item characteristics and/or context data, whether there are
single or multiple types of information having ordered or categorical data types, or a
mixture of both. Such verification may be made by means of statistical analysis. This
pattern of dependence may be discovered by finding that the p-value of a statistical analysis
falls below a given threshold value. The p-value is the probability that the pattern of
dependence arose by chance. Therefore our confidence in the discovery of a pattern of
dependence goes up as the p-value goes down. Optionally, the system may use a 0.1 p
value threshold so that there is a 90% chance that the discovered pattern of dependence is
not spurious.
         [00115] The portrayal of analyses based on item characteristics having ordinal data
types is very much the same as the above examples using quantitative data types and so a
separate illustration is not provided. The portrayal of categorical item characteristics, while
                                                45

also conducted using ordered logit regression, differs in character from that using
quantitative or ordinal data. For example FIG. 8 uses bar plots to show the associations
between ratings and the categorical wine traits depicting three types of wine flavor, "Brown
Spice", "Herbal Plants" and "Wood," for a person who rated 32 red wines. The effect of
each type of flavor was analyzed separately. The presence and absence of a flavor was
coded as a 1 and 0 respectively and this information, along with the corresponding ratings,
was entered into the regression. The regression showed whether there was a statistically
significant upward or downward shift in the ratings as a function of the flavor and also
indicated the direction of dependence. In FIG. 8, three sets of a pair of stacked bar charts
show the proportion of the wines receiving each rating for the cases in which a flavor trait
was present and for the cases in which it was absent (the underlying labels show the number
of wines for each case). The sizes and shadings of the various sub-portions of the bar charts
portray the relative proportions of the ratings in each instance. Overall, this person thought
that 25 of the 32 wines were good or great (see tally in the legend box) and so there is only a
small margin for detecting preferences. Nevertheless it's possible to notice shifts in ratings
in the plots according to the presence of flavors and the regressions reported highly
statistically significant associations between the presence or absence of these flavors and an
upward or downward shift in ratings.
         [00116] In FIG. 8, the title above each pair of bar charts shows the preference
conclusions drawn from these analyses. When Brown Spice was absent there was an
upward shift in the overall pattern of ratings. The table in the lower right comer of FIG. 8
shows that the predominant rating went up from Good to Great when this flavor was absent.
When Herbal Plant flavor was present the predominant rating went from somewhere
between So-So and Good up to Good. Likewise, when Wood flavor was present the ratings
shifted from predominantly Good to Great. Interestingly, the effect of each flavor on the
                                               46

ratings was independent of the other flavors. This is because when the regression was
performed on pairs of flavors, or on all three flavors at once, each flavor retained a
statistically significant ability to shift the pattern of ratings. At the margin, this person
prefers wines with Wood and Herbal Plant flavors and without Brown Spice flavors, both
individually and together in various combinations. This driver of preference, however,
exerts an important effect, shifting the ratings on the order of magnitude of a single step.
         [00117] In instances where a categorical variable is able to take on more than two
values, e.g. left/middle/right, a trending form of contrasting preference may be identified. A
non-reversing progression in the ratings that is a function of a specific ordering of the
categorical values indicates a contrasting preference. In practice this form of dependence
may be detected by an ordered logit regression on the categorical values wherein the
estimated coefficients for these trait values are statistically distinct from each other.
         [00118] An example of a focal variety of a contrasting preference model, fit for a
person tasting white wine, is shown by FIG. 6. Ordered logit regressions look for non
reversing trends, so in order to fit the focal variety, the data was transformed by assuming a
center value for the fruit intensity. Initially the median was chosen. Then the absolute
distances of the fruit values from that center point was fed into the ordered logit regression.
As a result, the regression saw trait values that increased from the center point and thus a
peaking pattern would appear as an increasing trend. Conversely, a dipping pattern would
appear as a decreasing trend. Since the initial guess at the center may not be the best
choice, this center value was also optimized along with the other parameters of the
regression. The best fit circles indicate where the ratings fell (vertical axis) as a function of
the wine fruitiness (horizontal axis). The regression analysis found evidence for a
downward dipping pattern of preference and the corresponding predictions of ratings as a
function of fruit intensity for such a model are traced by the solid line. It passes through
                                                   47

nearly all but one of the eight plotted points. Because of that one outlying data point this fit
is almost at the outer limit of acceptability. This quality of fit will be taken into account,
such as in later procedures responsible for prose generation. Such a preference model
indicates that mid-range levels of fruit intensity are preferred much less than lower or higher
ones. It was earlier shown that a trending preference could be found for the linear
combination of two wine traits. The same can be done in searching for focal contrasting
preference models. In such a case the linear combination of trait values would be formed
before their distances from a center point are calculated. Fitting such a model would
indicate that there is a combination of trait values that is preferred or not preferred,
somewhere away from the largest and smallest values for that trait combination.
         [00119] There is another case of a focal variety of contrasting preference involving
two wine traits that is different from the last illustration. FIG. 9 demonstrates this example.
In this case ratings, represented by four different symbols, are plotted at the horizontal and
vertical positions given by the each of the two sets of trait values. The highest ratings are
clustered at the center of the plot area, the lowest ratings appear around its periphery and
intermediate rating values concentrically fill in the intervening regions. The regression
predicted ratings at all points in the plot area in a way that best fit the set of data. The
roughly circular contours enclose the regions predicted to have each rating value. Given the
good quality of fit found here, such a data set would be taken as evidence for a contrasting
preference model of the "bulls-eye" variety. In this case of wine, it indicates that there is a
preference "sweet spot" for wine traits having a range of values that put it within the
innermost contour of high ratings.
         [00120] One may look for a focal contrasting pattern of dependence in order to be
able to say that a person's preferences are driven along the distance from a circumscribed
range in the degree of expression of particular item characteristics and/or its rating context.
                                                 48

Informally described, a focal contrasting pattern of dependence may be a case where the
ratings monotonically trend with distance from a circumscribed range in the values
portraying the expression of an item characteristics. As an example, this can be a case
where ratings show a verifiable progression in values with increasing distance from a
circumscribed range of tannin intensity values. Such verification may be made by means of
statistical analysis. Formally described, a focal contrasting pattern of dependence may be
manifested by a statistically detectable association between item ratings and a monotonic
progression in the values of single or multiple item characteristics and/or context data
having ordered data types away from a circumscribed range of values. This pattern of
dependence may be discovered by finding that the p-value of the analysis falls below a
given threshold value. The p-value is the probability that the pattern of dependence arose
by chance. Therefore our confidence in the discovery of a pattern of dependence goes up as
the p-value goes down. Optionally, we may use a 0.1 p-value threshold so that there is a
90% chance that the discovered pattern of dependence is not spurious.
         [00121] Consistent Patterns of Dependence.
         [00122] A goal of looking for a consistent pattern of dependence is to be able to
identify cases where a given combination of item characteristics and/or rating context data
used to form the subset of items under analysis elicit a consistent response from the user.
An example of this pattern of preference include one where a user usually dislikes wines
having a barnyard aroma. Informally described, a consistent pattern of dependence is a case
where the user's ratings for a subset of items tend to cluster around a single value. In such
cases, the item characteristic and/or context data values used in the partitioning process to
form the item subset characterize the preference. For example, when looking at a subset of
selected white wines consisting of only those tasted during the winter months, finding that
this partitioning yielded consistently mediocre ratings, would characterize a consistent
                                               49

pattern of dependence. In other words, the user is apparently not crazy about white wines
during the winter. More formally described, a consistent pattern of dependence may be
manifested by finding that ratings evidence a degree of statistical dispersion, e.g. standard
deviation or mean absolute deviation, sufficiently low so as to be taken as effectively
constant. This pattern of dependence may be discovered by finding that the measure of
statistical dispersion of ratings falls below a given threshold value. The smaller the degree
of statistical dispersion, then the greater confidence that the ratings are effectively constant.
         [00123] Polarizing Patterns of Dependence.
         [00124] One may look for a polarizing pattern of dependence in order to be able to
identify cases where a combination of item characteristics and/or rating context results in
one type of rating dependence being found but situations outside of that combination results
in a different type of rating dependence being found or no pattern of rating dependence
being found. Of specific interest are instances of polarizing dependence that are manifested
by finding a consistent pattern of rating dependence in conjunction with no defined pattern
of rating dependence. An example of this is demonstrated where the user usually dislikes
sweet wines but has a range of opinions, i.e. an undefined pattern of rating dependence, for
non-sweet wines. Finding such a polarizing pattern of dependence entails describing the
boundaries within which appeal is defined. Informally described, such a polarizing pattern
of dependence may occupy the ground between a contrasting pattern of dependence and a
consistent pattern of dependence. As with a contrasting pattern of dependence, the system
may consider a range of ratings within the subset of items. However, the relationship is not
defined over the entire range of values taken on by the set of item information defining that
pattern of dependence. However, like the consistent pattern of dependence, the ratings are
defined and effectively constant. However this constancy only exists within a certain range
of values taken on by the set of item characteristics defining that pattern of dependence and
                                                 50

not across the entire subset of wines. More formally described: (i) for item characteristics
and/or context data having quantitative or ordinal data types, such a polarizing pattern of
dependence may be found when a threshold can be found for the data values defining the
relation; and (ii) for item characteristics and/or context data having categorical data types a
polarizing pattern of dependence is found when a trigger value can be found for the data
defining the relation. In the case of quantitative or ordinal data, the ratings of wines having
characteristics values to one side of the threshold are effectively constant and the ratings of
the remaining wines are not constant. In the case of categorical data, the ratings of wines
having characteristic values equal to that of the trigger value are effectively constant and the
ratings of the remaining wines are not constant. In cases where the item characteristics
and/or context data have mixed data types the threshold and trigger conditions are
separately applied to each item characteristic and/or context datum and the wines that
satisfy both of them may be seen to have effectively constant ratings while the remaining
ones do not. Determining when ratings are effectively constant is done by finding a
sufficiently low degree of statistical dispersion as, for instance, may be done to identify a
consistent pattern of dependence. This pattern of dependence may be discovered by finding
the measure of statistical dispersion of the ratings for wines satisfying the threshold and/or
trigger criteria falling below a given threshold value and that the statistical dispersion of the
ratings for the remaining wines lie above another given threshold value. The smaller the
degree of statistical dispersion in the former, then the greater the confidence that the ratings
are effectively constant. The larger the degree of statistical dispersion in the latter the
greater the confidence that the ratings are undefined.
         [00125] The preceding describes the primary form of polarizing preference sought
out by this analysis. In full generality, the polarizing pattern of dependence can be described
as a circumstance where there is a certain value(s) for an item characteristic(s) and/or
                                                 51

context data that serves to divide the subset of wines into two parts: a part where one
specific pattern of dependence is recognized and a part where another or no recognizable
pattern of dependence is found. The example described above embodies the case of a
consistent pattern of preference paired with no pattern of preference. Other possibilities
include a contrasting pattern of preference paired with no pattern of preference and a
consistent pattern of preference paired with a contrasting pattern of preference.
         [00126] Example of Analysis Based on Class Data Types
         [00127] While rating dependency patterns may be sought as a function of any
arbitrary collection of classes, particularly useful results may be obtained when such classes
are restricted to having defined hierarchical relationships. The class hierarchy used may be
all, or a subset, of one constructed for all items or a selection of items, e.g. the hierarchy
constructed on a portion of the red wine style base classes shown in FIG. 7. A pre-specified
hierarchy may be used and/or one contingently constructed at the time of analysis on the
basis of item characteristics and/or user context data. One may analyze the rating
dependence patterns of items assigned to a given class and consider only that class and the
ancestors to that class as potential data against which rating dependence is sought. That is,
take as drivers of the rating dependence patterns either: (i) the class under consideration as a
whole; or (ii) the items directly assigned to the class and the items that are also members of
the lower level classes that combine the form that class. As was done with quantitative and
ordinal traits, contrasting preference across classes may be assessed by ordered logit
regression. Similarly, as in its application to the analysis of other types of categorical data,
the regression here may weight the data by the similarity of the items to the class under
analysis. A regression is performed on subsets of the class members according to each of
the multiple ways they can constitute the class under consideration.
                                                 52

         [00128] In one embodiment, e.g. where higher level classes are formed by the
pairwise merger of lower level classes, four analyses may be performed: all three class
components are compared against each other at once, the two immediate sub-classes are
compared to each other, and the subset of directly assigned items is separately compared
against each of the immediate sub-classes of items. The sign and value of the parameters
returned by the regression may be interpreted to determine the direction and relative
strength of preference. The statistical significance of the regression may be determined by
likelihood ratio test statistics. A contrasting preference may be diagnosed if there is
sufficient statistical significance. Consistent preference may be assessed using all items
comprising the subject class. This determination may be made by measuring homogeneity
in the ratings, such as can be derived from the class similarity measures and the ratings.
This measure indicates how closely the ratings tend to cluster around a predominant value
and how closely similar the rated items are to the class. A sufficiently high homogeneity in
ratings indicates that the class members are effectively equally preferred and thus well
identified with the class. A threshold value is used to denote homogeneity sufficiently high
to indicate consistent preference for the class. The homogeneity measure may be any
suitable measure.
         [00129] A polarizing preference of the consistent/no pattern form may be assessed
in three combinations of the subsets of items that may comprise the class: the subset of
items directly assigned to the class versus each of the two immediate sub-classes of the
subject class and these two sub-classes against each other. One way to detect the primary
form of polarizing preference is to compare the ratings homogeneity of each subset of items.
A polarizing preference is identified when one of these subsets has homogeneous ratings
and the other does not. The latter determination is made when the homogeneity of the
former meets or exceeds a threshold, and the homogeneity of the latter is equal to or less
                                                53

than a lower threshold. Other methods have been used to make this determination but their
description was deferred in favor of this simpler technique.
         [00130] An example of analysis according to class descriptors is portrayed by FIG.
 10 where the hierarchy corresponding to the classes associated with the rated wines is
depicted along with other information. In order to simplify this presentation the class
assignments of rated wines 2, 4, 5, 7, 15 and 19 were altered. Normally they would be
assigned to classes at higher levels of the hierarchy but they were instead assigned to the
base classes to which they were the most similar and their similarity values were adjusted
accordingly. If this were not done then the diagram would show these wines and their
ratings attached to various levels of the hierarchy. In this sample data set, the wines and
ratings typify a person who loves plush, fruit forward, new world red wines but hates
astringency. Nineteen wines were rated and their numbers and ratings run along the bottom
margin of the diagram. The base classes to which these wines were assigned run in a row
above them and are identified by the letters A through P. Vertical lines indicate the
assignment of rated wines to their classes and their similarity to them depicted by asterisk
superscripts -- no asterisk reflects a similarity value that equates to "most similar", one
asterisk reflects a similarity value that equates to "pretty similar" and two asterisks reflects a
similarity value that equates to "somewhat similar." The composition of the higher level
classes is depicted at each hierarchy level by listing the letters for each contained base class.
These letters also serve as the class trait name. Thus the top of the diagram shows all of the
letters together in one class and the bottom of the diagram shows single letters with each
base class.
         [00131] In addition to the class composition, each hierarchy level in FIG. 10 shows
in parentheses the class rating and rating homogeneity. For clarity the homogeneity value
was multiplied by ten and rounded to a single digit, e.g. a homogeneity of 1.0 corresponds
                                                 54

to 10 in the diagram. Finally, the ratings and homogeneities of the base classes are shown
vertically oriented, parenthetical labels below them. To compensate for changing the class
assignments, the class similarity levels at the base class level were carried through to all of
the rating homogeneity calculations instead of using the similarity values appropriate to
each level.
          [00132] Analysis begins at the top level of FIG. 10, where a strong contrasting
preference is found to favor the left class subset (A, B, ... , J) over the right class subset (K,
L, ... , P). The left branch of the hierarchy is rated as Great, albeit with not much rating
homogeneity, and the right branch is rated Bad with a high rating homogeneity. A
description of the right class subset would reflect that the subset comprises nearly entirely
Old World wines, modest in fruit and that the astringent wines of the world are concentrated
within it. A description of the left class subset would reflect that the subset comprises
primarily New World wines, bountiful in fruit and largely lacking an astringent character.
Prose generated on the basis of these descriptions would match the stated preferences
actually underlying this data set. This prose would more accurately describe what is not
preferred than what is preferred since the rating homogeneity of the left branch class is
lower than that of the right branch class. The rating homogeneity values (5 and 9) for these
two subsets fails to satisfy the conditions for finding a polarizing preference, but if it did, its
diagnosis would be preempted by the higher salience of the contrasting preference found for
the same subsets. Because the rating homogeneity is below 7 it is also clear that there is no
consistent preference for the class representing the combination of these classes.
          [00133]  The classes comprising the right branch of this hierarchy all show strong
evidence of consistent preferences against their classes. The situation is mixed for the
classes comprising the left branch of the hierarchy. The six classes that contained wines 2
or 7 generally had middle to low values of rating homogeneity. That prevented finding
                                                 55

consistent preferences in those classes, although in two of them there were trivial cases of
contrasting preference involving only two wines. The four classes that didn't contain wines
2 and 7 showed consistent preferences because of their high ratings homogeneity.
         [00134] Assembly of preference models.
         [00135] Preference models may be assembled from each of the patterns of
preference, i.e. patterns of rating dependence, discovered during the analysis of the subsets
of selected items. In some embodiments, the assembly of preference model may include
any or all of the following steps: (i) identify a pattern of dependence that was discovered;
(ii) identify the types of item information defining the pattern of dependence; (iii) capture
how the analysis method characterized the pattern of dependence (e.g., p-value, rating
dispersion, etc.); (iv) identify the values and types of item characteristics and rating context
data that were used to define the subset of selected wines that were analyzed; and (v)
identify the values and types of item characteristics and/or context data that were used to
select from all of the items that were rated by the user to create the preference profile.
         [00136] Other types of information about the pattern of dependence that may be
needed by subsequent stages of processing can be added to this collection.
         [00137] Assembly of preference profiles from preference models.
         [00138] The stage comprising the discovery of preference models can return of a
variety of results. The preference models will have a variety of rating dependence patterns
that are discovered with varied degrees of model fit, explainability and consequentiality.
These preference models will also vary as to the number of simultaneously analyzed types
of item information and will encompass subsets containing a variety of different selected
wines. Only those models whose fitness metrics indicate that a preference pattern has been
identified with sufficient certainty are used for preference profiles.
                                                 56

         [00139] It may be desired to generate multiple preference profiles for a consumer
having a range in the generality with which the consumer describes drivers of preferences.
For example, a person may find it more useful to have a short, simple, low specificity
explanation of his drivers of preferences, even if the short description does not have high
collective coverage, informativeness, explainability and consequentiality, while also having
low specificity and multiplicity. Such a preference profile can be created by constraining
the assembly of preference models to be a subset of those items that cover all of the selected
items. On the other hand, another person may desire a long, specific, complex explanation
of their drivers of preferences, even if it has high collective multiplicity. Such a preference
profile can be created by constraining the assembly of preference models to be a set of those
that cover most or all of the selected items. It may be desirable to generate a series of
preference profiles that cover the range of preference descriptions between these two
extremes so that the user has the option to learn their preferences in as much detail as they
desire.
         [00140] For the purpose of the discussion of the previous paragraph, coverage is a
measure of the fraction of the selected items that appear in at least one of the partitions of
the assembled preference models. Uniqueness is a measure of the fraction of the selected
items that appear in no more than one of the partitions of the assembled preference models.
The informativeness of a preference model proceeds from most to least with the following
ordering of their underlying pattern of dependence: trending contrasting, focal contrasting,
consistent and polarizing.   Multiplicity is the total number of preference models comprising
the preference profile. Consequentiality applies to item characteristics and context data and
describes cumulative empirical probability of encountering the range of values associated
with the subset of items associated with the preference model in the user's world. If that
probability is high then the model is highly consequential.
                                                 57

         [00141] Changing Preference Profiles With the Addition of New Ratings
         [00142] Several approaches may be taken with respect to changing a user's
preference profile as the user adds item ratings to the database. One approach is to generate
the user's profile anew after the user updates their rating history with one or more item
ratings. Another approach is to delay generating the user's profile anew until some criteria
is met, e.g. when a minimum number of items rated. A third approach is to adopt the less
computationally intensive method of updating only the profile models without partitioning
the rated items and discovering preference models anew. The first part of this third
approach, called updating, requires identifying the preference models associated with the
newly rated items. That is, going through the item characteristics and rating context values
used to create the subsets of items associated with the preference models and determining
whether the item characteristics and context data for the newly rated item qualifies it for
inclusion in the subset. The identified preference models are updated by analyzing the data
set comprised of the previous items and the newly rated item. The updated results and
performance metrics are passed along to the affected preference profiles and the human
readable portrayal of the profiles are updated with the new results. Limits may be imposed
on the use of the updating method. For instance, as in the second approach, a profile update
may be overridden and a profile generated anew if certain criteria are met, e.g. a given
number of newly rated wines since the last profile generation. Another reason to generate a
profile anew is if the performance metrics of the updated models sufficiently degrade since
this is a possible sign that the items need to be partitioned anew.
         [00143] Improving Preference Profiles and/or Individual Preference Models by
Suggesting Additional Items to Rate
         [00144] The process of suggestion generation may be illustrated using a preference
model characterized by a consistent preference rating dependency pattern. This pattern
                                                58

describes a state wherein items were assigned a narrow range of ratings by the user. Among
the metrics and flags that the system may consider include a measure of the effective
number of items supporting the finding (experience score), a measure of the spread of the
item ratings around the model prediction (model fit) a measure of the sureness with which
the items identify with the item description (subset similarity) and a flag (outlier indicator
indicating) which of the items can be considered to have an outlying rating. In order for a
preference model construction, the system may require sufficient experience score, model
fit and subset similarity. This last proviso can apply to item subsets created on the basis of
item being members of specific classes wherein the assignment of an item to a class is
accompanied by a strength of association measure, i.e. the identification of the item to the
class. Preference profiles also may require the identification of items whose ratings make
them outliers with respect to the preference model.
        [00145] Each of the above metrics and flags can be used as a basis on which to
generate item suggestions. For example, in the context of an experience score, the system
may determine a user's experience score as a function of the number of rated items in the
preference model. This may be a raw number equal to the number of rated items, a
percentage of a target number of rated items, or some other function. If the experience
score for the items in the subset associated with the preference model is below a threshold,
then the system may determine that strength of this model can be bolstered if the user is
directed to experience and rate more items that fit the item description associated with the
preference model. The system may then access the database of candidate items and identify
an item that, if rated, would improve the user's experience score for that preference model.
It may then suggest that the use experience and rate that item. This will increase the
number of effective items associated with the preference model if there is a below threshold
or marginal value in the subset similarity of the rated items with the item subset description.
                                               59

        [00146] By having the user experience and rate items that match the item
description used to construct the item subset, the system can expect to increase the
similarity of the items to the definition of the subset for that preference model. If it is
assumed that a user will rate similarly identified items in a similar way, then we can expect
to improve the model fit by suggesting items fitting the item subset description. In this
instance, a more sophisticated approach is possible wherein a deeper pattern of rating
dependence can be sought, and the results used, to create a more targeted item description
from which to suggest items to try. Similarly, when outlying item ratings are flagged, it is
possible to determine whether such ratings are flukes by creating item descriptions more
closely identified with the flagged items than the item description used by the model. The
ratings for items suggested on the basis of such a narrower item description may or may not
be consistent with the outlying rating and so indicate whether chance or other reason was
the cause of the outlying rating or an insufficiently specific preference model.
        [00147] The following describes other ways in which the preference profile can be
improved by suggesting additional items to rate. A contrasting pattern of rating dependence
is characterized by specific forms of rating trends as a function of item characteristics or by
a contingent difference in ratings as a function of categorical item characteristics. The
methods used to detect a contrasting pattern of rating dependence may include any of a
variety of regression, contingency and statistical testing techniques. Therefore, their metrics
may include, among others, measures of association, leverage and hypothesis exclusion
probabilities. For example, if a preference model of the contrasting type indicates that a
range of item information values exerts high leverage in a regression analysis, then an item
description can be generated that corresponds to the regime of item characteristic values for
which rating data are lacking. Obtaining the ratings for suggested items that satisfy such a
description may reduce leverage in the regression analysis and so increase the accuracy of
                                                60

its findings. Also, if a contingency test reveals that cells associated with certain item
information values are underpopulated relative to other cells, then suggestions can be
generated on the basis of item descriptions pertaining specifically to such cells. Having the
ratings for such items will increase the statistical confidence in the conclusions reached by a
contingency test and so bolster the preference model. Suggestions can be used to deal with
a case where there is no support for a univariate dependence of ratings on item information
but for which the range in values for other variates is too small to support a multivariate
analysis. Suggestions can be generated on the basis of a description of items possessing a
wider range of values than possessed by the variates that currently span too small of a range
of values.
         [00148] As the preceding illustrates, the methods used for suggestion generation
may depend on the preference model and its performance metrics. The suggestion
generator may be triggered by preference descriptions whose performance metrics are
indicative of sub-par or marginally acceptable values. The specific details of such methods
may depend upon identifying the means by which item ratings and item information interact
to give rise to "better" or "worse" values of the performance metrics and working
backwards to determine the values of item information that are required in order to hope to
see those metrics improved. This process may depend upon the particular implementation
of the recommendation system.
         [00149] Translation of preference profiles into prose preference descriptions.
         [00150] The system may report some or all of a person's preference profile by way
of prose. To do this, a series of rules would be used to generate the prose that reflect the
patterns of preference and translate those results into consumer-understandable phrases.
         [00151] FIG. 12 depicts a block diagram of an example of internal hardware that
may be used to contain or implement program instructions, such as the process steps
                                                61

discussed above in reference to FIG. 2, according to embodiments. A bus 600 serves as an
information highway interconnecting the other illustrated components of the hardware.
CPU 605 is the central processing unit of the system, performing calculations and logic
operations required to execute a program. CPU 605, alone or in conjunction with one or
more of the other elements disclosed in FIG. 12, is an example of a processing device,
computing device or processor as such terms are used within this disclosure. Read only
memory (ROM) 610 and random access memory (RAM) 615 constitute examples of
memory devices or processor-readable storage media.
         [00152] A controller 620 interfaces with one or more optional tangible, computer
readable memory devices 625 to the system bus 600. These memory devices 625 may
include, for example, an external or internal DVD drive, a CD ROM drive, a hard drive,
flash memory, a USB drive or the like. As indicated previously, these various drives and
controllers are optional devices.
         [00153] Program instructions, software or interactive modules for providing the
interface and performing any querying or analysis associated with one or more data sets
may be stored in the ROM 610 and/or the RAM 615. Optionally, the program instructions
may be stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a compact disk, a digital
disk, flash memory, a memory card, a USB drive, an optical disc storage medium, such as a
Blu-rayTM disc, and/or other recording medium.
         [00154] An optional display interface 640 may permit information from the bus 600
to be displayed on the display 645 in audio, visual, graphic or alphanumeric format.
Communication with external devices, such as a printing device, may occur using various
communication ports 650. An exemplary communication port 650 may be attached to a
communications network, such as the Internet or an intranet.
                                              62

         [00155] The hardware may also include an interface 655 which allows for receipt of
 data from input devices such as a keyboard 660 or other input device 665 such as a mouse, a
joystick, a touch screen, a remote control, a pointing device, a video input device and/or an
 audio input device.
         [00156] The above-disclosed features and functions, as well as alternatives, may be
 combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen
 or unanticipated alternatives, modifications, variations or improvements may be made by
those skilled in the art, each of which is also intended to be encompassed by the disclosed
 embodiments.
                                                63

                                            CLAIMS
1.     A method of generating a recommendation for a consumable item, comprising:
       by one or more processors, causing one or more electronic devices to:
                output a user interface to a person, and,
                receive, via the user interface, a rating set comprising the person's ratings
       for each of a plurality of rated consumable items;
       by one or more processors, developing a preference model for the person based
on the rating set, wherein the preference model represents associations between the
person's ratings of consumable items and a plurality of consumable item traits, and
wherein developing the preference model comprises:
                identifying at least one association between at least one trait value for the
       rated consumable items and at least one of the received ratings,
                including the at least one association in the preference model, and
                saving the preference model to a computer-readable memory; and
       by one or more processors:
                receiving, from another user, a recommendation request,
                accessing a user profile for the person, wherein the user profile comprises
       the preference model,
                accessing a database of trait values for a plurality of candidate
       consumable items,
                identifying a candidate consumable item in the database having trait
       values whose properties match traits associated with rated consumable items
       that the person found to be appealing,
                                               64
ACTIVE\50139062.vl -9/6/17

               processing the trait values of the candidate consumable item with the user
       profile to generate a predicted rating as a prediction of how the person would rate
       the identified candidate consumable item, and
               causing an electronic device to output an identification of the identified
       candidate consumable item and the predicted rating to the other user.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein using the identifying information to identify a
candidate consumable item also comprises constraining the plurality of candidate
consumable items to those having trait values that satisfy a user-supplied criterion.
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein using the identifying information to identify a
candidate consumable item also comprises constraining the plurality of candidate
consumable items to those having trait values that satisfy a situational criterion.
4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the situational criterion comprises available
inventory at a retailer.
5.     The method of claim 1, wherein:
       the trait values of the identified candidate consumable item are associated with at
least one of the following senses: taste, smell and touch.
6.     The method of claim 1, wherein:
                                              65

        the trait values of the identified candidate consumable item correspond to one or
more indicators of preference in the preference model; and
        generating the predicted rating comprises:
                entering values of the retrieved traits of the identified candidate
        consumable item into the preference model, and
                returning a result of the preference model as the prediction.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein processing the retrieved characteristics with the
user profile to generate the predicted rating comprises:
        analyzing dependency patterns in the preference model of the user profile; and
        using the dependency patterns to generate the predicted rating.
8.      The method of claim 6, wherein analyzing the dependency patterns comprises:
        analyzing consistent patterns of dependency in the preference model and
identifying a representative rating based on the consistent patterns; and
        using the representative rating as the predicted rating.
9.      The method of claim 6, wherein analyzing the dependency patterns comprises:
        analyzing contrasting or polarizing patterns of dependency in the preference
model;
        processing values of characteristics of the identified candidate consumable item
in the preference model having contrasting or polarizing patterns of dependency to yield
a result; and
                                                66

        using the result as the predicted rating.
10.     The method of claim 1, wherein processing the retrieved characteristics with the
user profile to generate the predicted rating comprises:
        determining that no preference model in the user profile can be matched with, or
is reflective of, the characteristics of the identified candidate consumable item; and
        generating an inconclusive result as the predicted rating.
11.     A system for predicting a person's preference for a consumable item, comprising:
        one or more processors:
        a database of trait values for a plurality of candidate consumable items;
        a computer-readable memory storing a user profile for a first person; and
        a computer-readable memory containing programming instructions that, when
executed, cause one or more of the processors to:
                receive, from the first person, ratings for each of a plurality of rated
        consumable items,
               develop a preference model for the first person based on the rating set,
        wherein the preference model represents associations between the person's
        ratings of consumable items and a plurality of consumable item traits, and
        wherein developing the preference model comprises:
                       identifying at least one association between at least one trait value
               for the rated consumable items and at least one of the received ratings,
               and
                                                67

                       including the at least association in the preference model,
                save the preference model in the user profile,
                receive, from another person, a recommendation request for the first
person,
                access the database and the user profile for the first person to identify a
        candidate consumable item in the database having trait values whose properties
        match traits that the preference model indicates are associated with t-he rated
        consumable items that the person found to be appealing,
                process the trait values of the candidate consumable item with the user
        profile to generate a predicted rating as a prediction of how the person would rate
        the identified candidate consumable item, and
                cause an electronic device to output an identification of the identified
        candidate consumable item and the predicted rating.
12.     The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions to use the identifying
information to identify a candidate consumable item also comprise instructions to
constrain the plurality of candidate consumable items to those having trait values that
satisfy a user-supplied criterion.
13.     The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions to use the identifying
information to identify a candidate consumable item also comprise instructions to
constrain the plurality of candidate consumable items to those having characteristics
that satisfy a situational criterion.
                                               68

14.     The method of claim 12, wherein the situational criterion comprises available
inventory at a retailer.
15.     The system of claim 11, wherein:
        the trait values of the identified candidate consumable item comprise values of
traits that are associated with at least one of the following senses: taste, smell and
touch.
16.     The system of claim 11, wherein:
        the trait values of the identified candidate consumable item correspond to one or
more indicators of preference in the preference model; and
        the instructions to generate the predicted rating comprise instructions to:
                enter values of the retrieved traits of the identified candidate consumable
         item into the preference model, and
                return a result of the preference model as the prediction.
17.     The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions to process the retrieved
characteristics with the user profile to generate the predicted rating comprise
instructions to:
        analyze dependency patterns in the preference model of the user profile; and
        use the dependency patterns to generate the predicted rating.
                                               69

18.     The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions to analyze the dependency
patterns comprise instructions to:
        analyze consistent patterns of dependency in the preference model and
identifying a representative rating based on the consistent patterns; and
        use the representative rating as the predicted rating.
19.     The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions to analyze the dependency
patterns comprise instructions to:
        analyze contrasting or polarizing patterns of dependency in the preference
model;
        process values of characteristics of the identified candidate item in the
preference model having contrasting or polarizing patterns of dependency to yield a
result; and
        use the result as the predicted rating.
20.     The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions to process the retrieved
characteristics with the user profile to generate the predicted rating comprise
instructions to:
        determine that no preference model in the user profile can be matched with, or is
reflective of, the characteristics of the identified candidate consumable item; and
        generate an inconclusive result as the predicted rating.
                                               70

<removed-date>
                                          1/12
<removed-apn>    20        WINE DATA
                   (TRAITS, ATTRIBUTES,   40                 CONSUMER
                                                            PREFERENCE
                                                                         30
                         CLASSES)                              DATA
                                           PROCESSOR
                                   10
                                                       12
                                          FIG. 1

<removed-date>
                                                  2/12
                         MAINTAIN
              101      DATABASE OF
                       CONSUMABLE
                          ITEMS
                    RECEIVE PERSONAL
              103     RATING(S) AND
<removed-apn>
                     CONTEXT(S) FOR
                    CONSUMED ITEM(S)
                                                     DEVELOP
                         RETRIEVE        119       PREFERENCE                 RECEIVE USER
              105       TRAITS FOR                   PROFILE          133    IDENTIFIER AND
                      THE CONSUMED                                          OPTIONAL CONTEXT
                          ITEM(S)                                                 DATA
                                                     PRESENT
                                         121     HUMAN-READABLE
              107        RETRIEVE                  PREFERENCE         135         RECEIVE
                    ATTRIBUTES FOR THE           PROFILE REPORT             INFORMATION ABOUT
                     CONSUMED ITEMS                                           ITEM OF INTEREST
                                                 IDENTIFY MODELS
                    SELECT PORTION OF    123        HAVING LOW                    IS ITEM
              111     ITEMS BASED ON              PERFORMANCE         137     OF INTEREST IN
                     CHARACTERISTICS                 METRICS                   DATABASE?
                     AND/OR CONTEXT
                                                OBTAIN DESCRIPTORS                   YES
                                         125     FOR ITEMS WHOSE
                    PARTITION SELECTED           CONSUMPTION WILL     139      RETRIEVE
              113                                                           CHARACTERISTICS
                        ITEMS INTO               IMPROVE METRICS
                        HEIRARCHY                                              FOR ITEM
                                                  RETRIEVE ITEMS
                                                  FROM DATABASE              ESTIMATE RATING
                                         127   MATCHING DESCRIPTORS         FROM PREFERENCE
              115   IDENTIFY PATTERNS                                 141
                        OF RATING                   TO PRESENT              MODELS OR MATCH
                       DEPENDENCY                 AS SUGGESTIONS                TO MODEL
                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                OBTAIN DESCRIPTORS
                                         129    OF ITEMS PREDICTED
              117       DETERMINE
                       PREFERENCE                TO BE ENJOYED BY     143      GENERATE
                         MODELS                        USER                 PREDICTED RATING
                                         131        PRESENT
                                                RECOMMENDATIONS
                                                  FIG. 2

<removed-date>
                                                                                   3/12
               300
                                                                                                                                                          Andrew
                                                                                                   My Recommender                  My Profile          My Wines
                             WINE               Taking the guesswork
                              RING              out of choosing wine.
                                                                                                   Add a wine...                             Rate it           +
                            My Profile                                                            RED       WHITE        ROSE        FORTIFIED           SPARKLING
<removed-apn>
                            My Preferences
                                       Love                                                               SoSo
                                       Cte-Rtie (Savory Spicy Reds)                                     Argentina Malbec (Purple, Plump & Plummy
                    301                Get recommendations >                                              Reds)
                                       Like                                                               Dislike
                                       Chianti Classico Riserva (Savory Spicy Reds)
                                       Get recommendations >
                            Build Your Profile
                             i    Refine your profile by trying more wines in areas where you lack experience or have conflicting ratings.
                            Get more experience with...                      St. Julien                                    SUGGEST WINES
                    303
                            To enhance your experience with this St. Julien we will suggest the following wines for you to taste and rate:
                              Chteau Beychevelle St. Julien                  Chteau Lafon-Rochet St-                   Chteau Gloria St. Julien
                              Cabernet Sauvignon 2006                         Estphe Cabernet Sauvignon                 Cabernet Sauvignon 2008
                                                                              2007
                                   Cabernet                                                                                   Cabernet
                                   Sauvignon                                       Cabernet                                   Sauvignon
                                                                                   Sauvignon
                                   France                                                                                     France
                                                                                   France
                                   2006                   + MY WINES                                                          2008               + MY WINES
                                                                                   2007             + MY WINES
                                 $ $$$$                                                                                   $ $$$$
                                                                               $ $$$$
                            My Stats
                             i    You have rated 14 red wines.
                    305
                                       My Grape Experience                                                My Wine Geography
                                       Youve tasted (NUMBER OF RED GRAPES) different                       Youve rated wines from (NUMBER OF
                                       red grapes.                                                          COUNTRIES) different countries
                                                                                                            Youve rates wines from (NUMBER OF REGION)
                                                                                                            different regions
                                                           2012 Wine Ring My Account How It Works Privacy Policy Contact Logout
              310
                          2 Rate this wine:
                                                                                  FIG. 3

<removed-date>
                                                                              4/12
                    400
                                                                                                                                                   Andrew
                                                                                              My Recommender                  My Profile        My Wines
                            WINE                 Taking the guesswork
<removed-apn>
                             RING                out of choosing wine.
                                                                                              Add a wine...                           Rate it             +
                          My Recommender                                                                          WILL I LIKE IT?    WHICH TO CHOOSE?
                          Which To Choose?
                          Weve put together the most amazing wine cellar of data. Weve curated thousands of wines, and are adding more every day
                          so that we can recommend wines we think youll like.
                           1     Wine is for:*            Me       Me and other(s)      Other(s) only                                      * = required field
              401
                           2     Color:*                  Red      White
                           3     Price range:            ---
                           4     Wine type:              ---
                           5      FIND OUT                                                                                                      Past results >>
                                                                                Cte-Rtie
                                                      Meaty Italian, Lamb, Beef (Lean Cuts), Beef (Rich Cuts), Game, Burgers
                            Domaine Beaucastel                             Bodegas Muga Rioja Reserva              Domaine de Coste Chaude
                            Chteauneuf-du-Pape                            Tempranillo 2007                        Demoiselle Ctes du Rhne
                            Coudoulet de Beaucastel Rouge                                                          2006
              403           2009                                              Tempranillo
                                 Red Blend                                                                              Grenache
                                                                              Spain
                                 France                                                                                 France
                                                                              2007
                                                                                               + MY WINES
                                 2009                                      $ $$$                                        2006                 + MY WINES
                                                    + MY WINES
                               $ $$$                                                                                $ $$
                                                      2012 Wine Ring My Account How It Works Privacy Policy Contact Logout
                                                                                 FIG. 4

                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
               GREAT                                                                             GREAT
                  GOOD                                                                           GOOD
RATING                                                                                 RATING
                SO-SO                                                                            SO-SO
                           BAD                                                                    BAD
                                     1              2          3       4           5                     1        2           3       4     5
                                                        ACID INTENSITY                                                FRUIT INTENSITY                   5/12
                           5                                               BAD                   GREAT
                                                                           SO-SO
                                                                           GOOD
                           4                                               GREAT
                                                                                                 GOOD
                           3 SO-SO                                                     RATINGS
                                                                                                 SO-SO
         FRUIT INTENSITY
                           2
                                         GOOD            GREAT
                           1                                                                      BAD
                                 1              2            3        4        5                             -4   -2 0        2    4    6   8
                                                        ACID INTENSITY                                            ACID: FRUIT INTENSITY
                                                                                       FIG. 5

<removed-date>
                                       6/12
<removed-apn>
                       GREAT
                       GOOD
              RATING
                       SO-SO
                        BAD
                               1   2           3         4   5
                                       FRUIT INTENSITY
                                       FIG. 6

                                                                           <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
WID   CI GRAPE                  COUNTRY        FI MI   B   AC   OI TI   FLAVORS
70    14 SYRAH                  NEW ZEALAND                             BLACK, RED, Blk_Spice, EARTH, MINERAL, WOOD
83    14   PINOTAGE             SOUTH AFRICA                            BLACK, EARTH, MICROBIAL, MINERAL, WOOD
50    3    CABERNET SAUVIGNON   CHILE                                   BLACK, RED, CHEMICAL, EARTH, VEGETAL, WOOD
48    3    CABERNET SAUVIGNON   USA                                     BLACK, HERBAL, WOOD
49    3    CABERNET SAUVIGNON   USA                                     BLACK, EARTH, FLORAL, WOOD
74    13   MERLOT               USA                                     BLACK, CHEMICAL, HERBAL, WOOD
75    13   MERLOT               USA                                     BLACK, CHEMICAL, HERBAL, WOOD
68    13   SHIRAZ               AUSTRALIA                               BLACK, RED, Blk_Spice, HERBAL, WOOD           7/12
85    13   ZINFANDEL            USA                                     BLACK, RED, Blk_Spice, HERBAL, WOOD
80    4    PINOT NOIR           USA                                     BLACK, RED, Brn_Spice, EARTH, WOOD
81    4    PINOT NOIR           USA                                     BLACK, RED, EARTH, HERBAL, WOOD
113   4    SYRAH                USA                                     RED, Blk_Spice, HERBAL, WOOD
69    4    SHIRAZ               AUSTRALIA                               RED, Blk_Spice, HERBAL, WOOD
51    4    CARMNRE            CHILE                                   BLACK, ANIMAL, EARTH, HERBAL, WOOD
66    4    MALBEC               ARGENTINA                               BLACK, FLORAL, WOOD
                                               FIG. 7

<removed-date>
                                                  8/12
              PREFERS ABSENCE OF BROWN SPICE             PREFERS PRESENCE OF HERBAL PLANTS
<removed-apn>
               PRESENT - 14         ABSENT - 18           PRESENT - 20             ABSENT - 12
                 PREFERS PRESENCE OF WOOD
                                                               BAD       2
                                                               SO-SO     5
                                                               GOOD      15
                                                               GREAT     10
                                                             BROWN SPICE HERBAL PLANTS WOOD
                                                     PRESENT GOOD             GOOD           GREAT
                                                      ABSENT GREAT            SO-SO: GOOD    GOOD
               PRESENT - 12         ABSENT - 20
                                                    FIG. 8

<removed-date>
                                            9/12
<removed-apn>
                        5
                                                                   BAD
                                                                   SO-SO
                                                                   GOOD
                                                                   GREAT
                        4
              TRAIT 2   3
                                                       GREAT
                        2              GOOD
                                       GREAT
                                    SO-SO
                                    GREAT
                        1
                            1   2                  3           4           5
                                               TRAIT 1
                                       FIG. 9

                                                                                                                                    <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
                                                                  (GREAT ~ 4) A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J,K,L,M,N,O,P
                                                                                                                                       (BAD ~ 9) K,L,M,N,O,P
                       (GREAT ~ 5) A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J
                                                                                                                (BAD ~ 9) K,L,M,N,O
                                             (GREAT ~ 5) C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J
                                                                                                                              (BAD ~ 10) L,M,N,O
                                                             (GREAT ~ 5) E,F,G,H,I,J
                                                                           (GREAT ~ 9) G,H,I,J
                                                                                                                                    (BAD ~ 10) N, O
                                                                  (GREAT ~ 9) G,H,I
                                                                                                                    (BAD ~ 10) L, M
    (GREAT ~ 4) A, B
                                                                                                                                                                                   10/12
                                              (GREAT ~ 4) E,F
                           (GREAT ~ 8) C,D
                                                                          (GREAT ~ 9) H,I
           A      B             C             D      E       F        G        H            I          J        K         L        M        N       O          P
                                                                                                                                                                   BASE WINE CLASES
                           (GREAT ~ 8)         (GREAT ~ 10) (GREAT ~ 10)   (GREAT ~ 8)       (BAD ~ 9)    (BAD ~ 9)      (BAD ~ 9)
(GREAT ~ 10)   (BAD ~ 7)                  (GREAT ~ 7) (BAD ~ 7) (GREAT ~ 10)         (GREAT ~ 10) (BAD ~ 10)     (BAD ~ 10)                                    BAD~8
           1     2**        3       4**      5**     6      7**       8        9      10        11**   12   13*          14       15*       16      7*    18       19** RATED WINE #S
         GREAT BAD GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT BAD GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT BAD                                        BAD       BAD      BAD     BAD   BAD       BAD RATINGS
                                                                                       FIG. 10

<removed-date>
                                    11/12
                                         1101
<removed-apn>
                             Get Recommendations
                              WineRing
                     This wine is for*
              1103            Me                 Group
                     Wine Color*
                             Red                  White
                     Price (Optional)
                     Based on...(Optional)
                        Food Pairing            Wine Type
                                                            1105
                      Get Recommendations
                                    FIG. 11

<removed-date>
                                         12/12
<removed-apn>                      660    KEYBOARD
                                                    INPUT
                                                   DEVICE
                                                                  665
                                                                         DISPLAY        645
              605         CPU                INTERFACE      655
                                                                          DISPLAY       640
                                                                        INTERFACE
                                                                                    600
                620          DISK                                       COMMUNICATION
                                           ROM           RAM
                          CONTROLLER                                       PORTS
                                            610             615               650
                    625    MEMORY
                                            FIG. 12

