   Abstract
   A method of gaming comprising: conducting a game requiring
 5 a player to make a choice between at least one optimal
   action and at least one sub-optimal action having a lower
   return to player than the optimal action such that the
   difference between the sub-optimal action and the optimal
   action represents a lost return to player; receiving a
10 player choice of an action; and conducting a trial for an
   award in which the probability of success is controlled to
   provide an expected return to player from the trial that
   compensates the player for  the lost return to player in
   response to determining that the choice is a sub-optimal
15 action.
                                               9957938_1(GHMatters)P74748.AU.48/02/2018

                       rno
            (00
          E       N        E
             (a                   t
00                              o
   Co                               a)
                          aa
                             (D     u
                    E               a)
                    00                 56
                             u      0)
      00
                             Li7I
              I(D
         <

   Title
       A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAME CONTROLLER AND A GAMING SYSTEM
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2012247068, which in
10 turn is a divisional application of Australian application no.
   2008252036.    The disclosures of each of these applications are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
15
   The present invention relates to a method of gaming, a game
   controller and a gaming system.
   Background
20
   Gaming systems which implement games that include an element
   of skill are known to provide players with enjoyment. However,
   a problem with such gaming systems is that if players exercise
   sub-optimal skill, the overall return to player can be less
25 than intended. Further, the return to skilled players will be
   more than to less skilled players. Accordingly, it is
   sometimes a requirement to provide optimal play instructions
   to direct players how to obtain an optimal outcome. While this
   allows the same return to be made to all players, it lessens
30 the enjoyment of those players who derive enjoyment by
   learning to exercise optimal skill.
   Accordingly, a need exists for an alternative gaming system.
35 Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of gaming
   for use with a gaming system having a game controller, the
   method comprising:
40             conducting a game having a game round via the game

                                - 2
   controller requiring a player to make a choice between at
   least one optimal action and at least one sub-optimal action
   having a lower return to player than the optimal action such
   that the difference between the sub-optimal action and the
 5 optimal action represents a lost return to the player;
             receiving via the game controller a player choice of
   an action; and
             conducting via the game controller a trial for an
   award in which the probability of success on the trial is
10 determined based on a relationship between the lost return to
   player and the award, such that an expected return to player
   from the trial compensates the player for the lost return to
   player in response to determining that the choice is a sub
   optimal action for the game round; and
15           making any award resulting from the trial at the
   conclusion of each game round.
   In an embodiment, the expected return to player is equivalent
   to the lost return to player and the trial is only conducted
20 when the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises conducting a normal
   trial for the award in response to a player choosing an
   optimal action such that a trial is conducted irrespective of
25 the action and the expected return to player is increased when
   the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   In an embodiment, the award is a progressive jackpot.
30 In an embodiment, the method comprises adding the lost return
   to player to a pool of the progressive jackpot.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a game controller
   for a gaming system, the game controller arranged to:
35           conduct a game having a game round requiring a
   player to make a choice between at least one optimal action
   and at least one sub-optimal action having a lower return to
   player than the optimal action such that the difference
   between the sub-optimal action and the optimal action

                                - 3
   represents a lost return to the player;
             receive a player choice of an action; and
             conduct a trial for an award in which the
   probability of success of the trial is determined based on a
 5 relationship between the lost return to player and the award,
   such that an expected return to player from the trial
   compensates the player for the lost return to player in
   response to determining that the choice is a sub-optimal
   action for the game round; and
10           make any award resulting from the trial at the
   conclusion of each game round.
   In an embodiment, the expected return to player is equivalent
   to the lost return to player and the trial is only conducted
15 when the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to conduct a
   normal trial for the award in response to a player choosing an
   optimal action such that a trial is conducted irrespective of
20 the action and the expected return to player is increased when
   the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   In an embodiment, the award is a progressive jackpot and the
   game controller comprises a jackpot odds adjuster arranged to
25 adjust the probability of success at the jackpot based on the
   player choice.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to add the
   lost return to player to a pool of the progressive jackpot.
30 In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
             a player interface comprising a display and an
   instruction input mechanism; and
             a game controller arranged to:
35                conduct a game having a game round requiring a
   player to make a choice between at least one optimal action
   and at least one sub-optimal action displayed to the player on
   the display, the sub-optimal action having a lower return to
   player than the optimal action such that the difference

                                 - 4
   between the sub-optimal action and the optimal action
   represents a lost return to the player, and
                   receive a player choice of an action from the
   input mechanism,
 5            the gaming system further arranged to a trial for an
   award in which the probability of success of the trial is
   determined based on a relationship between the lost return to
   player and the award, such that an expected return to player
   from the trial compensates the player for the lost return to
10 player in response to determining that the choice is a sub
   optimal action for the game round; and
              make any award resulting from the trial at the
   conclusion of each game round.
15 In an embodiment, the expected return to player is equivalent
   to the lost return to player and the trial is only conducted
   when the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to conducting
20 a normal trial for the award in response to a player choosing
   an optimal action such that a trial is conducted irrespective
   of the action and the expected return to player is increased
   when the choice is a sub-optimal action.
25 In an embodiment, the award is a progressive jackpot and the
   gaming system comprises a jackpot odds adjuster arranged to
   adjust the probability of success at the jackpot based on the
   player choice.
30 In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to add the
   lost return to player to a pool of the progressive jackpot.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged such that the
   choice is made as part of a game round and any trial is
35 conducted prior to any further game round.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to conduct
   the trial.

                                - 5
   In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a jackpot
   controller in data communication with the game controller and
   arranged to conduct the trial.
 5 In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer program
   code which when executed implements the above method.
   In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a computer readable
   medium comprising the above program code.
10
   Brief Description of Drawings
   An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be described
   with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
15
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a gaming
   system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
20 machine;
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components of a
   gaming machine;
25 Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional components
   of a memory;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming system;
30 Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system; and
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment.
   Detailed Description
35
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
   having a game controller arranged to implement a game where
   players can seek to exercise skill to take optimal actions but
   if they take sub-optimal actions they are compensated by a
40 chance or an increased chance to win an award. In an

                                - 6
   embodiment, all of the player return lost by sub-optimal
   choices is added to a jackpot pool and the players chances of
   winning a jackpot from the jackpot pool are adjusted to
   provide an expected player return equivalent to the lost
 5 return such that the player return is the same irrespective of
   a player's choices.
   General construction of gaming system
10 The gaming system can take a number of different forms. In a
   first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided wherein
   all or most components required for implementing the game are
   present in a player operable gaming machine.
15 In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing the
   game are present in a player operable gaming machine and some
   of the components required for implementing the game are
   located remotely relative to the gaming machine.  For example,
20 a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein part of the
   game is executed on a player operable gaming machine and part
   of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of
   the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a
25 player operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and receive
   gaming inputs from the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
30 envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server and
   the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming
   server are selectively modifiable.  For example, the gaming
   system may operate in stand alone gaming machine mode, "thick
35 client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the game being
   played, operating conditions, and so on. Other variations will
   be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises several

   core components. At the broadest level, the core components
   are a player interface 50 and a game controller 60 as
   illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is arranged to
   enable manual interaction between a player and the gaming
 5 system and for this purpose includes the input/output
   components required for the player to enter instructions and
   play the game.
   Components of the player interface may vary from embodiment to
   embodiment but will typically include a credit mechanism 52 to
10 enable a player to input credits and receive payouts, one or
   more displays 54, a game play mechanism 56 that enables a
   player to input game play instructions   (e.g. to place bets),
   and one or more speakers 58.
15 The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62 that
   processes the game play instructions in accordance with game
   play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the display.
   Typically, the game play instructions are stored as program
20 code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired. Herein the term
   "processor" is used to refer generically to any device that
   can process game play instructions in accordance with game
   play rules and may include:  a microprocessor, microcontroller,
   programmable logic device or other computational device, a
25 general purpose computer (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming machine 10
   is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine 10 includes a
   console 12 having a display 14 on which are displayed
30 representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player.
   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of
   buttons 22 for enabling a player to interact with the gaming
   machine, in particular during game play.    The mid-trim 20 also
   houses a credit input mechanism 24 which in this example
35 includes a coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.
   Other credit input mechanisms may also be employed, for
   example, a card reader for reading a smart card, debit card or
   credit card.   A player marketing module  (not shown) having a
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of reading

                                - 8
   a player tracking device, for example as part of a loyalty
   program.  The player tracking device may be in the form of a
   card, flash drive or any other portable storage medium capable
   of being read by the reading device.
 5
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay
   tables and details of bonus awards and other information or
   images relating to the game.   Further artwork and/or
   information may be provided on a front panel 29 of the console
10 12.  A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front panel 29 for
   dispensing cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen device.
15 Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal display,
   plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the
   visible portion of an electromechanical device.   The top box
   26 may also include a display, for example a video display
   unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or of a
20 different type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a
   typical gaming machine which may be the same as or different
   to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
25
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having a
   processor 102.  Instructions and data to control operation of
   the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
   communication with the processor 102.   Typically, the gaming
30 machine 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile memory
   and more than one of each type of memory, with such memories
   being collectively represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
35 including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring player
   credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for communicating
   with peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100.    The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may
   be intelligent devices with their own memory for storing

                                - 9
   associated instructions and data for use with the input/output
   interface or the peripheral devices.  A random number
   generator module 113 generates random numbers for use by the
   processor 102.  Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
 5 that the reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
10 controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107, a card and/or ticket reader 108, a
   printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110
   and a coin output mechanism 111.  Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware may be
15 omitted as required for the specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.   The
   network card may, for example, send status information,
20 accounting information or other information to a central
   controller, server or database and receive data or commands
   from the central controller, server or database.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an
25 exemplary memory 103.  The memory 103 includes RAM 103A, EPROM
   103B and a mass storage device 103C.  The RAM 103A typically
   temporarily holds program files for execution by the processor
   102 and related data.  The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device
   and/or may contain some system or game related code.  The mass
30 storage device 103C is typically used to store game programs,
   the integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B or
   elsewhere.
35 It is also possible for the operative components of the gaming
   machine 100 to be distributed, for example input/output
   devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be provided remotely from
   the game controller 101.

                               - 10
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two
 5 gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the network
   201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player operable
   interface and may be the same as the gaming machines 10,100
   shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have simplified functionality
   depending on the requirements for implementing game play.
10 While banks 203 of two gaming machines are illustrated in
   Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming machines are also
   envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network
15 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be associated with one
   or more banks 203 of gaming machines.  The displays 204 may be
   used to display representations associated with game play on
   the gaming machines 202, and/or used to display other
   representations, for example promotional or informational
20 material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements part
   of the game played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and
   the gaming machine 202 implements part of the game. With this
25 embodiment, as both the game server and the gaming device
   implement part of the game, they collectively provide a game
   controller. A database management server 206 may manage
   storage of game programs and associated data for downloading
   or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.
30 Typically, if the gaming system enables players to participate
   in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to
   perform accounting functions for the Jackpot game.  A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
35 In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most
   or all of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially provides only the
   player interface.  With this embodiment, the game server 205
   provides the game controller. The gaming machine will receive

                               - 11
   player instructions, pass these to the game server which will
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
   machine for display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming
   machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running
 5 software that provides a player interface operable using
   standard computer input and output components.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
10 example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing
   server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating to
   particular games.  An administrator terminal 210 is provided
   to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the
   devices connected to the network.
15
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet, for
   example through a firewall 211.
20
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance
   with known techniques, functionality at the server side of the
   network may be distributed over a plurality of different
   computers.  For example, elements may be run as a single
25 "engine" on one server or a separate server may be provided.
   For example, the game server 205 could run a random generator
   engine.  Alternatively, a separate random number generator
   server could be provided.  Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
30 provided to run different games or a single game server may
   run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
   Further Detail of Gaming System
35
   Figure 6 shows a gaming system of an embodiment where the
   compensatory award is provided by adjusting the odds of a
   player winning a jackpot.  To play a game round the player
   operates the instruction input mechanism 56 to place a wager.

                               - 12
   The outcome generator 622 generates a game outcome based on
   game rules 641 using random number generator 621.
   The game rules 641 require the player to make a choice between
 5 a set of possible actions.  The number of different actions
   can vary depending on the implementation of the game and can
   be, for example, a selection between different options. The
   player operates choice selector 56A of instruction input
   mechanism 56 to input their choice. The choice processor 623
10 receives the input choice input and determines whether the
   player has selected to take an optimal action or a sub-optimal
   action.
   The choice processor 623 provides the choice to the prize
15 award module 624.  The prize award module 624 determines what
   prize applies based on the choice and the prize table 642  (as
   well as the previously determined game outcome if this affects
   the prize) and updates the meters 643 accordingly.
20 The choice processor 623 advises the jackpot module 625
   whether the player has made an optimal or sub-optimal choice
   and the amount of any lost return to player resulting from the
   choice. The action of the jackpot module 625 varies depending
   on whether a player has made an optimal choice or a suboptimal
25 choice.  In this embodiment, each player has a chance to win
   the jackpot in each game round and accordingly if a player
   makes an optimal choice, the jackpot module 625 determines
   whether they have won a prize from the jackpot pool 644 in
   accordance with the normal odds of winning.  Those normal odds
30 of winning may depend, for example, on the size of a player's
   bet
   If the choice processor 623 determines that a player made sub
   optimal choice it determines the amount of credits that the
35 player has foregone by the sub-optimal choice and advises the
   pool incrementer 625 which adds the amount of credits to the
   jackpot pool 644.  It will be appreciated in this embodiment
   the jackpot is a progressive jackpot which allows the pool to
   be incremented.

                                - 13
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the amount of
   lost return can be represented in a number of different ways
   including as an amount in currency.   The choice processor 623
 5 also advises the jackpot module 625 that the player is made of
   sub-optimal choice.  The odds adjustor 625A adjusts the odds
   of winning the jackpot in order to compensate the player for
   the lost amount of credits.   The jackpot controller module 625
   then determines using random number generator 621 whether the
10 player has won the jackpot.   Accordingly, players who make
   sub-optimal choices have a greater chance of winning the
   jackpot. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
   jackpot controller module 625 could be provided by a separate
   device in data communication with the game controller, for
15 example at jackpot server 207
   In an alternative embodiment only players who make sub-optimal
   choices get access to a chance to win the jackpot in this
   particular part of the game.   Other players may have a chance
20 to win the jackpot in other parts of the game.
   It will be appreciated that the determination of whether the
   player has won the jackpot is made by the jackpot module 625
   as part of the game round such that compensation is targeted
25 specifically at players who make the sub-optimal play.   Merely
   increasing the jackpot pool with any loss returned to player
   could result in players who are more skilled in obtaining a
   better return to player and less skill.
30 The method is summarised in Figure 7 and involves starting a
   game round 710 and offering a player choice of some action
   720, for example a decision to make, where they must make a
   selection.  The method then involves determining whether the
   action is optimal 730 and if it is optimal conducting a normal
35 jackpot trial 740 and awarding any prizes 780.   If the action
   is not optimal the method involves adding the lost credit to
   the jackpot pool 750, adjusting the odds for jackpot wins 760
   and conducting an adjusted jackpot trial 770 and awarding
   prizes if any before proceeding to the start of another game

                                - 14
   round.   Other features of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
 5 probability of winning is adjusted in accordance with the lost
   return to player.   Thus the expected return to player of the
   jackpot is compensates for the lost return to the player.
   Further, it is possible to offer players a game of skill
   without providing optimal play instructions.    Thus, players
10 who derive enjoyment by learning the optimal plays for a game
   while other players who do not learn the optimal plays are not
   disadvantaged.
   Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that the
   method of the embodiment could be embodied in program code.
15 The program code could be supplied in a number of ways, for
   example on a computer readable medium, such as a disc or a
   memory (for example, that could replace part of memory 103) or
   as a data signal  (for example, by downloading it by
   transmitting it from a server).
20
   Examples
   Example 1
25 A game has a free game multiplier that is randomly generated,
   either x2 or x4 multiplier with even probability.    Thus, the
   average result is x3.   The player has an option of repeating
   the selection and so the player gets a second chance to hit
   the x4 if their original result was x2.    Hence the optimal
30 play would be to repeat the selection if the player receives
   x2.  If the player refuses to repeat the selection then they
   have rejected an average multiple at x3 and taken an average
   multiplier at x2.   The loss is equivalent to an average
   multiplier at xl.   This amount in credits  (i.e. what the
35 player would win without the multiplier)is forwarded to the
   jackpot pool and a probability for winning the jackpot could
   be cast immediately such that the expected return from the
   jackpot for this hapless player is exactly the return lost
   through the poor decision.

                                - 15
   Example 2
   In this example, a fixed value prize is available to be
 5 awarded as compensation - a feature is worth a total value of
   $30 and the feature comprises 30 skill events worth $1
   each. Player A only wins $20 in the feature. To maintain
   player return, the player A needs to be paid $10. In this
   game, a prize of $40 is available as a randomly awarded prize.
10 The player has lost $10 so the player needs a 1 in 4 chance of
   winning the $40. Player B plays the same game but has less
   skill and wins only $10 in the skill feature. The player has
   "lost" $20. The fixed prize is $40 so the player needs a 1 in
   2 chance to win the fixed prize. The game adjusts the
15 probability of winning the prize accordingly.
   Example 3
   In this example a progressive prize is available to be awarded
20 as compensation. Using the example above, the player has
   "lost" $10 due to lack of skill but a regulator requires that
   the player have access to be able to win that amount to ensure
   fairness. The $10 amount is added to a progressive meter.   (The
   addition can be to the visible meter or the amount can be
25 broken in to parts with some of the amount going to a hidden
   meter to fund future start ups and some of it going to the
   visible meter) The visible progressive meter reads $15. Half
   of the lost amount is added to the visible meter and the other
   half goes to the hidden meter. The visible meter now reads $20
30 and the hidden meter has increased by $5. The player needs to
   be given a chance to win $10.  The available prize is $20 on
   the progressive meter. So the player is given a 1 in 2 chance
   of winning the progressive meter. The player is successful and
   the player is paid the $20 and the meter resets to $5 from the
35 hidden meter. Time passes and the visible progressive meter
   now reads $20. Player B has "lost" $20 of which $10 goes to
   the visible meter and $10 to the hidden meter. The visible
   meter now reads $30. Player B is given a 2 in 3 chance of
   winning the progressive meter.

                               - 16
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In
 5 particular, various of the above features may be combined to
   form further embodiments.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is
   referred to herein, such reference does not constitute an
10 admission that the publication forms a part of the common
   general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other
   country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of
15 the invention, except where the context requires otherwise due
   to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
   is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of
   the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
20 addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.

                               - 17
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A method of gaming for use with a gaming system
   having a game controller, the method comprising:
 5           conducting a game having a game round via the game
   controller requiring a player to make a choice between at
   least one optimal action and at least one sub-optimal action
   having a lower return to player than the optimal action such
   that the difference between the sub-optimal action and the
10 optimal action represents a lost return to the player;
             receiving via the game controller a player choice of
   an action;
             conducting via the game controller a trial for an
   award in which the probability of success on the trial is
15 determined based on a relationship between the lost return to
   player and the award, such that an expected return to player
   from the trial compensates the player for the lost return to
   player in response to determining that the choice is a sub
   optimal action for the game round; and
20           making any award resulting from the trial at the
   conclusion of each game round.
   2.        A method as claimed in claim 1, where the expected
   return to player is equivalent to the lost return to player
25 and the trial is only conducted when the choice is a sub
   optimal action.
   3.        A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising
   conducting a normal trial for the award in response to a
30 player choosing an optimal action such that a trial is
   conducted irrespective of the action and the expected return
   to player is increased when the choice is a sub-optimal
   action.
35 4.        A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
   wherein the award is a progressive jackpot.
   5.        A method as claimed in claim 4, comprising adding
   the lost return to player to a pool of the progressive
   jackpot.

                               - 18
   6.        A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller arranged to:
             conduct a game having a game round requiring a
 5 player to make a choice between at least one optimal action
   and at least one sub-optimal action having a lower return to
   player than the optimal action such that the difference
   between the sub-optimal action and the optimal action
   represents a lost return to the player;
10           receive a player choice of an action;
             conduct a trial for an award in which the
   probability of success of the trial is determined based on a
   relationship between the lost return to player and the award,
   such that an expected return to player from the trial
15 compensates the player for the lost return to player in
   response to determining that the choice is a sub-optimal
   action for the game round; and
             make any award resulting from the trial at the
   conclusion of each game round.
20
   7.        A game controller as claimed in claim 6, where the
   expected return to player is equivalent to the lost return to
   player and the trial is only conducted when the choice is a
   sub-optimal action.
25
   8.        A game controller as claimed in claim 6, arranged to
   conduct a normal trial for the award in response to a player
   choosing an optimal action such that a trial is conducted
   irrespective of the action and the expected return to player
30 is increased when the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   9.        A game controller as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
   award is a progressive jackpot and the game controller
   comprises a jackpot odds adjuster arranged to adjust the
35 probability of success at the jackpot based on the player
   choice.
   10.       A game controller as claimed in claim 9, arranged to
   add the lost return to player to a pool of the progressive

                               - 19
   jackpot.
   11.       A gaming system comprising:
             a player interface comprising a display and an
 5 instruction input mechanism; and
             a game controller arranged to:
                  conduct a game having a game round requiring a
   player to make a choice between at least one optimal action
   and at least one sub-optimal action displayed to the player on
10 the display, the sub-optimal action having a lower return to
   player than the optimal action such that the difference
   between the sub-optimal action and the optimal action
   represents a lost return to the player,
                  receive a player choice of an action from the
15 input mechanism,
             the gaming system further arranged to a trial for an
   award in which the probability of success of the trial is
   determined based on a relationship between the lost return to
   player and the award, such that an expected return to player
20 from the trial compensates the player for the lost return to
   player in response to determining that the choice is a sub
   optimal action for the game round; and
             make any award resulting from the trial at the
   conclusion of each game round.
25
   12.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 11, where the
   expected return to player is equivalent to the lost return to
   player and the trial is only conducted when the choice is a
   sub-optimal action.
30
   13.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 11, arranged to
   conduct a normal trial for the award in response to a player
   choosing an optimal action such that a trial is conducted
   irrespective of the action and the expected return to player
35 is increased when the choice is a sub-optimal action.
   14.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the
   award is a progressive jackpot and the gaming system comprises
   a jackpot odds adjuster arranged to adjust the probability of

                               - 20
   success at the jackpot based on the player choice.
   15.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 14, arranged to
   add the lost return to player to a pool of the progressive
 5 jackpot.
   16.       A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 11
   to 15, wherein the game controller is arranged to conduct the
   trial.
10
   17.       A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 11
   to 16, comprising a jackpot controller in data communication
   with the game controller and arranged to conduct the trial.
15 18.       Computer program code which when executed implements
   a method of gaming of any one of claims 1 to 5.
   19.       A computer readable medium comprising the program
   code of claim 20.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
