  Abstract
  A gaming system is disclosed.  An award is made in respect
  to a winning outcome, and an additional award is made if
5 the winning outcome corresponds to one of a set of active
  conditions displayed on a display area.

                                -1
                        PERSISTENT ROTATION
 5 Related application
         This patent application is a divisional application
   of Australian patent application <removed-apn>, which in turn
   is a divisional of 2013251275, which in turn is a
10 divisional of 2011200257 the disclosure of all of these
   applications is incorporated herein by reference. Most of
   the disclosure of these applications is also included
   herein, however, reference may be made to the
   specifications of application nos. <removed-apn>,  2013251275
15 and 2011200257 as filed to gain further understanding of
   the invention claimed herein.
   Field
20       The present invention generally relates to a slot
   machine having a display area that displays any currently
   active conditions, and particularly but not exclusively to
   a slot machine that also makes an additional award upon
   there being a winning outcome which corresponds to an
25 active condition.
   Background
         Slot machines having either mechanical reels or a
30 video display simulating mechanical reels are known.
         While such gaming systems provide players with
   enjoyment, a need exists for alternative gaming systems in
   order to maintain or increase player enjoyment.
35
   Summary of  the Invention

                                -2
        According to a first aspect of the invention there is
   provided a gaming system comprising:
        a plurality of symbol display positions;
 5      a display area; and
        a game controller operatively coupled to the
   plurality of symbol display positions and the display
   area, and configured to:
             cause the display area to display a plurality of
10      conditions, wherein at least some of the plurality of
        displayed conditions are indicated as inactive and at
        least one of the plurality of displayed conditions is
        indicated as active;
             select symbols for display in each of the display
15      positions;
             evaluate the displayed symbols to determine
        whether the symbols correspond to one or more winning
        outcomes of a plurality of possible winning outcomes,
        at least two of the possible winning outcomes
20      corresponding to different conditions of the
        plurality of displayed conditions;
             make an award in respect of each winning outcome;
        and
             make an additional award upon there being a
25      winning outcome which corresponds to an active
        condition.
        In an embodiment, the additional award is an award of
   one or more free games.   The one or more free games may be
30 a series of free games.
        In an embodiment, the additional award is an award of
   an additional prize.
35      In an embodiment, the additional award is an award of
   a feature game.

                                -3
         In an embodiment, more than one of the conditions
   constituting the plurality of conditions may be arranged
   on the display area.   The active condition may be
   indicated.   The active condition may be indicated by an
 5 indicator associated with the display area.   The more than
   one conditions may be arranged in a circle on the display
   area.   The circle of the plurality of conditions may
   rotate.   The indicator may rotate.  The rotation of either
   the one or both of the indicator and circle may change the
10 active condition.   The rotation may be persistent.   The
   indicator may comprise a light.
          In an embodiment, the controller is arranged to
   recurrently change at least one of the plurality of
15 displayed conditions indicated as inactive to active.     At
   least one of the plurality of displayed conditions
   indicated as active may also be changed to inactive..     The
   controller may be arranged to change the condition
   indications after one of: a designated number of symbol
20 selections;  a designated number of plays of the game;  a
   designated time period.
         In an embodiment, the display area comprises the face
   of a timepiece comprising one or more hands.
25
         In an embodiment, each of the plurality of symbol
   display positions has a respective reel, each reel having
   at least some of the plurality of symbols.
30       In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises an
   electronic display.   The plurality of reels may be
   simulated on the electronic display.   The display area may
   be on the or another electronic display.
35       In an embodiment, each condition of the plurality of
   conditions is represented by one of the signs of the
   zodiac.

                                -4
        According to a second aspect of the invention there
   is provided a game controller configured to be operatively
   coupled to a plurality of symbol display positions and a
 5 display area, and further configured to:
        cause the display area to display a plurality of
   conditions, wherein at least some of the plurality of
   displayed conditions are indicated as inactive and at
   least one of the plurality of displayed conditions is
10 indicated as active;
        select symbols  for display in each of the display
   positions;
        evaluate the displayed symbols to determine whether
   the symbols correspond to one or more winning outcomes of
15 a plurality of possible winning outcomes, at least two of
   the possible winning outcomes corresponding to different
   conditions of the plurality of displayed conditions;
        make an award in respect of each winning outcome;   and
        make an additional award upon there being a winning
20 outcome which corresponds to an active condition.
        According to a third aspect of the invention there is
   provided a method comprising the steps of:
        causing a display area to display a plurality of
25 conditions, wherein at least some of the plurality of
   displayed conditions are indicated as inactive and at
   least one of the plurality of displayed conditions is
   indicated as active;
        selecting symbols for display in each of a plurality
30 of symbol display positions;
        evaluating the displayed symbols to determine whether
   the symbols correspond to one or more winning outcomes of
   a plurality of possible winning outcomes, at least two of
   the possible winning outcomes corresponding to different
35 conditions of the plurality of displayed conditions;
   making an award in respect of each winning outcome;  and

                               -5
        making an additional award upon there being a winning
   outcome which corresponds to an active condition.
        According to a fourth aspect of the invention there
 5 is provided a computer program comprising instructions for
   controlling a computer to implement a method in accordance
   with the third aspect of the invention.
        According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is
10 provided a tangible computer readable medium providing
   computer program in accordance with the fourth aspect of
   the invention.
   Brief Description of Drawings
15
        An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
20      Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a
   stand alone gaming machine;
        Figure 2 is a block diagram of the core components of
   an embodiment of a gaming system;
25
        Figure 3 is a flow chart of an embodiment;
        Figures 4 and 5 each show an example of each of a set
   of conditions displayed on a display area.
30
        Figure 6 is a block diagram of the functional
   components of an embodiment of a gaming machine;
        Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of
35 the functional components of a memory;
        Figure 8 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a

                               -6
   network gaming system; and
        Figure 9 is a further block diagram of an embodiment
   of a gaming system.
 5
   Detailed Description
        Referring to the drawings, there are shown various
   embodiments of a gaming system having a game controller
10 arranged to implement a game.
        A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 1. The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
15 displayed representations of a game that can be played by
   a player.
        Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has
   several core components illustrated in Figure 2. At the
20 broadest level, the core components are a player interface
   50 and a game controller 60 as illustrated in Figure 2.
   The game controller may cause the system 10 to perform the
   method represented by the flow chart in Figure 3.   The
   player interface is arranged to enable manual interaction
25 between a player and the gaming system and for this
   purpose includes the input/output components required for
   the player to enter instructions to play the game and
   observe the game outcomes.
30      The gaming system 10 presents to a player of the game
   a plurality of simulated reels on an electronic display
   14.  In another embodiment, the reels may be mechanical
   and maybe additional to the electronic display.   The game
   controller is operatively coupled to each of the reels and
35 causes the reels to spin and stop to display a symbol at a
   respective symbol display position.   . The game
   controller is also operatively coupled to a display area,

                                -7
   such as 16,  on the electronic display 14.
        The controller causes any currently active conditions
   of a set of conditions to be displayed on the display area
 5 16.  For example, each of the set of conditions may have
   an associated symbol which is displayed if the respective
   condition is active.   In one embodiment, the conditions
   may each be associated with one of the signs of the
   zodiac, such as shown in Figure 4.   It will be
10 appreciated, however, that any suitable symbol   (for
   example a suit, fruit, coins, flowers, etc.)  may be
   employed.
        In this embodiment, zodiac signs, such as cancer each
15 corresponding to one of a set of conditions are arranged
   on the display area in a circle 70.    Although more than
   one condition is displayed in this example, that does not
   necessarily mean that all of the conditions are currently
   active.   Only one or some of the displayed conditions may
20 be active.   In this example there is only one active
   condition. The active condition is indicated, at least in
   this example, by an indicator in the form of an arrow 74.
   In an alternative embodiment, the active condition may be
   indicated by the associated symbol lighting up or
25 highlighting the active symbols by generally any suitable
   way.  Alternatively, a needle or hand may be placed
   adjacent the wheel.
        In this example, the wheel rotates and the symbol
30 closest to the head of the arrow 74 is taken to be the
   active symbol.   In an alternative embodiment, the circle
   of zodiacs signs is stationary and the indicator rotates
   around the circumference of the circle 70.   The relative
   rotation between the circle of zodiac symbols and
35 indicator causes the change in condition.   In another
   embodiment, both the circle and indicator may rotate.    The
   rotation may be constant and persistent, or it may be

                                 -8
   variable or even random.    Generally any pattern of
   rotation, or any means to change the active symbol may be
   employed.
 5       In some embodiments, the controller 60 evaluates the
   symbols displayed at the symbol display positions, once
   the reels have stopped, to determine whether the symbols
   correspond to one or more winning outcomes of a plurality
   of possible winning outcomes.
10
         The controller 60 then makes an award in respect to
   the winning outcome.   An additional award is made by the
   controller 60 upon there being a winning outcome which
   corresponds to an active condition.
15
         In one example, if the game has a free game feature,
   and if the player won a base game involving three or more
   cancer symbols while in the constellation Cancer (i.e. the
   indicator 74 shows cancer to be active) then the free game
20 feature would be triggered.      The sign associated with the
   active condition, however, need not visually correspond
   with the symbols of the winning outcome.
         In another example, the active condition may be
25 represented by a coin,   and the winning combination three
   kings.   In this example,  the association is   notional and
   conceptual that kings are rich.
         Figure 5 shows another example in which the display
30 14 is displaying signs associated with respective
   conditions that may be active.      In this example, a night
   sky is shown in the display area 16.      One or more, perhaps
   all, of the zodiac signs are visible and the active one is
   indicated by any suitable means, such as its position
35 relative to the display area, its position relative to the
   other symbols or the use of a highlighting feature such as
   a circle circling the active condition or conditions, for

                                -9
   example.  Generally, any means to show the active symbol
   or symbols can be used.
        In another embodiment, the display area comprises a
 5 face of a timepiece comprising one or more hands, such as
   an analogue clock.   As a hand moves around the active
   condition changes.   For example, if it is one o'clock,
   then the active condition is associated with one o'clock.
   The active condition may be associated with the period of
10 time between two hours, for example or a particular
   quadrant of the time piece or any other suitable
   configuration.  In one example, an additional award is
   given if a winning symbol combination is made when the
   second hand strikes 12.   The hands on the clock may rotate
15 persistently, as for a standard clock, or may even
   behaviour erratically.
        The controller evaluates the displayed symbols and
   determines if the symbols displayed by the reels once
20 stopped correspond to one or more winning outcomes, and if
   so determined, make an award with respect to the winning
   outcome.  A winning outcome may be,    for example, 3 or more
   of the same suit or symbol.     If the winning outcome
   corresponds to an active condition the controller may make
25 an additional award.
        The additional award may be, for example, one or more
   free games, possibly a series of free games, a feature
   game, or an additional prize.
30
        In one embodiment, only one of the conditions is
   active at any time.   For example, a single sign of the
   zodiac may be displayed on the display area,      the zodiac
   sign being indicative of which condition is active.     The
35 controller may recurrently changes the active condition
   and changes the corresponding displayed symbol or sign on
   the display to indicate the change in the active

                               -10
   condition.
        The active condition may be changed by the controller
   after, for example, a designated number of symbol
 5 selections.  Alternatively, after a designated number of
   plays of the game the symbol may be changed by controller.
   In another embodiment, the active condition may be changed
   after a designated time period.   In all of these examples,
   the displayed symbol associated with the active condition
10 may be changed when the active condition is changed by the
   controller.
        In another embodiment, more than one active condition
   is displayed in the display area.   For example, the
15 symbols for Aries, Aquarius and Cancer may be displayed on
   the screen.  If a winning outcome on the reels includes
   one or more of these symbols then, in this example, the
   winning outcome corresponds to at least one of the active
   conditions and an additional prize can be determined
20 accordingly.  the additional prize, in this example, is a
   number of free games, the number of free games being equal
   to the number of matches between the symbols on the reel
   in the displayed positions and the active conditions
   displayed on the display area.   For example, if the reel
25 showed Cancer, Aries and Aquarius and all three conditions
   are active then three free games would be provided.   It
   will be appreciated that calculation of the additional
   award may follow any suitable plan and is not limited to
   the above example.
30
        Of course the symbols on the reels and the symbol
   associated with the active condition need not be the same
   or even similar.   For example, the active condition may be
   represented by a monarch's head and the symbol displayed
35 in the symbol display positions may each be fruit.

                               -11
        The gaming system can take a number of different
   forms. In a first form as shown in Figure 1, a stand alone
   gaming machine is provided wherein all or most components
   required for implementing the game are present in a player
 5 operable gaming machine.
        In a second form, a distributed architecture is
   provided wherein some of the components required for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable
10 gaming machine and some of the components required for
   implementing the game are located remotely relative to the
   gaming machine.  For example, a "thick client"
   architecture may be used wherein part of the game is
   executed on a player operable gaming machine and part of
15 the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most
   of the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming
   server and a player operable gaming machine is used only
   to display audible and/or visible gaming information to
20 the player and receive gaming inputs from the player.
        However, it will be understood that other
   arrangements are envisaged.    For example, an architecture
   may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a
25 gaming server and the respective functions of the gaming
   machine and the gaming server are selectively modifiable.
   For example, the gaming system may operate in stand alone
   gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client"
   mode depending on the game being played, operating
30 conditions, and so on. Other variations will be apparent
   to persons skilled in the art.
             Each gaming system has a game controller 60
   operatively coupled to the reels and/or the electronic
35 display(s) which are collectively indicated by numeral 54
   in Figure 2.  In one embodiment there is a single
   electronic display and the reels are simulated on the

                                -12
   display.
         Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
 5 credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays such as the reel
   and an electronic   (or video) display 54, a game play
   mechanism 56 including one or more input devices that
   enable a player to input game play instructions    (e.g. to
10 place a wager),  and one or more speakers 58.
         The game controller 60 is in data communication with
   the player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
15 with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   displays. Typically, the game play rules are stored as
   program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
20 accordance with game play rules and may include:    a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
         Further details of the gaming system of Figure 1 will
25 now be described.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
30 chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.    Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   Other gaming machines may configure for ticket in
   such that they have a ticket reader for reading tickets
35 having a value and crediting the player based on the face
   value of the ticket.    A player marketing module  (not
   shown) having a reading device may also be provided for

                               -13
   the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for
   example as part of a loyalty program.    The player tracking
   device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any
   other portable storage medium capable of being read by the
 5 reading device. In some embodiments, the player marketing
   module may provide an additional credit mechanism, either
   by transferring credits to the gaming machine from credits
   stored on the player tracking device or by transferring
   credits from a player account in data communication with
10 the player marketing module.
         A top box 26 may carry artwork 28,  including for
   example pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.    Further
15 artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.    A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
20       The display 14 shown in Figure 1 is in the form of a
   video display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
25 electromechanical device.   The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14,   or of a different
   type.
30       Figure 6 shows a block diagram of operative
   components of a typical gaming machine which may be the
   same as or different to the gaming machine of Figure 1.
         The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
35 having a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.
   Instructions and data to control operation of the
   processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data

                                -14
   communication with the processor 102.    Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non
   volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
 5 memory 103.    It will be appreciated that the memories are
   one example of tangible media, as are,   for example, hard
   drives,  flash memory etc.
        The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for
10 purposes including ensuring regulatory compliance and
   monitoring player credit, an input/output    (I/O) interface
   105 for communicating with peripheral devices of the
   gaming machine 100.    The input/output interface 105 and/or
   the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
15 their own memory for storing associated instructions and
   data for use with the input/output interface or the
   peripheral devices.    A random number generator module 113
   generates random numbers for use by the processor 102.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
20 reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.
        In the example shown in Figure 6, a player interface
   120 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the
25 game controller 101 including one or more displays such as
   electronic display(s) and reels 106,   a touch screen and/or
   buttons 107   (which provide a game play mechanism),  a card
   and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor
   and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a coin output
30 mechanism 111.    Additional hardware may be included as
   part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware may be omitted
   as required for the specific implementation. For example,
   while buttons or touch screens are typically used in
   gaming machines to allow a player to place a wager and
35 initiate a play of a game any input device that enables
   the player to input game play instructions may be used.
   For example, in some gaming machines a mechanical handle

                               -15
   is used to initiate a play of the game.
        In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
 5 The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a bonus controller, central controller, server or
   database and receive data or commands from the bonus
   controller, central controller, server or database.     In
10 embodiments employing a player marketing module,
   communications over a network may be via player marketing
   module - i.e. the player marketing module may be in data
   communication with one or more of the above devices and
   communicate with it on behalf of the gaming machine.
15
        Figure 7 shows a block diagram of the main components
   of an exemplary memory 103.    The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.    The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
20 execution by the processor 102 and related data.    The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.    The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
25 the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
        It is also possible for the operative components of
   the gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
30 input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
        Figure 8 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with
   an alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 200 includes
35 a network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet
   network.  Gaming machines 202,   shown arranged in three
   banks 203 of two gaming machines 202 in Figure 7 are

                              -16
   connected to the network 201.  The gaming machines 202
   provide a player operable interface and may be the same as
   the gaming machines 10,100 shown in Figures  1 and 6, or
   may have simplified functionality depending on the
 5 requirements for implementing game play.   While banks 203
   of two gaming machines are illustrated in Figure 8, banks
   of one, three or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
        One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
10 network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
15 promotional or informational material.
        In a thick client embodiment, game server 205
   implements part of the game played by a player using a
   gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements
20 part of the game. With this embodiment, as both the game
   server and the gaming device implement part of the game,
   they collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
25 gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.   A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
30
        In a thin client embodiment, game server 205
   implements most or all of the game played by a player
   using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202
   essentially provides only the player interface.   With this
35 embodiment, the game server 205 provides the game
   controller. The gaming machine will receive player
   instructions, pass these to the game server which will

                               -17
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
   machine for display.   In a thin client embodiment, the
   gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs
   running software that provides a player interface operable
 5 using standard computer input and output components. Other
   client/server configurations are possible, and further
   details of a client/server architecture can be found in WO
   2006/052213 and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.
10
        Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,  including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208,  and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
15 relating to particular games.   An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
        The gaming system 200 may communicate with other
20 gaming systems, other local networks, for example a
   corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the
   Internet, for example through a firewall 211.
        Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
25 accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.   For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.   For example, the game
30 server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.   Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
35 may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.

                               -18
   Further detail of gaming system
        The player operates the game play mechanism 56 to
   specify the win entitlement which will be evaluated for
 5 this play of the game and initiates a play of the game.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a player's
   win entitlement will vary from game to game dependent on
   player selections. In most spinning reel games, it is
   typical for the player's entitlement to be affected by the
10 amount they wager and selections they make  (i.e. the
   nature of the wager). For example, a player's win
   entitlement may be based on how many lines they play in
   each game - e.g. a minimum of one line up to the maximum
   number of lines allowed by the game  (noting that not all
15 permutations of win lines may be available for selection).
   Such win lines are typically formed by a combination of
   symbol display positions, one from each reel, the symbol
   display positions being located relative to one another
   such that they form a line.
20
        In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
   strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   player's selection of pay lines and are an inherent part
25 of the win entitlement.
        Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   other embodiments, the player may obtain a win entitlement
   by selecting a number of reels to play. Such games are
30 marketed under the trade name "Reel Power" by Aristocrat
   Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The selection of the reel
   means that each displayed symbol of the reel can be
   substituted for a symbol at one or more designated display
   positions. In other words, all symbols displayed at symbol
35 display positions corresponding to a selected reel can be
   used to form symbol combinations with symbols displayed at
   a designated, symbol display positions of the other reels.

                              -19
   For example, if there are five reels and three symbol
   display positions for each reel such that the symbol
   display positions comprise three rows of five symbol
   display positions, the symbols displayed in the centre row
 5 are used for non-selected reels. As a result, the total
   number of ways to win is determined by multiplying the
   number of active display positions of each reels, the
   active display positions being all display positions of
   each selected reel and the designated display position of
10 the non-selected reels. As a result for five reels and
   fifteen display positions there are 243 ways to win.
        In other embodiments a player win entitlement may be
   affected by purchasing access to particular pay tables
15 e.g. a first bet amount entitles the player to wins
   including cherries and a second amount entitles them to
   wins including plums.
        In Figure 9, the processor 62 of game controller 60
20 is shown implementing a number of modules based on program
   code and data stored in memory 64. Persons skilled in the
   art will appreciate that various of the modules could be
   implemented in some other way, for example by a dedicated
   circuit.
25
        These modules include the outcome generator 622 which
   operates in response to the player's operation of game
   play mechanism 56 to place a wager and initiate a play of
   the game and generates a game outcome which will then be
30 evaluated by award evaluator 623. The first part of
   forming the game outcome is for a symbol selector 622A to
   select symbols from a set of symbols specified by symbol
   data 641 using random number generator 621. The selected
   symbols are advised to the display controller 624 which
35 causes them to be displayed on display 54 at a set of
   display positions.  The award evaluator may also
   determine, in the event of a winning outcome, if the

                              -20
   winning outcome corresponds to any active conditions and
   if so determined triggers an additional award to be made.
        The processor may also comprise an active condition
 5 selector 626 which determines which, if any, of the set of
   conditions are active and triggers the display controller
   to display the active conditions.   The active condition
   selector may be configured to recurrently change one or
   more active conditions.
10
        One example of selecting symbols is for the symbol
   selector 622A to select symbols for display from a
   plurality of symbol sets corresponding to respective ones
   of a plurality of spinning reels. The symbol sets 641 can
15 specify a sequence of symbols for each reel such that the
   symbol selector 622A can select all of the symbols by
   selecting a stopping position in the sequence. In one
   example, three symbols of each of five reels may be
   displayed such that symbols are displayed at fifteen
20 display positions on display 54.  It is known to use a
   probability table stored in memory 64 to vary the odds of
   a particular stop position being selected. Other
   techniques can be used to control the odds of particular
   outcomes occurring to thereby control the return to player
25 of the game.
        In some embodiments, an eligibility criteria may be
   applied, for example that the player has made a certain
   sized wager, made an ante bet, selected all win lines,
30 played sufficient games, or the player is a member of a
   loyalty program.
        The trigger event may be a symbol combination in the
   game, occurrence of a specific symbol in the game,
35 purchased, be caused by another connected system, based on
   turnover etc.

                               -21
        A game round involves at least one of the reels being
   "spun" - e.g. new symbols of the reels are selected for
   display at the display positions and the reel is either
   physically or virtually spun to a stop. Persons skilled in
 5 the art will appreciate that there may be more than one
   game round in a play of a gaming machine such as is the
   case when a series of free spins is awarded. The outcome
   of a game round may be no win, a win  (for example from a
   winning combination of symbols),  a contribution towards a
10 win accrued over a plurality of game rounds, a trigger
   condition occurring etc.
        Further aspects of the method will be apparent from
   the above description of the gaming system. Persons
15 skilled in the art will also appreciate that the method
   could be embodied in program code. The program code could
   be supplied in a number of ways, for example on a computer
   readable storage medium, such as a disc or a memory   (for
   example, that could replace part of memory 103) or as a
20 data signal  (for example, by transmitting it from a
   server).
        It will be understood to persons skilled in the art
   of the invention that many modifications may be made
25 without departing from the spirit and scope of the
   invention; in particular it will be apparent that certain
   features of embodiments of the invention can be employed
   to form further embodiments.
30      It is to be understood that, if any prior art is
   referred to herein, such reference does not constitute an
   admission that the prior art forms a part of the common
   general knowledge in the art in any country.
35      In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary

                             -22
  implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
  "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
  i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
  not to preclude the presence or addition of further
5 features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                -23
   Claims
   1.   A gaming system comprising:
             a plurality of symbol display positions;
 5           a display area; and
             a game controller operatively coupled to the
        plurality of symbol display positions and the display
        area, and configured to:
                   cause the display area to display a
10      plurality of conditions, wherein at least some of the
        plurality of displayed conditions are indicated as
        inactive and at least one of the plurality of
        displayed conditions is indicated as active;
                   select symbols for display in each of the
15      display positions;
                  evaluate the displayed symbols to determine
        whether the symbols correspond to one or more winning
        outcomes of a plurality of possible winning outcomes,
        at least two of the possible winning outcomes
20      corresponding to different conditions of the
        plurality of displayed conditions;
             make an award in respect of each winning outcome;
        and
             make an additional award upon there being a
25      winning outcome which corresponds to an active
        condition.
   2.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
        additional award is an award of one or more free
30      games.
   3.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
        additional award is an award of a feature game.
35 4.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
        additional award is an award of an additional prize.

                              -24
   5.  A gaming system defined by claim 1 wherein the
       controller is arranged to recurrently change at least
       one of the plurality of displayed conditions
       indicated as inactive to active and at least one of
 5     the plurality of displayed conditions indicated as
       active to inactive.
   6.  A gaming system defined by claim 5 wherein the
       controller is arranged to change the condition
10     indications after one of: a designated number of
       symbol selections;  a designated number of plays of
       the game; a designated time period.
   7.  A gaming system defined by claim 1 wherein the
15     plurality of conditions are arranged in a circle on
       the display area.
   8.  A gaming system defined by claim 7 wherein the active
       condition is indicated by an indicator associated
20     with the display area.
   9.  A gaming system defined by claim 7 wherein the circle
       of the plurality of conditions rotates.
25 10. A gaming system defined by claim 8 wherein the
       indicator rotates.
   11. A gaming system defined by claim 9 or claim 10
       wherein the rotation changes the active condition.
30
   12. A gaming system defined by any one of claims 9 to 11
       wherein the rotation is persistent.
   13. A gaming system defined by claim 8 wherein the
35     indicator comprises a light.

                              -25
   14. A gaming system defined by claim 1 wherein the
       display area comprises the face of a timepiece
       comprising one or more hands.
 5 15. A gaming system defined by claim 1 wherein each of
       the plurality of symbol display positions each have
       an associated reel, each reel having at least some of
       the plurality of symbols.
10 16. A gaming system defined by claim 1 further comprising
       an electronic display.
   17. A gaming system defined by claim 16 wherein the
       plurality of reels are simulated on the electronic
15     display.
   18. A gaming system defined by claim 17 wherein the
       display area is on the electronic display.
20 19. A gaming system defined by claim 1 wherein each
       condition of the plurality of conditions comprises
       one of the signs of the zodiac.
   20. A game controller configured to be operatively
25     coupled to a plurality of symbol display positions
       and a display area, and further configured to:
                 cause the display area to display a
       plurality of conditions, wherein at least some of the
       plurality of displayed conditions are indicated as
30     inactive and at least one of the plurality of
       displayed conditions is indicated as active;
                 select symbols for display in each of the
       display positions;
                 evaluate the displayed symbols to determine
35     whether the symbols correspond to one or more winning
       outcomes of a plurality of possible winning outcomes,
       at least two of the possible winning outcomes

                              -26
       corresponding to different conditions of the
       plurality of displayed conditions;
                 make an award in respect of each winning
       outcome; and
 5               make an additional award upon there being a
       winning outcome which corresponds to an active
       condition.
   21. A method comprising the steps of:
10          causing a display area to display a plurality of
       conditions, wherein at least some of the plurality of
       displayed conditions are indicated as inactive and at
       least one of the plurality of displayed conditions is
       indicated as active;
15                selecting symbols for display in each of a
       plurality of symbol display positions;
                 evaluating the displayed symbols to
       determine whether the symbols correspond to one or
       more winning outcomes of a plurality of possible
20     winning outcomes, at least two of the possible
       winning outcomes corresponding to different
       conditions of the plurality of displayed conditions;
                 making an award in respect of each winning
       outcome; and
25               making an additional award upon there being
       a winning outcome which corresponds to an active
       condition.
   22. A computer program comprising instructions for
30     controlling a computer to implement the method
       defined by claim 21.
   23. A tangible computer readable medium providing the
       computer program defined by claim 22.

