                                            ABSTRACT
           Techniques, systems, and devices are disclosed for synthetic aperture ultrasound
 5 imaging using spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous band, coherent, coded waveforms. In
   one aspect, a method includes synthesizing a composite waveform formed of a plurality of
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms that are mutually orthogonal to each other,
   correspond to different frequency bands and including a unique frequency with a
   corresponding phase; transmitting an acoustic wave based on the composite waveform
10 toward a target from one or more transmitting positions; and receiving at one or more
   receiving positions acoustic energy returned from at least part of the target corresponding to
   the transmitted acoustic waveforms, in which the transmitting and receiving positions each
   include one or both of spatial positions of an array of transducer elements relative to the
   target and beam phase center positions of the array, and the transmitted acoustic waveforms
15 and the returned acoustic waveforms produce an enlarged effective aperture.

  WO 2015/038554                                             PCT/US2014/054855
                                     1 / 16
                            Real Aperture Beam
                 111                 .     ,,
                                                         115
                          110
                                   FIG. 1A    'N\
                                                    N'V"
                          Des ed Resoluon Cot
                                                         125
    121a                                                             121 N
             12 1b.......
                                                             i121c
Phase Center
                              a   b    c          N7
              110               R
                      Successive Array Sampling Positions
                                   FIG. 1B

         COHERENT SPREAD-SPECTRUM CODED WAVEFORMS IN
                   SYNTHETIC APERTURE IMAGE FORMATION
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001]       This patent document claims the priority and benefits of U.S. provisional
 5 application No. 61/877,884 entitled "COHERENT SPREAD SPECTRUM CODED
   WAVEFORMS IN SYNTHETIC APERTURE IMAGE FORMATION" filed on
   September 13, 2013, which is incorporated by reference as part of this document.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0002]       This patent document relates to acoustic image formation.
10                                         BACKGROUND
   [0003]       Acoustic imaging is an imaging modality that employs the properties of sound
   waves traveling through a medium to render a visual image. High frequency acoustic
   imaging has been used as an imaging modality for decades in a variety of biomedical fields
   to view internal structures and functions of animals and humans. High frequency acoustic
15 waves used in biomedical imaging may operate in different frequencies, e.g., between 1 and
   20 MHz, or even higher frequencies, and are often termed ultrasound waves. Some factors,
   including inadequate spatial resolution and tissue differentiation, can lead to less than
   desirable image quality using conventional techniques of ultrasound imaging, which can
   limit its use for many clinical indications or applications.
20                                            SUMMARY
   [0004]       Techniques, systems, and devices are disclosed for synthetic aperture ultrasound
   imaging using coherent, spread-spectrum, instantaneous wideband, frequency- and/or
   phase-coded acoustic waveforms. The disclosed techniques, systems, and devices can be
   used to form one-dimensional (ID), two-dimensional (2D), and/or three-dimensional (3D)
25 ultrasound images of biological tissue.
   [0005]       The subject matter described in this patent document can provide one or more of
   the following features and can be used in many applications. For example, the disclosed
   technology can be used during routine primary care screenings to identify and locate early
   stage pathologies including malignancies, as well as later stage cancers, which can
30 potentially raise survival rates of hard-to-diagnose asymptomatic patients. The disclosed

   technology can be used by board-certified radiologists to diagnose neoplasms as benign or
   malignant prior to any surgical biopsy or resection intervention, which may also improve
   patient survival rate while reducing unnecessary biopsies. The disclosed technology, when
   integrated with a fine needle biopsy instrument, can be used in medical procedures to
 5 confirm noninvasive diagnoses, which can reduce the level of invasiveness of such biopsy
   procedures. The disclosed technology, when integrated pre-operatively with Computed
   Tomography (CT) x-ray images and/or intra-operatively with minimally invasive surgical
   high definition video instrumentation, can fuse CT, optical and ultrasound images, and
   thereby can further give surgeons added abilities to locate, diagnose, and surgically excise
10 or repair diseased tissue without damaging healthy tissue. The disclosed technology, when
   integrated with specialized surgical instrumentation, can fuse ultrasound images with other
   data, and can give surgeons added abilities to locate and manipulate anatomic areas of
   interest while minimizing unnecessary damage to nearby structures. The disclosed
   technology can reduce the amount of time for the brachytherapy treatment of malignant
15 neoplasms, for example, by precisely guiding the insertion of sealed radioactive sources
   and catheters into the proper location. Similarly, the disclosed technology can aid insertion
   of high-dose, localized pharmaceuticals for treatments of diseases.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0006]      FIG. 1A shows a diagram of an ultrasound beam generated by a transducer array
20 that forms a real aperture beam in ultrasound imaging.
   [0007]      FIG. 1B shows a diagram of an ultrasound beam generated by a transducer array
   whose phase center is in successive positions to form a synthetic aperture beam in
   ultrasound imaging.
   [0008]      FIGS. 1C and 1D show diagrams of exemplary composite ultrasound transmit
25 and/or receive beams generated by a transducer array that forms a synthetic aperture beam
   from multiple transmitting and/or receiving positions.
   [0009]      FIG. 1E shows a diagram of an exemplary transducer array for generating a
   composite ultrasound beam of the disclosed technology.
   [0010]      FIG. 2A shows a block diagram of an exemplary synthetic aperture ultrasound
30 system using spread-spectrum coded waveforms.
   [0011]      FIG. 2B shows a block diagram of another exemplary synthetic aperture
   ultrasound system using spread-spectrum coded waveforms.

   [0012]      FIGS. 2C and 2D show a diagram of exemplary synthetic aperture imaging
   techniques of the disclosed technology.
   [0013]      FIG. 2E shows a chart for operation of an exemplary synthetic aperture
   ultrasound imaging system using spread-spectrum coded waveforms.
 5 [0014]      FIG. 3 shows a graph of an exemplary spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, frequency- and/or phase-coded composite waveform featuring a plurality of
   waveforms.
   [0015]      FIG. 4 shows ambiguity function characteristics of an exemplary spread
   spectrum coded waveform.
10 [0016]      FIGS. 5A-5C show an exemplary diagram for beam steering, dynamic focusing,
   and forming.
   [0017]      FIG. 6 shows a block diagram of an exemplary synthetic aperture ultrasound
   signal processing technique to produce an ultrasound image.
   [0018]      FIG. 7 shows a diagram of exemplary synthetic aperture-sampled received echo
15 data and storage to memory.
   [0019]      FIG. 8 shows a block diagram of an exemplary wave-number algorithm for
   wideband, spread-spectrum, noise-like, coherent synthetic aperture image formation.
   [0020]      FIG. 9 shows a diagram illustrating an exemplary implementation of the Stolt
   Transform process.
20 [0021]      FIG. 10 shows a block diagram of an exemplary iterative, closed-loop, synthetic
   aperture image autofocus subroutine.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0022]      Ultrasound imaging can be performed by emitting an acoustic waveform (pulse)
   within a physical elastic medium, which is partly reflected from a boundary between two
25 mediums (e.g., biological tissue structures) and partially transmitted. The reflection
   depends on the acoustic impedance difference between the two mediums (e.g., at the
   interface between two different biological tissue types). For example, some of the acoustic
   energy of the transmitted acoustic waveform can be scattered back to the transducer at the
   interface to be received, and processed to extract information, while the remainder may
30 travel on and to the next medium. In some instances, scattering of the reflection may occur
   as the result of two or more impedances contained in the reflective medium acting as a
   scattering center. Additionally, for example, the acoustic energy can be refracted,

   diffracted, delayed, and/or attenuated based on the properties of the medium and/or the
   nature of the acoustic wave.
   [0023]       In some existing ultrasound imaging systems, a typical transducer may employ
   an array of piezoelectric elements to transmit an ultrasound pulse toward a target region
 5 (e.g., of a body of an organism) and receive the returned ultrasound signals (echoes) that
   return from scattering structures within. This transducer array functions as the aperture of
   the imaging system. Ultrasound pulses can be electronically steered and focused as a
   sequence pulses through a plane or volume and used to produce a ID, 2D and/or 3D map of
   the returned echoes used to form an image of the target. Processes of steering and focusing
10 ultrasound pulses is referred to as beamforming. In some examples, the ultrasound pulse
   and the returned echoes transmitted and received at the transducer array can be individually
   delayed in time at each transducer of the array to act as a phased array.
   [0024]       In conventional real aperture ultrasound imaging systems, the quality of images
   directly depends on the acoustic field generated by the transducer of the ultrasound system.
15 FIG. 1A shows a diagram of a real aperture ultrasound beam 111 generated by a transducer
   array 110, e.g., which can be configured as a single electro-acoustic transducer element or
   an array of multiple electro-acoustic transducer elements of width WR, that forms a real
   aperture to form the ultrasound beam 111 directed toward a volume of interest (VOI) 115.
   For example, the image is typically acquired sequentially, one axial image line at a time
20 (i.e., scan of the target area range slice by slice), which sets limits on the frame rate during
   imaging that may be detrimental in a variety of real-time ultrasound imaging applications,
   e.g., including the imaging of moving targets.
   [0025]       To address limitations with conventional real aperture ultrasound imaging,
   synthetic aperture ultrasound imaging can be used to improve the quality of ultrasound
25 images. A "synthetic aperture" is the concept in which the successive use of one or more
   smaller, real apertures (sub-apertures) to examine a VOI, whose phase centers are moved
   along a known one-dimensional (ID), two-dimensional (2D), and/or three-dimensional
   (3D) path of a particular or arbitrary shape, to realize a larger effective (non-real) aperture
   for acquiring an image. The synthetic aperture can be formed by mechanically altering the
30 spatial position of the electro-acoustic transducer (e.g., transducer array) to the successive
   beam transmission and/or receiving locations, by electronically altering the phase center of
   the successive beam transmission and/or receiving locations on the electro-acoustic
   transducer array, or by a combination of both. Synthetic aperture-based imaging was

   originally used in radar systems to image large areas on the ground from aircraft scanning
   the area of interest from above. Synthetic aperture focusing in ultrasound imaging is based
   on the geometric distance from the ultrasound transmitting elements to the VOI location
   and the distance from that location back to the ultrasound receiving element. In ultrasound
 5 imaging, the use of the synthetic aperture enables the focusing on a point in the target
   region by analyzing the received amplitude and phase data of the returned echoes (e.g.,
   mono-static and bi-static echoes), recorded at each of a plurality of transmitter and receiver
   positions from all directions, to provide information about the entire area. Since the
   direction of the returned echoes cannot be determined from one receiver channel alone,
10 many receiver channels are used to determine the information contained in the returning
   echoes, which are processed across some or all of the channels to ultimately render
   information used to produce the image of the target region.
   [0026]      The synthetic aperture array may be comprised of one or more real beam
   aperture sub-arrays whose phase center is moved from sampling position to position, as
15 shown in FIG. 1B. For example, the transducer array may be composed of multiple real
   aperture sub-arrays, which together in combination comprise an entire array, with the phase
   center of one or more of the sub-arrays moved (e.g., electronically, mechanically, or both)
   from sampling position to position.
   [0027]      In one example of a synthetic aperture ultrasound technique, a single or multiple
20 transducer elements can be used to transmit a diverging wavefront at a plurality of positions
   across a region containing a VOI, forming an effective aperture covering the full image
   region. FIG. 1B shows a diagram of an ultrasound beam generated by transducer arrays
   whose phase centers are moved in successive positions to form a synthetic aperture beam in
   ultrasound imaging. As shown in the diagram, multiple ultrasound beams 121a, 121b, ...
25 121N are generated by one or more transducer arrays 110 whose phase center is positioned
   mechanically, electronically, or both in N successive positions (positions a, b, c, ... N)
   along an arbitrary, but known, open or closed ID, 2D or 3D path W, which for example,
   may be a straight line, an arc, a circle, a spiral, or any defined curvilinear path, etc., to form
   a synthetic aperture for ultrasound imaging of a VOI 125. The received mono-static and bi
30 static echo signals for all or some of the transducer elements of the transducer 110 in the
   effective aperture are sampled for each transmission. For example, the individual received
   ultrasound signal data can be used for making a low resolution image based on the
   individual unfocused transmissions, which are subsequently processed to produce a two-

   dimensional (2D) and/or three-dimensional (3D) focused image from the individual
   received ultrasound mono-static and bi-static echo signals. For example, the use of
   synthetic aperture ultrasound imaging can reduce the system complexity and cost in
   ultrasound imaging, e.g., as compared to a real beam system of equivalent performance.
 5 [0028]       The types of waveforms used to generate the acoustic pulse can also affect the
   quality of images produced in ultrasound imaging. Some conventional ultrasound imaging
   techniques may use only amplitude information from the reflected signal. For example,
   when one pulse is emitted, the reflected signal can be sampled continuously. In biological
   tissue, sound velocity can be considered fairly constant (e.g., to within less than 10%,
10 excluding bone), in which the time between the emission of a waveform and the reception
   of a reflected signal is dependent on the distance the waveform travels in that tissue
   structure (e.g., the depth of the reflecting structure). Therefore, reflected signals may be
   sampled at multiple time intervals to receive the reflected signals being reflected from
   multiple depths. Also, different tissues at different depths can partially reflect the incident
15 waveform with different amounts of energy, and thus the reflected signal from different
   mediums can have different amplitudes. A corresponding ultrasound image can be
   constructed based on depth. The time before a new waveform is emitted can therefore be
   dependent of the maximum depth that is desired to image. Ultrasound imaging techniques
   employing pulsed monochromatic and/or narrow instantaneous bandwidth waveforms can
20 suffer from poor resolution of image processing and production. Yet, waveforms with
   spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth characteristics that are coded (e.g., by
   frequency and/or phase) can enable real-time control of ultrasound imaging and higher
   quality resultant images.
   [0029]       Disclosed are techniques, systems, and devices for generating, transmitting,
25 receiving, and processing coherent, spread-spectrum, instantaneous-wideband, coded
   waveforms used in synthetic aperture ultrasound (SAU) imaging.
   [0030]       The disclosed SAU imaging techniques can provide improved image quality,
   contrast and resolution over existing ultrasound imaging techniques and can enable tissue
   differentiation and classification. Additionally, the exemplary coherent, spread-spectrum,
30 instantaneous-wideband, coded waveforms employed in the disclosed technology are not
   constrained by hardware design limitations currently present in conventional medical
   ultrasound devices.
   [0031]       The use of coherent waveforms in implementations of the disclosed SAU

   techniques can permit the complex correlation of a portion of, or the entire, echo return
   with a selected reference signal, such as, for example, the transmitted waveform. Such
   coherent complex correlations permit the reduction of image and signal artifacts and the
   extraction of data at lower signal-to-noise ratios and in the presence of interference.
 5 [0032]       The use of spread-spectrum signals in implementations of the disclosed SAU
   techniques can allow the definitive design of acoustic waveforms that have deliberate and
   explicit amplitude and phase frequency content. For example, by explicitly defining the
   amplitude and/or phase of each frequency component of the spread-spectrum composite
   acoustic waveforms can be constructed such that signal and information processing
10 techniques can be employed to extract the maximal amount of information from the echo
   returns, e.g., approaching mathematical limits.
   [0033]       The use of instantaneous coherent, wideband, spread-spectrum, coded
   waveforms in implementations of the disclosed SAU techniques can enable the capture of
   all available information during each transmit-receive interval, e.g., thereby minimizing the
15 corruption of the returned signal by the inhomogeneous, dynamic nature of living biological
   specimens, and by motion induced artifacts of the collection process. Additionally, for
   example, fundamental physical parameters (e.g., such as bulk modulus, density, attenuation,
   acoustic impedance, amplitude reflections, group delay, or other) can be extracted by using
   signal and information processing methods of the disclosed technology to enable
20 differentiation and classification of the tissue in the VOI. For example, some signal and
   information processing methods of the disclosed SAU technology may include inverse
   mathematical techniques operating on the received frequency and angular dependent
   wideband, spread-spectrum, synthetic aperture received signal echoes for differentiating
   and/or classifying tissue in the VOI, as well as expert system techniques, e.g., deterministic,
25 support vector network and neural network techniques.
   [0034]       Explicit amplitude and/or phase coding of each frequency component of
   waveforms in implementations of the disclosed SAU techniques can provide multiple
   benefits. For example, amplitude coding allows for the explicit compensation of the
   frequency-dispersive properties of the transducer array and of the acoustic propagation
30 channel. The amplitude and/or phase coding of each frequency component permits
   deterministic beamforming and steering of wide-instantaneous waveforms. Explicit
   amplitude and phase coding of each frequency component of an exemplary transmitted
   signal permits the minimization of the peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR), and the

   spreading of the acoustic power over a wide band, e.g., to minimize deleterious biological
   effects. For example, by explicitly defining the amplitude and/or phase of each frequency
   component of spread-spectrum signals, waveforms can be constructed that may be
   transmitted simultaneously, which exhibit minimal interference with each other, such that
 5 signal and information processing techniques can be employed to recover the received
   signal associated with each individual transmitted waveform. Further, the coded, spread
   spectrum acoustic waveforms of the disclosed SAU technology can allow for motion
   compensation due to particular ambiguity properties of these waveforms.
   [0035]      In one aspect, a method of producing an acoustic waveform in an acoustic
10 imaging device is disclosed. The method includes synthesizing, in one or more waveform
   synthesizers, one or more composite waveforms formed of a plurality of individual coded
   waveforms to be transmitted toward a target from one or more spatial positions of a
   transducer array of the acoustic imaging device and/or one or more beam phase center
   positions of the transducer array. The individual coded waveforms of the composite
15 waveform are mutually orthogonal to each other and are in different frequency bands, such
   that each of the individual mutually orthogonal coded waveforms includes a unique
   frequency with a corresponding phase. The method includes transmitting, from one or
   more transmitting positions relative to the target, one or more composite acoustic
   waveforms formed of a plurality of acoustic waveforms, in which the transmitting includes
20 selecting one or more transducing elements of an array to transduce the plurality of
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms of the respective one or more composite
   waveforms into the plurality of corresponding acoustic waveforms of the respective one or
   more composite acoustic waveforms. The method includes receiving, at one or more
   receiving positions relative to the target, returned acoustic waveforms that are returned
25 from at least part of the target corresponding to the transmitted acoustic waveforms, in
   which the receiving includes selecting at least some of the transducing elements of the array
   to receive the returned acoustic waveforms, and in which the receiving positions include
   one or both of spatial positions of the array of transducer elements relative to the target and
   beam phase center positions of the array to receive the returned acoustic waveforms. The
30 transmitted acoustic waveforms and the returned acoustic waveforms produce an enlarged
   effective aperture of the acoustic imaging device.
   [0036]      In some implementations, for example, the method includes, in transmitting the
   acoustic waveforms to the target, controlling the transducer elements of the array to cause

   the composite waveforms to change in orientation with respect to the target so that the
   target receives the acoustic waveforms at different waveform orientations over an imaging
   period. For example, the change in orientation of the composite waveforms with respect to
   the target can include transmitting different composite waveforms from the same or
 5 different spatial positions, transmitting the same or different composite waveforms from
   different spatial positions, and transmitting the same or different composite waveforms
   from different beam phase center positions on the array of transducer elements.
   [0037]      In some implementations, for example, the method includes converting the
   received returned acoustic waveforms from analog format to digital format as one or more
10 received composite waveforms corresponding to the one or more composite waveforms,
   each comprising information of the target, in which the information includes an amplitude
   and a phase associated with the corresponding frequency bands of the received composite
   waveform. Also, in some implementations, for example, the method can include
   processing the received returned acoustic waveforms (of the one or more received
15 composite waveforms) to produce an image (e.g., 2D and/or 3D image) of at least part of
   the target.
   [0038]      In one aspect, a synthetic aperture ultrasound imaging system is disclosed. The
   system includes a waveform generation unit including one or more waveform synthesizers
   coupled to a waveform generator. The waveform generation unit synthesizes a composite
20 waveform that includes a plurality of individual orthogonal coded waveforms
   corresponding to different frequency bands that are generated by the one or more waveform
   synthesizers according to waveform information provided by the waveform generator, in
   which the individual orthogonal coded waveforms are mutually orthogonal to each other
   and correspond to different frequency bands, such that each of the individual orthogonal
25 coded waveforms includes a unique frequency with a corresponding phase. The system
   includes a transmit/receive switching unit that switches between a transmit mode and a
   receive mode. The system includes an array of transducer elements in communication with
   the transmit/receive switching unit. The array of transducer elements are configured to
   transmit a composite acoustic waveform comprising a plurality of acoustic waveforms from
30 one or more transmitting positions relative to the target, in which the transmitted acoustic
   waveforms of the composite acoustic waveform are based on the synthesized individual
   orthogonal coded waveforms of the composite waveform. The array of transducer elements
   are also configured to receive, e.g., at one or more receiving positions relative to the target,

   returned acoustic waveforms corresponding to the plurality of transmitted acoustic
   waveforms that return from at least part of the target. The transmitted acoustic waveforms
   and the returned acoustic waveforms produce an enlarged effective aperture of the synthetic
   aperture acoustic waveform imaging system. The transmitting positions and the receiving
 5 positions for transmitting and receiving the respective waveforms, respectively, include one
   or both of spatial positions of the array of transducer elements relative to the target and
   beam phase center positions on the array to transmit and/or receive the acoustic waveforms.
   The system includes a multiplexing unit in communication with the array of transducer
   elements to select one or more transducing elements of an array to transduce the plurality of
10 individual orthogonal coded waveforms into the plurality of corresponding acoustic
   waveforms, and to select one or more transducing elements of the array to receive the
   returned acoustic waveforms. In some implementations, for example, the system includes
   an array of analog to digital (A/D) converters to convert the received returned acoustic
   waveforms that are received by the array of transducer elements from analog format to
15 digital format, in which the received returned acoustic waveforms provide information of
   the target. The system includes a controller unit in communication with the waveform
   generation unit and the array of transducer elements (e.g., which can be via the array of
   A/D converters), in which the controller unit includes a memory unit to store data and a
   processing unit coupled to the memory unit to process information about the target as data.
20 The system can include a user interface unit in communication with the controller unit. In
   some implementations of the system, for example, the controller unit is configured to
   produce an image of at least part of the target from the processed data.
   [0039]      FIGS. IC and ID show diagrams of exemplary composite ultrasound beams
   generated by a transducer array that forms a synthetic aperture beam from multiple
25 transmitting positions. As shown in the diagram, a transducer array 130 includes multiple
   real aperture sub-arrays Sub 1, Sub 2, ... Sub N, in which each sub-array includes
   individual transducer elements (e.g., such as 1 to 16, 32, 64, etc. elements). Some or all of
   the transducer elements that form array 130 can transmit (e.g., either sequentially,
   simultaneously or randomly) one or more composite acoustic waveforms of individual,
30 mutually orthogonal, coded acoustic waveforms 13 Ia, 13 1b, ... 131n transmitted to a target
   volume of interest (VOI) 135 from multiple sub-array phase center positions to form a
   synthetic aperture for ultrasound imaging. Some or all of the transducer elements that form
   the array 130 can also receive the returned acoustic waveforms corresponding to the

   transmitted acoustic waveform (formed based on the individual, mutually orthogonal,
   coded acoustic waveforms 13 Ia, 13 1b, ... 13 In), in which the received acoustic waveforms
   are scattered back and returned (e.g., reflected, refracted, diffracted, delayed, and/or
   attenuated) from at least part of the VOI 135. The received individual acoustic waveforms
 5 thereby form one or more received composite waveforms that correspond to the transmitted
   composite acoustic waveforms. The composite acoustic waveform is generated based on a
   composite synthetic waveform formed of multiple spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, coded waveforms used to generate the individual acoustic waveforms. The
   individual, composite, acoustic waveforms 13 1a, 13 1b, ... 13 1n can be transducted by one
10 or more of the sub-arrays of the transducer array 130. The transducer array 130 can be
   positioned at multiple physical positions along a known path (e.g., shown as position 1 to
   position 2 in FIG. IC), and/or multiple beam-steering positions (e.g., shown as position 1 to
   position 2 in FIG. ID), such that the phase center is positioned mechanically, electronically
   or both mechanically and electronically in the successive positions, e.g., forming a
15 synthetic aperture.
   [0040]       In some implementations, for example, various array segments comprising
   various combinations of transducer elements across one or more sub-arrays can be utilized
   to generate the orthogonal coded acoustic waveforms 13 1a, 13 1b, ... 13 1n. FIG. 1E shows
   a diagram of an exemplary transducer array for generating a composite ultrasound beam of
20 the disclosed technology. In the example of FIG. 1E, the transducer array 130 includes 64
   individual transducer elements arranged in four transducer segments (e.g., transducer
   segment 1, 2, 3, and 4). In this example, one or more sub-arrays, comprising any of the 64
   individual transducer elements (e.g., including transducer elements among one or more of
   the four transducer segments), can transmit (e.g., either sequentially, simultaneously or
25 randomly) the individual, orthogonal, coded acoustic waveforms 13 la, 131 b, ... 131 n. A
   sub-array can include combinations of the individual transducer elements in one transducer
   segment or among a plurality of the transducer segments. For example, a sub-array 1
   includes transducer elements 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 11, 14 and 15 of transducer segment 1 and
   transducer elements 2 and 3 of transducer segment 3; a sub-array 2 includes transducer
30 elements 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, and 11 of transducer segment 2; a sub-array 3 includes
   transducer elements 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 of transducer segment 3 and transducer
   elements 9 and 13 of transducer segment 4; and a sub-array 4 includes transducer elements
   5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, and 15 of transducer segment 4. Configurations of the sub-arrays

   can be produced using a switching element (e.g., such as a multiplexer unit) interfaced
   between waveform generators and the transducer array, as shown later in FIG. 2A and FIG.
   2B.
   [0041]      FIG. 2A shows a block diagram of an exemplary Synthetic Aperture Ultrasound
 5 (SAU) System 200 that can produce acoustic waveforms with enhanced waveform
   properties across an expanded effective (synthetic) aperture. The enhanced waveform
   properties of the composite acoustic waveforms produced by the SAU System 200 include
   a spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth, coherent, pseudo-random noise
   characteristics, and coding. The SAU System 200 can be configured in one of many system
10 designs. In one example, the SAU System 200 can include a Master Clock 201 for time
   synchronization. The Master Clock 201 can be interfaced with a System Controller 202, as
   well as other modules of the SAU System 200 operating in temporal synchronization with
   each other. The System Controller 202 can include a processing unit, e.g., a central
   processing unit (CPU) of RISC-based or other types of CPU architectures. The System
15 Controller 202 can also include at least one input/output (I/O) unit(s) and/or memory
   unit(s), which are in communication with the processing unit, to support various functions
   of the System Controller 202. For example, the processing unit can be associated with a
   system control bus, e.g., Data & Control Bus 203. The System Controller 202 can be
   implemented as one of various data processing architectures, such as a personal computer
20 (PC), laptop, tablet, and mobile communication device architectures.
   [0042]      The memory unit(s) can store other information and data, such as instructions,
   software, values, images, and other data processed or referenced by the processing unit.
   Various types of Random Access Memory (RAM) devices, Read Only Memory (ROM)
   devices, Flash Memory devices, and other suitable storage media can be used to implement
25 storage functions of the memory unit(s). The memory unit(s) can store pre-stored
   waveforms and coefficient data and information, which can be used in the implementation
   of generating a waveform, e.g., such as a spread-spectrum, wide-instantaneous bandwidth,
   coherent, pseudo-random noise, and frequency and/or phase-coded waveform. The
   memory unit(s) can store data and information obtained from received and processed
30 waveforms, which can be used to generate and transmit new waveforms. The memory
   unit(s) can be associated with a system control bus, e.g., Data & Control Bus 203.
   [0043]      The I/O unit(s) can be connected to an external interface, source of data storage,
   and/or display device. The I/O unit(s) can be associated with a system control bus, e.g.,

   Data & Control Bus 203. Various types of wired or wireless interfaces compatible with
   typical data communication standards, such as, but not limited to, Universal Serial Bus
   (USB), IEEE 1394 (FireWire), Bluetooth, IEEE 802.111, Wireless Local Area Network
   (WLAN), Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN), Wireless Wide Area Network
 5 (WWAN), WiMAX, IEEE 802.16 (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access
   (WiMAX)), and parallel interfaces, can be used to implement the I/O unit. The I/O unit can
   interface with an external interface, source of data storage, or display device to retrieve and
   transfer data and information that can be processed by the processor unit, stored in the
   memory unit, or exhibited on an output unit.
10 [0044]       The System Controller 202 can control all of the modules of the SAU System
   200, e.g., through connection via the Data & Control Bus 203. For example, the Data &
   Control Bus 203 can link the System Controller 202 to one or more attached digital signal
   processors, e.g., Digital Signal Processor 204, for processing waveforms for their functional
   control. The Digital Signal Processor 204 can include one or many processors, such as but
15 not limited to ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit), FPGA (field-programmable
   gate array), DSP (digital signal processor), AsAP (asynchronous array of simple
   processors), and other types of data processing architectures. The Data & Control Bus 203
   can also link the System Controller 202, as well as the Digital Signal Processor 204, to one
   or more display units with modules for user interfaces, e.g., Display 205 with a module
20 User Interface 206 to provide information to a user or operator and to receive
   input/commands from the user or operator. The Display 205 can include many suitable
   display units, such as but not limited to cathode ray tube (CRT), light emitting diode
   (LED), and liquid crystal display (LCD) monitor and/or screen as a visual display. The
   Display 205 can also include various types of display, speaker, or printing interfaces. In
25 other examples, the Display 205 can include other output apparatuses, such as toner, liquid
   inkjet, solid ink, dye sublimation, inkless (such as thermal or UV) printing apparatuses and
   various types of audio signal transducer apparatuses. The User Interface 206 can include
   many suitable interfaces including various types of keyboard, mouse, voice command,
   touch pad, and brain-machine interface apparatuses.
30 [0045]       The SAU System 200 can include Waveform Generator 207, which can be
   controlled by the System Controller 202 for producing one or more digital waveforms. The
   one or more digital waveforms can be generated as analog electronic signals (e.g., analog
   waveforms) by at least one element in an array of waveform synthesizers and beam

   controllers, e.g., represented in this example as Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller
   208. The Waveform Generator 207 can be at least one of a function generator and an
   arbitrary waveform generator (AWG). For example, the Waveform Generator 207 can be
   configured as an AWG to generate arbitrary digital waveforms for the Waveform
 5 Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 to synthesize as individual analog waveforms and/or
   a composite analog waveform. The Waveform Generator 207 can also include at least one
   memory unit(s) that can store pre-stored waveforms and coefficient data and information
   used in the generation of a digital waveform.
   [0046]      The SAU System 200, as shown in FIG. 2A, includes the Waveform Synthesizer
10 and Beam Controller 208 comprising I number of array elements. In one example, the
   Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 can be configured to include at least one
   waveform synthesizer element on each line of the I number of array waveform synthesizers.
   In another example, the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 can include at
   least one beam controller element on each line of the I number of array beam controllers.
15 In another example, the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 can include at
   least one waveform synthesizer element and beam controller element on each line of the I
   number of array waveform synthesizers and beam controllers. The Waveform Synthesizer
   and Beam Controller 208 can include a phase-lock loop system for generation of an
   electronic signal, e.g., a radio frequency (RF) waveform. An exemplary RF waveform can
20 be synthesized by the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 from individual
   waveforms generated in the array elements of the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam
   Controller 208, e.g., one individual RF waveform can be generated in one array element
   substantially simultaneously to all other individual waveforms generated by the other array
   elements of the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208. Each individual
25 orthogonal RF waveform can be defined for a particular frequency band, also referred to as
   a frequency component or 'chip', and the waveform properties of each individual
   orthogonal waveform can be determined by the Waveform Generator 207, which can
   include at least one amplitude value and at least one phase value corresponding to the chip.
   The Waveform Generator 207 can issue commands and send waveform data including
30 information about each individual orthogonal waveform's properties to the Waveform
   Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 for generation of individual orthogonal RF
   waveforms that may be combined together to form a composite RF waveform by the
   Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208.

   [0047]        The individual orthogonal RF waveforms and/or the composite RF waveform
   generated by the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 can be modified by
   Output Amplifiers 209, which includes an array of I number of amplifiers, e.g., by
   amplifying the gain and/or shifting the phase of a waveform. In some examples, the Output
 5 Amplifiers 209 are configured as linear amplifiers. The Output Amplifiers 209 can be used
   as transducer drivers. The individual RF waveforms and/or the composite RF waveform
   can be passed to Transmit/Receive (T/R) Switch 210, e.g., an N-pole double-throw
   transmit/receive switch. The T/R Switch 210 can be interfaced with a transducer module of
   the SAU System 200. The T/R Switch 210 can operate as a multiplexing unit, e.g., by
10 including N-pole multiplexing switches. A generated RF waveform, e.g., the composite RF
   waveform and/or at least one individual RF waveform, that is to be transmitted into a target
   medium can be transduced into, for example, an acoustic wave by the transducer module.
   In the example shown in FIG. 2A, the transducer module is configured as an array of
   transducer elements, e.g., Transducer Array 211 comprising X number of transducer
15 elements. For example, the transduced acoustic wave can be emitted in the form of an
   acoustic waveform burst. For example, selected array element of the Transducer Array 211
   may generate (e.g., transduct) two or more individual orthogonal acoustic waveforms that
   correspond to the individual orthogonal waveforms determined by the Waveform Generator
   207 and combined spatially to form a composite acoustic waveform. As an additional
20 example, selected array element of the Transducer Array 211 may generate (e.g., transduct)
   one or more composite acoustic waveforms that correspond to the composite waveforms
   determined by the Waveform Generator 207.
   [0048]        For example, when the T/R Switch 210 is configured in transmit mode, the
   exemplary transduced and transmitted composite acoustic waveform can be transmitted
25 toward a target area from a plurality of positions of the Transducer Array 211 relative to the
   target, e.g., biological tissue, in which the transduced and transmitted acoustic waveform
   forms a spatially combined acoustic waveform. The transmitted composite acoustic
   waveform can propagate into the target medium, which for example, can have one or more
   inhomogeneous mediums that partially transmit and partially reflect the transmitted
30 acoustic waveform. For example, after the acoustic waveform has been transmitted, the
   T/R Switch 210 can be configured into receive mode. The exemplary composite acoustic
   waveforms that are (at least partially) reflected by the target can be received by the
   Transducer Array 211, referred to as returned acoustic waveforms. In some examples,

   selected array element of X array elements of Transducer Array 211 can be configured to
   receive a returned acoustic waveform corresponding to the individual orthogonal
   waveforms (e.g., frequency chips) and convert it to an analog RF waveform. In other
   examples, selected transducer elements of the Transducer Array 211 can be configured to
 5 receive the returned acoustic waveform corresponding to the transmitted composite
   waveform, e.g., based on a selection control signal determined by the System Controller
   202 in communication with exemplary control logic of the Transducer Array 211, and
   convert it to a composite analog RF waveform.
   [0049]       In some implementations, for example, the Transducer Array 211 can have the
10 beam phase center(s) mechanically translated in one dimension, two dimensions, and/or
   three dimensions of data sampling / ultrasound scanning positions by spatially moving the
   Transducer Array 211 to produce a synthetic aperture during an ultrasound imaging
   implementation using the SAU System 200. In an additional example, the Transducer
   Array 211 can remain stationary, and the beam phase center(s) may be translated
15 electronically in one dimension, two dimensions, and/or three dimensions along the
   stationary Transducer Array 211 by addressing a portion of the X transducer elements
   sequentially or randomly by the System Controller 202 as data sampling / ultrasound
   scanning positions to produce a synthetic aperture during an ultrasound imaging
   implementation using the SAU System 200. As a further example, the SAU System 200
20 can both mechanically and electronically translate the phase centers in one dimension, two
   dimensions, and/or three dimensions of data sampling / ultrasound scanning positions to
   produce a synthetic aperture during an ultrasound imaging implementation.
   [0050]       In some implementations, for example, the individual RF waveforms and/or the
   composite RF waveform can be passed directly to separate transmitting transducer arrays,
25 e.g., either separately or simultaneously in time, and separate receiving transducer arrays
   can be used to receive the acoustic waveforms scattered from the volume of interest. FIG.
   2B shows another exemplary embodiment of a synthetic aperture ultrasound system of the
   disclosed technology in a block diagram showing an SAU System 200a. The SAU System
   200a is operable similar to that of the SAU System 200 to produce acoustic waveforms with
30 enhanced waveform properties across an expanded effective (synthetic) aperture, but
   including: (1) a Transmitter Transducer Array 211 a comprising X number of transducer
   elements to transduce the I number of individual waveforms (e.g., which correspond to the
   individual orthogonal coded waveform determined by the Waveform Generator 207) and

   transmit one or more acoustic waveforms, e.g., either sequentially, or simultaneously, or
   randomly in time; and including (2) a separate Receiver Transducer Array 21 lb comprising
   Y number of transducer elements can be configured to receive returned acoustic
   waveforms, and convert each to an analog RF waveform. In some examples, X can be
 5 equal Y, but in other examples, X may not equal Y. In some implementations, the SAU
   System 200a can include a T/R Switch 21 0a, configured between the Output Amplifiers
   209 and the Transmitter Transducer Array 211 a, which can operate as a multiplexing unit,
   e.g., by including N-pole multiplexing switches. Also, in some implementations, the SAU
   System 200a can include a T/R Switch 2 1Ob, configured between the Receiver Transducer
10 Array 21 lb and Pre-Amplifier module 212, which can operate as a multiplexing unit, e.g.,
   by including N-pole multiplexing switches. For example, the Transmitter Transducer Array
   211 a can transduce the I number of individual orthogonal coded waveforms to one or more
   acoustic waveforms that correspond to RF waveforms determined by the Waveform
   Generator 207. The transduced acoustic waveform can be emitted in the form of an
15 acoustic waveform burst. For example, selected array elements of the Transducer Array
   211 a may generate (e.g., transduct) two or more individual orthogonal acoustic waveforms
   that correspond to the individual orthogonal waveforms determined by the Waveform
   Generator 207 and combined spatially to form one or more composite acoustic waveforms
   that are transmitted one or more acoustic waveforms, e.g., either sequentially, or
20 simultaneously, or randomly in time. As additional example, selected array elements of the
   Transducer Array 211 a may generate (e.g., transduct) one or more composite acoustic
   waveforms that correspond to the composite waveforms determined by the Waveform
   Generator 207 that are transmitted either sequentially, or simultaneously, or randomly in
   time.
25 [0051]       In the exemplary SAU System 200a, the Transmitter Transducer Array 211 a and
   the Receiver Transducer Array 21 lb can have a portion or all of their phase centers
   translated either mechanically, electronically or both mechanically and electronically in one
   dimension, two dimensions, and/or three dimensions of data sampling / ultrasound scanning
   positions to produce a synthetic aperture during an ultrasound imaging implementation
30 using the SAU System 200a. In some implementations, for example, the X transducer
   elements of the Transmitter Transducer Array 211 a can have a portion or all of their phase
   centers translated either mechanically, electronically or both mechanically and
   electronically in unison in one, two, and/or three dimensions, while in other

   implementations, for example, one or more of the phase centers of X transducer elements of
   the Transmitter Transducer Array 211 a can be translated either mechanically, electronically
   or both mechanically and electronically separately from the other elements of the Array
   211 a in one, two, and/or three dimensions. In some implementations, for example, the X or
 5 Y transducer elements of the Transducer Array 211 a or 21 1b, respectively, can scan (e.g.,
   mechanically, electronically or both) the radiated acoustic beam and the received beam in
   angle in one and/or two angular dimensions (e.g., in azimuth and/or elevation). Similarly
   for example, in some implementations, the phase centers of Y transducer elements of the
   Receiver Transducer Array 21 lb can be translated (e.g., mechanically, electronically or
10 both) in unison in one, two, and/or three dimensions, while in other implementations, one
   or more of the Y transducer elements of the Receiver Transducer Array 21 lb can be
   translated separately from the other elements of the Array 21 lb in one, two, and/or three
   dimensions. For example in one embodiment, each of the X transducer elements of the
   Transducer Array 211 or 211 a corresponds to one of the I Output Amplifiers 209, e.g., X    =
15 I. Alternatively, for example to reduce the number of components, several groups of
   transmitter transducer elements may be formed out of the total of X transducer elements
   and multiplexed together to communicate with less than I Output Amplifiers 209 through
   N-pole multiplexing switches.
   [0052]      Referring to FIGS. 2A and 2B, the individual received (analog) RF waveforms
20 can be modified by Pre-Amplifier Module 212, which includes an array of J or a fewer
   number of amplifiers, which in some implementations, for example, each amplifier in the
   array may correspond to each of the X or Y transducer elements of the Transducer Array
   211 or Receiver Transducer Array 211 b, respectively. Alternatively, for example, to reduce
   the number of components, several groups of receiver transducer elements may be formed
25 out of the total of receiver transducer elements and multiplexed together to communicate
   with the pre-amplifiers through N-pole multiplexing switches. For example, each of the
   corresponding amplifiers of the Pre-Amplifier Module 212 or at least some of the
   amplifiers can amplify the gain and/or shifting the phase of the individual received (analog)
   RF waveform. In some examples, the array of J amplifiers of the Pre-Amplifier Module
30 212 are configured as linear amplifiers. In some examples, the Pre-Amplifier Module 212
   can be implemented to perform other signal conditioning techniques to the received
   waveforms. After amplification and/or signal conditioning, for example, the individual
   received waveforms can be converted from analog format to digital format by analog to

   digital (A/D) Converter Module 213, which includes an array of J number of A/D
   converters. The A/D Converter Module 213 can include A/D converters that have low least
   significant bit (LSB) jitter, spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR) and waveform
   dependency, such that the exemplary waveforms can be adequately decoded. The
 5 converted digital representations of the individual received waveforms can be processed by
   a processor, e.g., the Digital Signal Processor 204, in manner that creates and forms a
   representative image of the target medium.
   [0053]       The SAU System 200 can be operated in one of many operation modes. In one
   example, the Master Clock 201 can provide the time base for synchronizing the modules of
10 the SAU System 200, e.g., including the Waveform Generator 207, the Waveform
   Synthesizers 208, and the DSP 204. The Master Clock 201 can be configured as a low
   phase noise clock such that the exemplary waveforms can be phase encoded. An operator
   can select synthetic aperture modes of operation at the User Interface 206. In some
   implementations of the SAU System 200, the synthetic aperture modes can include, but is
15 not limited to, a synthetic aperture strip scan (SASS) mode and an exemplary synthetic
   aperture spotlight (SASpl) mode.
   [0054]       FIGS. 2C and 2D respectively show diagrams of the exemplary SASS mode and
   the exemplary SASpl mode of the disclosed technology. As shown in FIG. 2C, for
   example, the SASS mode is operable to produce a synthetic aperture based on multiple
20 acoustic waveforms transmitted from a plurality of positions about the target via electronic,
   mechanical, or a combination of both electronic and mechanical translational movement of
   the phase center of the Transducer Array 211 in one, two, and/or three dimensions. As
   shown in FIG. 2D, for example, the SASpl mode is operable to steer the transmit and/or
   receive beams to remain centered on the VOI, e.g., thus producing a larger synthetic
25 aperture than the SASS mode, which correspondingly produces finer lateral image
   resolution. The SASS and SASpl exemplary modes of operations can include 2D planar
   slice and/or 3D volume tomographic renderings, which can be manipulated by an operator,
   e.g., using the SAU System 200, to provide sagittal, coronal, transverse or any arbitrary
   plane of view. An operator can also select real aperture modes of operation.
30 [0055]       For example, some exemplary modes of operation provided for the user to select
   at the User Interface 206 can include conventional A-Mode (e.g., ID depth-only image),
   conventional B-Mode (e.g., 2D planer image - transverse vs. depth), conventional C-Mode
   (e.g., 2D planer image at selected depth), conventional D-Modes (e.g., Doppler Modes),

   and High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) as an integrated surgical therapeutic mode
   combined with any one or more of the conventional or new modes of operation. Exemplary
   Doppler modes include Color Doppler (e.g., superposition of color coded Doppler and B
   mode images), Continuous Doppler (e.g., ID Doppler profile vs. depth), Pulsed Wave
 5 Doppler (e.g., Doppler vs. time for selected volume), and Duplex/Triplex Doppler (e.g.,
   superposition of conventional B-Mode, conventional C-Mode or Color Doppler, and Pulsed
   Wave Doppler). The exemplary SAU System 200 can additionally implement new modes
   of operation that can generate spread-spectrum, wide-instantaneous bandwidth, frequency
   and/or phase-coded waveforms. For example, a user can select a high-definition 2D image
10 mode that is similar to the conventional B-Mode, but has significantly better image quality
   (e.g., higher resolution, contrast ratio, etc.), or the user can select a high-definition 3D
   imaging mode that produces volumetric images that can be displayed as user selectable, 2D
   images in a manner similar to CT and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) modalities.
   Additionally, for example, a user can select exemplary ATS-Modes (Artificial Tissue
15 Staining Modes) that can comprise a B-Mode, a C-Mode, a D-Mode, or other mode
   combined with image color coding to aid tissue differentiation - analogous to tissue
   staining for microscopic histological studies; and exemplary CAD-Modes (Computer Aided
   Diagnostic Modes) that differentiate and identify tissue type. ATS-Modes can employ the
   use of features for image color coding in image processing based on one or more of a
20 number of measured properties that are obtained from the returned echo waveform from the
   target area, e.g., the returned echo from an exemplary transmitted spread-spectrum, wide
   instantaneous bandwidth, coded acoustic waveform. CAD-Modes can use classifiers
   (algorithms) to classify, for example, tissue types based on features of the measured
   properties of the returned echoes from the target area, e.g., the returned echoes from an
25 exemplary spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth, coded, angularly diverse,
   mono-static and bi-static, synthetic aperture acoustic waveforms. The features properties
   can include differing impedances, waveform reflections (as a function of wavelength),
   group delay, etc. Some exemplary classifiers that can be employed using CAD-Modes can
   include deterministic classifiers, stochastic classifiers (e.g., Bayesian and Support Vector
30 Network classifiers), and neural network classifiers.
   [0056]       FIG. 2E shows an exemplary operation method 250 for operating the SAU
   System 200 or 200a for synthetic aperture ultrasound imaging. For each time epoch, the
   method 250 can begin by implementing a process 251 to check a user-defined mode of

   operation. For example, mode of operation can be selected by a user using the User
   Interface 206, or the mode of operation can be selected by another entity or internally
   within the SAU System 200 or 200a. Based on the selected operation mode, the System
   Controller 202 can command the Waveform Generator 207 to issue a digital message (data)
 5 to one or more elements in the Waveform Synthesizers and Beam Controllers 208 that
   defines the frequency, amplitude and phase of each of the frequency chips that form a
   desired wideband composite RF waveform commanded, e.g., implemented in a process
   252. The process 251 can occur anywhere and implemented in multiple instances during
   the method 250. The method 250 includes a process 252 to issue waveform data (e.g., the
10 exemplary digital message/data) to waveform synthesizers and beamformers, such as the
   Waveform Synthesizers and Beam Controllers 208. The issued waveform data can include
   the frequency, amplitude and phase information of the desired frequency chips that are
   synthesized as the orthogonal frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms, in which each
   coded waveform corresponds to a distinct frequency band. The method 250 includes a
15 process 253 to enable transmit mode of the SAU System 200 or 200a. For example, when
   implementing the SAU System 200, the process 253 can switch the SAU System 200 in
   transmit mode by utilizing the System Controller 202 to command an N-pole double-throw
   T/R switch, e.g., T/R Switch 210, to transmit position. The process 253 can be
   implemented in multiple instances during the method 250, e.g., such as after receiving
20 returned echo signals in a process 258, as described later. The method 250 includes a
   process 254 to generate individual analog RF waveforms that correspond to defined
   frequency chips. For example, each element in the array of Waveform Synthesizers and
   Beam Controllers 208 can convert the digital message/data from the Waveform Generator
   207 into individual analog waveforms that can make up a coherent analog wideband
25 composite waveform. In some implementations, the method 250 can include a process 255
   to amplify the individual analog waveforms that can make up a coherent analog wideband
   composite waveform. For example, each analog waveform and/or wideband composite
   waveform can be amplified by an array element in the Output Amplifier 209. The
   amplified analog wideband composite waveform can then pass through the T/R Switch 210
30 and excite its respective array element of the Transducer Array 211, e.g., in an ultrasound
   probe. The method 250 includes a process 256 to transduce the composite analog
   waveform to an acoustic waveform that can propagate throughout the scanned volume. For
   example, each element of the Transducer Array 211 can provide an acoustic waveform

   from each of the individual analog waveform corresponding to the frequency chip
   generated in the Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller 208 that makes up the
   wideband composite acoustic waveform. The Transducer Array 211 can form the acoustic
   beam that propagates into the target medium, e.g., biological tissue volume under study. At
 5 the end of the process 256, the method 250 can implement a process 257 to enable receive
   mode of the SAU System 200 or 200a. For example, when implementing the SAU System
   200, the process 257 can switch the SAU System 200 in receive mode by utilizing the
   System Controller 202 to command the N-pole double-throw T/R Switch 210 to receive
   position. The method 250 includes a process 258 to receive a returned acoustic waveform,
10 which can be in the form of one or more returned acoustic waveforms. The process 258
   can also include transducing the returned acoustic waveform echo(es) into individual
   received analog waveforms, e.g., corresponding to the frequency chips of the generated
   individual waveforms. For example, the returned acoustic waveform propagates back to
   and is received by Transducer Array 211. Each element of Transducer Array 211 can
15 convert the received acoustic waveform it receives into an analog signal (waveform).
   [0057]      In some implementations of the method 250, the Transducer Array 211 can be
   translated to another position relative to the target. The processes 253-258 can be repeated
   for each of a plurality of positions of the Transducer Array 211 about the target to form a
   synthetic aperture, as exemplified in FIG. 2C. In some implementations of the method 250,
20 the Transducer Array 211 can be used to steer the transmitted acoustic waveforms
   transmitted from one or more positions of the plurality of positions, e.g., which can be at
   one or more of the corresponding transducer elements of the Transducer Array 211, to form
   the synthetic aperture, as exemplified in FIG. 2D. For example, the transmitted acoustic
   waveforms can be steered based on the produced synthetic aperture image, at one or more
25 positions of the plurality of positions in a direct path toward the target. Also, for example,
   the System Controller 202 can generate for each waveform of the plurality of coded
   waveforms a plurality of amplitudes and a plurality of phases that are individually
   amplitude weighted and individually phase weighted, respectively, thereby providing the
   steering of the acoustic waveform from the position toward the target.
30 [0058]      In some implementations, the method 250 can include a process 259 to amplify
   the individual received analog waveforms. For example, each received analog waveform
   can be amplified by its respective low noise pre-amplifier element in Pre-Amplifier Module
   212. The method 250 includes a process 260 to convert the individual received analog

   waveforms into digital waveform data. For example, each received (and amplified) analog
   waveform signal can be converted into a digital word by each respective A/D element in
   A/D Converter module 213. The digital format data can be sent to the Digital Signal
   Processor 204 for signal processing.
 5 [0059]      The method 250 includes a process 261 to process the digital waveform data
   into a synthetic aperture image and image frames representative of the target medium. The
   process 261 is explained further detail later in FIG. 6. The process 261 can also include
   compositing the digital waveform data into a composite digital signal representing the
   individual and composite received analog waveform. For example, the Digital Signal
10 Processor 204 can detect the amplitude and phase of each of the frequency chips that
   comprise the wideband composite acoustic waveform received by each of the transducer
   array elements for the synthetic aperture. The Digital Signal Processor 204 can form the
   received beam and separate the amplitude and Doppler components of each resolution
   element of the beam, and can form an image frame associated with mode previously
15 selected by operator. The image frame formed by the Digital Signal Processor 204 can be
   displayed on Display 205 to the user.
   [0060]      The SAU System 200 can be implemented to produce spread-spectrum, wide
   instantaneous bandwidth (e.g., up to 100% or more of fractional bandwidth), coherent,
   pseudo-random noise (PRN), frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms for ultrasound
20 imaging. There are limitless embodiments of such waveforms. One example is featured in
   FIG. 3, which shows an exemplary plot of a generated Composite Waveform 300 that is
   comprised of a plurality of individual waveforms (e.g., frequency chips). In some
   implementations, the individual waveforms of the Composite Waveform 300 can be PRN
   waveforms including a sequence of pulses for each frequency chip that repeats itself after a
25 sequence or code period (T), e.g., such that the sequence has a very low correlation with
   any other sequence in the set of frequency chips, or with the same sequence at a
   significantly different time frame, or with narrow band interference or thermal noise. For
   example, the SAU System 200 can generate exactly the same sequences of the exemplary
   PRN waveforms at both the transmitter and the receiver ends, so a received signal sequence
30 (based on the transmitted signal sequence) can exhibit a high correlation for signal
   processing to produce an acoustic image of the target.
   [0061]      As shown in FIG. 3, an exemplary individual waveform or Chip 301 of the
   Composite Waveform 300 corresponds to the frequency chip       fN-2 that is transmitted during

   a transmit period T beginning at time frame to, e.g., as described in the process 256 in FIG.
   2E. As shown in FIG. 3, following the transmit period T, a receive time interval            TR is
   exhibited, in which returned acoustic waveform echoes are received as described in the
   process 258 in FIG. 2E. The transmit period T and the receive time interval          TR    form a
 5 frame period Tf, which can be repeated in subsequent time frames       (ti, t2, t3, ... ).
   [0062]        The exemplary Composite Waveform 300 can be represented by an equation for
   waveform, W, which can be represented in the time domain as a complex number, given by
   Equation (1):
                               M
                  W(t =           Ae j(2-fOt+<(,k   +C)U(   - kT)
                            k   n
10               (1)
   [0063]        W is comprised of M individual orthogonal waveforms (e.g., orthogonal
   frequency chips), where j = -C-I.       In Equation (1), n represents the number of frequency
   chips in the composite waveform W; k represents the number of changes in time (e.g.,
   frames); T represents the chip duration or period of the coded sequence; and fo represents
15 the fundamental chip frequency, such that     fo = 1/NT, and in which Nfo is the maximum
   frequency and (M-N+1)fo is the minimum frequency. For example, the number of
   frequency chips n represents a sequence of positive integers from N-M+1 to N. The
   waveform repetition frequency is 1/Tf, with Tf being the duration of a frame or epoch, and
   U(x) = 1 for 0      x   Tf. Onk represents the frequency chip phase term of the nth chip in the
20 kth time epoch, and An is the amplitude of the nth chip. For example, the frequency chip
   phase term Onk can be a pseudo-random phase term, in which a pseudo-randomly
   scrambled starting phase Dnk is a random number in the set {Ink2i7/N}, where Ink is a
   sequence of random, positive integers selected without replacement from the series I            = 0, 1,
   2, 3 ........ , N, with N being a large number. In another example, the frequency chip phase
25 term Dnk can be selected using any one of a number of numerical techniques to produce
   sets of waveforms Ws(t) that are statistically orthogonal to each other to the degree desired.
   Cn,  which is an additive phase term, is a number between 0 and 27u. For example, the
   frequency chip phase pseudo-random values Onk can be pre-stored in an exemplary
   database within a memory unit of System Controller 202 and/or Waveform Generator 207.
30 [0064]        The composite waveform, W, can be formed by synthesizing individual,
   substantially orthogonal, coded waveforms (e.g., frequency chips), in which each individual

   coded waveform corresponds to a distinct frequency band, and the coded waveforms
   includes at least one of frequency-coded waveforms or phase-coded waveforms, e.g., the
   coded waveforms synthesized in the Waveform Synthesizers 208. The composite coded
   waveforms can be synthesized as frequency-coded waveforms by selecting two or more
 5 frequencies that define the carrier frequencies of the frequency chips (e.g., including
   selecting the minimum and maximum frequency) and determining the A. amplitude values
   of the frequency chips. The synthesis of the frequency-coded waveforms can also include
   determining a time-bandwidth product (MfoT) parameter of each waveform of the coded
   waveforms. In some implementations, the amplitude for a particular frequency chip can be
10 determined as a single value for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch and
   repeated in subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. In other
   implementations, the amplitude for a particular frequency chip can be determined as a
   single value for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch and assigned a different
   single value in subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. And in other
15 implementations, the amplitude for a particular frequency chip can be determined to include
   multiple amplitude values for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch, in which
   the multiple values of the A. can be repeated or varied in subsequent time epochs for the
   particular frequency chip. The selection of the range of frequencies from the maximum
   frequency (Nfo) to the minimum frequency ((M-N+1)fo) plus the set of individual
20 waveform amplitude terms (A.) can utilize one of many known code sequences (e.g.
   including pushing sequences, Barker Codes, etc.) or, for example, utilize a numerical search
   on pseudo-random codes or any other codes for minimum ambiguity sidelobes.
   [0065]      The composite coded waveforms can additionally or alternatively be synthesized
   as phase-coded waveforms by determining individual waveform phase terms (C$nk) of each
25 waveform of the individual coded, orthogonal waveforms (e.g., frequency chips). For
   example, to provide variation of the composite waveform, W, the phase $nk can include one
   or more phase values for a frequency chip within the transmit period T. In some
   implementations, the phase    $nk for a particular frequency chip can be determined as a
   single value for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch and repeated in
30 subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. In other implementations, the
   phase  $nk for a particular frequency chip can be determined as a single value for that
   frequency chip during a particular time epoch and assigned a different single value in
   subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. And in other implementations,

   the phase      (ook for a particular frequency chip can be determined to include multiple values
   for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch, in which the multiple values of the
   (ook can    be repeated or varied in subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip.
   For example, the waveform 301 in the first time epoch (to) can include a first phase          (DA,  for
 5 example, as its phase shift for the beginning portion of the transmit period T and a second
   phase    $B,    for example, as its phase shift for the latter portion of the transmit period T. The
   waveform 301 in the next time epoch (ti) can repeat the exemplary phases            OA  and  $B  as its
   beginning and latter phase shifts or include another phase shift sequence (e.g., such as           DA,
   (B,   ic, or such as      CB and  (A,  or other configurations). The synthesis of the frequency
10 coded can also include determining a time-bandwidth product (MfoT) parameter of each
   waveform of the coded waveforms.
   [0066]           An exemplary transmitted composite waveform, W, can be comprised of the set
   of M individual waveforms that are orthogonal and completely span the frequency range
   fN-M+1    to f  N, as shown in FIG. 3. The parameter N can be chosen to be a large number to
15 give W a wide instantaneous bandwidth. In the special case when the lowest frequency fN
   M+1 =   1/T, then W can describe any wideband waveform that may be contained within this
   range of frequencies. For any waveform among the M individual waveforms, one or more
   phases (e.g., Onk) can be encoded in a single waveform during the interval T. Additionally,
   any waveform among the M individual waveforms can include multiple amplitudes
20 encoded in a single waveform. This can be implemented by amplitude weighting and phase
   weighting.
   [0067]           The family of individual, mutually orthogonal, waveform chips described by
   Equation (1) can form a coherent, pseudo-random noise, frequency- and/or phase-coded,
   spread-spectrum composite waveform. Based on the selection of parameters, the individual
25 waveforms can be made to be statistically orthogonal to each other, to any degree desired.
   For example, the delay and frequency sidelobe levels of the ambiguity function, described
   in Equation (2), for a given waveform represents the degree of orthogonality of that
   waveform. By determining particular parameters of the waveforms, medical ultrasound
   image resolution can be significantly improved. For example, parameters that affect the
30 resolution of medical ultrasound images include the time-bandwidth product (MfoT)
   parameter, which determines the inherent combined axial range (e.g., Doppler resolution)
   and the speckle reduction ability of the waveform, and the individual waveform phase
   terms ((Pnk), which determine the statistical degree of orthogonality, e.g., which in turn

   determines the degree that the waveform can function in inhomogeneous media of
   biological tissues. For example, the lower the sidelobes, the greater the orthogonality and
   greater the resolution (less noise). The selection of the set of individual waveform phase
   terms  ($nk)  can utilize one of many known code sequences (e.g. including Barker, Frank,
 5 Golay, etc.) or, for example, utilize a numerical search on pseudo-random codes or any
   other codes for minimum ambiguity sidelobes.
   [0068]       In some implementations, the Composite Waveform 300, described by Equation
   (1), which for example can be a single-wideband, coherent, frequency- and/or phase-coded
   waveform. For example, based on the selection of parameters, the single waveform can be
10 made to be statistically orthogonal to any other signal waveform or noise signal present in
   the target medium.
   [0069]       The parameter A., which is the amplitude of the nth chip, and C., which is an
   additive phase term, in combination can provide pre-emphasis of the analog signal that
   excites each individual element of Transducer Array 211 to produce a transmitted acoustic
15 waveform that has the desired amplitude and phase characteristics over the frequency range
   of W. Pre-emphasis of the transmitted waveform can compensate for both the non-constant
   amplitude and phase response of transducer elements as a function of frequency, and the
   non-uniform propagation characteristics of intervening tissue layers. For example, the pre
   emphasis terms can provide an acoustic waveform that has equal amplitude chips with
20 constant (e.g., flat) amplitude and a known phase versus frequency characteristic. Such
   constant amplitude versus frequency acoustic waveforms can be referred to as 'white'
   waveforms. Alternatively, if pre-emphasis is not provided, then the transmitted acoustic
   waveform can replicate the frequency response of the transducer, and such waveforms are
   referred to as 'colored' waveforms. De-emphasis of the received waveform can permit
25 determination of the reflection characteristic of the target medium's volume, e.g., biological
   tissue volume.
   [0070]       The composite waveform W, as described by Equation (1), is an aggregate of
   two or more individual, mutually orthogonal, coded waveforms, which also may be referred
   to as chips. Each individual, mutually orthogonal, coded waveform of the composite
30 waveform has a unique frequency with a corresponding specific phase that is associated
   with each unique frequency. In some implementations, the individual, mutually orthogonal,
   coded waveforms can be amplitude- and phase-coded, where each unique frequency
   waveform includes a corresponding specific phase and amplitude associated with each

   unique frequency. In implementations, for example, the individual, mutually orthogonal,
   coded waveforms of the composite waveform W can be transmitted sequentially or
   simultaneously transmitted toward a target, or in some implementations, can be randomly
   transmitted toward the target.
 5  [0071]      In one illustrative example, a composite waveform Wi includes five individual
   coded waveforms orthogonal to one another: a first waveform comprising a frequency fi
   with a corresponding specific phase pi, a second waveform comprising a frequency            f2 with
   a corresponding specific phase       P2, a third waveform comprising a frequency f3 with a
   corresponding specific phase 93, a fourth waveform comprising a frequency f4 with a
10 corresponding specific phase       P4, and a fifth waveform comprising a frequency fs with a
   corresponding specific phase      es,  which can be represented as:
                 W,  = fi, PI + f2, (P2 + f3, (P3 + f4, (P4 + fs, (P5 .
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform W2 having five individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms can include a first waveform comprising a frequency fi with a corresponding
15 specific phase   Y6, a second waveform comprising a frequency         f2 with a corresponding
   specific phase 97, a third waveform comprising a frequency f3 with a corresponding specific
   phase ps, a fourth waveform comprising a frequency f4 with a corresponding specific phase
   y9, and a fifth waveform comprising a frequency fs with a corresponding specific phase pio,
   which can be represented as:
20               W2 = fl, P6 + f2, Y7 + f3, P8 + f4, 9 + fs,       pio .
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform W3 having five individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms can include a first waveform comprising a frequency fA with a corresponding
   specific phase   e6, a second waveform comprising a frequency f7 with a corresponding
   specific phase   Y7, a third waveform comprising a frequency f8 with a corresponding specific
25 phase p8, a fourth waveform comprising a frequency f9 with a corresponding specific phase
   (p9, and a fifth waveform comprising a frequency fio with a corresponding specific phase
    pio, which can be represented as:
                 W3  =  fA, 96 + fy, (P7 + f8, e8 + f9, (P9 + fio,  pio .
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform W4 having five individual orthogonal coded
30 waveforms can include a first waveform (e.g., same as the first waveform in Wi)
   comprising the frequency fi with a corresponding specific phase Pi, a second waveform
   (e.g., same as the second waveform in Wi) comprising a frequency           f2 with a corresponding
   specific phase 92, a third waveform comprising a frequency f8 with a corresponding specific

   phase p1 1, a fourth waveform (e.g., same as the third waveform in W2) comprising the
   frequency   f3 with a corresponding specific phase y8, and a fifth waveform (e.g., same as the
   fifth waveform in W3) comprising the frequency fio with a corresponding specific phase Pio,
   which can be represented as:
 5              W4 = fi, PI + f2, P2 + f8, P11 + f3, P8 + fio, P1.a
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform W5 having five individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms can include a first waveform comprising the frequency fi with a corresponding
   specific phase   P12,  a second waveform comprising a frequency           f2  with a corresponding
   specific phase 912, a third waveform comprising a frequency f8 with a corresponding
10 specific phase 912, a fourth waveform comprising the frequency              f3 with a corresponding
   specific phase P12, and a fifth waveform (e.g., same as the fifth waveform in W3)
   comprising the frequency fio with a corresponding specific phase pio, which can be
   represented as:
                W5   = fi, (P12 + f2,   912 + f8, (P12 +   f3, (P12 +  fio, PIa.
15 All of these exemplary composite waveforms (Wi,             W2,  W3, W4, W5) in this example can be
   orthogonal to each other or can be designed to have as low of a cross-correlation as desired.
   [0072]       In another illustrative example, a composite waveform             W6 includes five
   individual coded waveforms orthogonal to one another: a first waveform comprising a
   frequency fi with a corresponding specific phase pi and amplitude Ai, a second waveform
20 comprising a frequency        f2 with a corresponding specific phase 92 and amplitude A2, a third
   waveform comprising a frequency           f3 with a corresponding specific phase 93 and amplitude
   A3, a fourth waveform comprising a frequency           f4  with a corresponding specific phase      P4
   and amplitude A4, and a fifth waveform comprising a frequency fs with a corresponding
   specific phase   es  and amplitude As, which can be represented as:
25              W6   =   (fi, ei, Ai)  + (f2, 92, A2) + (f3, 93, A3) + (f4, (P4, A4) + (fs, (P5, As) .
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform W7 having five individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms can include a first waveform comprising a frequency fi with a corresponding
   specific phase   (P6 and amplitude A6, a second waveform comprising a frequency              f2 with a
   corresponding specific phase P7 and amplitude A7, a third waveform comprising a
30 frequency f3 with a corresponding specific phase y8 and amplitude A8, a fourth waveform
   comprising a frequency        f4 with a corresponding specific phase P9and amplitude A9, and a
   fifth waveform comprising a frequency fs with a corresponding specific phase Pio and
   amplitude Aio, which can be represented as:

                W7   =  (fi, (P6, A6) + (f2, (P7,  A7) + (f3, y8, A8) + (f4, y9, A9) + (fs, pio, Aio) .
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform Ws having five individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms can include a first waveform comprising a frequency fA with a corresponding
   specific phase   (P6 and amplitude A6, a second waveform comprising a frequency f7 with a
 5 corresponding specific phase P7 and amplitude A7, a third waveform comprising a
   frequency f8 with a specific phase y8 and amplitude A8, a fourth waveform comprising a
   frequency f9 with a corresponding specific phase (p9 and amplitude A9, and a fifth waveform
   comprising a frequency fio with a corresponding specific phase pio and amplitude Aio,
   which can be represented as:
10              Ws   = (f6, (P6,  A6) + (f7, Y7,   A7) + (fs, y8, A8) + (f9,  9, A9) + (fio, pio, Aio)
   Similarly, for example, a composite waveform W9 having five individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms can include a first waveform (e.g., same as the first waveform in W6)
   comprising the frequency fi with a corresponding specific phase Pi and amplitude Ai, a
   second waveform (e.g., same as the second waveform in W6) comprising a frequency               f2
15 with a corresponding specific phase       (P2  and amplitude A2, a third waveform comprising a
   frequency f8 with a corresponding specific phase y11 and amplitude Ai, a fourth waveform
   (e.g., same as the third waveform in W7) comprising the frequency f3 with a corresponding
   specific phase y8 and amplitude A8, and a fifth waveform (e.g., same as the fifth waveform
   in Ws) comprising the frequency fio with a corresponding specific phase pio and amplitude
20 Aio, which can be represented as:
                W9 = (fi, yi, Ai) +     (f2, Y2,   A2) + (fs, y1i, A i) + (f3, y8, A8) + (fio, pio, Aio)
   All of these exemplary composite waveforms (W6, W7, Ws, W9) in this example can be
   orthogonal to each other or can be designed to have as low of a cross-correlation as desired.
25 [0073]      By inspection, single frequency modes (e.g., Conventional A-, B- and C-Mode),
   due to their monochromatic nature, do not need pre-emphasis. Such single frequency
   waveforms may require amplitude control, for example, to ensure biologically safe sound
   intensity limits.
   [0074]      If the phase of each chip is random, the transmitted waveform, W, can have
30 random noise-like characteristics. If the phases (CDk + C.) of each chip are uniquely
   determined, repeatable and synchronized to the Master Clock (as shown in FIG. 2A), the
   transmitted waveform, W, can be classified as pseudo-random noise. Such pseudo-random
   noise waveforms are coherent permitting implementation of coherent receivers.

   [0075]        Image processing advantages of wide instantaneous bandwidth, pseudo-random
   noise waveforms can include reduction, with proper waveform selection, and potential
   elimination of speckle, e.g., speckles / speckle patterns, which are random intensity patterns
   produced by the mutual interference waveforms, which are commonly associated with
 5 conventional medical ultrasound images. This exemplary reduction in speckle can be an
   analogous comparison of a scene illuminated by wide band, Gaussian noise-like white light,
   which has no observable speckle to narrow band laser illumination with exhibits strong
   speckle of the same scene.
   [0076]        Signal processing advantages of coherent, pseudo-random noise, frequency- and
10 phase-coded waveforms can include waveforms having very low time and Doppler
   sidelobes. For example, an ambiguity function, A(t,u), can be a two-dimensional
   representation that shows the distortion of a received waveform processed by a matched
   filter in the receiver due to the effect of Doppler shift (u) or propagation delay (c).
   Specifically, the exemplary ambiguity function A(c,u) is defined by Equation (2) and is
15 determined solely by the waveform properties and the receiver characteristics and not by
   the scenario. The ambiguity function of A(c,u) is defined by
                 A(r,v)=     fXa(t)X*(t     - r)ej2rror
                            -00
                 (2)
20
   where Xk(t)=            e'[ 2   (ttk],      for 0  t : T, Xk(t)=0 otherwise.
   [0077]        For waveforms of the type described by Equation (1), the following equation
   can be obtained:
                 A(r,, t,fnCnfmC:Dm, T)=
25                    1V r      (Af Sin [2cr(Af)(T -|At           2[Af(T+AtYLfnAt+vt+A$]
                               T         [2;(Af)(T- At)]
                 (3)
   where At = r - t, Af= v-(fn -fm), and A                = On - Om, which can result in the
   complete ambiguity equation shown in Equation (4):

                            1
                x(r,)= I             A(r,V,t,fn,$,,fm,)m,T)
                                n m
                (4)
   where both n and m are a sequence of positive integers from N-M+1 to N.
   [0078]       FIG. 4 shows exemplary ambiguity function characteristics of a pseudo-random
 5 noise, frequency-coded, composite waveform 401, represented by Equation (1) for
   waveform, W. The exemplary frequency-coded, composite waveform 401 includes a code
   length of 128. As shown in FIG. 4, the sidelobes 402 of this ambiguity function are due to
   chip-to-chip phase interactions and have a plateau level in both delay and frequency below
   the peak that is a function of N2 .
10 [0079]       By inspection, many composite waveforms (W) are possible depending on the
   specific codes (Ink) selected. However, the sidelobe performance cannot be guaranteed for
   every waveform defined, and therefore only those codes which give sufficiently low
   sidelobes in both delay and frequency as determined by a numerical search of a set of
   possible codes should be used.
15 [0080]       For example, in medical ultrasound applications, living tissue as a propagation
   medium is inhomogeneous. Propagation medium inhomogeneity can introduce differential
   time delays, and living tissue can introduce unwanted motion induced Doppler. Ultrasound
   transducer arrays also can have undesirable side lobes and grating lobes (e.g., due to
   physical size limitations) in the off-axis portions of ultrasound beam that add unwanted
20 time delay and Doppler returns to the returns of the main lobe. Waveforms that exhibit low
   ambiguity function sidelobes can significantly improve SAU focusing and target contrast
   due through the reduction interference from differential time delays, motion-induced
   Doppler, and transducer side lobe effects.
   [0081]       Coherent pseudo-random noise, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms can
25 enable higher-order cross-range focusing techniques to be employed that can improve the
   lateral resolution of size limited ultrasound transducer arrays, e.g., medical ultrasound
   transducer arrays.
   [0082]       For example, each biological tissue type and each diseased tissue type may
   exhibit their own unique ultrasound echo return signals as a function of frequency, mono
30 static and bi-static angles, and spatial morphology. Using conventional Elastograph-Mode
   (E-Mode) modalities, it can be difficult to take advantage of such properties to classify
   tissues, e.g., due to measurement errors such as the inability to accurately characterize the

   ultrasound wave propagation through overlaying inhomogeneous media. Exemplary
   waveforms produced by the exemplary SAU System 200, e.g., wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, coherent pseudo-random noise, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms, can
   enable tissue differentiation by determining the physical tissue features from the echo
 5 returns of the target volume under investigation. Classifiers, one example being Bayesian
   inference classifiers among others, can be applied to the feature data obtained from the
   measured characteristics of the received echo to automatically classify tissue types
   observed in the target volume providing a Computer Aided Diagnostic-Mode (CAD-Mode).
   [0083]       Unlike conventional E-Modes, which inherently have significantly reduced
10 image quality and rely on individual operator technique, the exemplary waveforms
   described by Equation (1) can inherently provide improved image quality while
   simultaneously colorizing the resultant image by tissue type in the ATS and/or CAD
   Modes. With this advantage, user technique can be mitigated and the margins of a lesion
   are discernible, thus permitting improved diagnoses.
15 [0084]       In addition, the Waveform Synthesizers 208 positioned on transmit and the
   Digital Signal Processor 204 positioned on receive (as shown in FIG. 2A), can also perform
   beam control (e.g., beam steering, dynamic beam focusing, and beamforming) functions.
   FIGS. 5A-5C show the basics of these digital electronic functions by introducing a
   differential time delay, or equivalently a phase shift, and amplitude weighting between each
20 of the elements of the phased array. As can be seen in FIG. 5A, the differential phase shift
   can compensate for the differential change in distance (d) each acoustic ray (ri, r2, ... ri,
   travels from ith element to the point of focus (p). An angle (0) is formed as the point of
   focus (p) is not along the z-axis direction of direct aim/alignment of the Transducer Array
   211 toward a target in the target medium. Additionally, a differential amplitude weight can
25 be applied to each element to control the beam shape and suppress side and grating lobes.
   Also, for one or more chips in an exemplary waveform, the Waveform Generator 207 can
   pre-encode a phase delay to delay the phase of the one or more chips transmitted at each
   transducer element in the Transducer Array 211. An exemplary result of this feature can be
   seen in FIGS. 5B and 5C. The exemplary phase delay values for the one or more chips can
30 be communicated to the Digital Signal Processor 204 and/or the System Controller 202 to
   incorporate the phase delay values in the signal processing of the received composite
   waveform.
   [0085]       For narrow instantaneous bandwidth ultrasound devices, this function can be

   accomplished by introducing phase shift and amplitude attenuation on the composite analog
   signal driving each element. However, for the exemplary spread-spectrum, wide
   instantaneous bandwidth, frequency- and phase-coded waveforms generated by the SAU
   System 200, each individual chip of the waveform (Wi) is individually amplitude weighted
 5 (Bi) and phase weighted (Dni) as a function of frequency (n) for each array element (i)
   individually for all X elements, as indicated by Equation (5).
                Wi(t)= J        AnBie j(2nfot+nk+C+Di)U(t               kT-)
                          k   n
               (5)
    [0086]     On transmit, the amplitude and phase weighting required of each chip can be
10 computed by the System Controller 202 and can be sent as an instruction to the Waveform
   Generator 207. The Waveform Generator 207 can then send the digital words (real and
   imaginary components) to the Waveform Synthesizers and the Beam Controller 208 that
   produces the analog drive signal that is amplified by Amplifier 209 and sent to each
   element of the array of the Transducer Array 211.
15  [0087]     Synthetic aperture ultrasound signal processing includes collecting the received
   synthetic aperture ultrasound signal data and processing these data by using a sequence of
   algorithms that utilizes a replica of the transmitted waveform to produce a synthetic
   aperture ultrasound image. For example, the synthetic aperture ultrasound signal
   processing of the disclosed technology negates the propagation effects of living
20 inhomogeneous tissue, e.g., by taking advantage of the "thumb-tack" ambiguity function, as
   shown in FIG. 4. On receive, the A/D Converter module 213 can convert the received
   analog signal to digital words. The A/D Converter module 213 can send the digital words
   that represent the amplitude and phase information of each chip for each sampled position
   of the real array element for each array element to the Digital Signal Processor 204, where
25 the data is collected and stored over the entire synthetic aperture.
    [0088]     The axial resolution (ea) of a synthetic aperture waveform is given by the
   expression   aa = c/B, where B is the bandwidth of the waveform and c is the speed of sound.
   The lateral resolution (?i) of a real aperture can be approximated by the expression 81= dRc
   /wR.  The lateral resolution for a synthetic aperture, e.g., formed by the SAU System 200,
30 can be approximated by 0i = dc/2W, where ac is the wavelength of the center frequency of
   the transmitted waveform.
    [0089]     FIG. 6 shows a block diagram of an exemplary synthetic aperture ultrasound

   signal processing technique 600 using digital signal processing to produce an ultrasound
   image. The technique can be implemented to process exemplary coherent, wideband,
   instantaneous, spread-spectrum, coded, and noise-like ultrasound waveforms. The
   exemplary synthetic aperture ultrasound signal processing technique can be implemented
 5 using the Digital Signal Processor 204 of the SAU System 200 for the exemplary SASS and
   SASpl modes, as shown in FIGS. 2C and 2D, respectively. As shown in FIG. 6, the SAU
   signal processing technique 600 includes a process 610 to store the digital words that
   represent the amplitude and phase information of each frequency chip of the transmitted
   ultrasound pulse and the returned echo signals for each sampled position in a memory unit
10 of the SAU System 200. In some implementations, for example, the SAU signal processing
   technique 600 can include a process 620 to performing axial range compression before the
   formation of the synthetic aperture, e.g., which can include the benefit of conserving
   memory. The SAU signal processing technique 600 can include a process 630 to form the
   synthetic aperture image by processing the stored block of axial-range compressed echo
15 data that encompass the entire synthetic aperture. The SAU signal processing technique
   600 can include a process 640 to process the SA image data to form an ultrasound image
   for display.
   [0090]       FIG. 7 shows a diagram of exemplary synthetic aperture-sampled received echo
   data and storage to memory. In this exemplary SAU data collection scenario, the
20 transducer sub-array phase center, which may be referred to simply as a probe, is translated
   either mechanically, or electronically as portion of a larger array, in the SA coordinate
   system shown along an arbitrary, but known, open or closed 3D path, in the general case,
   sampling raw echo-return data at each u,v,w data point, and for each 0, <p beam angle. The
   digitized received-echo data for each sample point and its 3D position are stored in a block
25 of memory for each complete scan. As shown in the process 610 of FIG. 6, the received,
   digitized, echo returns are collected and stored in memory. FIG. 7 shows a conceptual
   diagram of an exemplary synthetic aperture received data memory map of the stored blocks
   of data. The collected digitized received-echo data can be processed as a block of data on a
   block-by-block basis.
30 [0091]       The process 620 to perform axial range compression, e.g., using the Digital
   Signal Processor 204 of the SAU System 200, can be implemented according to the
   following example. FIG. 8 shows a block diagram of an exemplary wave-number
   algorithm for wideband, spread-spectrum, noise-like, coherent synthetic aperture image

   formation. In this example, the received signal, Yi(T,u), for each data collection sample
   point, can be multiplied by the complex conjugate replica of the transmitted digital
   waveform, Wi*(t) that is shifted in time to. This multiplication operation can be repeated J
   times, e.g., typically in parallel; but for each operation, the waveform replica is shifted in
 5 time by an integral increment, j-to, from the previous one, as shown in FIG. 8, and stored in
   memory based on the sampled data point in the exemplary memory map, as shown in FIG.
   7. This step is repeated for each of the sampled data points, producing the compressed
   axial-range data for the axial-range slices,   j, shown in the FIGS. 2C and 2D.
   [0092]       The process 630 to form the synthetic aperture image, e.g., using the Digital
10 Signal Processor 204 of the SAU System 200, can be implemented using any of several
   different sets of algorithms. For example, these sets of synthetic aperture algorithms may
   be classified as either frequency domain algorithms or as time domain algorithms. For
   example, types of frequency-domain algorithms can include wave-number algorithms,
   chirp-scaling algorithms, and scaled inverse-Fourier-transform algorithms, among others.
15 For example, types of time-domain algorithms can include explicit matched-filter
   algorithms, and back-projection algorithms, among others. While all of these exemplary
   algorithms are applicable to forming synthetic aperture coherent, wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, spread-spectrum, medical ultrasound images, the frequency domain wave
   number algorithm is provided as an example shown in FIG. 8, e.g., as the wave-number
20 algorithm may be conceptually the easiest to understand.
   [0093]       The process 630 can include a window-filtering step of the produced
   compressed axial-range data, as shown in FIG. 8. For example, to minimize spectral
   leakage due to the discontinuities at the extremities of finite-duration signal records,
   window-function filtering can be applied to improve image quality. In this example, for
25 each axial-range slice j, the resultant products are multiplied by a window function, e.g.,
   such as a rectangular, Hann, Hamming, Tukey, Kaiser Bessel, Dolph-Chebyshev,
   Blackman-Harris, etc. window. These exemplary window functions are tapered to zero at
   the extremities. The selection of a window function may involve a tradeoff between the
   suppression of spectral-leakage-induced image sidelobes and image resolution. For
30 example, the more smoothly the window tapers to zero, the lower are the unwanted image
   sidelobes at the expense of reduced resolution. Conversely, for example, the 'steeper' the
   function goes to zero at the extremities, the sharper is the resolution at the expense of
   higher image sidelobes. In one example, a rectangular window function can produce the

   highest resolution and the highest sidelobes. Alternatively, for example, a Blackman-Harris
   window function can produce very low sidelobes (e.g. below -70 dB) and lower resolution,
   e.g., as compared to rectangular window functions. In the process 630, the selection of the
   specific window function or functions to be implemented may be left to the operator to the
 5 operator of the SAU System 200, e.g., since it is examination-dependent.
   [0094]      The process 630 can include a Fourier Transform step of the window-function
   filtered data, as shown in FIG. 8. In some examples, a two-dimensional, Discrete Fourier
   Transform (DFT) can be applied to a block of digitized, range-compressed, received-echo
   data that was previously collected and stored in memory for the entire synthetic aperture.
10 There are many alternative discrete Fourier transform algorithms available for use in the
   process. Of the exemplary DFT class, a Cooley-Tukey algorithm can be implemented,
   albeit any of the DFT may suffice. In the process 630, the selection of the Fourier
   Transform algorithm to be implemented may be left to the operator to the operator of the
   SAU System 200.
15 [0095]      The process 630 can include a Stolt Transform step subsequent to the Fourier
   Transform step, as shown in FIG. 8. The Stolt Transform can be used for lateral
   compression of the Fourier-transformed data collected over the total synthetic aperture. For
   example, the wave-number algorithm basically inverts the imaging system data through a
   coordinate transformation (Stolt Mapping) through interpolation in the spatial frequency
20 domain. The compressed-echo data, which was converted to the wavenumber domain in
   the Fourier Transform step, has a matched filtering applied with respect to a target at a
   synthetic focus range, followed by a coordinate transformation in one step. The Stolt
   Transform converts the multiple polar data-set samples collected at each point, U, along the
   synthetic aperture, as illustrated in FIGS. 1B and 2D, to a single image, mapping it to a new
25 X-Y coordinate system, focused at the origin, as shown in FIG. 9.
   [0096]      FIG. 9 shows a diagram illustrating an exemplary implementation of the Stolt
   Transform process, which converts the multiple-sample image that were collected over the
   synthetic aperture from polar coordinates to one higher-resolution image in a new
   coordinate system with an origin at the desired point of focus. For illustrative purposes, it
30 is assumed that the synthetic aperture in this example includes a one-dimensional
   transducer probe translating along the U axis. Following usual convention, the temporal
   wavenumber is defined as K = 27if/c in the direction of propagation. The spatial
   wavenumber is defined as Ku      = Ksino, where the angle D is given by the following

   expression:
               <D = sin -(y/ JX2 + y2
               (6)
   which is centered (e.g., focused) on the origin of the X-Y coordinate system. The spatial
 5 wavenumbers Kx and KY are in the direction of the X and Y axes respectively. For this
   specific example of the geometry shown in FIG. 9, the Stolt mapping is the following:
                Kx(f,Ku)= 4 K 2 - K
                Ky(f,Ku)= Ku
               (7)
   [0097]      The process 630 can include an Inverse Fourier Transform step subsequent to
10 the Stolt Transform step, as shown in FIG. 8. A two-dimensional, inverse Discrete Fourier
   Transform can be applied to the results from the previous Stolt Transform step. For
   example, since the inverse DFT is essentially the same algorithm as the DFT, except for a
   1/N factor and an opposite sign in the exponent, like the DFT there are many alternative
   inverse DFTs that are available for implementation of this step. For example, a commonly
15 used DFT includes the Cooley-Tukey algorithm, but since any of the DFT algorithms can
   be implemented, but any of the inverse DFT algorithms may suffice. In the process 630,
   the selection of the Inverse Fourier Transform algorithm to be implemented may be left to
   the operator to the operator of the SAU System 200.
   [0098]      In some implementations of the process 630, for example, an autofocusing step
20 may be performed. For example, the focusing of a synthetic aperture open-loop formed
   image may optionally be improved using any number of well-known Synthetic Aperture
   Radar (SAR) and Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS) autofocus algorithms that lower the
   sidelobes of Point Spread Function (PSF) of the resultant image. Since the received
   synthetic aperture data is block-processed, those portions of the image away from the point
25 of focus may be imperfectly focused, due to arbitrary phase errors. Implementing one or
   more autofocus techniques may at least partially correct to improve image quality.
   [0099]      In synthetic aperture image formation, open-loop synthetic aperture digital
   processing algorithms, such as those described previously, can assume medium
   homogeneity, stationarity, and precise transmit-and-receive transducer-sampling locations
30 with respect to the scene. For example, the desired level of homogeneity, stationarity and
   transducer location may not be completely realizable with living mammalian subjects.

     Therefore, in some exemplary implementations, it may be desirable to form the synthetic
     aperture image by applying a set of open-loop synthetic aperture algorithms and then apply
     a global or a series of regional autofocus algorithms taking advantage of the coherent,
     spread-spectrum nature of the waveforms to improve image quality by lowering the
 5   sidelobes of the PSF that are not coherent from aperture sampling point to sampling point.
     For example, open-loop synthetic aperture algorithms use the best available estimates for
     transducer sample locations and tissue parameters using the best available estimates for
     transducer sample locations and tissue parameters, then the autofocus algorithm searches
     for optimal image quality to refine the image formation parameters, e.g., mitigating
10   estimate imprecision in transducer location, inhomogeneous tissue characteristics, and
     incoherent PSF sidelobes. Since autofocus techniques rely on coherency and redundancy in
     the raw data, the received-echo signal preferably can be over-sampled both temporally and
     spatially than the Nyquist limit, e.g., if significant improvement in image quality is to be
     realized. For example, the temporal sampling interval can be less than 1/(2Nfo), and the
15   spatial sampling interval can be less than a half wavelength at mid-frequency or
     c/[(N+M)fo].
     [00100]      FIG. 10 shows a block diagram of an exemplary coherent, iterative, closed-loop,
     synthetic aperture image autofocus subroutine. The exemplary coherent, iterative, closed
     loop, autofocus image correction process can be implemented to improve the quality of the
20   image compensation for undesirable variations in axial-lateral synthetic aperture phase
     history, but at the expense of additional digital signal-processing load.
     [00101]      In the exemplary iterative, closed-loop, synthetic aperture image autofocus
     subroutine of FIG. 10, first, the phase error based on the raw received-echo data is
     estimated, and then the estimated / incoherent phase errors in these data are removed. For
25   example, depending on the nature and magnitude of the phase errors, they can significantly
     degrade the image quality in terms of geometry, resolution, contrast and reduced signal-to
     noise ratio (SNR), as shown in Table 1, which shows the effect of various types of phase
     errors on reconstructed images.
                                                   Table 1
   Type of Error               Phase Error Variation over           Effect on Image
                               Entire Synthetic Aperture
   Slowly Varying              Linear                               Geometric Displacement
   (Affects Main Lobe)         Quadratic                            Defocus / Reduced Resolution
                               Higher Order Polynomial              Distortion
   Rapidly Varying             Sinusoidal                           Image Artifacts
   (Affects Side Lobes)        Random Wideband Incoherent Noise     Reduced Contrast & SNR

   [00102]      While there are many well-known autofocus algorithms, they can be grouped, in
   general, into either non-parametric, or model-based, or a combination of the two types. For
   example, one commonly-used non-parametric algorithms includes the phase-gradient
 5 algorithm, which exhibits an ability to remove higher order phase errors over a variety of
   scenes. In addition, there are several algorithms that have been developed that are
   enhancements to the phase-gradient algorithm. For example, the eigenvector algorithm,
   which is a maximum-likelihood estimator, and the weighted least-square algorithm that
   minimizes the variance of the phase error, are two examples from among many.
10 [00103]      Model-based, autofocus algorithms employ a model of the systematic, position
   dependent, slowly varying, phase errors present in every physical measurement system.
   For example, a device-dependent, sampling position error model is developed for the
   mechanical elements of the transducer scanning assembly. Given such a model, the phase
   errors are estimated and phase error corrections are iterated until the best image is obtained
15 based on some predetermined quality metric.
   [00104]      One example of a hybrid non-parametric, model-based approach is to segment
   the image into sub-images using an error model of the scanning system, such that the phase
   errors present on each sub-image are position invariant. A non-parametric autofocus
   algorithm, e.g., such as the phase-gradient algorithm, can then be applied individually to
20 each sub-image. Lastly, for example, the individual sub-images are reassembled together to
   form a complete autofocused image.
   [00105]      One of the advantages of the coherent, broadband waveform of Equation 5 is
   that the received signal may be segmented into sub-bands and the lowest frequency (e.g.,
   longest wavelength) sub-band may be selected first for phase-error estimation. This longest
25 wavelength sub-band effectively has the least impact of phase errors, e.g., due to the
   inhomogeneous tissue and sampling position uncertainties, as compared to the higher
   frequency (shorter wavelength) sub-bands. Upon achieving a predefined level of image
   quality, e.g., by employing a selected autofocus algorithm such as the phase gradient
   algorithm, selected and progressively shorter wavelength sub-band data may be used for
30 further refine the estimate of the phase errors present, if desired. Lastly, for example the
   phase-corrected sub-band data are reassembled to form a complete autofocused image.
   [00106]      Several applications and uses of the disclosed technology can be implemented to
   exploit the described features of the aforementioned systems, methods, and devices. Some

   examples are described for clinical use of the disclosed technology.
   [00107]      In one exemplary application, the resultant image quality, and the ATS and
   CAD modes of an exemplary spread-spectrum ultrasound device can enable the primary
   care physician to incorporate this modality into a routine examination screening protocol to
 5 locate early stage malignancies (e.g., Stage 0 or 1), as well as later stage cancers. As the
   result of this application, the device can potentially, for example, enhance the survival rate
   of hard-to-diagnose asymptomatic patients suffering from malignancies, e.g., such as
   stomach, pancreatic, bladder cancers, etc.
   [00108]      In another exemplary application, the resultant image quality, ATS and CAD
10 modes of an exemplary spread-spectrum ultrasound device can permit board-certified
   radiologists to diagnose neoplasms as benign or malignant prior to any surgical biopsy or
   resection intervention. As a result of this application, the ability of radiologists to locate
   and diagnose early stage malignancies (e.g., Stage 0 or 1) can potentially improve patient
   survival rate. Additionally, unnecessary biopsies potentially can be avoided, along with
15 their attendant risk of hard-to-treat or even lethal complications such as, for example,
   methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA staph) infections.
   [00109]      In another exemplary application, the resultant 2D or 3D image quality of an
   exemplary spread-spectrum ultrasound device and, optionally, its 4D imaging capability
   (e.g., which can be derived from the sequential storage of 3D images) can be used in fine
20 needle biopsy and other medical procedures. For example, the exemplary spread-spectrum
   ultrasound device can be integrated into an exemplary fine-needle biopsy instrument (e.g.,
   with the device's transducer probe), which can permit the fine-needle biopsy of very small,
   early stage (e.g., Stage 0 or 1) neoplasms to confirm noninvasive diagnoses. As a result of
   this application, the ability of surgeons to avoid open biopsies and the potential for hard-to
25 treat and lethal complications that may result is clearly beneficial to the patient.
   [00110]      In another exemplary application, the integration of this device's spread
   spectrum transducer probe with minimally invasive surgical high definition video
   instrumentation can permit the fusing of the optical and ultrasound images. Given the
   improved 2D or 3D image quality of this spread-spectrum ultrasound device, optionally, its
30 4D imaging capability, and the ATS and CAD modes, such fused video and ultrasound
   images can give surgeons the added ability to locate and surgically excise diseased tissue
   without excising excessive healthy tissue.
   [00111]      In another exemplary application, the integration of this device's spread-

   spectrum, 2D or 3D high-definition imaging mode of operation, with this device's HIFU
   minimally invasive mode of operation, can permit the precision minimally invasive surgical
   therapeutic options. Given the improved 2D or 3D image quality of this spread-spectrum
   ultrasound device, optionally, and its 4D imaging capability, and the ATS and CAD modes,
 5 such ultrasound images can give surgeons the added ability to locate and surgically destroy
   diseased tissue with rapid heat elevation without destroying excessive healthy tissue.
   [00112]      In another exemplary application, given the improved 3D image quality of this
   spread-spectrum ultrasound device, optionally, its 4D imaging capability, and the ATS
   modes, an exemplary spread-spectrum ultrasound device can reduce the amount of time for
10 the brachytherapy treatment of malignant neoplasms by precisely guiding the insertion of
   catheters and sealed radioactive sources into the proper location. The application of this
   spread-spectrum ultrasound device to brachytherapy can be especially useful for the
   treatment of small, hard-to-locate neoplasms and their margins.
   [00113]      In another exemplary application, given the improved 3D image quality of this
15 spread-spectrum ultrasound device, optionally, its 4D imaging capability, and the ATS
   modes, an exemplary spread-spectrum ultrasound device can enable the effective insertion
   of high-dose, localized pharmaceutical treatments of diseases by precisely guiding the
   insertion of catheters and pharmaceuticals into the proper location. The application of this
   spread-spectrum ultrasound device to brachytherapy can be especially useful for the
20 treatment of small, hard-to-locate neoplasms.
   [00114]      Examples
   [00115]      The following examples are illustrative of several embodiments of the present
   technology. Other exemplary embodiments of the present technology may be presented
   prior to the following listed examples, or after the following listed examples.
25 [00116]      In one example of the present technology (example 1), a method of producing
   acoustic waveforms in an acoustic imaging device includes synthesizing, in one or more
   waveform synthesizers, one or more composite waveforms to be transmitted toward a
   target, in which a composite waveform is formed of a plurality of individual orthogonal
   coded waveforms that are mutually orthogonal to each other and correspond to different
30 frequency bands, such that each of the individual orthogonal coded waveforms includes a
   unique frequency with a corresponding phase; transmitting, from one or more transmitting
   positions relative to the target, one or more composite acoustic waveforms including a
   plurality of acoustic waveforms, in which the transmitting includes selecting one or more

   transducing elements of an array to transduce the plurality of individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms of the respective one or more composite waveforms into the plurality of
   corresponding acoustic waveforms of the respective one or more composite acoustic
   waveforms; and receiving, at one or more receiving positions relative to the target, returned
 5 acoustic waveforms that are returned from at least part of the target corresponding to the
   transmitted acoustic waveforms, in which the receiving includes selecting at least some of
   the transducing elements of the array to receive the returned acoustic waveforms, in which
   the transmitting positions and the receiving positions each include one or both of spatial
   positions of an array of transducer elements relative to the target and beam phase center
10 positions of the array, and in which the transmitted acoustic waveforms and the returned
   acoustic waveforms produce an enlarged effective aperture of the acoustic imaging device.
   [00117]      Example 2 includes the method of example 1, in which, in transmitting the
   acoustic waveforms to the target, controlling the transducer elements of the array to cause
   the composite waveforms to change in orientation with respect to the target so that the
15 target receives the acoustic waveforms at different waveform orientations over an imaging
   period.
   [00118]      Example 3 includes the method of example 2, in which the controlling the
   transducer elements includes translating the array along the plurality of spatial positions
   relative to the target to cause the change in orientation of the composite waveform with
20 respect to the target.
   [00119]      Example 4 includes the method of example 2, in which the controlling the
   transducer elements includes changing the beam phase center positions of the transmitted
   acoustic waveforms on the one or more transducer elements of the array to cause the
   change in orientation of the composite waveform with respect to the target.
25 [00120]      Example 5 includes the method of example 1, in which each waveform of the
   plurality of individual orthogonal coded waveforms includes a plurality of amplitudes and a
   plurality of phases that are individually amplitude weighted and individually phase
   weighted, respectively.
   [00121]      Example 6 includes the method of example 1, in which the synthesizing the
30 individual orthogonal coded waveforms of the composite waveform includes selecting the
   frequency bands, and determining one or more amplitudes, a time-bandwidth product
   parameter, and a phase parameter of each individual orthogonal coded waveform.
   [00122]      Example 7 includes the method of example 6, in which the phase parameter is

   determined from a set of a pseudo-random numbers or from a set of deterministic numbers.
   [00123]      Example 8 includes the method of example 1, in which the transmitting the
   plurality of the acoustic waveforms includes sequentially or simultaneously transmitting the
   acoustic waveforms from at least one position of the plurality of positions.
 5 [00124]      Example 9 includes the method of example 1, in which the individual
   orthogonal coded waveforms include coherent waveforms.
   [00125]      Example 10 includes the method of example 1, further including forming a radio
   frequency (RF) waveform based on the composite waveform, in which in the transmitted
   acoustic waveforms are generated by transducing the RF-based composite waveform at the
10 one or more transducer elements of the array.
   [00126]      Example 11 includes the method of example 10, further including amplifying
   the RF-based composite waveform.
   [00127]      Example 12 includes the method of example 1, further including amplifying the
   received returned acoustic waveforms.
15 [00128]      Example 13 includes the method of example 1, further including converting the
   received returned acoustic waveforms from analog format to digital format as one or more
   received composite waveforms corresponding to the one or more composite waveforms,
   each received composite waveform including information of the target, in which the
   information includes an amplitude and a phase associated with the corresponding frequency
20 bands of the received composite waveform.
   [00129]      Example 14 includes the method of example 13, in which at least one of the
   amplitude or the phase is individually amplitude weighted or phase weighted, respectively,
   for at least one frequency band of the corresponding frequency bands of the received
   composite waveform.
25 [00130]      Example 15 includes the method of example 1, further including processing the
   received returned acoustic waveforms to produce an image of at least part of the target.
   [00131]      Example 16 includes the method of example 15, further including converting the
   received returned acoustic waveforms from analog format to digital format as one or more
   received composite waveforms corresponding to the one or more composite waveforms,
30 each received composite waveform including information of the target; and storing the one
   or more composite waveforms and the corresponding one or more received composite
   waveforms in a memory map of data blocks, in which each data block stores the received
   returned acoustic waveform of the composite waveform for each sample point, the

   corresponding individual orthogonal coded waveform, and corresponding position data of
   the one or more transducer elements for the sample point.
   [00132]      Example 17 includes the method of example 15, in which the processing
   includes performing axial range compression of the stored received composite waveforms;
 5 and forming a synthetic aperture image by processing each stored block of axial-range
   compressed data that encompass the effective aperture using one or more frequency- or
   time-domain processing techniques.
   [00133]      In one example of the present technology (example 18), a synthetic aperture
   acoustic waveform imaging system includes a waveform generation unit including one or
10 more waveform synthesizers coupled to a waveform generator, in which the waveform
   generation unit synthesizes a composite waveform including a plurality of individual
   orthogonal coded waveforms corresponding to different frequency bands that are generated
   by the one or more waveform synthesizers according to waveform information provided by
   the waveform generator, in which the individual orthogonal coded waveforms are mutually
15 orthogonal to each other and correspond to different frequency bands, such that each of the
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms includes a unique frequency with a corresponding
   phase; a transmit/receive switching unit that switches between a transmit mode and a
   receive mode; an array of transducer elements in communication with the transmit/receive
   switching unit to transmit a composite acoustic waveform including a plurality of acoustic
20 waveforms from one or more transmitting positions relative to the target, the transmitted
   acoustic waveforms of the composite acoustic waveform based on the synthesized
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms of the composite waveform, and to receive at one
   or more receiving positions relative to the target returned acoustic waveforms
   corresponding to the plurality of transmitted acoustic waveforms that return from at least
25 part of the target, in which the transmitted acoustic waveforms and the returned acoustic
   waveforms produce an enlarged effective aperture of the synthetic aperture acoustic
   waveform imaging system, and in which the transmitting positions and the receiving
   positions each include one or both of spatial positions and beam phase center positions; a
   multiplexing unit in communication with the array of transducer elements to select one or
30 more transducing elements of an array to transduce the plurality of individual orthogonal
   coded waveforms into the plurality of corresponding acoustic waveforms, and to select one
   or more transducing elements of the array to receive the returned acoustic waveforms; an
   array of analog to digital (A/D) converters to convert the received returned acoustic

   waveforms that are received by the array of transducer elements from analog format to
   digital format, in which the received returned acoustic waveforms provide information of
   the target; a controller unit in communication with the waveform generation unit and the
   array of A/D converters, the controller unit including a memory unit to store data and a
 5 processing unit coupled to the memory unit to process the information as data; and a user
   interface unit in communication with the controller unit.
   [00134]      Example 19 includes the system of example 18, in which the stored data
   includes the digital format of the received returned acoustic waveforms, the corresponding
   synthesized composite waveform, and corresponding position data of the array of
10 transducers elements in the one or more transmitting and receiving positions.
   [00135]      Example 20 includes the system of example 18, in which the waveform
   generation unit further includes one or more amplifiers, configured between the
   transmit/receive switching unit and the one or more waveform synthesizers, which modifies
   the composite waveform.
15 [00136]      Example 21 includes the system of example 18, further including an array of
   one or more pre-amplifiers, configured between the transmit/receive switching unit and the
   array of A/D converters, which modifies the received returned acoustic waveform.
   [00137]      Example 22 includes the system of example 18, in which the processing unit
   includes a digital signal processor.
20 [00138]      Example 23 includes the system of example 18, in which the controller unit
   further includes a master clock that synchronizes time in at least one of the elements of the
   acoustic waveform imaging system.
   [00139]      Example 24 includes the system of example 18, in which the controller unit is
   configured to process the information to produce an image of at least part of the target.
25 [00140]      Example 25 includes the system of example 18, in which the user interface unit
   includes a display that displays the image and a user input terminal to receive user input
   data including a mode of operation for operation of the system.
   [00141]      Example 26 includes the system of example 25, in which the mode of operation
   includes at least one of ATS-Mode (Artificial Tissue Staining Mode) for imaging biological
30 tissue that enables image color coding based on at least one feature of one or more
   measured properties that are obtained from the returned acoustic waveform.
   [00142]      Example 27 includes the system of example 25, in which the mode of operation
   includes at least one of CAD-Mode (Computer Aided Diagnostic Mode) for imaging

   biological tissue that uses one or more algorithmic classifiers to classify biological tissue
   types using at least one feature of one or more measured properties that are obtained from
   the returned acoustic waveform.
   [00143]     Example 28 includes the system of example 25, in which the display is
 5 configured to display a color coded image of the biological tissue based on the classified
   biological tissue types.
   [00144]     Example 29 includes the system of example 18, in which, in transmitting the
   acoustic waveforms to the target, the controller unit is configured to control the array of
   transducer elements to cause the composite waveform to change in orientation with respect
10 to the target so that the target receives the composite acoustic waveform with different
   waveform orientations over an imaging period.
   [00145]     Example 30 includes the system of example 18, in which the array of transducer
   elements is operable for moving in one dimension, two dimensions, or three dimensions
   along the transmitting positions to transmit the plurality of acoustic waveforms and along
15 the receiving positions to receive the returned acoustic waveforms.
   [00146]     Example 31 includes the system of example 18, in which at least one of the
   transducer elements of the array is capable of moving separately in the one dimension, two
   dimensions, or three dimensions from the other transducer elements of the transmitter array.
   [00147]     In one example of the present technology (example 32), a method of creating an
20 image from an acoustic waveform includes combining a plurality of coded waveforms
   corresponding to different frequency bands to produce a composite waveform including
   individual orthogonal wave signals at the different frequency bands, in which the coded
   waveforms include a unique frequency with a corresponding phase and amplitude;
   producing an acoustic wave using the composite waveform for transmission toward a target
25 from a first spatial position relative to the target, in which the acoustic wave includes
   individual acoustic wave signals corresponding to the coded waveforms of the composite
   waveform; transmitting the acoustic wave to the target, in which the individual acoustic
   wave signals vary in orientation with respect to each other so that the target receives the
   individual acoustic wave signals with different waveform orientations over an imaging
30 period; receiving returned acoustic signals from at least part of the target after the
   transmitted acoustic wave is sent to the target; repeating the combining step, the producing
   step, and the transmitting step from at least a second position relative to the target, in which
   the combining, producing, and transmitting steps are repeated for plurality of positions to

   form a synthetic aperture; converting the received returned acoustic signals from the
   plurality of positions into corresponding digital composite waveforms each including
   information of the target; and processing the received composite waveforms to produce an
   image of at least part of the target.
 5 [00148]      Example 33 includes the method of example 32, further including processing the
   received composite waveforms in real time to produce a synthetic aperture image.
   [00149]      Example 34 includes the method of example 33, further including steering a
   direction of the transmitted acoustic waves, based on the produced synthetic aperture
   image, at one or more positions of the plurality of positions in a direct path toward the
10 target.
   [00150]      In one example of the present technology (example 35), a method of creating an
   image from an acoustic waveform includes combining a plurality of coded waveforms
   corresponding to different frequency bands to produce a composite waveform including
   individual orthogonal wave signals at the different frequency bands, in which the coded
15 waveforms include a unique frequency with a corresponding phase and amplitude;
   producing an acoustic wave formed of individual acoustic wave signals corresponding to
   the coded waveforms of the composite waveform for transmission toward a target;
   transmitting the acoustic wave to the target, in which the individual acoustic wave signals
   are transmitted from a first set of beam phase center positions at one or more spatial
20 positions relative to the target, and in which the individual acoustic wave signals vary in
   orientation with respect to each other so that the target receives the individual acoustic
   wave signals with different waveform orientations over an imaging period; receiving
   returned acoustic signals from at least part of the target after the transmitted acoustic wave
   is sent to the target; repeating the combining step, the producing step, and the transmitting
25 step from at least a second set of beam phase center positions relative to the target at the
   one or more spatial positions relative to the target, thereby forming a synthetic aperture;
   converting the received returned acoustic signals into corresponding digital composite
   waveforms each including information of the target; and processing the received composite
   waveforms to produce an image of at least part of the target.
30 [00151]      Example 36 includes the method of example 35, further including processing the
   received composite waveforms in real time to produce a synthetic aperture image.
   [00152]      Example 37 includes the method of example 36, further including steering a
   direction the transmitted acoustic waves based on the produced synthetic aperture image.

   [00153]     In one example of the present technology (example 38), a synthetic aperture
   acoustic waveform imaging system includes a waveform generation unit including one or
   more waveform synthesizers coupled to a waveform generator, in which the waveform
   generation unit synthesizes a composite waveform including a plurality of individual
 5 orthogonal coded waveforms corresponding to different frequency bands that are generated
   by the one or more waveform synthesizers according to waveform information provided by
   the waveform generator, in which the individual orthogonal coded waveforms are mutually
   orthogonal to each other and correspond to different frequency bands, such that each of the
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms includes a unique frequency with a corresponding
10 phase; a transmitter array of transducer elements in communication with the waveform
   generation unit to transmit a composite acoustic waveform including a plurality of acoustic
   waveforms from one or more transmitting positions relative to the target, the transmitted
   acoustic waveforms of the composite acoustic waveform based on the synthesized
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms of the composite waveform, in which the
15 transmitting positions include one or both of spatial positions of the transmitter array and
   beam phase center positions of the transducer elements of the transmitter array; a receiver
   array of transducer elements in communication with the waveform generation unit to
   receive at one or more receiving positions relative to the target returned acoustic waveforms
   corresponding to the transmitted acoustic waveforms that return from at least part of the
20 target, in which the transmitted acoustic waveforms and received acoustic waveforms
   produce an enlarged effective aperture of the synthetic aperture acoustic waveform imaging
   system, and in which the transmitting positions and the receiving positions each include one
   or both of spatial positions and beam phase center positions; a first multiplexing unit and a
   second multiplexing unit in communication with the transmitter array and receiver array,
25 respectively, to select one or more of the transducing elements of the transmitter array to
   transduce the plurality of individual orthogonal coded waveforms into the plurality of
   corresponding acoustic waveforms, and to select one or more transducing elements of the
   receiver array to receive the returned acoustic waveforms; an array of analog to digital
   (A/D) converters to convert the received returned acoustic waveforms that are received by
30 the receiver array of transducer elements from analog format to digital format, in which the
   received returned acoustic waveforms provide information of the target; a controller unit in
   communication with the waveform generation unit and the array of A/D converters, the
   controller unit including a memory unit to store data and a processing unit coupled to the

   memory unit to process the information as data; and a user interface unit in communication
   with the controller unit.
   [00154]      Example 39 includes the system of example 38, in which the stored data
   includes the digital format of the received returned acoustic waveforms, the corresponding
 5 synthesized composite waveform, and corresponding position data of the transmitter array
   and the receiver array in the one or more transmitting and receiving positions, respectively.
   [00155]      Example 40 includes the system of example 38, in which the waveform
   generation unit further includes one or more amplifiers, configured between the
   transmit/receive switching unit and the one or more waveform synthesizers, which modifies
10 the composite waveform.
   [00156]      Example 41 includes the system of example 38, further including an array of
   one or more pre-amplifiers, configured between the receiving array and the array of A/D
   converters, which modifies the received returned acoustic waveform.
   [00157]      Example 42 includes the system of example 38, in which the processing unit
15 includes a digital signal processor.
   [00158]      Example 43 includes the system of example 38, in which the controller unit
   further includes a master clock that synchronizes time in at least one of the elements of the
   acoustic waveform imaging system.
   [00159]      Example 44 includes the system of example 38, in which the controller unit is
20 configured to process the information to produce an image of at least part of the target.
   [00160]      Example 45 includes the system of example 38, in which the user interface unit
   includes a display that displays the image and a user input terminal to receive user input
   data including a mode of operation for operation of the system.
   [00161]      Example 46 includes the system of example 45, in which the mode of operation
25 includes at least one of ATS-Mode (Artificial Tissue Staining Mode) for imaging biological
   tissue that enables image color coding based on at least one feature of one or more
   measured properties that are obtained from the returned acoustic waveform.
   [00162]      Example 47 includes the system of example 45, in which the mode of operation
   includes at least one of CAD-Mode (Computer Aided Diagnostic Mode) for imaging
30 biological tissue that uses one or more algorithmic classifiers to classify biological tissue
   types using at least one feature of one or more measured properties that are obtained from
   the returned acoustic waveform.
   [00163]      Example 48 includes the system of example 45, in which the display is

   configured to display a color coded image of the biological tissue based on the classified
   biological tissue types.
   [00164]      Example 49 includes the system of example 38, in which, in transmitting the
   acoustic waveforms to the target, the controller unit is configured to control the transmitter
 5 array to cause the composite waveform to change in orientation with respect to the target so
   that the target receives the composite acoustic waveform with different waveform
   orientations over an imaging period.
   [00165]      Example 50 includes the system of example 38, in which the transmitter array of
   transducer elements is operable for moving in one dimension, two dimensions, or three
10 dimensions along the plurality of positions to transmit the plurality of acoustic waveforms.
   [00166]      Example 51 includes the system of example 38, in which one or more transducer
   elements of the transmitter array is capable of moving separately in the one dimension, two
   dimensions, or three dimensions from the other transducer elements of the transmitter array.
   [00167]      Example 52 includes the system of example 38, in which the receiver array of
15 transducer elements is operable for moving in one dimension, two dimensions, or three
   dimensions along the plurality of positions to receive the returned acoustic waveforms.
   [00168]      Example 53 includes the system of example 38, in which one or more transducer
   elements of the receiver array is capable of moving separately in the one dimension, two
   dimensions, or three dimensions from the other transducer elements of the transmitter array.
20 [00169]      Example 54 includes the system of example 38, in which the number of
   transducer elements of the transmitter array is greater than the number of transducer
   elements of the receiver array.
   [00170]      Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in
   this specification, such as various modules, can be implemented in digital electronic
25 circuitry, or in computer software, firmware, or hardware, including the structures disclosed
   in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of
   them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be
   implemented as one or more computer program products, e.g., one or more modules of
   computer program instructions encoded on a tangible and non-transitory computer-readable
30 medium for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. The
   computer-readable medium can be a machine-readable storage device, a machine-readable
   storage substrate, a memory device, a composition of matter affecting a machine-readable
   propagated signal, or a combination of one or more of them. The term "data processing

   apparatus" encompasses all apparatus, devices, and machines for processing data, including
   by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, or multiple processors or
   computers. The apparatus can include, in addition to hardware, code that creates an
   execution environment for the computer program in question, e.g., code that constitutes
 5 processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an operating system,
   or a combination of one or more of them.
   [00171]      A computer program (also known as a program, software, software application,
   script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or
   interpreted languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone
10 program or as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit suitable for use in a
   computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a
   file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data
   (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single file dedicated
   to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (e.g., files that store one or more
15 modules, sub programs, or portions of code). A computer program can be deployed to be
   executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or
   distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.
   [00172]      The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed
   by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to
20 perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and
   logic flows can also be performed by, and apparatus can also be implemented as, special
   purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC
   (application specific integrated circuit).
   [00173]      Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way of
25 example, both general and special-purpose microprocessors, such as, for example, digital
   signal processors (DSP), and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer.
   Generally, a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a
   random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for
   performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data.
30 Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or
   transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic,
   magneto optical disks, or optical disks. However, a computer need not have such devices.
   Computer-readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data

   include all forms of non volatile memory, media and memory devices, including by way of
   example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory
   devices. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in,
   special-purpose logic circuitry.
 5 [00174]      While this patent document contains many specifics, these should not be
   construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed, but rather
   as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular
   inventions. Certain features that are described in this patent document in the context of
   separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment.
10 Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can
   also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable
   subcombination. Moreover, although features may be described above as acting in certain
   combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed
   combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed
15 combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
   [00175]      Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order,
   this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the
   particular order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed,
   to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing
20 may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system components in the
   embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all
   embodiments.
   [00176]      Only a few implementations and examples are described and other
   implementations, enhancements and variations can be made based on what is described and
25 illustrated in this patent document.

                                               CLAIMS
   1.      A method for producing spatial and Doppler information of a target material using
   synthetic aperture ultrasound, comprising:
 5         synthesizing, in one or more waveform synthesizers, one or more composite
   waveforms to be transmitted toward a target, wherein a composite waveform is formed of a
   plurality of individual orthogonal coded waveforms that are mutually orthogonal to each
   other and correspond to different frequency bands, such that each of the individual
   orthogonal coded waveforms includes a unique frequency with a corresponding phase;
10         transmitting, from one or more transmitting positions relative to the target, one or
   more composite acoustic waveforms comprising a plurality of acoustic waveforms, wherein
   the transmitting includes selecting one or more transducing elements of an array to
   transduce the plurality of individual orthogonal coded waveforms of the respective one or
   more composite waveforms into the plurality of corresponding acoustic waveforms of the
15 respective one or more composite acoustic waveforms;
           receiving, at one or more receiving positions relative to the target, returned acoustic
   waveforms that are returned from at least part of the target corresponding to the transmitted
   acoustic waveforms, wherein the receiving includes selecting at least some of the
   transducing elements of the array to receive the returned acoustic waveforms,
20         wherein the transmitting positions and the receiving positions each include one or
   both of (i) spatial positions of transducer elements in an array of transducer elements
   relative to the target and (ii) beam phase center positions of the array of transducer
   elements, and render an enlarged effective aperture with respect to the array of transducing
   elements; and
25         producing waveform data of at least part of the target from the received returned
   acoustic waveforms relative to corresponding transmitted composite acoustic waveforms,
   wherein the waveform data includes a data set including spatial data and associated Doppler
   frequency shift data for each frequency component from the received returned acoustic
   waveforms corresponding to the individual orthogonal coded waveforms.
30
   2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the producing waveform data includes:
           converting the received returned acoustic waveforms from analog format to digital
   format as one or more received composite waveforms corresponding to the one or more

   composite waveforms, each received composite waveform comprising information of the
   target,
            multiplying a digitized received returned acoustic waveform by a complex
   conjugate replica of the corresponding transmitted composite acoustic waveform, wherein
 5 the complex conjugate replica is time shifted for at least one time shift and the
   corresponding transmitted composite acoustic waveform is in digital form, and
            filtering the products of the multiplying to produce the waveform data.
   3.       The method of claim 2, comprising:
10          storing the one or more composite waveforms and the corresponding one or more
   received composite waveforms in a memory map of data blocks, wherein each data block
   stores the received returned acoustic waveform of the composite waveform for each sample
   point, the corresponding individual orthogonal coded waveform, and corresponding
   position data of the one or more transducer elements for the sample point.
15
   4.       The method of claim 2, wherein the information includes an amplitude and a phase
   associated with the corresponding frequency bands of the received composite waveform,
   and wherein at least one of the amplitude or the phase is individually amplitude weighted or
   phase weighted, respectively, for at least one frequency band of the corresponding
20 frequency bands of the received composite waveform.
   5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the spatial data includes amplitude data of the
   received returned acoustic waveforms and position data of the received returned acoustic
   waveforms that corresponds to locations at the target from where the received returned
25 acoustic waveforms originated.
   6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the waveform data further includes a temporal
   spatial data set including time delay rate history data that corresponds to time points
   associated with the reflection or scattering of the received returned acoustic waveforms
30 from the locations at the target.

   7.       The method of claim 5, wherein the waveform data further includes a spectral
   response data set including the Doppler frequency shift data of the target over a selected
   duration of time.
 5 8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the Doppler frequency shift data over the selected
   duration of time in the spectral response data set is associated with the position data of the
   received returned acoustic waveforms corresponding to locations at the target from where
   the received returned acoustic waveforms originated.
10 9.       The method of claim 1, wherein, in transmitting the acoustic waveforms to the
   target, controlling the transducer elements of the array to cause the composite waveforms to
   change in orientation with respect to the target so that the target receives the acoustic
   waveforms at different waveform orientations.
15 10.      The method of claim 9, wherein the controlling the transducer elements includes
   one or both of (i) translating the array along the plurality of spatial positions relative to the
   target to cause the change in orientation of the composite waveform with respect to the
   target, and (ii) changing the beam phase center positions of the transmitted acoustic
   waveforms on the one or more transducer elements of the array to cause the change in
20 orientation of the composite waveform with respect to the target.
   11.      The method of claim 1, wherein each waveform of the plurality of individual
   orthogonal coded waveforms includes a plurality of amplitudes and a plurality of phases
   that are individually amplitude weighted and individually phase weighted, respectively.
25
   12.      The method of claim 1, wherein the synthesizing the individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms of the composite waveform includes selecting the frequency bands, and
   determining one or more amplitudes, a time-bandwidth product parameter, and a phase
   parameter of each individual orthogonal coded waveform.
30
   13.      The method of claim 12, wherein the phase parameter is determined from a set of a
   pseudo-random numbers or from a set of deterministic numbers.

   14.      The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the plurality of the acoustic
   waveforms includes sequentially or simultaneously transmitting the acoustic waveforms
   from at least one position of the plurality of positions.
 5 15.      The method of claim 1, wherein the individual orthogonal coded waveforms include
   coherent waveforms.
   16.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
            forming a radio frequency (RF) waveform based on the composite waveform,
10          wherein in the transmitted acoustic waveforms are generated by transducing the RF
   based composite waveform at the one or more transducer elements of the array.
   17.      A synthetic aperture acoustic waveform system for producing spatial and Doppler
   information of a target material, comprising:
15          a waveform generation unit comprising one or more waveform synthesizers coupled
   to a waveform generator, wherein the waveform generation unit synthesizes a composite
   waveform comprising a plurality of individual orthogonal coded waveforms corresponding
   to different frequency bands that are generated by the one or more waveform synthesizers
   according to waveform information provided by the waveform generator, wherein the
20 individual orthogonal coded waveforms are mutually orthogonal to each other and
   correspond to different frequency bands, such that each of the individual orthogonal coded
   waveforms includes a unique frequency with a corresponding phase;
            a transmit/receive switching unit that switches between a transmit mode and a
   receive mode;
25          an array of transducer elements in communication with the transmit/receive
   switching unit to transmit a composite acoustic waveform comprising a plurality of acoustic
   waveforms from one or more transmitting positions relative to the target, the transmitted
   acoustic waveforms of the composite acoustic waveform based on the synthesized
   individual orthogonal coded waveforms of the composite waveform, and to receive at one
30 or more receiving positions relative to the target returned acoustic waveforms
   corresponding to the plurality of transmitted acoustic waveforms that return from at least
   part of the target, wherein the transmitted acoustic waveforms and the returned acoustic
   waveforms produce an enlarged effective aperture of the synthetic aperture acoustic
                                                   1Wi

   waveform system, and wherein the transmitting positions and the receiving positions each
   include one or both of spatial positions and beam phase center positions;
            a multiplexing unit in communication with the array of transducer elements to select
   one or more transducing elements of an array to transduce the plurality of individual
 5 orthogonal coded waveforms into the plurality of corresponding acoustic waveforms, and to
   select one or more transducing elements of the array to receive the returned acoustic
   waveforms; and
            an array of analog to digital (A/D) converters to convert the received returned
   acoustic waveforms that are received by the array of transducer elements from analog
10 format to digital format, wherein the received returned acoustic waveforms provide
   information of the target;
            a controller unit in communication with the waveform generation unit and the array
   of A/D converters, the controller unit comprising a memory unit to store data and a
   processing unit coupled to the memory unit to process the information as data and produce
15 waveform data of at least part of the target,
            wherein the waveform data includes a data set including spatial data and associated
   Doppler frequency shift data for each frequency component from the received returned
   acoustic waveforms corresponding to the individual orthogonal coded waveforms.
20 18.      The system of claim 17, further comprising:
            a user interface unit including a display in communication with the controller unit to
   display the waveform data.
   19.      The system of claim 18, wherein the user interface unit is operable to receive input
25 from an operator of the system, the mode of operation including:
            an ATS-Mode (Artificial Tissue Staining Mode) to characterize biological tissue of
   the target that enables image color coding based on at least one feature of one or more
   measured properties that are obtained from the returned acoustic waveform, or
            a CAD-Mode (Computer Aided Diagnostic Mode) to characterize biological tissue
30 of the target that uses one or more algorithmic classifiers to classify biological tissue types
   using at least one feature of one or more measured properties that are obtained from the
   returned acoustic waveform.

   20.     The system of claim 19, wherein the display of the user interface is operable to
   display a color coded image of biological tissue of the target based on the classified
   biological tissue types.
 5 21.     The system of claim 17, wherein the waveform generation unit further comprises
   one or more amplifiers, configured between the transmit/receive switching unit and the one
   or more waveform synthesizers, which modifies the composite waveform.
   22.     The system of claim 17, further comprising:
10         an array of one or more pre-amplifiers, configured between the transmit/receive
   switching unit and the array of A/D converters, which modifies the received returned
   acoustic waveform.
   23.     The system of claim 17, wherein the processing unit comprises a digital signal
15 processor.
   24.     The system of claim 17, wherein the controller unit is configured to control the
   array of transducer elements, in transmitting the acoustic waveforms to the target, to cause
   the composite waveform to change in orientation with respect to the target so that the target
20 receives the composite acoustic waveform with different waveform orientations.
   25.     The system of claim 17, wherein the array of transducer elements is operable for
   moving in one dimension, two dimensions, or three dimensions along the transmitting
   positions to transmit the plurality of acoustic waveforms and along the receiving positions
25 to receive the returned acoustic waveforms.
   25.     The system of claim 17, wherein at least one of the transducer elements of the array
   is capable of moving separately in the one dimension, two dimensions, or three dimensions
   from the other transducer elements of the transmitter array.
30
   27.     The system of claim 17, wherein the controller unit further comprises a master clock
   that synchronizes time in at least one of the elements of the synthetic aperture acoustic
   waveform system.

   28.     The system of claim 17, wherein the stored data includes the digital format of the
   received returned acoustic waveforms, the corresponding synthesized composite waveform,
   and corresponding position data of the array of transducers elements in the one or more
 5 transmitting and receiving positions.
   29.     The system of claim 17, wherein the spatial data includes amplitude data of the
   received returned acoustic waveforms and position data of the received returned acoustic
   waveforms that corresponds to locations at the target from where the received returned
10 acoustic waveforms originated.
   30.     The system of claim 29, wherein the waveform data further includes a temporal
   spatial data set including time delay rate history data that corresponds to time points
   associated with the reflection or scattering of the received returned acoustic waveforms
15 from the locations at the target.
   31.     The system of claim 29, wherein the waveform data further includes a spectral
   response data set including the Doppler frequency shift data of the target over a selected
   duration of time.
20
   32.     The system of claim 31, wherein the Doppler frequency shift data over the selected
   duration of time in the spectral response data set is associated with the position data of the
   received returned acoustic waveforms corresponding to locations at the target from where
   the received returned acoustic waveforms originated.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
