Abstract
A hybrid air conditioning system for a building, comprising an evaporative cooler
used to cool the ceiling and wall cavity spaces around the building to reduce heat
load on interior spaces of the building, a refrigerated air conditioner of a smaller
capacity than typically employed in such buildings, to cool the interior spaces of
the building resulting in lower energy consumption than standalone refrigerated
air conditioners. The air conditioning system further comprising temperature
and humidity control, to allow for controlled bleeding of cool humid air from the
evaporative system into the refrigerated system, and wherein the condenser of
the system is located in the cooled ceiling space of the building for improved
efficiency.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Hybrid Air Conditioning
The design combines the evaporative and refrigeration air cooling processes to create a hybrid
system for building air conditioning. The evaporative cooler is used to cool the ceiling and wall
cavity spaces around the building, in order to reduce the heat load on the building interior spaces.
Then a refrigerated air conditioner is used to cool the building interior spaces. This refrigerated air
conditioner is of smaller capacity than would normally be required, because the heat load has been
reduced.
The combination of the two cooling systems allows smaller than usual capacity units to be used, and
produces running costs that are between the normal running costs of evaporative and refrigerated
air conditioners. This innovative step provides refrigerated air conditioning at lower energy
consumption and running cost than normal.
Two added features of the system allow for true air conditioning of the building interior spaces and
more efficient operation of the refrigerated cooling system. True air conditioning, featuring both
temperature and humidity control, is achieved simply by controlled bleeding of cool humid air from
the evaporative system into the refrigerated system. Improved efficiency of the refrigerated cooling
system is achieved simply by having the condenser of that system located in the cooled ceiling space
of the building.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims for Hybrid Air Conditioning
    1. More efficient refrigerated air conditioning
    2. True air conditioning with both temperature and humidity control
    3.  Less energy consumption and lower running costs

