                                        ABSTRACT
        A system and method for monitoring a medical procedure performed in a clinical
environment is provided. An audio recorder is configured to produce a verbal data signal
that is representative of a verbal communication occurring in the clinical environment, and a
data analyzer is configured to detect an adverse condition based upon the verbal data
signal. An alert module is configured to alert an operator upon the detection of an adverse
condition.

 10
Input Module              Output Module
     110                       130
    Audio        Data         Alert
  Recorder     Analyzer      Module
     115          120          135
 Non-Audio
  Recorder     Memory
     116        Module
                  150
   Sensor
     117
                Treatment
                 Device
                   200
             FI1G 1

                       MEDICAL PROCEDURE MONITORING SYSTEM
                    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[001]          This application claims priority to and the benefit of, and incorporates herein
by reference in its entirety, U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/671,922, which was
filed on July 16, 2012. This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2013290340, the originally filed specification of which is hereby incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[002]          The rate of surgical complications has been estimated to be between 3-17%,
worldwide. The Joint Commission, formerly known as the Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, identified human factors, communication, and
information management to be among the top ten root causes for surgical complications in
the past eight years. Data driven decision making is compromised by cognitive overload of
surgeons and inability to quickly diffuse information to operating room teams, meaning that
high-level patient management and performing attention dedicated technical skills are not
always simultaneously exercised. Communication in the operating room is often marred by
ambiguity of roles, dysfunctional teams, lack of situational awareness and unfamiliarity with
surgeons' stylistic preferences. Studies have shown teamwork/communication disruption
causes 52% of interruptions and distractions, and 10% of all communication breakdowns
were seen to cause visible delays in surgery.
                                                -1-

        [003] While checklists have positive effects, there is a need for a truly effective
system covering a wide array of system failure modes such as communication breakdown,
fatigue, inappropriate staffing, interruptions and inappropriate protocol.
                                            SUMMARY
        [004] According to an aspect of the invention, a system for monitoring a medical
procedure performed in a clinical environment includes an audio recorder configured to
produce a verbal data signal representative of verbal communication that occurs in the
clinical environment; a data analyzer configured to receive the verbal data signal from the
audio recorder, analyze the verbal data signal and detect at least one adverse condition;
and an alert module configured to alert at least one operator when the at least one adverse
condition is detected by the data analyzer.
        [005] The medical procedure can include a procedure selected from the group
consisting of: a surgical procedure such as a minimally invasive surgical procedure, a
laparoscopic surgical procedure; an open surgical procedure; an interventional procedure;
a reconstructive surgery; a robotic or robotically-enabled procedure; an outpatient
procedure; a dental procedure such as a fully anesthetized dental procedure; and
combinations of these.
        [006] The clinical environment can include a setting selected from the group
consisting of: an operating room; a catheterization lab; an intensive care unit; a control
room for an operating room; an outpatient surgery treatment room; a dentist's office; a
surgeon's office such as a maxillofacial surgeon's office; and combinations of these.
                                                -2-

        [007] In some embodiments, the audio recorder can include at least one
microphone. For example, the audio recorder includes multiple microphones, where a first
microphone is positioned in proximity to a first operator and a second microphone in
proximity to a second operator. In some embodiments, the audio recorder can include an
operator-worn headset. For example, each operator of the at least one operators wears a
headset where each headset comprises an identifier associated with the particular
operator. In some embodiments, the audio recorder can include an intercom system.
        [008] The audio recorder can be configured to produce a non-verbal data signal.
The non-verbal data signal can include an audio signal produced by equipment positioned
in the clinical environment such that the data analyzer can receive the non-verbal data
signal from the audio recorder, analyze the non-verbal data signal and detect an equipment
status signal. In an example, the equipment status signal includes an equipment warning
signal.
        [009] The system can include a video camera configured to produce a video data
signal. The data analyzer can receive and analyze the video data signal from the video
camera. The data analyzer can detect an operator gesture, for example a gesture selected
from the group consisting of: a head nod or other affirmatory response; a head shake or
other non-affirmatory response; a shrug; an indecisive response; and combinations of
these. The data analyzer can detect at least one spoken word in the video data signal.
The data analyzer can detect at least one adverse condition in the video data signal. The
data analyzer can combine the verbal data signal and the video data signal to produce a
combined signal so as to analyze the combined signal. From an analysis of the combined
signal, the data analyzer can detect an adverse condition.
                                              -3-

        [010] The verbal data signal can include communication data received from a single
operator. The verbal data signal can include communication data received from multiple
operators, for example communication data from at least a first operator and a second
operator where the data analyzer is configured to differentiate the communication data of
the first operator from communication data from the second operator. The verbal data
signal can include verbal communication that occurred prior to, during and/or after the
performance of the medical procedure.
        [011] The data analyzer can include a component selected from the group
consisting of: microprocessor; microcontroller; analog to digital converter; digital to analog
converter; and combinations of these.
        [012] The data analyzer can include spoken word recognition software employing at
least one algorithm where the algorithm converts the verbal data signal to text data. The at
least one algorithm can be biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal data signal to
one or more medical terms, for example where the system includes a library of medical
terms. The at least one algorithm can be biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal
data signal to one or more terms input by an operator. The at least one algorithm can be
biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal data signal to at least one quantitative
value input by an operator. In some embodiments, the at least one quantitative value can
include a range of values. The at least one algorithm can be biased to correlate at least a
portion of the verbal data signal to a range of quantitative values wherein the range
comprises quantitative values that are typically associated with a parameter. The at least
one algorithm can be biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal data signal to a
                                               -4-

previously received verbal data signal. In some embodiments, the at least a portion of the
verbal data signal comprises a quantitative value.
        [013] The data analyzer can include a memory module configured to store patient
historic data. Patient historic data can include data selected from the group consisting of:
sex, age, height, weight, race, medical history; and combinations of these. In some
embodiments, the data analyzer can employ an algorithm to extract the patient historic data
from the verbal data signal. Patient historic data can be entered into an input device, for
example an operator can enter the patient historic data into a device selected from the
group consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen display; and combinations of these.
        [014] The data analyzer can be configured to identify patient data in the verbal data
signal. Examples of patient data include: ACT; blood pressure; heart rate; pulse rate;
respiratory rate; glucose levels; saturated  02  pressure; saturated CO2 pressure; core body
temperature; skin temperature; total lung capacity; residual volume; expiratory reserve
volume; vital capacity; tidal volume; alveolar gas volume; actual lung volume; EEG bands
such as Delta, Theta, Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Mu; EKG information such as RR interval,
P wave length/amplitude, PR interval, amplitude of QRS complex, J-point detection,
absolute and relative refractory periods, QT interval and U & J Wave detection; blood
volume; extra embolic gases; heparin volume; protamine sulfate volume; and combinations
of these.
        [015] The data analyzer can be configured to identify equipment data in the verbal
data signal. Examples of equipment data include: instructions to turn a piece of equipment
on or off; instructions to modify the settings of one or more pieces of equipment; and
combinations of these.
                                                -5-

         [016] The data analyzer can be configured to identify procedure data in the verbal
data signal. Examples of procedure data include: total procedure length; length of a
procedural step; time of initiation of a procedural step; time since last administration of a
drug or other agent; and combinations of these. Examples of a procedural step include:
procedural steps selected from the group consisting of: patient preparation; anesthesia
induction; opening/sternotomy; initiation of bypass; cardiac repair; termination of bypass
closure; post-op; anesthesia; insufflation; laparoscopic insertion such as laparoscopic
insertion prior to a cholecystectomy; diagnosis confirmation; port incisions; removing bile;
grasping a structure such as a gallbladder; isolating and dividing structures; separation of a
first structure from a second structure such as a gallbladder from a liver; removal of a
structure such as a gallbladder; irrigation such as abdominal wall irrigation; prostatectomy
such as a robotic prostatectomy; docking of a robot; dissection such as SV dissection;
hemostasis; completion of anastamosis; removal of drapes; and combinations of these.
         [017] The data analyzer can be configured to identify a request for information data
in the verbal data signal. Examples of information data include: a patient parameter; a
procedural parameter; an equipment parameter; and combinations of these. A quantitative
and/or qualitative response to the request can be provided.
         [018] The data analyzer can be configured to identify an acknowledgement of
receipt of information, for example where the system includes a library of acknowledgement
terms.
         [019] The data analyzer can be configured to correlate the received verbal data
signal to a first operator or to a second operator. In some embodiments, the data analyzer
can include an algorithm for detecting the adverse condition where the algorithm comprises
                                               -6-

a first analysis on data correlated to the first operator and a second, different analysis on
data correlated to the second operator. In some embodiments, the data analyzer can
correlate the verbal data signal of the first operator based on a first identifier and correlate
the verbal data signal of the second operator based on a second identifier, where the first
identifier is different from the second identifier, for example where a headset worn by each
operator includes the identifier.
         [020] The data analyzer can be configured to correlate the verbal data signal to an
operator type. Examples of operator types include: a surgeon; an anesthesiologist; a scrub
nurse; a circulating nurse; hospital administrator; and combinations of these. In some
embodiments, the data analyzer can include an algorithm, where the algorithm detects the
adverse condition based on the operator type and the verbal data signal.
         [021] The data analyzer can be configured to filter and/or segregate verbal data
received from at least one operator. In some embodiments, the filtered and/or segregated
verbal data is prioritized based on an operator hierarchy. Additionally, the data analyzer
can be configured to filter and/or segregate verbal data received from a non-operator.
         [022] The data analyzer can include a memory module. One or more portions of
the verbal and/or video data signal can be stored in the memory module. One or more
portions of a processed verbal and/or video data signal can be stored in the memory
module. A library of values can be stored in the memory module, for example a library of
multiple spoken word terms to be recognized and/or a library of one or more quantitative
values where the data analyzer includes an algorithm that compares the verbal data signal
to the one or more quantitative values. Historic medical statistics and/or other medical data
can be stored in the memory module.
                                                 -7-

        [023] The data analyzer can detect the at least one adverse condition based on
data extracted from the verbal data signal exceeding a threshold, for example where the
threshold includes a value or a range of values. The value or range of values can be
inputted to the system by one or more operators and can relate to at least one of a patient,
procedural or equipment parameter. Additionally, the data analyzer can detect the at least
one adverse condition based on: an identification of a key word in the verbal data signal; a
detection of an unrecognized voice in the verbal data signal; a detection of an
unrecognized term in the verbal data signal; a determination that a first operator has been
active and/or present above a threshold of time such as when the first operator is a
surgeon; a detection of a heightened frequency of recognized terms at an improper time; a
lack of receipt of information; a determination that multiple pieces of similar data have not
been received within a pre-determined time interval such as an operator adjustable time
interval; a determination that a particular operator is not present; an analysis of patient
historic data; an analysis of a set of medical statistics such as a set of medical statistics
that are pre-selected by an operator; and combinations of these.
        [024] In some embodiments, the alert module can be configured to notify a single
operator of the detection of an adverse condition. The notification can be based on an
identifier associated with that particular operator, for example via a headset worn that by
that operator. In some embodiments, the alert module can be configured to notify multiple
operators of the detection of an adverse condition.
        [025] The alert module can include an audio transducer configured to produce an
audible beep when an adverse condition has been detected. In some embodiments, the
audio transducer can be configured to produce a first audio pattern when a first adverse
                                               -8-

condition is detected and a second audio pattern when a second adverse condition is
detected. The sounds and audio patterns can include a computer generated voice; a
recording of a human voice; and combinations of these.
         [026] In some embodiments, the alert module can include a visual display. For
example, the visual display can provide alpha-numeric text when an adverse condition is
detected. In some embodiments, the alert module can include a tactile transducer, for
example an operator-worn tactile transducer that can vibrate upon the detection of an
adverse condition.   In some embodiments, the alert module can include multiple alert
transducers, for example an audio transducer such as speaker and a piezo transducer; a
visual transducer such as an LCD screen, a touch screen, and a light such as an LED; a
tactile transducer such as a vibrating transducer and a thermal transducer; and
combinations of these.
         [027] The system can include a data input module configured to allow at least one
operator to input data to the system. The data input module can include a voice data input
module such as a microphone and/or the input module can include a text data input module
such as a keyboard; a touch screen; a motion-sensing input device; a cell phone; a
handheld electronic organizer; a mouse; a tablet; a hospital computer or computer network;
a wireless connection such as a cellular service; an internet connection; an electronic file
transfer port such as USB port; a memory storage device such as a USB memory stick;
and combinations of these.
         [028] Operator voice data can be entered into the input module from any or all
operators so that the data analyzer can convert the verbal data signal to text data based on
the operator voice data. Additionally, the data analyzer can correlate the verbal data signal
                                              -9-

to the operator voice data to identify the operator. In some embodiments, the data analyzer
includes memory, where the operator input data includes spoken word terms, and where
the data analyzer can store the spoken word terms in the memory. Then, an algorithm can
compare the verbal data signal to the spoken word terms stored in the memory which
converts the verbal data signal to text data. In some embodiments, the data analyzer
includes memory, where the operator input data comprises quantitative data, and where
the data analyzer can store the quantitative data in the memory. Then, an algorithm can
compare the verbal data signal to quantitative data stored in the memory, for example
where the quantitative data includes a threshold value.
       [029] The data input module can communicate with a healthcare information
system, for example to send and/or receive patient, procedural or other medical information
from the healthcare information system.
       [030] The system can include a data output module configured to provide patient
and/or procedural information to at least one operator. The patient and/or procedural
information can be provided in response to a request by the at least one operator.
Examples of patient and/or procedural information includes: a current or real-time
parameter; a historic parameter; an average of multiple parameter values; a maximum of
multiple parameter values; and combinations of these. Other examples of information that
can be provided by the data output module includes: an adverse condition detected; an
operator's entry and/or exit time into the clinical setting; a procedure event that surpasses a
threshold; an evidence-based decision support reminder; a captured video; a
recommendation generated by the data analyzer; and combinations of these. The
                                               -10-

information can be provided in paper and/or electronic form, in real-time and/or after the
completion of a procedure.
        [031] The data output module can communicate with a healthcare information
system, for example to send and/or receive patient, procedural or other medical information
from the healthcare information system.
        [032] The system can include a data monitoring module. In some embodiments,
the data monitoring module can confirm that the proper information is received, for example
to confirm that proper information is continually received within a pre-determined time
interval.
        [033] The system can include an operator position monitoring module. In some
embodiments, the operator position monitoring module can monitor an operator position by
detecting an operator voice in the verbal data signal. The operator position monitoring
module can include a motion sensor; a video camera; a timecard entry assembly; and
combinations of these.
        [034] The system can include at least one sensor. Examples of sensors include: a
temperature sensor; an acoustic sensor; an electromagnetic sensor; a pressure sensor; a
motion sensor; and combinations of these.
        [035] The system can include a patient treatment device. Examples of a patient
treatment device include: scalpel; electrocautery device; grasper; guidewire; interventional
catheter; anesthesia injection device; RF or cryogenic ablation equipment; retractor; ECMO
device; ventricular assist device; ventilator; bone awl; bone tamper; bone gouge; bone file;
bone mallet; osteotome; defibrillator; drill; radiosurgery system; CPB machine; endoscope;
cross clamp; robotic surgical system; colonoscope; polytectomy snare; and combinations of
                                                -11-

these. In some embodiments, the treatment device can be modified upon the detection of
an adverse event, for example the treatment device can be powered down or otherwise
disabled.
       [036] The system can include a checklist. At least a portion of the checklist can be
customized for a particular operator, for example prior to the performance of a medical
procedure. In some embodiments, the data analyzer can detect an adverse condition
based upon an analysis of the checklist.
       [037] According to another aspect of the invention, a method for monitoring a
medical procedure performed in a clinical environment includes producing a verbal data
signal representative of verbal communication that occurs in the clinical environment;
receiving the verbal data signal; analyzing the verbal data signal; detecting at least one
adverse condition; and alerting at least one operator when the at least one adverse
condition is detected.
       [038] The method can further comprise producing a non-verbal data signal and/or a
video data signal. These signals can then be received and analyzed by a data analyzer.
       [039] Receiving the verbal data signals can include receiving communication data
from a single operator. Receiving the verbal data signals can include receiving
communication data from multiple operators such as a first and a second operator wherein
the method further comprises differentiating the communication data of the first operator
from the communication data of the second operator. Receiving the verbal data signals
can include receiving communication data occurring prior to, during, and/or after the
performance of a medical procedure.
                                              -12-

        [040] Analyzing the verbal data signal can include: converting the verbal data signal
to text data via spoken word recognition software employing at least one algorithm for
example where the algorithm correlates at least a portion of the verbal data signal to one or
more medical terms stored in a library; correlating at least a portion of the verbal data
signal to one or more terms input by an operator; correlating at least a portion of the verbal
data signal to at least one quantitative value or range of quantitative values input by an
operator; correlating at least a portion of the verbal data signal to a range of quantitative
values wherein the range comprises quantitative values that are typically associated with a
parameter; correlating at least a portion of the verbal data signal to a previously received
verbal data signal such as where the verbal data signal includes a quantitative value; and
combinations of these.
        [041] The method can further comprise storing patient historic data. Examples of
patient historic data includes: sex; age; height; weight; race; medical history; and
combinations of these. The method can further comprise extracting the patient historic
data from the verbal data signal. The method can further comprise entering the patient
historic data via an input device such as a keyboard; a touch screen display; and
combinations of these.
        [042] The method can further include identifying patient data in the verbal data
signal. Examples of patient data includes: ACT; blood pressure; heart rate; pulse rate;
respiratory rate; glucose levels; saturated   02 pressure; saturated C02 pressure; core body
temperature; skin temperature; total lung capacity; residual volume; expiratory reserve
volume; vital capacity; tidal volume; alveolar gas volume; actual lung volume; EEG bands
such as Delta, Theta, Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Mu; EKG information such as RR interval,
                                               -13-

P wave length/amplitude, PR interval, amplitude of QRS complex, J-point detection,
absolute and relative refractory periods, QT interval and U & J Wave detection; blood
volume; extra embolic gases; heparin volume; protamine sulfate volume; and combinations
of these.
         [043] The method can further include identifying equipment data in the verbal data
signal. Examples of equipment data include: instructions to turn a piece of equipment on or
off; instructions to modify the settings of one or more pieces of equipment; and
combinations of these.
         [044] The method can further include identifying procedure data in the verbal data
signal. Examples of procedure data include: total procedure length; length of a procedural
step; time of initiation of a procedural step; time since last administration of a drug or other
agent; and combinations of these. Examples of procedural steps include: patient
preparation; anesthesia induction; opening/sternotomy; initiation of bypass; cardiac repair;
termination of bypass; closure; post-op; anesthesia; insufflation; laparoscopic insertion
such as laparoscopic insertion prior to a cholecystectomy; diagnosis confirmation; port
incisions; removing bile; grasping a structure such as a gallbladder; isolating and dividing
structures; separation of a first structure from a second structure such as a gallbladder from
a liver; removal of a structure such as a gallbladder; irrigation such as abdominal wall
irrigation; prostatectomy such as a robotic prostatectomy; docking of a robot; dissection
such as SV dissection; hemostasis; completion of anastamosis; removal of drapes; and
combinations of these.
         [045] The method can further include identifying a request for information data in
the verbal data signal, for example a request for information selected from the group
                                                -14-

consisting of: a patient parameter; a procedural parameter; an equipment parameter; and
combinations of these. The method can further include providing a quantitative and/or
qualitative response to the request.
        [046] The method can further include identifying an acknowledgement of receipt of
information wherein the identification of the acknowledgement is based on a library of
acknowledgement terms.
        [047] The method can further include correlating the verbal data signal to a first
operator or to a second operator. In some embodiments, an adverse condition can be
detected via an algorithm via an algorithm, where the algorithm comprises a first analysis
on data correlated to a first operator and a second, different analysis on data correlated to
a second operator. The method can further include correlating the verbal data signal of
the first operator based on a first identifier and correlating the verbal data signal of the
second operator based on a second identifier, wherein the first identifier is different from
the second identifier.
        [048] The method can further include correlating the verbal data signal to an
operator type, for example where an adverse condition is detected based on the operator
type and the verbal data signal via an algorithm.
        [049] The method can further include filtering and/or segregating verbal data
received from at least one operator and/or non-operator. In some embodiments, the
method further includes prioritizing the filtered and/or segregated verbal data based on an
operator hierarchy.
        [050] The method can further comprise storing data selected from the group
consisting of: one or more portions of the verbal data signal; one or more processed data
                                                -15-

signals; a library of values where the values include spoken words to be recognized and/or
quantitative values; historic medical statistics and/or other medical data; one or more
portions of a video data signal produced by a video camera; and combinations of these.
        [051] Detecting the adverse condition can be based on: data extracted from the
verbal data signal exceeding a threshold; an identification of a key word in the verbal data
signal; a detection of an unrecognized voice in the verbal data signal; a detection of an
unrecognized term in the verbal data signal; a determination that a first operator has been
active and/or present above a threshold of time; a heightened frequency of recognized
terms at an improper time; a lack of receipt of information; a determination that multiple
pieces of similar data have not been received within a pre-determined time interval; a
determination that a particular operator is not present; an analysis of patient historic data;
an analysis of a set of medical statistics; and combinations of these.
        [052] Alerting the at least one operator when the adverse condition is detected can
include alerting a single operator or multiple operators. Alerting the at least one operator
when the adverse condition is detected can include producing at least one of an audible
sound; a tactile feedback; or a visual display.
        [053] The method can further include entering data into a data input module, for
example voice data and/or text data. Entering data can include receiving operator voice
data from a first operator via the input data module. The method can further include
converting the verbal data signal to text data based on the received first operator voice
data, correlating the verbal data signal to the operator voice data to identify the first
operator, and storing the operator voice data in a memory. Additionally, quantitative data
                                               -16-

can be stored in memory, for example to compare the verbal data signal to the quantitative
data where the quantitative data includes a threshold value.
       [054] The method can further include transmitting information from a healthcare
information system to the data input module.
       [055] The method can further include providing patient and/or procedural
information to at least one operator via an output module, for example where the patient
and/or procedural information is provided in response to a request by the operator.
Examples of patient and/or procedural information include: a current or real-time
parameter; a historic parameter; an average of multiple parameter values; a maximum of
multiple parameter values; and combinations of these. The information can be provided in
paper and/or electronic form, in real-time and/or after a procedure. The method can further
include transferring the information to and/or from a healthcare information system.
       [056] The method can further include confirming proper information is received via
a data monitoring module, for example confirming the proper information is continually
received within a pre-determined time interval.
       [057] The method can further include monitoring an operator position by detecting
an operator voice in the verbal data signal via an operator position monitoring module, for
example where the operator position is monitored via at least one of a motion sensor; a
video camera; or a timecard entry assembly.
       [058] The method can further include sensing at least one parameter via at least
one sensor. Examples of a sensor include: a temperature sensor; an acoustic sensor; an
electromagnetic sensor; a pressure sensor; a motion sensor; and combinations of these.
                                             -17-

        [059] The method can further include treating a patient via a patient treatment
device. Examples of a treatment device can include scalpel; electrocautery device;
grasper; guidewire; interventional catheter; anesthesia injection device; RF or cryogenic
ablation equipment; retractor; ECMO device; ventricular assist device; ventilator; bone awl;
bone tamper; bone gouge; bone file; bone mallet; osteotome; defibrillator; drill; radiosurgery
system; CPB machine; endoscope; cross clamp; robotic surgical system; colonoscope;
polytectomy snare; and combinations of these. The method can further include modifying
the treatment device if an adverse event is detected, for example disabling or powering
down the treatment device.
        [060] The method can further include analyzing a checklist and detecting the at
least one adverse condition based upon the analysis of the checklist. The method can
include customizing the checklist so that at least a portion of the checklist is customized for
a particular operator, for example where the checklist is customized prior to the
performance of a medical procedure.
        [061] The method can be performed using the system described herein.
        [062] The technology described herein, along with the attributes and attendant
advantages thereof, will best be appreciated and understood in view of the following
detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which
representative embodiments are described by way of example.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [063] FIG. 1 illustrates a system for monitoring a medical procedure performed in a
clinical environment, consistent with the present inventive concepts.
                                              -18-

       [064] FIG. 2 illustrates a flow chart of a method for monitoring a medical procedure
performed in a clinical environment, consistent with the present inventive concepts.
       [065] FIG. 3 illustrates a flow chart of a method of requesting data during a medical
procedure performed in a clinical environment, consistent with the present inventive
concepts.
       [066] FIG. 4 illustrates a flow chart of a method for monitoring the presence of an
operator during a medical procedure performed in a clinical environment, consistent with
the present inventive concepts.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [067] Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments of the
technology, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same
reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.
       [068] The systems, devices and methods disclosed herein are configured to detect
and analyze a wide array of adverse events occurring during a medical procedure such as
communication breakdown, fatigue, inappropriate staffing, interruptions and inappropriate
protocol. Further, the medical team can be alerted of such adverse events, thus improving
the outcome for both the patient and the medical team.
       [069] The term "operator" shall refer to one or more individuals, singly or in
combination, who provide input data and/or receive output data from the system of the
present inventive concepts. Operators can include but are not limited to: surgeons;
                                              -19-

surgeons' assistants; nurses; health care providers; insurance providers; patients; and
combinations of these.
        [070] FIG. 1 illustrates a system for monitoring a medical procedure performed in a
clinical environment, consistent with the present inventive concepts. System 10 includes
input module 110, data analyzer 120 and output module 130. Input module 110 includes
audio recorder 115, configured to produce a verbal data signal representative of one or
more verbal communications that occur in the clinical environment. Input module 110 can
further include non-audio recorder 116, configured to produce a non-verbal data signal
representative of one or more non-verbal communications that occur in the clinical
environment. Data analyzer 120 is configured to receive the verbal data signal from input
module 110 and at least detect one or more adverse conditions that have occurred in the
clinical environment. Output module 130 is configured to provide information to one or
more operators of system 10. Output module 130 can include alert module 135, configured
to provide an audio or other alert notifying one or more operators of system 10 that an
adverse condition has been detected by data analyzer 120.
        [071] System 10 may be utilized during various types of medical procedures. For
example, system 10 may be used during a surgical procedure, such as a minimally invasive
surgical procedure, a laparoscopic surgical procedure and an open surgical procedure.
Alternatively or additionally, system 10 may be used during an interventional medical
procedure. Applicable medical procedures can include but are not limited to: reconstructive
surgery; concomitant surgery; a robotic or robotically-enabled procedure; an outpatient
procedure; a dental procedure such as a fully anesthetized dental procedure; and
combinations of these.
                                              -20-

        [072] System 10 may be used in various clinical environments, such as a clinical
setting selected from the group consisting of: an operating room; a catheterization lab; an
intensive care unit; a control room for an operating room; an outpatient surgery treatment
room; a dentist's office; a surgeon's office such as a maxillofacial surgeon's office and
combinations of these.
        [073] System 10 may be configured to interface with one or more operators. An
operator can be any member of the hospital staff, for example a surgeon; an
anesthesiologist; a scrub nurse; a circulating nurse; and a hospital administrator. In some
embodiments, the patient is an operator of the system such as when a spoken word of the
patient is recorded by audio recorder 115 and/or another component of input module 110
and analyzed from data analyzer 120.
        [074] In some embodiments, an operator, for example a primary user such as a
surgeon, can enter data into input module 110, such as via audio recorder 115 and/or non
audio recorder 116, at any time prior to, during and/or subsequent to a medical procedure
performed on a patient. Audio recorder 115 can include one or more audio recording
devices selected from the group consisting of: a microphone; an operator-worn microphone
or headset (wireless or with cable); a room microphone; an omnidirectional microphone; a
Bluetooth device; a wireless device; a telephone; a mobile telephone; and combinations of
these. Non-audio recorder 116 can include one or more devices selected from the group
consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen; a motion-sensing input device; a mouse; a tablet;
a cell phone; a handheld electronic organizer; a hospital computer or computer network; a
wireless connection such as a cellular service; an internet connection; an electronic file
transfer port such as USB port; a memory storage device such as a USB memory stick;
                                              -21-

and combinations of these. An application can be stored in one or more modules of system
10 enabling an operator to select a particular type and/or form of information to be
communicated by system 10 to one or more operators. In some embodiments, an operator
selects one or more patient and/or procedural parameters to be communicated and
recorded by system 10, such as a communication made by an operator and/or produced by
output module 130. Additionally, an operator can customize which particular operator
should report the information and how frequently it should be reported by an operator
and/or output module 130. Further, the customization can include to whom the information
should be reported. For example, an operator can identify a particular operator that should
report (e.g. verbally state) the patient's blood pressure. In some embodiments, the
frequency of reporting can be included, such as reporting needing to occur at least every
five minutes. In some embodiments, an operator can identify a particular adverse condition
that should be monitored for by data analyzer 120. In some embodiments, an operator can
enter quantitative data into input module 110, such as a quantitative value for a threshold,
where data analyzer 120 includes an algorithm configured to compare the threshold to a
verbal data signal. In some embodiments an operator can enter a library of keywords
associated with a parameter, such as a patient and/or procedural parameter that may be
requested during a medical procedure (e.g. "blood pressure", "ACT level", "EKG status",
and the like) Input module 110 may be configured to receive a library of keywords
associated with one or more particular adverse conditions, and data analyzer 120
configured to identify these keywords. Non-limiting examples of non-technical keywords
include: "help"; "code"; "tanking"; "slipping"; "falling"; "burning"; "lethal"; "fatal"; "overdose";
"pale"; "hot"; "cold"; "unstable". Non-limiting examples of technical keywords include:
                                                -22-

"hyperthermic"; "hypothermic"; "hypoxic"; "hyperoxic"; "hypocapnic"; "hypercapnic";
"asystole"; "tachycardia"; "bradycardia"; "fibrillating"; "a-fib"; "v-fib"; "hypoglycemic";
"hyperglycemic"; "long-QT"; and combinations of these.
        [075] In some embodiments, system 10 can be configured such that audio recorder
115 receives voice data, e.g. at least one spoken word, from each operator of system 10.
This voice data can be used by data analyzer 120 to identify a particular operator's voice
based on the stored word or words.
        [076] System 10 can be configured to allow an operator to import, record or
otherwise enter various forms of data via input module 110, such as via non-audio recorder
116. Data may include non-patient data, hereinafter "external data", which can include
medical treatises, medical statistics, or any other medical information that is publicly or
privately available. External data to be included can be selected and/or filtered by an
operator of system 10. For example, an operator can enter and/or filter external
information that is particularly relevant to the procedure to be performed or relevant to the
particular patient's medical history and/or the patient's current medical status. Alternatively,
entire treatises, books, or other medical sources can be entered into system 10 via input
module 110.
        [077] System 10 can be configured to allow an operator to import, record or
otherwise enter patient data via input module 110, such as patient data collected prior to
the medical procedure being performed. Patient data can include but is not limited to: sex;
age; height; weight; race; medical history; and combinations of these.
        [078] Data entered into input module 110 can be entered prior to, during and/or
subsequent to a medical procedure such as surgery. The data entered can be updated,
                                                -23-

deleted, or otherwise modified at any time prior to, during and/or subsequent to the
procedure by one or more of the operators, such as by an authorized or otherwise pre
determined operator. In some embodiments, system 10 may be configured to permit a
limited number or subset of operators to enter, update, delete, or otherwise modify one or
more sets of data entered into and/or contained within system 10.
        [079] In some embodiments, system 10 can communicate with a healthcare
information system, for example input module 110 can receive information from the
healthcare information system such as information relevant to the particular patient and/or
procedure to be performed, for example patient or non-patient clinical, historic data. Such
information includes but is not limited to: pre-operative risk calculations for surgical
morbidities; intraoperative risk calculations for surgical morbidities; success rate of sub
procedures given health record; and combinations of these.
        [080] System 10 includes audio recorder 115 configured to record a verbal
communication and produce a verbal data signal that is representative of the verbal
communication. The verbal communication can be a communication occurring prior to,
during, and/or subsequent to a medical procedure. For example, a verbal communication
occurring prior to a procedure can include input data being entered into input module 110
via audio recorder 115. A verbal communication occurring during a procedure can include
but is not limited to: a notification of a patient, procedural and/or equipment parameter; a
request for data; an acknowledgment of received data; and combinations of these.
        [081] Audio recorder 115 can include at least one microphone, and in some cases,
audio recorder 115 includes multiple microphones. In some embodiments, a microphone
can be in proximity to each operator, for example, a first microphone can be positioned in
                                                 -24-

proximity to a first operator, and a second microphone can be positioned in proximity to a
second operator.
       [082] In some embodiments, audio recorder 115 includes a headset worn by each
operator. The system can receive and/or transmit audio to each operator wearing a
headset, or the system can receive and/or transmit audio to a particular operator. In some
embodiments, each headset comprises a unique identifier associated with each operator
such that data analyzer 120 can correlate a verbal data signal to a specific operator, for
example an identifier such as a SIM card. Alternatively or additionally, audio recorder 115
can include an intercom system such that all operators can receive and/or transmit audio
simultaneously. In some embodiments, audio recorder 115 can be configured such that
only a particular operator's verbal communications is transmitted to the remaining operators
present in the clinical environment while the remaining operators are muted, for example in
a case where the particular operator is the lead surgeon and he or she desires to
communicate data to all other operators present in the clinical environment.
       [083] Alternatively or additionally, audio recorder 115 and/or non-audio recorder
116 can include a video camera configured to produce a video data signal. The video
camera can detect an operator gesture, for example a gesture including but not limited to a
head nod or other affirmatory response; a head shake or other non-affirmatory response; a
shrug; an indecisive response; and combinations of these. The video camera can also
detect the speech of an operator. The gestures and/or speech are converted to a video
data signal such that the video data signal can be analyzed by data analyzer 120, such as
to detect an adverse condition. In some embodiments, input module 110 comprises a
video camera and at least one microphone such that data analyzer 120 combines a verbal
                                              -25-

data signal with the video data signal and analyzes the combined signal. In cases where
the verbal data is not heard, data analyzer 120 can analyze the video data signal to detect
an adverse condition. Conversely, if the video data is not seen, data analyzer 120 can
analyze the verbal data signal to detect an adverse event.
        [084] A verbal data signal can be representative of a verbal communication
received from a single operator and/or multiple operators. In the case of multiple operators,
system 10 is configured to differentiate verbal data signals from a first operator and verbal
data signals from a second operator. The verbal data signal can be representative of
verbal communication occurring prior to, during, and/or after the medial procedure.
        [085] In some embodiments, system 10 is configured to produce non-verbal data
signals. In some embodiments, the non-verbal data signal can include an audio signal
produced by a piece of equipment located in the clinical environment in the form of an
equipment status signal. For example, if a piece of equipment requires maintenance, an
operator can be alerted to the condition via an equipment warning signal.
        [086] System 10 can further comprise a memory storage device, memory module
150, which is configured to store data, such as data entered into input module 110 and/or
produced by data analyzer 120. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the verbal data
signals and/or video data signals that are received and/or processed (i.e. analyzed by data
analyzer 120) as well as the verbal communications and gestures captured by audio
recorder 115, can be stored in the memory module. System 10 can include a method of
replaying audio, video and/or other recordings, such as via output module 130.
        [087] System 10 includes data analyzer 120 configured to receive a verbal data
signal from audio recorder 110, analyze the verbal data signal, and detect at least one
                                             -26-

adverse condition. Data analyzer 120 includes various electronic and other componentry,
such as componentry selected from the group consisting of: microprocessor;
microcontroller; analog to digital converter; digital to analog converter; and combinations of
these. Data analyzer 120 can include spoken word recognition software employing at least
one algorithm that converts the verbal data signal to text data. In some embodiments, the
algorithm can be biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal data signal to one or
more medical terms. System 10 can further comprise a library of medical terms, such as a
library of medical terms stored in memory module 150 where the algorithm's bias is based
on the library of medical terms. The library of medical terms can be imported via input
module 110, such as data input to system 10 by an operator and/or an external data
source. The external data source can include medical treatises, medical statistics, or any
other medical information that is publicly or privately available.
        [088] Data analyzer 120 can include an algorithm configured to extract the patient
historic data stored in the memory module from the verbal data signal.      In some
embodiments, data analyzer 120 can include an algorithm that is biased to correlate at
least a portion of the verbal data signal to at least one quantitative value input by a primary
user. The algorithm can be biased to a range of values. In one example, the range of
values can include values that are typically associated with a particular parameter, so for
instance, if a blood pressure reading typically ranges within 100/60 to 120/80, for patients in
general and/or for a particular patient, and data analyzer 120 correlates the received verbal
data signal to both the value 115/75 and the value 300/75, data analyzer 120 can record
the value of 115/75 due to the bias in the algorithm toward the range 100/60 to 120/80. In
some embodiments, the algorithm can be biased toward a previously received verbal data
                                               -27-

signal such as the last received verbal data signal. For example, if the last received verbal
data signal includes a blood pressure reading of 115/75, and data analyzer 120 correlates
the currently received verbal data signal to both the value 115/75 and the value of 300/75,
data analyzer 120 can record the value of 115/75 due to a bias toward the value's proximity
to the previously recorded value of 115/75.
        [089] Data analyzer 120 can identify and analyze verbal data signals recorded by
input module 110. The verbal data signal can include patient data, such as data including
but not limited to: ACT; blood pressure; heart rate; pulse rate; respiratory rate; glucose
levels; saturated 02 pressure; saturated C02 pressure; core body temperature; skin
temperature; total lung capacity; residual volume; expiratory reserve volume; vital capacity;
tidal volume; alveolar gas volume; actual lung volume; EEG bands such as Delta, Theta,
Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Mu; EKG information such as RR interval, P wave
length/amplitude, PR interval, amplitude of QRS complex, J-point detection, absolute and
relative refractory periods, QT interval, and U & J Wave detection; blood volume; extra
embolic gases; heparin volume; protamine sulfate volume; and combinations of these.
Recorded data may be associated not only with a parameter level but a recording time. For
example, the verbal communication "blood pressure is 150 over 90" can be identified by
data analyzer 120 as 'blood pressure = 150/90 @ time'. If an operator, such as the
patient's primary caregiver (e.g. the surgeon), has specified that this parameter should be
communicated by an operator associated with the verbal communication, then when that
operator states the proper information, the stated value can be logged into memory module
150 with a time stamp.
                                              -28-

        [090] Data analyzer 120 can identify verbal data signals including equipment data
such as data including but not limited to: instructions to turn a piece of equipment on or off;
instructions to modify the settings of one or more pieces of equipment; and combinations of
these. Data analyzer 120 can identify non-verbal data signals including equipment data,
such as audio data recorded from a piece of equipment (e.g. audio data recorded by a
microphone of audio recorder 115), visual data recorded from a piece of equipment (e.g.
visual data recorded by a camera of non-audio recorder 116), or electronic data output by a
piece of equipment (e.g. via a wired or wireless communication between a piece of
equipment and non-audio recorder 116).
        [091] Data analyzer 120 can identify verbal data signals including procedural data,
such as procedural data selected from the group consisting of: total procedural length;
length of a procedural step; time of initiation of a procedural step; time since last
administration of a drug or other agent (e.g. time since infusion of heparin, protamine
sulfate and/or cardioplegia); and combinations of these. Procedural steps include but are
not limited to: patient preparation; anesthesia induction; opening/sternotomy; initiation of
bypass; cardiac repair; termination of bypass; closure; post-op; anesthesia; insufflation;
laparoscopic insertion such as laparoscopic insertion prior to a cholecystectomy; diagnosis
confirmation; port incisions; removing bile; grasping a structure such as a gallbladder;
isolating and dividing structures; separation of a first structure from a second structure such
as a gallbladder from a liver; removal of a structure such as a gallbladder; irrigation such as
abdominal wall irrigation; prostatectomy such as a robotic prostatectomy; docking of a
robot; dissection such as SV dissection; hemostasis; completion of anastamosis; removal
of drapes; and combinations of these.
                                               -29-

        [092] Data analyzer 120 can identify a request for data from an operator recorded
by audio recorder 115. Data requests can in a request for data selected from the group
consisting of: a patient parameter; a procedural parameter; an equipment parameter;
external data; patient historic data; and combinations of these. System 10 can be
configured to respond to an operator's request quantitatively and/or qualitatively via output
module 130. For example, an operator, e.g. the primary surgeon, can request the patient's
blood pressure during a procedure, and system 10 will retrieve the patient parameter from
the memory module and deliver the requested value to the operator, for example via an
operator-worn headset or a visual display.
        [093] Data analyzer 120 can be configured to identify and/or require an
acknowledgment of receipt of data. When a value is delivered to an operator, either
pursuant to an impromptu request or the customized cadence input into input module 110,
data analyzer 120 can identify the acknowledgement of receipt of the data based on a
library of acceptable responses. For example, prior to a procedure being performed on a
patient, a library of acceptable acknowledgement responses can be entered into input
module 110, including but not limited to responses such as, "yeah", "yes", "okay", "gotcha",
"thanks", and the like.
        [094] Data analyzer 120 can correlate the verbal data signal to a particular
operator, for example using voice data entered into input module 110 prior to the
procedure. In some embodiments, data analyzer 120 comprises an algorithm where the
algorithm performs a first analysis on a verbal data signal correlated to a first operator and
a second, different analysis on a verbal data signal correlated to a second operator. In
some embodiments, data analyzer 120 correlates the verbal data signal of the first operator
                                             -30-

based on a first identifier and correlates the verbal data signal of the second operator
based on a second, different identifier, for example where a headset worn by the first and
second operators includes the identifier, such as an embedded electronic ID. In one
example, the identifier can include a SIM card included in each headset worn by the first
and second operator. These embodiments can apply to a clinical environment including
one or multiple operators. Additionally, data analyzer 120 can correlate the verbal data
signal to a particular operator type, each type comprising one or more operators of system
10. Operator types can include but are not limited to: a surgeon; an anesthesiologist; a
scrub nurse; a circulating nurse; a hospital administrator; a patient; and combinations of
these. Data analyzer 120 can employ an algorithm that determines an adverse condition
has occurred based on the particular operator and/or operator type providing data via audio
recorder 115 and/or another component of input module 110.
        [095] Data analyzer 120 can be configured to filter and/or segregate verbal data
signals that are received by an operator. The verbal data signals can be filtered based on
operator hierarchy and/or the importance of a particular value based on data entered into
input module 110 prior to or during the procedure. For example, if a surgeon operator
customizes system 10 such that a nurse or anesthesiologist operator should recite blood
pressure readings every five minutes, data analyzer 120 can filter the nurse's speech
based upon the value it is seeking, ie. identify the nurse's recitation of blood pressure
readings every five minutes. In instances where a desired reading is not identified in the
predetermined time period (e.g. five minutes), system 10 can be configured to request the
information, such as via output module 130.
                                               -31-

        [096] Data analyzer 120 analyzes the verbal data signal recorded by audio recorder
115 to detect at least one adverse condition. In some embodiments, the verbal data signal
is analyzed and/or compared to additional data entered into input module 110, as
discussed above, such as data stored in memory module 150. In some embodiments, the
adverse condition can be detected based on an analysis of the verbal data signal whose
output exceeds a threshold. For example, if an operator entered a maximum acceptable
value for the patient's blood pressure into input module 110, the data analyzer 120 will
detect an adverse condition if the maximum acceptable value is exceeded.
        [097] In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the
identification of a keyword in the verbal data signal. In some embodiments, the adverse
condition can be detected based on the identification of an unrecognized term or value in
the verbal data signal. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected
based on the identification of an unrecognized or inaudible voice in the verbal data signal.
In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on a determination
that a particular operator has been active and/or present in the clinical environment past a
threshold of time. For example, when an operator is the surgeon, data analyzer 120 can
determine that the surgeon has been performing a complex procedure for a length of time
that has been previously determined to exceed a safety threshold. The length of an
operator's presence can be determined by data analyzer 120 receiving a verbal data signal
and/or a video data signal from the particular operator, thus associating the receipt of the
signal with the operator's presence. Additionally or alternatively, the operator's presence
can be determined automatically, for example by a motion sensor, or manually, for example
by a timecard entry assembly.
                                              -32-

        [098] In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the
heightened frequency of recognized terms at a time other than that customized by the
operator. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the non
receipt of information such as when an identified operator does not provide a particular
piece of information at the proper time. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can
be detected based on a determination that multiple pieces of similar data have not been
received within a pre-determined time interval where the time interval can be an operator
adjustable time interval that can be adjusted prior to and/or during a procedure.     In some
embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on a determination that a
particular operator is not present. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be
detected based on an analysis of patient historic data and/or based on an analysis of a set
of medical statistics such as a comparison of patient historic data to a set of medical
statistics. In some embodiments, an adverse condition can be detected based on the
identification of the patient's voice and/or gestures. For example, if the patient is no longer
fully anesthetized and is able to speak and/or move, the data analyzer 120 can identify the
patient's speech. In some embodiments, a library of evidence-based practices, for
example a proper protocol or set of standards for a particular type of medical procedure
can be entered into input module 110 prior to or during a procedure, where the real-time
events occurring during the procedure can be recorded and compared and/or analyzed
according to the evidence based information. An adverse event can be detected by data
analyzer 120 when an event is detected that falls outside of the proper protocol or
acceptable set of standards.
                                               -33-

        [099] Output module 130 can include alert module 135 configured to alert at least
one operator upon the detection of at least one adverse condition by data analyzer 120.
Alert module 135 can alert one or all operators in the clinical environment, and any number
of operators in between. In some embodiments, alert module 135 can be configured to
alert a specific operator based on a unique identifier, for example an identifier included in
that specific operator's headset, as discussed hereabove. In one embodiment, alert
module 135 can include an audio transducer configured to produce an audible beep when
an adverse condition is detected. The audible beep can include a first audible pattern
associated with a first adverse condition, and a second, different audible pattern associated
with a second, different adverse condition. In addition or alternative to an audible beep, the
audio transducer can produce voice alert such as a computer generated voice or a
recording of a human voice. Additionally or alternatively, alert module 135 can include a
visual display, for example a visual display that provides alphanumeric text and/or graphic
images when an adverse condition is detected. Additionally or alternatively, alert module
135 can include a tactile transducer such as an operator-worn tactile transducer and/or a
vibrating transducer. Non-limiting examples of additional or alternative alert modules
include: an audio transducer such as speaker and a piezo transducer; a visual transducer
such as an LCD screen, a touch screen, and a light such as an LED; and a tactile
transducer such as a vibrating transducer and a thermal transducer.
        [0100] In addition to alert module 135, output module 130 may include numerous
output components, such as to provide both alert and non-alert information to an operator
of system 10. Output module 130 can be configured to provide an analysis of information
to one or more operators such as patient and/or procedural information in real-time, i.e.
                                              -34-

during a procedure, or after completion of a procedure. In some embodiments, the
information provided by output module 130 is information requested by at least one
operator, for example information after the completion of a procedure in order to evaluate
the overall performance of the operators as well as the relationship between team behavior
and real-time changes in patient status. Additionally, a full audio transcript of the entire
procedure can be provided and/or for each individual operator. Other types of information
can be provided such as information selected from the group consisting of: a current (real
time) parameter a historic parameter; an average of multiple parameter values; a
maximum of multiple parameter values; and combinations of these. Other information can
include one or more of: one or more adverse conditions detected; an operator's entry
and/or exit time into the clinical setting; a procedure event that surpasses a threshold; an
evidence-based decision support reminder; a captured video; a recommendation generated
by the data analyzer; and combinations of these. The information can be provided to at
least one operator or all operators in the form of a generated report, for example a hard
copy and/or an electronic report. In some cases, system 10 can refer to a library of
evidence-based practices, for example a library of data entered into input module 110, and
system 10 can perform a quantitative or qualitative calculation related to clinical approach
efficacy, appropriateness and/or timeliness. The report can then be transferred to a
healthcare information system. Additionally, output module 130 can create a post
operative debrief in the form of an interactive montage of critical events, for example an
output including procedure video, audio, transcripts of audio, patient vital signs during the
procedure, corresponding pre-operative thresholds/scores, any relevant medical imaging,
and any other desired information.
                                                -35-

        [0101] Data analyzer 120 can further include a data monitoring algorithm that
confirms proper information is received by audio recorder 115, non-audio recorder 116,
sensor 117, and/or data analyzer 120. Additionally, the data monitoring algorithm can
confirm that proper information is received within one or more predetermined time intervals.
The lack of receipt of information can lead to detection of an adverse event by data
analyzer 120, such as has been described hereabove.
        [0102] In addition to audio recorder 115 and non-audio recorder 116, input module
110 may include at least one sensor 117. Sensor 117 can comprise a sensor selected
from the group consisting of: a temperature sensor; an acoustic sensor; an electromagnetic
sensor; a pressure sensor; a motion sensor; and combinations of these. Output of these
sensors may be included in one or more analyses of data analyzer 120, such as to
determine if an adverse event has occurred or to produce other calculated data.
        [0103] System 10 can further comprise a treatment device, such as treatment device
200 as shown in Fig. 1. In some embodiments, treatment device 200 comprises a device
selected from the group consisting of: scalpel; electrocautery device; grasper; guidewire;
interventional catheter; anesthesia injection device; RF or cryogenic ablation equipment;
retractor; ECMO device; ventricular assist device; ventilator; bone awl; bone tamper; bone
gouge; bone files; bone mallet; osteotome; defibrillator; drills; radiosurgery system; CPB
machine; endoscope; cross clamp; robotic surgical system; colonoscope; polytectomy
snare; and combinations of these. In some embodiments, treatment device 200 can
comprise one or more electronic components or assemblies that can deliver information to
input module 110 and/or receive control data from output module 130. In some
embodiments, treatment device 200 can be modified or disabled upon the detection of an
                                              -36-

adverse event, for example an adverse event related detected by data analyzer receiving
an equipment data signal.
         [0104] Alert module 135 and other components of output module 130 can include
numerous forms of user output components, such as components selected from the group
consisting of: visual display such as an alphanumeric color display monitor; touchscreen
display; indicator light such as an LED; audio transducer such as a speaker or piezo alert;
tactile transducer such as an operator-worn assembly configured to vibrate on demand;
USB port; wireless transmitter; internet connection; and combinations of these.
         [0105] System 10 can further comprise a checklist. In some embodiments, data
analyzer 120 can detect an adverse condition based upon an analysis of the checklist. The
checklist can include a pre-operative, intra-operative, and/or a post-operative checklist that
can be automatically and/or manually initiated. The checklist can comprise at least a
portion that can be customized, such as a customization associated with one or more
operators of system 10. The customization can be performed at any time, such as a time
just prior to the performance of a medical procedure using system 10.
         [0106] FIG. 2 illustrates a flow chart of a method for monitoring a medical
procedure performed in a clinical environment, consistent with the present inventive
concepts. The method includes configuring a system, for example system 10 of FIG. 1
hereabove, where the system is configured to produce a verbal data signal representative
of verbal communication that occurs in the clinical environment; receive the verbal data
signal and detect at least one adverse condition; and alert at least one operator when the at
least one adverse condition is detected by the data analyzer.
                                                -37-

        [0107] The method may be performed during various types of medical procedures
and may be performed in various clinical environments as described hereabove.
        [0108] In STEP 200, the system is configured. Configuring the system can include
entering data into an input module, for example, data entered into input module 110 as
described in reference to FIG. 1 hereabove. In some embodiments, an operator can enter
data into the input module at any time prior to, during, and/or subsequent to a medical
procedure performed on a patient. The data entered can be updated, deleted, or otherwise
modified at any time prior to, during, and/or subsequent to the procedure by any of the
operators. In some embodiments, a specific operator can be authorized to enter, update,
delete, or otherwise modify the input data.
        [0109] The data input module can include one or more devices selected from the
group consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen; a motion-sensing input device; a mouse; a
tablet; a cell phone; a handheld electronic organizer; a hospital computer or computer
network; a wireless connection such as a cellular service; an internet connection; an
electronic file transfer port such as USB port; a memory storage device such as a USB
memory stick; and combinations of these. An application can be stored in one or more
modules of the system enabling an operator to select a particular type and/or form of
information to be communicated by the system to one or more operators. In some
embodiments, an operator selects one or more patient and/or procedural parameters to be
communicated and recorded by the system. Additionally, an operator can customize which
particular operator should report the information and how frequently it should be reported
by an operator and/or an output module such as output module 130 of FIG. 1.
Furthermore, an operator can identify an adverse condition that should be detected by a
                                              -38-

data analyzer. In some embodiments, an operator can enter quantitative data into the input
module such as a quantitative value for a threshold, where the data analyzer includes an
algorithm configured to compare the threshold to a verbal data signal, as is described in
STEP 250 below. An operator can enter a library of keywords associated with a parameter,
such as a patient and/or procedural parameter that may be requested during a medical
procedure, for example keywords that are typically associated with a patient and/or
procedural parameter such as the keyword "blood pressure". Additionally, the primary user
can enter a library of keywords associated with an adverse condition into the input module,
where the data analyzer identifies the keywords, as has been described in reference to
FIG. 1 hereabove.
        [0110] Voice data can be entered into the input module, e.g. at least one spoken
word, from each operator to be present during the medical procedure such that the data
analyzer can identify an operator's voice based on the stored word or words.
        [0111] External data which can include medical treatises, medical statistics, or any
other medical information that is publicly or privately available can also be entered into the
input module. The external data can be selected and/or filtered by an operator. For
example, the operator can enter external information that is particularly relevant to the
procedure to be performed or relevant to the particular patient's medical history and/or
current medical status. Alternatively, entire treatises, books, or other medical sources can
be entered into the input module.
        [0112] Patient data, such as data including but not limited to, sex; age: height;
weight; race; medical history; and combinations of these can also be entered into the input
module.
                                              -39-

        [0113] In STEP 210, audio is recorded, for example via audio recorder 115 of FIG.
1. The audio recorder is configured to record a verbal communication and produce a
verbal data signal that is representative of the verbal communication, for example via at
least one microphone. The verbal communication can be a communication occurring prior
to, during, and/or subsequent to a medical procedure. For example, a verbal
communication occurring prior to a procedure can include input data being entered into the
input module as described in STEP 200. A verbal communication occurring during a
procedure can include but is not limited to: a notification of a patient, procedural and/or
equipment parameter; a request for data; an acknowledgment of receipt of data; and
combinations of these. The system can receive and/or transmit audio to each operator via
the audio recorder, e.g. a headset worn by each operator, or the system can receive and/or
transmit audio to a particular operator. Alternatively or additionally, the audio recorder can
include an intercom system such that all operators can receive and/or transmit audio
simultaneously.
        [0114] Alternatively or additionally, video data can be recorded, for example via a
video camera that can detect an operator gesture, for example a gesture including but not
limited to a head nod or other affirmatory response; a head shake or other non-affirmatory
response; a shrug; an indecisive response; and combinations of these. The video camera
can also detect the speech of an operator. The gestures and/or speech are converted to a
video data signal such that the video data signal can be analyzed by the data analyzer to
detect an adverse condition. In some embodiments, an input module comprises a video
camera and at least one microphone such that the data analyzer combines the verbal data
signal with the video data signal and analyzes the combined signal. In cases where the
                                               -40-

verbal data is not heard, the data analyzer can analyze the video data signal to detect an
adverse condition. Conversely, if the video data is not seen, the data analyzer can analyze
the verbal data signal to detect an adverse event.
        [0115] The recorded signals can be representative of a verbal communication
received from a single operator and/or multiple operators. In the case of multiple operators,
the system is configured to differentiate verbal data signals from a first operator and verbal
data signals from a second operator. The verbal data signal can be representative of
verbal communication occurring prior to, during, and/or after the medial procedure.
        [0116] In some embodiments, non-verbal data signals are produced such as audio
signals produced by a piece of equipment located in the clinical environment in the form of
an equipment status signal, as has been described in reference to FIG. 1 hereabove.
        [0117] In STEP 220, the data signals are analyzed, for example via data analyzer
120 of FIG. 1. The data analyzer can include spoken word recognition software employing
at least one algorithm that converts the verbal data signal to text data. In some
embodiments, the algorithm can be biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal data
signal to one or more medical terms where the system can further comprise a library of
medical terms, where the algorithm's bias is based on the library of medical terms, as has
been described in reference to FIG. 1 hereabove. The external data source can include
medical treatises, medical statistics, or any other medical information that is publicly or
privately available. Additionally, the data analyzer can include an algorithm configured to
extract patient historic data from the data stored in a memory module. Further, the data
analyzer can include an algorithm configured to extract the patient historic data stored in
the memory module from the verbal data signal. Still further, the data analyzer can include
                                               -41-

an algorithm that is biased to correlate at least a portion of the verbal data signal to at least
one quantitative value input by an operator. In some embodiments, the algorithm can be
biased to a range of values, as has been described in detail hereabove. In some
embodiments, the algorithm can be biased toward a previously received verbal data signal
such as the last received verbal data signal, also described in detail hereabove.
       [0118] The analysis can include an analysis of patient data; equipment data;
procedural data; and combinations of these, examples of each provided hereabove.
       [0119] The analysis can include an identification of a request for information,
including but not limited to a request for a patient parameter; a procedural parameter; an
equipment parameter; and combinations of these. The system is configured to respond to
the operator's request quantitatively and/or qualitatively via the audio recorder. For
example, an operator, e.g. the primary surgeon, can request the patient's blood pressure
during a procedure, and the system will retrieve the patient parameter from the memory
module and deliver the requested value to the operator, for example via an operator-worn
headset and/or a visual display.
       [0120] The analysis can include an identification of an acknowledgment of receipt
of data. Alternatively or additionally, the analysis can identify when data has been provided
to an operator and require that an acknowledgement be provided by the operator. As
described above, a library of acceptable responses can be entered into an input module
and the acknowledgement can be identified based upon the library.
       [0121] The analysis can include a correlation of the verbal data signal to a
particular operator, for example using the voice data entered into the input module prior to
a procedure. In some embodiments, an algorithm performs a first analysis on a verbal data
                                               -42-

signal correlated to a first operator and a second, different analysis on a verbal data signal
correlated to a second operator. In some embodiments, the correlation of a verbal data
signal of the first operator is based on a first identifier and the correlation of the verbal data
signal of the second operator is based on a second, different identifier, for example where a
headset worn by the first and second operators includes the identifier, such as an
embedded electronic ID. In one example, the identifier can include a SIM card included in
each headset worn by the first and second operator. These embodiments can apply to a
clinical environment including one, two, or multiple operators. Additionally, the analysis can
include a correlation of the verbal data signal to a particular operator type, each type
comprising one or more operators. Operator types can include but are not limited to a
surgeon; an anesthesiologist; a scrub nurse; a circulating nurse: a hospital administrator a
patient; and combinations of these. An algorithm can be employed that determines an
adverse condition has occurred based on the particular operator and/or operator type
providing data via an audio recorder and/or other input module.
        [0122] In STEP 230, one or more keywords are identified via the data analyzer. The
identification can be based on a library of keywords associated with a parameter that may
be requested during a medical procedure, for example keywords that are typically
associated with a patient and/or procedural parameter such as the keyword "blood
pressure". The library of keywords can be entered into the input module, for example by an
operator prior to, during and/or subsequent to a procedure.
        [0123] In STEP 240, data is extracted via the data analyzer. The data can be
extracted based on operator hierarchy and/or the importance of a particular value based on
data entered into an input module prior to, during and/or subsequent to the procedure. For
                                                -43-

example, if an operator customizes the system such that the nurse should recite blood
pressure readings every five minutes, data analyzer can filter the nurse's speech based
upon the value it is seeking, i.e. identify the nurse's recitation of blood pressure readings
every five minutes. Additionally, the extracted data can be logged into the system such as
recording and storing the data in a memory module with a time stamp.
       [0124] In STEP 250, the extracted data is compared to a threshold, for example a
threshold entered into an input module where the data analyzer includes an algorithm
configured to compare the threshold to the data. In one embodiment, an adverse condition
can be detected based on an analysis of the data exceeding a threshold. For example, if
an operator entered a maximum acceptable value for the patient's blood pressure into the
input module, the data analyzer will detect an adverse condition if the maximum acceptable
value is exceeded.
       [0125] If the data is within the acceptable limits, i.e. does not exceed a threshold, the
method begins at STEP 210, and the steps are repeated. However, if the data exceeds the
threshold, STEP 260 is performed where an alert mode is entered. In this step, an alert
module, for example alert module 135 of FIG. 1 is configured to alert at least one operator.
An alert can be provided to one or all operators in the clinical environment, and any number
of operators in between. In some embodiments, an alert is provided to a specific operator
based on a unique identifier, for example an identifier included in that specific operator's
headset, as discussed hereabove. In one embodiment, an audible beep is produced when
an adverse condition is detected. The audible beep can include a first audible pattern
associated with a first adverse condition, and a second, different audible pattern associated
with a second, different adverse condition. In addition or alternative to an audible beep, a
                                                -44-

voice alert such as a computer generated voice or a recording of a human voice can be
produced. Additionally or alternatively, a visual display, for example a visual display that
provides alphanumeric text and/or graphic images when an adverse condition is detected
can be provided. Additionally or alternatively, a tactile transducer such as an operator-worn
tactile transducer and/or a vibrating transducer can be included to alert at least one
operator. Non-limiting examples of additional or alternative alert modules include: an
audio transducer such as a speaker and a piezo transducer; a visual transducer such as an
LCD screen, a touch screen, and a light such as an LED; and a tactile transducer such as a
vibrating transducer and a thermal transducer.
         [0126] In STEP 270, the alert mode is cleared, and if cleared, then the method
begins at STEP 210, and the steps are repeated. The system will remain in the alert mode
until cleared. The alert mode can be cleared by remedying any of the adverse conditions
described herein.
         [0127] In some embodiments, the alert module can be configured so as to
automatically reset a threshold value if the alert mode is ignored. For example, if an
adverse condition is detected based upon a blood pressure reading of 150/80, exceeding
the threshold value of 145/75, the system will enter an alert mode. Continuing with this
example, if the alert is ignored three times, the threshold value will reset to 150/80 or some
value higher than its previous value. Statistical Process Control (SPC) can be used to
handle error detection, or monitor alerts and any ignoring of alerts, such as to modify a
threshold for entering an alert state after an alert is ignored a number of times.
                                               -45-

        [0128] The method can further comprise storing any of the data entered into the
input module, as well as any verbal data signals that are received and/or processed, i.e.
analyzed by the data analyzer, during a procedure, for example via a memory module.
        [0129] In some embodiments, the method further comprises detecting an adverse
condition based on the identification of a keyword in the verbal data signal. In some
embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the identification of an
unrecognized term or value in the verbal data signal. In some embodiments, the adverse
condition can be detected based on the identification of an unrecognized or inaudible voice
in the verbal data signal. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected
based on a determination that a particular operator has been active and/or present in the
clinical environment past a threshold of time. For example, when an operator is the
surgeon, the data analyzer can determine that the surgeon has been performing a complex
procedure for a length of time that has been previously determined to exceed a safety
threshold. The length of an operator's presence can be determined by the data analyzer
receiving a verbal data signal and/or a video data signal from the particular operator, thus
associating the receipt of the signal with the operator's presence. Additionally or
alternatively, the operator's presence can be determined automatically, for example by a
motion sensor, or manually, for example by a timecard entry assembly. In some
embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the heightened frequency
of recognized terms at a time other than that customized by the operator. In some
embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the non-receipt of
information such as when an identified operator does not provide a particular piece of
information at the proper time. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be
                                              -46-

detected based on a determination that multiple pieces of similar data have not been
received within a pre-determined time interval where the time interval can be an operator
adjustable time interval that can be adjusted prior to and/or during a procedure.     In some
embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on a determination that a
particular operator is not present. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be
detected based on an analysis of patient historic data and/or based on an analysis of a set
of medical statistics such as a comparison of patient historic data to a set of medical
statistics. In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based on the
identification of the patient's voice and/or gestures. For example, if the patient is no longer
fully anesthetized and is able to speak and/or move, the data analyzer can identify the
patient's speech. In some embodiments, a library of evidence-based practices, for
example a proper protocol or set of standards for a particular type of medical procedure
can be entered into the input module prior to or during a procedure, where the real-time
events occurring during the procedure can be recorded and compared and/or analyzed
according to the evidence based information. An adverse event can be detected by the
data analyzer if an event is detected that falls outside of the proper protocol or acceptable
set of standards.    In some embodiments, the adverse condition can be detected based
upon an analysis of a checklist. For example, the checklist can include a pre-operative,
intra-operative, and/or a post-operative checklist that can be automatically and/or manually
initiated. The checklist can be modified or include a portion that is modified or customized
for a particular operator or set of operators.
        [0130] The method can further comprise providing an analysis of information to one
or more operators such as patient and/or procedural information in real-time, i.e. during a
                                               -47-

procedure, or after completion of a procedure. In some embodiments, the information is
provided by an output module for example information requested by at least one operator,
such as information after the completion of a procedure in order to evaluate the overall
performance of the operators, as well as the relationship between team behavior and real
time changes in patient status. Additionally, a full audio transcript of the entire procedure
can be provided and/or a transcript for each individual operator can be provided. Other
types of information can be provided such as information selected from the group
consisting of: a current (real-time) parameter; a historic parameter; an average of multiple
parameter values; a maximum of multiple parameter values; and combinations of these.
Other information can include one or more adverse conditions detected; an operator's entry
and/or exit time into the clinical setting; a procedure event that surpasses a threshold; an
evidence-based decision support reminder; a captured video; a recommendation generated
by the data analyzer; and combinations of these. The information can be provided to at
least one operator or all operators in the form of a generated report, for example a hard
copy and/or an electronic report. In some cases, the system can refer to a library of
evidence-based practices, for example a library of data entered into the input module, and
the system can discern whether the clinical approach was efficacious, appropriate and
done in a timely manner. The report can then be transferred to a healthcare information
system. Additionally, output module can create a post-operative debrief in the form of an
interactive montage of critical events, for example an output including procedure video,
audio, transcripts of audio, patient vital signs during the procedure, corresponding pre
operative thresholds/scores, any relevant medical imaging, and any other desired
information.
                                                -48-

        [0131] The method can further comprise confirming proper information is received
by the audio recorder and/or the data analyzer, for example via a data monitoring
algorithm. Additionally, a confirmation that proper information is received by the audio
recorder and/or the data analyzer within one or more predetermined time intervals can be
performed. The lack of receipt of information can lead to the detection of an adverse event,
as has been described hereabove.
        [0132] The method can further comprise sensing at least one adverse condition via
at least one sensor, for example a sensor such as a temperature sensor; an acoustic
sensor; an electromagnetic sensor; a pressure sensor; a motion sensor; and combinations
of these.
        [0133] In some embodiments, the method further comprises communicating with a
healthcare information system, for example the input module can receive information from
the healthcare information system such as information relevant to the particular patient
and/or procedure to be performed, for example patient historic data. Similarly, the data
provided by the output module can be communicated to the healthcare information system.
        [0134] The method can further comprise treating a patient via a treatment device,
for example treatment device 200 described in reference to FIG. 1 hereabove.
        [0135] FIG. 3 illustrates a flow chart of a method for requesting data during a medical
procedure performed in a clinical environment, consistent with the present inventive
concepts.    In STEP 300, an operator makes a request for data, for example a patient,
procedural, and/or an equipment parameter. Additionally, other data can be requested, for
example patient historic data and external data such as medical statistics. Typically, the
                                                -49-

request includes a verbal request for data, where an audio recorder, for example audio
recorder 115 of FIG. 1 converts the verbal request to a verbal data signal.
        [0136] In STEP 310, a speech recognition step is performed. In some embodiments,
speech recognition software comprising an algorithm performs an analysis on the received
verbal data signal and correlates the verbal data signal to the specific operator. In some
embodiments, the correlation of the verbal data signal of the operator is based on an
identifier, for example where a headset worn by the operator includes the identifier. In one
embodiment, the identifier can include a SIM card included in the operator's headset.
        [0137] In STEP 320, a confirmation that the operator requesting the data is a valid
operator is performed.    In one embodiment, the validity of the operator is confirmed based
on the data an operator entered into an input module such as input module 110 of FIG. 1.
For example, an operator can authorize a particular operator to make a request for a
particular type or types of data. In an example, if the surgeon requests data during the
procedure, a data analyzer, for example data analyzer 120 of FIG. 1, can identify the
surgeon's speech and determine if it is in fact the surgeon requesting the data. As
discussed above, the data analyzer can comprise speech recognition software employing
an algorithm to detect the operator's speech, in this case the surgeon, or alternatively, the
surgeon can wear a headset comprising an identifier such as a SIM card.
        [0138] The system can also be configured more narrowly, for example, by
designating both a valid operator and correlating that operator to a particular piece of data,
such as a particular patient parameter. For example, if the primary user customizes the
system such that the nurse shall provide and/or request blood pressure readings, the data
analyzer can identify the nurse's speech and determine if it is in fact the nurse requesting
                                             -50-

and/or providing the blood pressure reading. As discussed above, the data analyzer can
comprise speech recognition software employing an algorithm to detect the operator's
speech, in this case the nurse, or alternatively, the nurse can wear a headset comprising
an identifier such as a SIM card.
       [0139] If the operator is determined to be a valid operator, a check for the requested
data is performed, as shown in STEP 330. As described in STEP 230 240 of FIG. 2, when
an operator verbally communicates data, a value associated with the data is logged into a
memory module, for example memory module 150 of FIG. 1, with a time stamp. For
example, the verbal communication "blood pressure is 150 over 90" will be identified by the
data analyzer as 'blood pressure    = 150/90 @ time'. If an operator has specified that this
parameter should be communicated by the operator associated with the verbal
communication, the then value is logged into a memory module with a time stamp, and
then can be retrieved and transmitted, as shown in STEP 340 described below.
       [0140] However, if the operator is determined to be an invalid operator and/or the
requested data is not stored in the memory module, an alert mode will be entered as shown
in STEP 360. The alert mode is similar to that described in STEP 260 of FIG. 2
hereabove.
       [0141] Once the operator is determined to be a valid operator and the requested
data has been retrieved from the memory module, STEP 340 can be performed where the
requested data is transmitted to the requesting operator. In one embodiment, each
operator wears a headset, and requested data can be transmitted to the requesting
operator's headset. In some embodiments, each headset comprises a unique identifier
associated with each operator such that the data analyzer can correlate a verbal data
                                              -51-

signal to a specific operator, for example an identifier such as a SIM card.    In some
embodiments, speech recognition software comprising an algorithm performs an analysis
on the received verbal data signal and correlates the verbal data signal to the requesting
operator via a headset worn by that operator. In some embodiments, the requested data
can be transmitted to other operators in addition to the requesting operator, for example
two or all operators in the clinical environment. The information can be transmitted to the
operator(s) via a headset. Alternatively or additionally, the information can be transmitted
via an intercom system and/or a visual display such that all operators can receive and/or
transmit audio simultaneously.
        [0142] In STEP 350, the request for data is logged, for example in the memory
module. An output module, such as output module 130 of FIG. 1, can produce a report
providing data related to the requests made during a procedure, for example the total
number of requests made.
        [0143]
        [0144] FIG. 4 illustrates a flow chart of a method for monitoring the presence of an
operator during a medical procedure performed in a clinical environment, consistent with
the present inventive concepts. In one embodiment, the illustrated method can be
performed to monitor the presence of a surgeon during a procedure to ensure that the
surgeon is not active and/or performing surgery past a threshold value. The illustrated
method can be performed for multiple operators during a procedure.
        [0145] In STEP 400, a start time T1 of an operator is recorded and logged into a
memory module, for example the memory module, as has been described herein. In one
embodiment, a data analyzer, for example data analyzer 120 of FIG. 1 receives a verbal
                                                -52-

data signal and/or a video data signal from an audio recorder, for example audio recorder
115110 of FIG. 1, thus associating the receipt of the signal with the operator's presence.
The first verbal data signal can roughly represent the operator's start time T1. Additionally
or alternatively, the operator's start time can be determined automatically, for example by a
motion sensor, or manually, for example by a timecard entry assembly.
        [0146] In STEP 410, the operator's time at T2 is recorded and logged into the
memory module. T2 can be recorded and logged similarly to T1.
        [0147] In STEP 420, the operator's presence, represented by the value equaling T2
minus T1, is compared to a threshold. The threshold value can be a value that is
predetermined for patient safety based upon the complexity of the procedure being
performed. In the example where the operator is the surgeon, the threshold value can be
determined based upon the ability and/or experience of the surgeon; whether or not the
surgeon has performed other procedures within a particular amount of time such as within
the last eight hours; the length of time the surgeon has performed the current procedure
without a relief; whether or not the assistant surgeon has left early or during a critical
phase; and combinations of these. The threshold value can be entered into an input
module, for example input module 110 of FIG. 1, prior to a procedure, as has been
described hereabove.
        [0148] If the operator's presence, i.e. T2 minus T1, does not exceed a threshold
value, the steps can be repeated, beginning with STEP 410. However, if the operator's
presence does exceed a threshold value, an alert mode will be entered as shown in STEP
430. The alert mode is similar to that described in STEP 260 of FIG. 2 hereabove.
                                               -53-

       [0149] The foregoing description and accompanying drawings set forth a number of
examples of representative embodiments at the present time. Various modifications,
additions and alternative designs will become apparent to those skilled in the art in light of
the foregoing teachings without departing from the spirit hereof, or exceeding the scope
hereof, which is indicated by the following claims rather than by the foregoing description.
All changes and variations that fall within the meaning and range of equivalency of the
claims are to be embraced within their scope.
                                               -54-

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A system for monitoring a medical procedure performed in a clinical environment
comprising:
        an audio recorder constructed and arranged to produce a verbal data signal
representative of verbal communication that occurs in the clinical environment;
        a data analyzer constructed and arranged to receive the verbal data signal from the
audio recorder, analyze the verbal data signal and detect at least one adverse condition;
and
         an alert module constructed and arranged to alert at least one operator when the at
least one adverse condition is detected by the data analyzer.
2.       The system of claim 1 wherein the medical procedure comprises a procedure
selected from the group consisting of: a surgical procedure such as a minimally invasive
surgical procedure; a laparoscopic surgical procedure; an open surgical procedure; an
interventional procedure; a reconstructive surgery; a robotic or robotically-enabled
procedure; an outpatient procedure; a dental procedure such as a fully anesthetized dental
procedure; and combinations thereof.
3.       The system of claim 1 wherein the clinical environment comprises a setting
selected from the group consisting of: an operating room; a catheterization lab; an intensive
care unit; a control room for an operating room; an outpatient surgery treatment room; a
dentist's office; a surgeon's office such as a maxillofacial surgeon's office; and
combinations thereof.
4.       The system of claim 1 wherein the audio recorder comprises at least one
microphone.
5.       The system of claim 1 wherein the audio recorder comprises multiple microphones.
                                              -55-

6.      The system of claim 5 wherein the multiple microphones are in proximity to the at
least one operator.
7.      The system of claim 5 wherein the multiple microphones comprise a first
microphone positioned in proximity to a first operator and a second microphone in proximity
to a second operator.
8.      The system of claim 1 wherein the audio recorder is selected from the group
consisting of: a microphone; an operator-worn microphone or headset; a room microphone;
an omnidirectional microphone; a Bluetooth device; a telephone; a mobile telephone; a
wireless device; and combinations thereof.
9.      The system of claim 1 wherein the audio recorder comprises an operator-worn
headset.
10.     The system of claim 9 wherein each operator of the at least one operators wears a
headset.
11.     The system of claim 10 wherein each headset comprises an identifier associated
with the operator.
12.     The system of claim 1 wherein the audio recorder comprises an intercom system.
13.     The system of claim 1 wherein the audio recorder is further constructed and
arranged to produce a non-verbal data signal.
14.     The system of claim 13 wherein the non-verbal data signal comprises audio signals
produced by equipment positioned in the clinical environment.
                                              -56-

15.     The system of claim 14 wherein the data analyzer is further constructed and
arranged to receive the non-verbal data signal from the audio recorder, analyze the non
verbal data signal and detect an equipment status signal.
16.    The system of claim 15 wherein the equipment status signal comprises an
equipment warning signal.
17.     The system of claim 1 further comprising a video camera constructed and arranged
to produce a video data signal.
18.     The system of claim 17 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
receive the video data signal from the video camera and analyze the video data signal.
19.     The system of claim 18 wherein the data analyzer is further constructed and
arranged to detect an operator gesture.
20.     The system of claim 19 wherein the operator gesture comprises a gesture selected
from the group consisting of: a head nod or other affirmatory response; a head shake or
other non-affirmatory response; a shrug; an indecisive response; and combinations thereof.
21.     The system of claim 18 wherein the data analyzer is further constructed and
arranged to detect at least one spoken word in the video data signal.
22.     The system of claim 18 wherein the data analyzer is further constructed and
arranged to detect at least one adverse condition in the video data signal.
23.     The system of claim 17 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
combine the verbal data signal and the video data signal to produce a combined signal and
to analyze the combined signal.
                                             -57-

24.       The system of claim 17 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
combine and analyze the verbal data signal and the video data signal, and to detect an
adverse condition based on the combined analysis.
25.      The system of claim 1 wherein the verbal data signal comprises communication
data received from a single operator.
26.      The system of claim 1 wherein the verbal data signal comprises communication
data from at least a first operator and a second operator.
27.      The system of claim 26 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
differentiate communiation data of the first operator from communication data of the second
operator.
28.      The system of claim 1 wherein the verbal data signal comprises verbal
communication that occurred prior to initiation of the medical procedure.
29.      The system of claim 1 wherein the verbal data signal comprises verbal
communication that occurred during the performance of the medical procedure.
30.      The system of claim 1 wherein the verbal data signal comprises verbal
communication that occurred after the performance of the medical procedure.
31.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer comprises a component selected
from the group consisting of: microprocessor; microcontroller; analog to digital converter;
digital to analog converter; and combinations thereof.
32.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer comprises spoken word
recognition software employing at least one algorithm, wherein the algorithm converts the
verbal data signal to text data.
                                              -58-

33.     The system of claim 32 wherein the at least one algorithm is biased to correlate at
least a portion of the verbal data signal to one or more medical terms.
34.     The system of claim 33 further comprising a library of medical terms and wherein
the bias is based on the library of medical terms.
35.     The system of claim 32 further comprising a library of medical terms.
36.     The system of claim 32 wherein the at least one algorithm is biased to correlate at
least a portion of the verbal data signal to one or terms input by an operator.
37.     The system of claim 32 wherein the at least one algorithm is biased to correlate at
least a portion of the verbal data signal to at least one quantitative value input by an
operator.
38.     The system of claim 37 wherein the at least one quantitative value comprises a
range of values.
39.     The system of claim 32 wherein the at least one algorithm is biased to correlate at
least a portion of the verbal data signal to a range of quantitative values wherein the range
comprises quantitative values that are typically associated with a parameter.
40.     The system of claim 32 wherein the at least one algorithm is biased to correlate at
least a portion of the verbal data signal to a previously received verbal data signal.
41.     The system of claim 40 wherein the at least a portion of the verbal data signal
comprises a quantitative value.
42.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer comprises a memory module
constructed and arranged to store patient historic data.
                                               -59-

43.      The system of claim 42 wherein the stored patient data comprises data selected
from the group consisting of: sex; age; height; weight; race; medical history; and
combinations thereof.
44.      The system of claim 42 wherein the data analyzer comprises an algorithm to extract
the patient historic data from the verbal data signal.
45.      The system of claim 42 wherein the system further comprises in input device
constructed and arranged to allow an operator to enter the patient historic data.
46.      The system of claim 45 wherein the input device comprises a device selected from
the group consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen display; and combinations thereof.
47.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
identify patient data in the verbal data signal.
48.      The system of claim 47 wherein the patient data is selected from the group
consisting of: ACT; blood pressure; heart rate; pulse rate; respiratory rate glucose levels;
saturated  02  pressure; saturated C02 pressure; core body temperature; skin temperature;
total lung capacity; residual volume; expiratory reserve volume; vital capacity; tidal volume;
alveolar gas volume; actual lung volume; EEG bands such as Delta, Theta, Alpha, Beta,
Gamma and Mu; EKG information such as RR interval, P wave length/amplitude, PR
interval, amplitude of QRS complex, J-point detection, absolute and relative refractory
periods, QT interval and U & J Wave detection; blood volume; extra embolic gases; heparin
volume; protamine sulfate volume; and combinations thereof.
49.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
identify equipment data in the verbal data signal.
                                               -60-

50.      The system of claim 49 wherein the equipment data is selected from the group
consisting of: instructions to turn a piece of equipment on or off; instructions to modify the
settings of one or more pieces of equipment; and combinations thereof.
51.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
identify procedure data in the verbal data signal.
52.      The system of claim 51 wherein the procedure data is selected from the group
consisting of: total procedure length; length of a procedural step; time of initiation of a
procedural step; time since last administration of a drug or other agent; and combinations
thereof.
53.      The system of claim 52 wherein the procedural steps are selected from the group
consisting of: patient preparation; anesthesia induction; opening/sternotomy; initiation of
bypass; cardiac repair; termination of bypass; closure; post-op; anesthesia; insufflation;
laparoscopic insertion such as laparoscopic insertion prior to a cholecystectomy; diagnosis
confirmation; port incisions; removing bile; grasping a structure such as a gallbladder;
isolating and dividing structures; separation of a first structure from a second structure such
as a gallbladder from a liver; removal of a structure such as a gallbladder; irrigation such as
abdominal wall irrigation; prostatectomy such as a robotic prostatectomy; docking of a
robot; dissection such as SV dissection; hemostasis; completion of anastamosis; removal
of drapes; and combinations thereof.
54.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
identify a request for information data in the verbal data signal.
55.      The system of claim 54 wherein the request for information data comprises a
request for information selected from the group consisting of: a patient parameter; a
procedural parameter; an equipment parameter; and combinations thereof.
                                               -61-

56.       The system of claim 54 wherein the system is constructed and arranged to provide
a quantitative and/or qualitative response to the request.
57.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
identify an acknowledgement of receipt of information.
58.      The system of claim 57 further comprising a library of acknowledgement terms.
59.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
correlate the verbal data signal received to a first operator or to a second operator.
60.      The system of claim 59 wherein the data analyzer comprises an algorithm for
detecting the adverse condition, wherein the algorithm comprises a first analysis on data
correlated to the first operator and a second, different analysis on data correlated to the
second operator.
61.       The system of claim 59 wherein the data analyzer correlates the verbal data signal
of the first operator based on a first identifier and correlates the verbal data signal of the
second operator based on a second identifier, wherein the first identifier is different from
the second identifier.
62.       The system of claim 61 wherein a headset worn by the first and second operators
comprises the identifier.
63.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
correlate the verbal data signal to an operator type.
64.      The system of claim 63 wherein the operator type comprises a function selected
from the group consisting of: a surgeon; an anesthesiologist; a scrub nurse; a circulating
nurse; hospital administrator; and combinations thereof.
                                                 -62-

65.       The system of claim 63 wherein the data analyzer comprises an algorithm, and
wherein the algorithm detects the adverse condition based on the operator type and the
verbal data signal.
66.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
filter and/or segregate verbal data received from the at least one operator.
67.      The system of claim 66 wherein the filtered and/or segregated verbal data is
prioritized based on an operator hierarchy.
68.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
filter and/or segregate verbal data received from a non-operator.
69.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer comprises a memory module.
70.      The system of claim 69 wherein the memory module is constructed and arranged to
store one or more portions of the verbal data signal.
71.      The system of claim 69 wherein the memory module is constructed and arranged to
store processed verbal data signal.
72.       The system of claim 69 wherein the memory module is constructed and arranged to
store a library of values.
73.      The system of claim 72 wherein the library of values comprises multiple spoken
word terms to be recognized.
74.      The system of claim 72 wherein the library of values comprises one or more
quantitative values, wherein the data analyzer comprises an algorithm which compares the
verbal data signal to the one or more quantitative values.
                                              -63-

75.     The system of claim 69 wherein the memory module is constructed and arranged to
store historic medical statistics and/or other medical data.
76.     The system of claim 69 wherein the memory module is constructed and arranged to
store one or more portions of a video data signal produced by a video camera.
77.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer comprises a threshold and
wherein the detection of the at least one adverse condition is based on data extracted from
the verbal data signal exceeding the threshold.
78.     The system of claim 77 wherein the threshold comprises a value or a range of
values input to the system by an operator.
79.     The system of claim 77 wherein the threshold comprises a value or a range of
values relating to at least one of a patient, procedural or equipment parameter.
80.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on an identification of a key word in the
verbal data signal.
81.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a detection of an unrecognized voice in
the verbal data signal.
82.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a detection of an unrecognized term in
the verbal data signal.
83.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a determination that a first operator has
been active and/or present above a threshold of time.
                                               -64-

84.     The system of claim 83 wherein the first operator comprises a surgeon.
85.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a detection of a heightened frequency of
recognized terms at an improper time.
86.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a lack of receipt of information.
87.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a determination that multiple pieces of
similar data have not been received within a pre-determined time interval.
88.     The system of claim 87 wherein the time interval comprises an operator adjustable
time interval.
89.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on a determination that a particular
operator is not present.
90.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on an analysis of patient historic data.
91.     The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect the at least one adverse condition based on an analysis of a set of medical statistics.
92.     The system of claim 91 wherein the set of medical statistics is pre-selected by an
operator.
                                            -65-

93.      The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module is constructed and arranged to
notify a single operator of the detection of the at least one adverse condition.
94.      The system of claim 93 wherein the alert module notifies a single operator based
upon an identifier associated with the operator.
95.      The system of claim 94 wherein a headset worn by the operator comprises the
identifier.
96.      The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module is constructed and arranged to
notify multiple operators of the detection of the at least one adverse condition.
97.      The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module comprises an audio transducer.
98.      The system of claim 97 wherein the alert module is constructed and arranged to
produce an audible beep when the at least one adverse condition is detected.
99.      The system of claim 97 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
detect a first adverse condition and a second adverse condition, and wherein the audio
transducer is constructed and arranged to produce a first audio pattern when the first
adverse condition is detected and a second audio pattern when the second adverse
condition is detected.
100.     The system of claim 97 wherein the audio transducer is constructed and arranged
to produce a sound selected from the group consisting of: a computer generated voice; a
recording of a human voice; and combinations thereof.
101.     The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module comprises a visual display.
102.     The system of claim 101 wherein the visual display is constructed and arranged to
provide alpha-numeric text when an adverse condition is detected.
                                               -66-

103.      The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module comprises a tactile transducer.
104.      The system of claim 103 wherein the tactile transducer comprises an operator-worn
tactile transducer.
105.      The system of claim 103 wherein the tactile transducer comprises a vibrating
transducer.
106.      The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module comprises multiple alert
transducers.
107.      The system of claim 1 wherein the alert module comprises at least one alert
transducer selected from the group consisting of: an audio transducer such as speaker and
a piezo transducer; a visual transducer such as LCD screen, a touch screen, and a light
such as an LED; a tactile transducer such as a vibrating transducer and a thermal
transducer; and combinations thereof.
108.      The system of claim 1 further comprising a data input module constructed and
arranged to allow at least one operator to input data to the system.
109.      The system of claim 108 wherein the data input module comprises a voice data
input module.
110.      The system of claim 109 wherein the data input module comprises a microphone.
111.      The system of claim 108 wherein the data input module comprises a text data input
module.
112.      The system of claim 111 wherein the data input module comprises a device
selected from the group consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen; a motion-sensing input
                                              -67-

device; a cell phone; a handheld electronic organizer; a mouse; a tablet; a hospital
computer or computer network; a wireless connection such as a cellular service; an internet
connection; an electronic file transfer port such as USB port; a memory storage device
such as a USB memory stick; and combinations thereof.
113.    The system of claim 108 wherein the data input module is constructed and
arranged to receive operator voice data from a first operator.
114.    The system of claim 113 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
convert the verbal data signal to text data based on the received first operator voice data.
115.    The system of claim 113 wherein the data analyzer is constructed and arranged to
correlate the verbal data signal to the operator voice data to identify the operator.
116.    The system of claim 108 wherein the data analyzer comprises memory, wherein the
operator input data comprises spoken word terms, and wherein the data analyzer is
constructed and arranged to store the spoken word terms in the memory.
117.    The system of claim 116 wherein the data analyzer further comprises an algorithm,
and wherein the algorithm comprises a comparison of the verbal data signal to the spoken
word terms stored in the memory which converts the verbal data signal to text data.
118.    The system of claim 108 wherein the data analyzer comprises memory, wherein the
operator input data comprises quantitative data, and wherein the data analyzer is
constructed and arranged to store the quantitative data in the memory.
119.    The system of claim 118 wherein the data analyzer further comprises an algorithm,
and wherein the algorithm comprises a comparison of the verbal data signal to quantitative
data stored in the memory.
                                               -68-

120.     The system of claim 119 wherein the quantitative data stored in the memory
comprises a threshold value used in the comparison.
121.     The system of claim 108 wherein the data input module is constructed and
arranged to send and/or receive information from a healthcare information system.
122.     The system of claim 1 further comprising a data output module.
123.     The system of claim 122 wherein the data output module is constructed and
arranged to provide patient and/or procedural information to at least one operator.
124.     The system of claim 123 wherein the patient and/or procedural information provided
is in response to a request by the at least one operator.
125.     The system of claim 123 wherein the patient and/or procedural information
comprises information selected from the group consisting of: a current or real-time
parameter; a historic parameter; an average of multiple parameter values; a maximum of
multiple parameter values; and combinations thereof.
126.     The system of claim 122 wherein the data output module is constructed and
arranged to provide patient and/or procedural information in paper form.
127.     The system of claim 122 wherein the data output module is constructed and
arranged to provide patient and/or procedural information in electronic form.
128.     The system of claim 122 wherein the data output module is constructed and
arranged to provide information selected from the group consisting of: an adverse condition
detected; an operator's entry and/or exit time into the clinical setting; a procedure event that
surpasses a threshold; an evidence-based decision support reminder; a captured video; a
recommendation generated by the data analyzer; and combinations thereof.
                                              -69-

129.      The system of claim 122 wherein the data output module is constructed and
arranged to transfer information to a healthcare information system.
130.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data output module is constructed and arranged
to provide data in real-time.
131.      The system of claim 1 wherein the data output module is constructed and arranged
to provide data after completion of a procedure.
132.      The system of claim 1 further comprising a data monitoring module.
133.      The system of claim 132 wherein the data monitoring module is constructed and
arranged to confirm proper information is received.
134.      The system of claim 132 wherein the data monitoring module is constructed and
arranged to confirm proper information is continually received within a pre-determined time
interval.
135.      The system of claim 1 further comprising an operator position monitoring module.
136.      The system of claim 135 wherein the operator position monitoring module is
constructed and arranged to monitor an operator position by detecting an operator voice in
the verbal data signal.
137.      The system of claim 135 wherein the operator position monitoring module
comprises a motion sensor.
138.      The system of claim 135 wherein the operator position monitoring module
comprises a video camera.
                                              -70-

139.    The system of claim 135 wherein the operator position monitoring module
comprises a timecard entry assembly.
140.    The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one sensor.
141.    The system of claim 140 wherein the at least one sensor comprises one or more
sensors selected from the group consisting of: a temperature sensor; an acoustic sensor;
an electromagnetic sensor; a pressure sensor; a motion sensor; and combinations thereof.
142.    The system of claim 1 further comprising a patient treatment device.
143.    The system of claim 142 wherein the treatment device is selected from the group
consisting of: scalpel; electrocautery device; grasper; guidewire; interventional catheter;
anesthesia injection device; RF or cryogenic ablation equipment; retractor; ECMO device;
ventricular assist device; ventilator; bone awl; bone tamper; bone gouge; bone file; bone
mallet; osteotome; defibrillator; drill; radiosurgery system; CPB machine; endoscope; cross
clamp; robotic surgical system; colonoscope; polytectomy snare; and combinations thereof.
144.    The system of claim 142 wherein the treatment device is modified if an adverse
event is detected.
145.    The system of claim 144 wherein the modification comprises a disabling or
powering down of the treatment device.
146.    The system of claim 1 further comprising a checklist wherein the data analyzer
detects the at least one adverse condition based upon an analysis of the checklist.
147.    The system of claim 146 wherein the checklist comprises at least a portion that is
customized for a particular operator.
                                                 -71-

148.     The system of claim 147 wherein the checklist is constructed and arranged to be
customized prior to the performance of a medical procedure.
149.    A method for monitoring a medical procedure performed in a clinical environment
comprising:
        producing a verbal data signal representative of verbal communication that occurs in
the clinical environment;
        receiving the verbal data signal;
        analyzing the verbal data signal;
        detecting at least one adverse condition; and
         alerting at least one operator when the at least one adverse condition is detected.
150.     The method of claim 149 wherein the medical procedure comprises a procedure
selected from the group consisting of: a surgical procedure such as a minimally invasive
surgical procedure; a laparoscopic surgical procedure; an open surgical procedure; an
interventional procedure; a reconstructive surgery; a robotic or robotically-enabled
procedure; an outpatient procedure; a dental procedure such as a fully anesthetized dental
procedure; and combinations thereof.
151.     The method of claim 149 wherein the clinical environment comprises a setting
selected from the group consisting of: an operating room; a catheterization lab; an intensive
care unit; a control room for an operating room; an outpatient surgery treatment room; a
dentist's office; a surgeon's office such as a maxillofacial surgeon's office; and
combinations thereof.
152.     The method of claim 149 wherein producing the verbal data signal is via an audio
recorder.
153.     The method of claim 152 wherein the audio recorder is selected from the group
consisting of: a microphone; an operator-worn microphone or headset; a room microphone;
                                              -72-

an omnidirectional microphone; a Bluetooth device; a telephone; a mobile telephone; a
wireless device; and combinations thereof.
154.    The method of claim 149 further comprising producing a non-verbal data signal.
155.    The method of claim 154 wherein the non-verbal data signal comprises an
equipment status signal, and wherein the method further comprises receiving the
equipment status signal and detecting the equipment status signal.
156.    The method of claim 154 further comprising receiving the non-verbal data signal
and analyzing the non-verbal data signal.
157.    The method of claim 149 further comprising producing a video data signal.
158.    The method of claim 157 further comprising receiving the video data signal and
analyzing the video data signal.
159.    The method of claim 157 further comprising detecting an operator gesture wherein
the operator gesture comprises a gesture selected from the group consisting of: a head nod
or other affirmatory response; a head shake or other non-affirmatory response; a shrug; an
indecisive response; and combinations thereof.
160.    The method of claim 159 further comprising detecting at least one spoken word in
the video data signal.
161.    The method of claim 159 further comprising detecting at least one adverse
condition in the video data signal.
162.    The method of claim 159 further comprising combining the verbal data signal and
the video data signal to produce a combined signal and analyzing the combined signal.
                                           -73-

163.      The method of claim 159 further comprising analyzing the verbal data signal and
the video data signal and detecting an adverse condition based on the combined analysis.
164.     The method of claim 149 wherein receiving the verbal data signal comprises
receiving communication data from a single operator.
165.     The method of claim 149 wherein receiving the verbal data signal comprises
receiving data from at least a first operator and a second operator.
166.     The method of claim 165 further comprising differentiating the communication data
of the first operator from the communication data of the second operator.
167.     The method of claim 149 wherein receiving the verbal data signal comprises
receiving verbal communication that occurred prior to initiation of the medical procedure.
168.     The method of claim 149 wherein receiving the verbal data signal comprises
receiving verbal communication that occurred during the performance of the medical
procedure.
170.     The method of claim 149 wherein receiving the verbal data signal comprises
receiving verbal communication that occurred after the performance of the medical
procedure.
171.     The method of claim 149 wherein analyzing the verbal data signal is via a data
analyzer wherein the data analyzer comprises a component selected from the group
consisting of: microprocessor; microcontroller; analog to digital converter; digital to analog
converter; and combinations thereof.
172.     The method of claim 149 wherein analyzing the verbal data signal comprises
converting the verbal data signal to text data via spoken word recognition software
employing at least one algorithm.
                                               -74-

173.     The method of claim 172 further comprising correlating at least a portion of the
verbal data signal to one or more medical terms stored in a library.
174.     The method of claim 149 wherein analyzing the verbal data signal comprises
correlating at least a portion of the verbal data signal to one or more terms input by an
operator.
175.     The method of claim 149 wherein analyzing the verbal data signal comprises
correlating at least a portion of the verbal data signal to at least one quantitative value or
range of quantitative values input by an operator.
176.     The method of claim 149 wherein analyzing the verbal data signal comprises
correlating at least a portion of the verbal data signal to a range of quantitative values
wherein the range comprises quantitative values that are typically associated with a
parameter.
177.     The method of claim 149 wherein analyzing the verbal data signal comprises
correlating at least a portion of the verbal data signal to a previously received verbal data
signal.
178.     The method of claim 177 wherein the at least a portion of the verbal data signal
comprises a quantitative value.
179.     The method of claim 149 further comprising storing patient historic data.
180.     The method of claim 179 wherein the stored patient data comprises data selected
from the group consisting of: sex; age; height; weight; race; medical history; and
combinations thereof.
                                               -75-

181.     The method of claim 179 further comprising extracting the patient historic data from
the verbal data signal.
182.     The method of claim 179 further comprising entering the patient historic data via an
input device.
183.     The method of claim 182 wherein the input device comprises a device selected
from the group consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen display; and combinations thereof.
184.     The method of claim 149 further comprising identifying patient data in the verbal
data signal.
185.    The method of claim 184 wherein the patient data is selected from the group
consisting of: ACT; blood pressure; heart rate; pulse rate; respiratory rate; glucose levels;
saturated  02 pressure; saturated CO2 pressure; core body temperature; skin temperature;
total lung capacity; residual volume; expiratory reserve volume; vital capacity; tidal volume;
alveolar gas volume; actual lung volume; EEG bands such as Delta, Theta, Alpha, Beta,
Gamma and Mu; EKG information such as RR interval, P wave length/amplitude, PR
interval, amplitude of QRS complex, J-point detection, absolute and relative refractory
periods, QT interval and U & J Wave detection; blood volume; extra embolic gases; heparin
volume; protamine sulfate volume; and combinations thereof.
186.     The method of claim 149 further comprising identifying equipment data in the verbal
data signal.
187.     The method of claim 186 wherein the equipment data is selected from the group
consisting of: instructions to turn a piece of equipment on or off; instructions to modify the
settings of one or more pieces of equipment; and combinations thereof.
188.     The method of claim 149 further comprising identifying procedure data in the verbal
data signal.
                                               -76-

189.     The method of claim 188 wherein the procedure data is selected from the group
consisting of: total procedure length; length of a procedural step; time of initiation of a
procedural step; time since last administration of a drug or other agent; and combinations
thereof.
190.     The method of claim 189 wherein the procedural steps are selected from the group
consisting of: patient preparation; anesthesia induction; opening/sternotomy; initiation of
bypass; cardiac repair; termination of bypass; closure; post-op; anesthesia; insufflation;
laparoscopic insertion such as laparoscopic insertion prior to a cholecystectomy; diagnosis
confirmation; port incisions; removing bile; grasping a structure such as a gallbladder;
isolating and dividing structures; separation of a first structure from a second structure such
as a gallbladder from a liver; removal of a structure such as a gallbladder; irrigation such as
abdominal wall irrigation; prostatectomy such as a robotic prostatectomy; docking of a
robot; dissection such as SV dissection; hemostasis; completion of anastamosis; removal
of drapes; and combinations thereof.
191.     The method of claim 149 further comprising identifying a request for information
data in the verbal data signal.
192.     The method of claim 191 wherein the request for information data comprises a
request for information selected from the group consisting of: a patient parameter; a
procedural parameter; an equipment parameter; and combinations thereof.
193.     The method of claim 191 further comprising providing a quantitative and/or
qualitative response to the request.
194.     The method of claim 149 further comprising identifying an acknowledgement of
receipt of information wherein the identification of the acknowledgement is based on a
library of acknowledgement terms.
                                               -77-

195.     The method of claim 149 further comprising correlating the verbal data signal to a
first operator or to a second operator.
196.     The method of claim 195 further comprising detecting the adverse condition via an
algorithm, wherein the algorithm comprises a first analysis on data correlated to a first
operator and a second, different analysis on data correlated to a second operator.
197.     The method of claim 195 further comprising correlating the verbal data signal of the
first operator based on a first identifier and correlating the verbal data signal of the second
operator based on a second identifier, wherein the first identifier is different from the
second identifier.
198.     The method of claim 149 further comprising correlating the verbal data signal to an
operator type.
199.     The method of claim 198 further comprising detecting the adverse condition based
on the operator type and the verbal data signal via an algorithm.
200.     The method of claim 149 further comprising filtering and/or segregating verbal data
received from at least one operator.
201.     The method of claim 200 further comprising prioritizing the filtered and/or
segregated verbal data based on an operator hierarchy.
202.     The method of claim 149 further comprising filtering and/or segregating verbal data
received from a non-operator.
203.     The method of claim 149 further comprising storing data selected from the group
consisting of: one or more portions of the verbal data signal: one or more processed data
signals; a library of values where the values include spoken words to be recognized and/or
                                                -78-

quantitative values; historic medical statistics and/or other medical data; one or more
portions of a video data signal produced by a video camera; and combinations thereof.
204.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on data
extracted from the verbal data signal exceeding a threshold.
205.     The method of claim 204 wherein the threshold comprises a value or a range of
values input to the system by an operator.
206.     The method of claim 204 wherein the threshold comprises a value or a range of
values relating to at least one of a patient, procedural or equipment parameter.
207.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on an
identification of a key word in the verbal data signal.
208.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
detection of an unrecognized voice in the verbal data signal.
209.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
detection of an unrecognized term in the verbal data signal.
210.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
determination that a first operator has been active and/or present above a threshold of
time.
211.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
detection of a heightened frequency of recognized terms at an improper time.
212.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
lack of receipt of information.
                                               -79-

213.      The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
determination that multiple pieces of similar data have not been received within a pre
determined time interval.
214.     The method of claim 213 further comprising adjusting the time interval.
215.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on a
determination that a particular operator is not present.
216.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on an
analysis of patient historic data.
217.     The method of claim 149 wherein detecting the adverse condition is based on an
analysis of a set of medical statistics.
218.     The method of claim 217 further comprising selecting the set of medical statistics.
219.     The method of claim 149 wherein alerting the at least one operator when the
adverse condition is detected comprises alerting a single operator.
220.     The method of claim 149 wherein alerting the at least one operator when the
adverse condition is detected comprises alerting multiple operators.
221.     The method of claim 149 wherein alerting the at least one operator when the
adverse condition is detected comprises producing at least one of an audible sound; a
tactile feedback; or a visual display.
222.     The method of claim 221 wherein detecting at least one adverse condition
comprises detecting a first adverse condition and a second adverse condition, and wherein
the method further comprises producing a first audio pattern when the first adverse
                                              -80-

condition is detected and a second audio pattern when the second adverse condition is
detected.
223.    The method of claim 149 further comprising entering data into a data input module.
224.    The method of claim 223 wherein the data comprises voice data; text data; and
combinations thereof.
225.    The method of claim 223 wherein the data input module comprises a device
selected from the group consisting of: a keyboard; a touch screen; a motion-sensing input
device; a cell phone; a handheld electronic organizer; a mouse; a tablet; a hospital
computer or computer network; a wireless connection such as a cellular service; an internet
connection; an electronic file transfer port such as USB port; a memory storage device
such as a USB memory stick; and combinations thereof.
226.    The method of claim 223 wherein entering data comprises receiving operator voice
data from a first operator via the input data module.
227.    The method of claim 226 further comprising converting the verbal data signal to text
data based on the received first operator voice data.
228.    The method of claim 226 further comprising correlating the verbal data signal to the
operator voice data to identify the first operator.
229.    The method of claim 226 further comprising storing the operator voice data in a
memory.
230.    The method of claim 229 further comprising comparing the verbal data signal to the
operator voice data stored in memory and converting the verbal data signal to text data.
231.    The method of claim 226 further comprising storing quantitative data in memory.
                                               -81-

232.    The method of claim 231 further comprising comparing the verbal data signal to the
quantitative data stored in the memory.
233.    The method of claim 231 wherein the quantitative data stored in the memory
comprises a threshold value used in the comparison.
234.    The method of claim 223 further comprising transmitting information from a
healthcare information system to the data input module.
235.    The method of claim 149 further comprising providing patient and/or procedural
information to at least one operator via an output module.
236.    The method of claim 235 wherein the patient and/or procedural information
provided in response to a request by the at least one operator.
237.    The method of claim 235 wherein the patient and/or procedural information
comprises information selected from the group consisting of: a current or real-time
parameter; a historic parameter; an average of multiple parameter values; a maximum of
multiple parameter values; and combinations thereof.
238.    The method of claim 235 wherein providing the patient and/or procedural
information comprises providing information in paper form.
239.    The method of claim 235 wherein providing the patient and/or procedural
information is providing information in electronic form.
240.    The method of claim 235 wherein the patient and/or procedural information is
selected from the group consisting of: an adverse condition detected; an operator's entry
and/or exit time into the clinical setting: a procedure event that surpasses a threshold; an
                                                -82-

evidence-based decision support reminder; a captured video; a recommendation generated
by the data analyzer; and combinations thereof.
241.    The method of claim 235 further comprising transferring the patient and/or
procedural information to and/or from a healthcare information system.
242.    The method of claim 235 wherein providing the patient and/or procedural
information occurs in real-time.
243.    The method of claim 235 wherein providing the patient and/or procedural
information occurs after completion of a procedure.
244.    The method of claim 149 further comprising confirming proper information is
received via a data monitoring module.
245.    The method of claim 244 wherein confirming the proper information is received
comprises confirming the proper information is continually received within a pre-determined
time interval.
246.    The method of claim 149 further comprising monitoring an operator position by
detecting an operator voice in the verbal data signal via an operator position monitoring
module.
247.    The method of claim 246 wherein the operator position is monitored via at least one
of a motion sensor; a video camera; or a timecard entry assembly.
248.    The method of claim 149 further comprising sensing at least one parameter via at
least one sensor.
                                             -83-

249.     The method of claim 248 wherein the at least one sensor comprises one or more
sensors selected from the group consisting of: a temperature sensor; an acoustic sensor
an electromagnetic sensor; a pressure sensor; a motion sensor; and combinations thereof.
250.     The method of claim 149 further comprising treating a patient via a patient
treatment device.
251.     The method of claim 250 wherein the treatment device is selected from the group
consisting of: scalpel; electrocautery device; grasper; guidewire; interventional catheter;
anesthesia injection device; RF or cryogenic ablation equipment; retractor; ECMO device;
ventricular assist device; ventilator; bone awl; bone tamper; bone gouge; bone file; bone
mallet; osteotome; defibrillator; drill: radiosurgery system; CPB machine; endoscope; cross
clamp; robotic surgical system; colonoscope; polytectomy snare; and combinations thereof.
252.     The method of claim 250 further comprising modifying the treatment device if an
adverse event is detected.
253.     The method of claim 252 wherein the modification comprises a disabling or
powering down of the treatment device.
254.     The method of claim 149 further comprising analyzing a checklist and detecting the
at least one adverse condition based upon the analysis of the checklist.
255.     The method of claim 254 further comprising customizing the checklist so that at
least a portion of the checklist is customized for a particular operator.
256.     The method of claim 255 wherein the checklist is customized prior to the
performance of a medical procedure.
                                                 -84-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
