                                            ABTRACT
A website & mobile application that pool funds from interested investors (individuals or businesses)
to pay for the construction cost of residential and commercial projects owned by property
developers who wish to commence construction works. Investors will receive back their pooled
funds with profits added or losses deducted at/after selling the building (depending on agreement
between involved parties). In case of temporary leasing, investors are to receive dividends until
building is sold.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                                                                  Property
                                                      TG Development
                                                  Terra Grandis Pty Ltd
                                                  ABN: 97 619 824 805
                                                  46A Malvern Rd, Miranda NSW 2228
                                                  aarm9056@uni.sydney.edu.au
                                                   0477577799
                                         Description
Patent title:
A website & mobile application that pool funds from interested investors (individuals or
businesses) to pay for the construction cost of residential and commercial projects owned by
property developers who wish to commence construction works. Investors will receive
back their pooled funds with profits added or losses deducted at/after selling the building
(depending on agreement between involved parties). In case of temporary leasing, investors
are to receive dividends until building is sold.
Patent details:
We are currently establishing a website and mobile application that features
residential/commercial projects with potential or approved development applications, listed
by property developers who wish to commence construction works and wish to raise
construction cost from others. Investors (individuals or businesses) are to choose from the
available construction projects (e.g. renovations, dual occupancies, multi-dwellings, apartment
blocks, medical centres, childcare centres, etc.) & pool their funds to pay for the construction
cost of their selected project/projects. Investors are then given their money back with profits
added or losses deducted based on the project price at/after selling the building (depending on
agreement between involved parties). In case of projects marketed for lease, investors are to
receive dividends until the building is sold.
Investors may have no right to take their money back before the building is sold (depending on
agreement between involved parties). Investors wishing to pull back their money from projects
before selling need to find another investor/investors willing to pool equal amount of money
as they themselves are about to withdraw.
Best regards,
Andrew Armanious

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

                                                              Property
                                                  TG Development
                                               Terra Grandis Pty Ltd
                                               ABN: 97 619 824 805
                                               46A Malvern Rd, Miranda NSW 2228
                                               aarm9056(aOuni.sydney.edu.au
                                               0477577799
                                    Patent claims
We are claiming that our platform will:
   1. Provide the general public with the ability to:
         e   Use an online specialised platform (website/mobile application) to review
             residential & commercial construction projects listed by property developers
             who wish to commence construction works.
        *    Choose from available construction projects offered by same/different property
            developers & decide which one they wish to invest/ pool their funds towards.
        *    Make use of the expected competition between different property developers
            created in such specialised online market place.
        "   Make use of the platform rating system that allows new investors to review the
            history of property developers before pooling funds in their development sites.
        "   Access capital growth profits from chosen residential & commercial property
            development without having to pay the full cost of construction & without
            leaving of all profits go to banks and limited number of individuals.
        "   Have control/impact the speed & success of favourable construction projects of
            their choice (for e.g. we expect quicker pool of funds from locals for the
            construction of a DA approved childcare in an area of need).

    2. Provide the property developers with the ability to:
            *   List their own development sites on a specialised online platform
                (website/mobile application) to raise construction funds from others.
            *   The ability to access quicker finance through an online platform with expected
                high traffic of daily visitors.
            *   The ability to get market exposure and build investors' trust in their business
                in a competitive market.
    3. Provide the property development industry with a new specialised market place that
        will contribute to a more competitive distribution of property development wealth.
Best regards,
Andrew Armanious

