                                            ABSTRACT
            Disclosed is a system and method for monitoring a physical change of a marine
   structure which includes a complex optical measuring instrument for detecting a behavior
 5 and structural change of the marine structure by using at least one optical sensor by means
   of optical fiber Bragg grating.      A physical change of the marine structure may be
   accurately monitored in real time by introducing an optical sensor-type measurement
   method.     Disclosed is real-time predictive monitoring and predictive controlling of
   aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6
10 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a marine structure, and more
   particularly a method for synthetically measuring changes of four-directional slopes, sea
   gauge, trim, corrosion, erosion, crack, pressure, stress, vibration, frequency or the like
   applied to a floating marine structure by means of aerodynamic environmental internal or
   external force, and predictively controlling the marine structure based thereon to provide
15 information on fuel savings, safe operation and maintenance.       In an aspect, a method for
   providing information on fuel savings, safe operation and maintenance by real-time
   predictive monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or
   external force, hull stresses, 6 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a
   marine structure includes (1) accumulating data about an internal or external force applied
20 to a marine structure by a gas flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a
   water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to
   the internal or external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a
   database, (2) measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in
                                                 124

  an actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
  database, (3) comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in
  the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up
  table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure, and (4)
5 controlling a posture or navigation path of the marine structure in real time by using the
  predicted data about a response of the marine structure.
                                              125

      DRAWINGS
        FIG. 1
  200
               31 0
                    300
5
         126

         SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION ON FUEL
         SAVINGS, SAFE OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE BY REAL-TIME
         PREDICTIVE MONITORING AND PREDICTIVE CONTROLLING OF
              AERODYNAMIC AND HYDRODYNAMIC ENVIRONMENTAL
 5     INTERNAL/EXTERNAL FORCES, HULL STRESSES, MOTION WITH SIX
     DEGREES OF FREEDOM, AND THE LOCATION OF MARINE STRUCTURE
           This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No
   2013268170, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
10
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present disclosure relates to a system and method for monitoring physical
   changes of a marine structure in real time with a complex optical measuring instrument by
   using an optical sensor type measurement method.              More particularly, the present
15 disclosure relates to a system and method for monitoring physical changes of a marine
   structure in real time with a complex optical measuring instrument by using an optical
   sensor type measurement method.
            In addition, the present disclosure also relates to real-time predictive monitoring
   and predictive controlling of aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal or
20 external force, hull stresses, 6 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a
   marine structure, and more particularly, to a method for synthetically measuring changes of
   four-directional slopes, sea gauge, trim, corrosion, erosion, crack, pressure, stress,
   vibration, frequency or the like applied to a floating marine structure by means of
   aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, and controlling
                                                   1

   the marine structure based thereon to provide information on fuel savings, safe operation
   and maintenance.
             The present disclosure also relates to a method for controlling a structure (e.g., a
   marine/land structure, a shipbuilding structure, an aerospace structure, an underwater
 5 mooring structure, a fixed or wind/tide/wave-based structure or the like) by means of
   integral monitoring of environmental external forces.
   BACKGROUND ART
             Crude oil produced at a marine oil well is carried to a marine structure by using a
10 pipeline which is a kind of a marine structure.         The marine structure includes a floating
   production storage and offloading (FPSO), a tension-leg platform (TLP), a semi
   submersible (SPAR), a fixe platform or the like.
             At this time, the pipeline is installed in a deep sea as much as several kilometers to
   several hundred kilometers for the purpose of over 20-year operations.
15           In this case, the pipeline installed in a deep sea is shrunken or expanded by a
   temperature deviation over 100 degrees, and physical changes such as a length change
   occur due to a pressure change in the pipeline.
             Accordingly, in the pipeline installed at the sea, stresses are intensively generated
   at a plurality of specific or unspecified points, which results in buckling or deformation.
20 In addition, in a touch down zone where a pipeline installed at the seabed is connected to a
   riser serving as a marine carrier, the pipeline may pitch and roll due to a plurality of
   external environmental forces such as sea current, wave, tidal current, wind, temperature or
   the like.
                                                     2

            In order to measure such pitch and roll, various kinds of monitoring methods are
   being used at the present.     In an existing monitoring method, a deformation rate of the
   pipeline is measured by using an electric-type or optical fiber-type deformation sensor.       In
   a marine structure, a welding portion is most vulnerable in a structural aspect, and thus
 5 sensors are installed and operated at intervals of 20 to 50 cm.      Here, sensors are installed
   in a length direction of the pipeline to analyze deformation.           In another monitoring
   method, an electric-type inclinometer is used to detect deformation of the pipeline.
            However, such existing monitoring methods have difficulty in accurately
   analyzing situations since a deformation rate caused by temperature or pressure of a marine
10 structure is much greater than a deformation rate caused by buckling or walking.               In
   addition, an electric-type inclinometer currently used is installed in the sea and thus has
   problems such as loss by water leak caused by high hydraulic pressure and complexity in
   its power supply device and connection method, and thus a new measurement method
   allowing easier use is demanded.        In addition, sensors used in the existing monitoring
15 methods have short fatigue measurement durability life, and thus sensors useable for a
   longer time are needed.
            During operation of a marine structure, gas or fluid flow inevitably applies an
   internal or external force to the marine structure.    Particularly, in case of a fixed marine
   structure mooring at a specific point on the sea, it is essential to control so that the internal
20 or external force caused by such gas or fluid flow is minimized.
            In addition, during operation         of a marine structure,        aerodynamic     and
   hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force and hull stresses may cause
   turnover of a ship or fall of cargos, and this problem should be solved urgently.
                                                   3

            Meanwhile, it is an essence in the future marine shipbuilding industry to develop
   and build a marine structure having low fuel consumption.            Assuming that marine
   structures consume 100 tons of fuel and exhaust 320 tons of carbon dioxide, if the fuel
   efficiency is improved by 1 %, costs may be reduced over 240,000 dollars per year, about
 5 6 million dollars for 24 years.    In the used ship market, the fuel efficiency is one of the
   most important factors.
            In addition, the modern society mostly depends on motorized transportation
   systems which exhaust greenhouse gas, but it is widely known that exhaustion of CO2is a
   main cause of global warming, climate change and ocean acidification.         In view of the
10 amount of C02 exhausted for transporting 1 ton of cargo by 1 mile, a marine structure is
   most efficient among all kinds of transportation means.     However, since marine structures
   are overwhelming transportation means in the world trade, the amount of exhausted C02
   by marine structures occupies about 3% in the entire greenhouse gas exhaustion.
   Therefore, if the fuel efficiency of marine structures is enhanced, the amount of exhausted
15 greenhouse gas in the industry may be greatly reduced.
            In addition, existing manual or semi-automated marine make a large difference in
   their operations due to the skill level of workers, and a system developed to use a semi
   automation mode may be applied just to a corresponding marine structure.        Therefore, in
   order to implement a system inclusively applied to various kinds of ships, a software
20 engineering approach is required, and a software framework for providing a basis for
   developing similar kinds of applications should be developed.
   DISCLOSURE
                                                 4

            Technical Problem
            The present disclosure is designed to solve the problems of the related art, and
   therefore the present disclosure is directed to providing a method for fuel savings by real
   time monitoring and controlling of aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal
 5 or external force, hull stresses, 6 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a
   marine structure.
            In addition, the present disclosure is directed to providing a monitoring system and
   method which may allow long-term measurement of a change of a marine structure by
   using an optical sensor-type complex measurement, in comparison to an existing electric
10 sensor-type measurement, and also ensure convenient installation and operation.
            Moreover, the present disclosure is directed to providing an environment in which
   the monitoring information may be shared with another external device to enhance the
   accuracy of weather information, and data measured by satellites may be calibrated.
            In addition, the present disclosure is directed to providing a method for real-time
15 safe operation by measuring a change of four-directional slopes, sea gauge, trim or the like
   applied to a floating marine structure by means of aerodynamic and hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, and then controlling the floating marine structure
   based on the measurement result.
            Moreover, the present disclosure is directed to providing information on
20 maintenance in real time by measuring corrosion, erosion, crack, pressure, stress or the like
   caused by aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force applied
   to the marine structure.
            The present disclosure is designed to solve the problems of the related art, and
                                                   5

   therefore the present disclosure is directed to providing a method for fuel savings by real
   time monitoring and controlling of aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal
   or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure.
            In addition, the present disclosure is directed to providing a monitoring system and
 5 method which may allow long-term measurement of a change of a marine structure by
   using an optical sensor-type complex measurement, in comparison to an existing electric
   sensor-type measurement, and also ensures convenient installation and operation.
            Moreover, the present disclosure is directed to providing an environment in which
   the monitoring information may be shared with another external device to enhance the
10 accuracy of weather information, and data measured by satellites may be calibrated.
            In addition, the present disclosure is directed to providing a method for real-time
   safe operation by measuring a change of four-directional slopes, sea gauge, trim or the like
   applied to a floating marine structure by means of aerodynamic and hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, and then controlling the floating marine structure
15 based on the measurement result.
            Moreover, the present disclosure is directed to providing information on
   maintenance in real time by measuring corrosion, erosion, crack, pressure, stress or the like
   caused by aerodynamic and hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force applied
   to the marine structure.
20
            Technical Solution
            In one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a system for monitoring a
   physical change of a marine structure, which includes a complex optical measuring
                                                   6

   instrument configured to detect a behavior and structural change of the marine structure by
   using at least one optical sensor by means of optical fiber Bragg grating.
            In addition,    the  complex   optical    measuring   instrument may   include an
   extensometer for measuring a distance change between at least one reference point set out
 5 of the marine structure and a point set on the marine structure by using the optical sensor,
   and the optical sensor may change a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the
   optical sensor according to a stress change applied to an optical fiber by the distance
   change.
            The extensometer may include at least one wire for connecting the reference point
10 and a point set on the marine structure.    In addition, the wire may include an invar.   In
   addition, the extensometer may further include a winding unit for winding the wire by a
   predetermined tension; and a sensing unit for measuring the number of revolutions of the
   winding unit by using an optical sensor.         In addition, the extensometer may further
   include a stimulating unit for periodically stimulating the optical sensor according to the
15 number of revolutions measured by the sensing unit.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may include an extensometer having an optical fiber
   wire 320 for connecting at least one point on the marine structure to measure a length
   change of the marine structure.     The optical fiber wire 320 may change a wavelength of
20 the optical signal passing through the optical fiber according to a stress change applied to
   an optical sensor due to a distance change on the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   extensometer may include at least one wire installed on the same point on the marine
                                                  7

   structure and made of an optical fiber, and the wire may change a wavelength of the optical
   signal passing through the optical fiber according to a stress change applied to an optical
   sensor due to a distance change on the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
 5 extensometer may provide absolute location information of the point by calculating the
   degree of tension of each wire by means of the trigonometrical survey.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may include an inclinometer for measuring an angle
   change among a plurality of points on the marine structure by using the optical sensor.   In
10 addition, the inclinometer may include a weight installed in the gravity direction; and an
   optical sensor connected to the weight and having at least one optical fiber, and due to the
   angle change of the point on the marine structure where the inclinometer is installed, a
   wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical fiber may be changed
   according to a stress change applied to the optical fiber by means of the weight.
15          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may further include a seismometer for measuring a
   location change of the reference point.       In addition, the complex optical measuring
   instrument may further include a vibration gauge for measuring a vibration of the marine
   structure.
20          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the system
   may further include a measurement device for detecting a change of the wavelength of the
   optical signal by the complex optical measuring instrument.        The measurement device
   may be a data logger or an interrogator.
                                                  8

            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may detect a change of a target structure by using at
   least one of optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR), Raman spectra (Raman), Brillouin
   scattering, Rayleigh wave, distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), acoustic emission, and
 5 interferometry.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   measurement device may include an optical unit having a laser capable of controlling a
   wavelength; an optical referencing unit for distinguishing a wavelength of the optical
   signal reflected by the optical unit by means of each optical sensor; an optical coupler for
10 connecting a plurality of optical fiber Bragg gratings of each optical sensor output from the
   optical referencing unit and distributing a Bragg reflection wavelength to each channel;
   and a photodiode for converting the Bragg reflection wavelength received from the optical
   coupler into an electric signal.   In addition, the measurement device may have a function
   of collecting scattered optical signals.
15          Meanwhile, in another aspect of the present disclosure, there is also provided a
   method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure, which includes (a)
   changing a wavelength or light quantity of the optical signal passing through an optical
   sensor according to a behavior or structural change of a marine structure by using at least
   one complex optical measuring instrument installed on the marine structure or a reference
20 point; (b) by the complex optical measuring instrument, transmitting the optical signal
   having the changed wavelength or light quantity to the measurement device; and (c) by the
   measurement device, detecting a change of the wavelength or light quantity of the optical
                                                   9

   signal, wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes at least one optical
   sensor using optical fiber Bragg grating.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may include an extensometer for measuring a
 5 distance change between at least one reference point set out of the marine structure and a
   point set on the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   extensometer may further include at least one wire connecting the reference point and a
   point set on the marine structure; a winding unit for winding the wire by a predetermined
10 tension; a sensing unit for measuring the number of revolutions of the winding unit by
   using an optical sensor; and a stimulating unit for periodically stimulating the optical fiber
   according to the number of revolutions measured by the sensing unit.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   extensometer may include an optical fiber wire for connecting at least one point on the
15 marine structure to measure a length change of the marine structure, and the optical fiber
   wire may change a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical fiber
   according to a stress change due to a distance change on the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   extensometer may include at least one wire installed on the same point on the marine
20 structure and made of an optical fiber, and the wire may change a wavelength of the optical
   signal passing through the optical fiber according to a stress change applied to the optical
   fiber due to a distance change on the marine structure.
                                                 10

            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   extensometer may provide absolute location information of the point by calculating the
   degree of tension of each wire by means of the trigonometrical survey.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
 5 complex optical measuring instrument may include an inclinometer for measuring an angle
   change among a plurality of points on the marine structure by using the optical sensor.
   The inclinometer may include a weight installed in the gravity direction; and an optical
   sensor connected to the weight, and in the step (a), the weight may simulate the optical
   fiber according to an angle change occurring at the marine structure to generate a stress
10 change, and the generated stress change is converted into an optical signal.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may further include a seismometer for measuring a
   location change of at least one reference point set out of the marine structure by using the
   optical sensor.
15          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may further include a vibration gauge for measuring
   a vibration of the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   measurement device may use a data logger or an interrogator.
20          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   measurement device may include an optical unit having a laser capable of controlling a
   wavelength; an optical referencing unit for distinguishing a wavelength of the optical
   signal reflected by the optical unit by means of each optical sensor; an optical coupler for
                                                11

   connecting a plurality of optical fiber Bragg gratings of each optical sensor output from the
   optical referencing unit and distributing a Bragg reflection wavelength to each channel;
   and a photodiode for converting the Bragg reflection wavelength received from the optical
   coupler into an electric signal.
 5          Meanwhile, in another aspect of the present disclosure, there is also provided a
   controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a marine structure,
   which includes (a) obtaining data about a physical change of a marine structure through
   experiments at a water tank or a wind tunnel and accumulating the obtained data to
   generate a look-up table; (b) obtaining about an actual physical change of the marine
10 structure, output from a measurement device; (c) comparing the data obtained in the step
   (b) with the data accumulated in the look-up table of the step (a) to generate forecasting
   data about the physical change of the marine structure; and (d) generating maintenance
   information including at least one of structure controlling           operation information,
   maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information and required
15 maintenance time and alarm information about gas leak, fire or explosion by means of a
   three-dimensional numerical analysis program which receives the forecasting data, wherein
   the physical change includes at least one of a length change, an angle change, a
   temperature change, a pressure change and a specific volume change about at least one
   point on the marine structure.
20          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, after the
   step (c), the method may further include (c-1) comparing the forecasting data with data
   about an actual physical change of the marine structure to correct the look-up table.
                                                 12

            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, after the
   step (d), the method may further include generating a simulator with the marine structure
   control information by means of a fluid structure interaction (FSI) program, and
   associating the simulator with the data about an actual physical change of the marine
 5 structure, obtained in the step (b), by means of situation recognition middleware to
   generate an algorithm for automatically controlling the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the three
   dimensional numerical analysis program of the step (d) may use finite element method
   (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD).
10          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, in the step
   (d), the three-dimensional numerical analysis program may be associated with a situation
   analysis module which stores data about a hypothetical situation including gas leak, gas
   diffusion, fire or explosion, which probably occurs according to a behavior and structural
   change of the marine structure, and countermeasures against the hypothetical situation, to
15 generate maintenance information.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   method may further include (e) by an automatic structure control unit, controlling the
   marine structure by changing a location or angle of the marine structure according to the
   control operation information, and the automatic structure control unit may include a
20 coupling unit connected to at least one point on the marine structure; and a displace
   adjusting unit connected to the coupling unit to move the marine structure in four
   directions.
                                                13

            In addition, the alarm information may be generated by using the data about an
   actual physical change of the marine structure, which is measured by the measurement
   device by using at least one of tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy (TDLAS),
   distributed temperature sensing (DTS), distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), fiber Bragg
 5 grating (FBG) and remote methane leak detector (RMLD).
            Meanwhile, in another aspect of the present disclosure, there is also provided a
   method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive monitoring and
   predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull
   stresses, 6 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a marine structure, the
10 method including: (1) accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a
   marine structure by a gas flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a
   water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to
   the internal or external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a
   database; (2) measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in
15 an actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
   database; (3) comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in
   the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up
   table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure; and (4)
   controlling a posture or navigation path of the marine structure in real time by using the
20 predicted data about a response of the marine structure.
            In addition, the step (3) may include (3-1) measuring an actual response of the
   marine structure; and (3-2) when the data about a response of the marine structure
   measured in the step (3-1) does not agree with the data about a response of the marine
                                                  14

   structure predicted in the step (3), correcting the data about a response of the marine
   structure stored in the look-up table generated in the step (1) into the data about a response
   of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1) or applying the corrected data to correct
   or supplement a numerical model.
 5          In this case, the data about a response of the marine structure may be corrected by
   means of a simulator based on finite element analysis (FEA).
            In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force caused by gas may be
   measured by using a measurement instrument provided at the marine structure, and the
   measurement instrument may be an electric sensor or an optical sensor.         In addition, the
10 measurement instrument may measure wind direction, wind velocity, atmospheric pressure,
   temperature, humidity and dust at each altitude.
            In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force applied to the marine
   structure by a gas flow may be actually measured by using an internal measurement unit
   (IMU).
15          In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a ship, the data about a
   response of the marine structure may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of progress direction, four-directional slopes, sea gauge and trim of the ship.
            In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed
   structure, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least one
20 selected from the group consisting of moving direction, four-directional slopes and sea
   gauge of the temporarily fixed structure.
            In addition, in the step (2), data including natural frequency, harmonic frequency
   and gas characteristics of the marine structure by a gas flow may be measured.
                                                  15

            In addition, in the step (1), the database storing the look-up table may be a voyage
   data recorder (VDR) provided at the marine structure.
            In addition, when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, the look-up
   table may be recorded as time sequential data by the year, and the look-up table may be
 5 corrected by comparing with time sequential data by the year which have been
   accumulated till the previous year.
            In addition, in the step (4), the posture or navigation path of the marine structure
   may be controlled in real time by using at least one selected from the group consisting of a
   rudder, a thruster, a propeller, a sail, a kite and a balloon.
10          In addition, in the step (4), when the marine structure is a ship, a direction of a
   rudder or a RPM of a thruster or propeller may be controlled according to the data about a
   response of the marine structure so that a resultant force of a propelling force and the
   internal or external force has a targeted progress direction.
            In addition, when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, a thruster
15 may be controlled according to the predicted data about a response of the marine structure
   so that a resultant force with the internal or external force is minimized to maintain a
   current location.
            In addition, the marine structure may include a helideck, and in the step (4), a
   center of gravity of the marine structure may be changed by controlling a posture of the
20 marine structure or adjusting an 6-dof angle by means of dynamic positioning (DP) or
   dynamic motioning (DM) so as to maintain a balance of the helideck or relieve a shock
   when a helicopter takes off or lands, and balanced state information of the helideck is
   stored in the database.      In addition, the balanced state information of the helideck
                                                     16

   obtained by controlling a posture of the marine structure may be stored in the database, the
   database may transmit the balanced state information of the helideck to an external
   structure information server by means of a communication unit, and the structure
   information server may provide the helicopter with location information of a marine
 5 structure, which has the balanced state information of the helideck allowing taking-off or
   landing of a helicopter, among a plurality of marine structures.
            In addition, the step (2) may further include (2-1) measuring at least one selected
   from the group consisting of wind direction, wind velocity, temperature, humidity,
   atmospheric pressure, solar radiant rays, inorganic ions, carbon dioxide, dust, radioactivity
10 and ozone at a remote distance from the marine structure by using a measurement
   instrument, and storing the measurement data in the database.
            Here, the measurement instrument may include at least one selected from the
   group consisting of an anemometer, a weathervane, a hygrometer, a thermometer, a
   barometer, a solarimeter, an atmospheric           gassol automatic collector, a C02 flux
15 measurement instrument, an atmospheric dust collector, an air sampler and an ozone
   analyzer.
            In addition, the marine structure may include a ballast tank, and sloshing
   restraining units may be respectively provided at both sides of the ballast tank to reduce a
   sloshing phenomenon in the ballast tank.        In addition, the sloshing restraining unit may
20 restrain a sloshing phenomenon by decreasing an opening area of one horizontal section of
   the ballast tank.
            In addition, in the step (4), ballast water loaded in the ballast tank may be moved
   in a direction opposite to a slope to control a posture of the marine structure.    In addition,
                                                   17

   the ballast tank may include a barrier for partitioning an inside of the ballast tank, an
   opening/closing unit may be installed at the barrier to move the ballast water to another
   partition, and a pump may be installed in the opening/closing unit to control a moving
   speed and a moving direction of the ballast water.
 5          In addition, the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the
   step (2) may be transmitted to an external weather information server, and the weather
   information server may store weather information correction data whose error is corrected
   by comparing weather information received from a satellite with the measurement data of
   the internal or external force.
10          In addition, the weather information correction data may be provided to an
   external user terminal which accesses the weather information server according to a
   request of the external user terminal.
            Meanwhile, in another aspect of the present disclosure, there is also provided a
   method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive monitoring of
15 aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and
   location of a marine structure, the method including: (1) accumulating data about an
   internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a gas flow out of the marine
   structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a
   response of the marine structure according to the internal or external force to generate a
20 look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database; (2) measuring the internal or
   external force by using a time-of-flight method in an actual voyage of the marine structure
   and storing the internal or external force in the database; (3) comparing the measurement
   data of the internal or external force obtained in the step (2) with the data about the internal
                                                  18

   or external force accumulated in the look-up table in the step (1) to predict data about a
   response of the marine structure; (3-1) measuring an actual response of the marine
   structure; (3-2) comparing the data about a response of the marine structure measured in
   the step (3-1) with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step
 5 (3), and when the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1)
   does not agree with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step
   (3), correcting the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the look-up table
   generated in the step (1) into the data about a response of the marine structure measured in
   the step (3-1); and (4) obtaining maintenance data about the marine structure by
10 performing virtual simulation to the data accumulated in the look-up table.
            In addition, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least
   one selected from the group consisting of strain, deformation, crack, vibration, frequency,
   corrosion, and erosion.
            In addition, the maintenance data of the step (4) may be obtained distinguishably
15 according to preset importance of individual structures provided at the marine structure.
            In addition, the maintenance data may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information,
   required maintenance time information and residual life information of each structure.
            Meanwhile, in another aspect of the present disclosure, there is also provided a
20 method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive monitoring and
   predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull
   stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure, the method including: (1)
   accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a
                                                 19

   fluid flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind
   tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to the internal or
   external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database; (2)
   measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an actual
 5 voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the database; (3)
   comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the step (2)
   with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up table to
   predict data about a response of the marine structure; and (4) controlling a posture or
   navigation path of the marine structure in real time by using the predicted data about a
10 response of the marine structure.
            In addition, the step (3) may include (3-1) measuring an actual response of the
   marine structure; and (3-2) when the data about a response of the marine structure
   measured in the step (3-1) does not agree with the data about a response of the marine
   structure predicted in the step (3), the data about a response of the marine structure stored
15 in the look-up table generated in the step (1) is corrected into the data about a response of
   the marine structure measured in the step (3-1) or the corrected data is applied to correct or
   supplement a numerical model.
            In this case, the data about a response of the marine structure may be corrected by
   means of a simulator based on a numerical model including computational fluid dynamics
20 (CFD), finite element analysis (FEA), finite element method (FEM) and fluid structure
   interaction (FSI).
                                                 20

            In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force caused by fluid may be
   measured by using a measurement instrument provided at a side of the marine structure,
   and the measurement instrument may be an electric sensor or an optical sensor.
            In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force applied to the marine
 5 structure by a fluid flow may be actually measured by using an internal measurement unit
   (IMU).
            In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a ship, the data about a
   response of the marine structure may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of progress direction, four-directional slopes, sea gauge and trim of the ship.
10          In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed
   structure, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least one
   selected from the group consisting of moving direction, four-directional slopes and sea
   gauge of the temporarily fixed structure.
            In addition, in the step (2), directions and velocities of a tidal current and a sea
15 current according to space and time may be measured for each water level.
            In addition, in the step (2), data including natural frequency, harmonic frequency
   and fluid characteristics of the marine structure by a fluid flow may be measured.
            In addition, in the step (1), the database storing the look-up table may be a voyage
   data recorder (VDR) provided at the marine structure.
20          In addition, when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, the look-up
   table may be recorded as time sequential data by the year, and the look-up table may be
   corrected by comparing with time sequential data by the year which have been
   accumulated till the previous year.
                                                  21

            In addition, in the step (4), the posture or navigation path of the marine structure
   may be controlled in real time by using at least one selected from the group consisting of a
   rudder, a thruster, a propeller, a sail, a kite and a balloon.
            In addition, in the step (4), when the marine structure is a ship, a direction of a
 5 rudder and RPM of a thruster and a propeller may be controlled according to the data about
   a response of the marine structure so that a resultant force of a propelling force and the
   internal or external force has a targeted progress direction.
            In addition, when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, a thruster
   may be controlled according to the predicted data about a response of the marine structure
10 so that a resultant force of the internal or external force is minimized and the thruster
   maintains a current location.
            In addition, the marine structure may include a helideck, and in the step (4), a
   center of gravity of the marine structure may be changed by controlling a posture of the
   marine structure or adjusting an 6-dof angle by means of dynamic positioning (DP) or
15 dynamic motioning (DM) so as to maintain a balance of the helideck or relieve a shock
   when a helicopter takes off or lands.        In addition, the balanced state information of the
   helideck according to the control of a posture of the marine structure may be stored in the
   database, the database may transmit the balanced state information of the helideck to an
   external structure information server by means of a communication unit, and the structure
20 information server may provide location information of a marine structure, which has the
   balanced state information of the helideck allowing taking-off or landing of a helicopter,
   among a plurality of marine structures.
                                                    22

            In addition, in the steps (1) and (2), the data about the internal or external force
   applied to the marine structure by a fluid flow may be data about vectors of a sea current
   and a tidal current, measured by a pressure sensor installed at a side of the marine structure.
            In addition, there may be provided a plurality of pressure sensors installed at
 5 regular intervals at the side of the marine structure.
            In addition, there may be provided a plurality of pressure sensors with different
   heights at the side of the marine structure, and the presence of measurement data obtained
   from the pressure sensors may be analyzed to obtain wave height data from data obtained
   from an uppermost pressure sensor.
10          In addition, among the plurality of pressure sensors, at least three pressure sensors
   may configure a three-dimensional pressure sensor module, and the three-dimensional
   pressure sensor module may obtain three-dimensional vector information of a sea current
   and a tidal current.
            In addition, the step (2) may further include (2-1) measuring at least one selected
15 from the group consisting of a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave cycle, a wave
   velocity and a wave direction at a remote distance from the marine structure by using a
   weather measurement instrument, and storing the measurement data in the database, and
   the weather measurement instrument may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of a wave radar, a directional wave rider, a sea level monitor, an ultrasonic
20 displacement sensor, an amemovane and an ultrasonic wave-height meter.
            In addition, the step (2) may further include (2-1) measuring at least one selected
   from the group consisting of a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave cycle, a wave
                                                  23

   velocity and a wave direction at a remote distance from the marine structure by using a
   weather measurement instrument, and storing the measurement data in the database.
            In addition, the marine structure may include a ballast tank, and sloshing
   restraining units may be respectively provided at both sides of the ballast tank to reduce a
 5 sloshing phenomenon in the ballast tank.        In addition, the sloshing restraining unit may
   restrain a sloshing phenomenon by decreasing an opening area of one horizontal section of
   the ballast tank.
            In addition, in the step (4), ballast water loaded in the ballast tank may be moved
   in a direction opposite to a slope to control a posture of the marine structure.    In addition,
10 the ballast tank may include a barrier for partitioning an inside of the ballast tank, and an
   opening/closing unit may be installed at the barrier to move the ballast water to another
   partition, and a pump may be installed in the opening/closing unit to control a moving
   speed and a moving direction of the ballast water.
            In addition, the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the
15 step (2) may be transmitted to an external weather information server, and the weather
   information server may store weather information correction data whose error is corrected
   by comparing weather information received from a satellite with the measurement data of
   the internal or external force.
            In addition, the weather information correction data may be provided to an
20 external user terminal which accesses the weather information server according to a
   request of the external user terminal.
            Meanwhile, in another aspect of the present disclosure, there is also provided a
   method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive monitoring of
                                                  24

   hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and
   location of a marine structure, the method including: (1) accumulating data about an
   internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a fluid flow out of the marine
   structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a
 5 response of the marine structure according to the internal or external force to generate a
   look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database; (2) measuring the internal or
   external force by using a time-of-flight method in an actual voyage of the marine structure
   and storing the internal or external force in the database; (3) comparing the measurement
   data of the internal or external force obtained in the step (2) with the data about the internal
10 or external force accumulated in the look-up table in the step (1) to predict data about a
   response of the marine structure; (3-1) measuring an actual response of the marine
   structure; (3-2) comparing the data about a response of the marine structure measured in
   the step (3-1) with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step
   (3), and when the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1)
15 does not agree with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step
   (3), correcting the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the look-up table
   generated in the step (1) into the data about a response of the marine structure measured in
   the step (3-1); and (4) obtaining maintenance data about the marine structure by
   performing virtual simulation to the data accumulated in the look-up table.
20          In addition, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least
   one selected from the group consisting of strain, deformation, crack, vibration, frequency,
   corrosion, and erosion.
                                                 25

             In addition, the maintenance data of the step (4) may be obtained distinguishably
   according to preset importance of individual structures provided at the marine structure.
             In addition, the maintenance data may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information,
 5 required maintenance time information and residual life information of each structure.
             Advantageous Effects
             According to the present disclosure, by introducing an optical sensor-type
   measurement method, physical changes of a marine structure may be monitored accurately.
10           In addition, according to the present disclosure, it is possible to provide a
   monitoring system and method which may allow long-term stable measurement of a
   change of a marine structure by using an optical sensor-type complex measurement, in
   comparison to an existing electric sensor-type measurement, and also ensure convenient
   installation and operation.
15           Moreover, according to the present disclosure, since a marine structure may be
   instantly maintained and repaired by monitoring the marine structure in real time, costs
   required for operating the marine structure may be reduced.
             In addition, according to the present disclosure, by monitoring a marine structure
   in real time, environmental pollution such as crude oil spill from the marine structure may
20 be detected and prevented in advance.
             According to the present disclosure, since aerodynamic and hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a
   marine structure which is voyaging or mooring may be monitored or controlled in real time,
                                                 26

   the fuel consumed while the marine structure is voyaging or mooring may be efficiently
   reduced.
            In addition, by measuring a change of four-directional slopes, sea gauge, trim or
   the like applied to a floating marine structure by means of aerodynamic and hydrodynamic
 5 environmental internal or external force, the floating marine structure may be controlled
   safely.
            Moreover, it is possible to provide an environment in which the monitoring
   information of the marine structure may be shared with another external device to enhance
   the accuracy of weather information, and the system may serve as a ground true station
10 capable of calibrating data measured by satellites.
            In addition, information monitored at the marine structure may be accumulated
   and utilized for study on sea level rises caused by global warming and global environments
   such as energy budget change.
            Moreover, by maintaining a balance of a helideck installed at the marine structure,
15 it is possible to give an environment which ensures rapid rescue using a helicopter at a
   marine accident.
            In addition, weather information received from a satellite may be compared with
   measurement data of the internal or external force to decrease an error and then provided
   as basic data for forecast, thereby contributing to fishing industries.
20          Moreover, by providing information on maintenance according to corrosion,
   erosion, crack, pressure, stress or the like caused by aerodynamic and hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force applied to the marine structure, it is possible to
   extend a life span of the marine structure for longer-term operation.
                                                  27

            In addition, by analyzing static or dynamic characteristics of a marine structure
   exposed to high-wave or strong-wind site conditions, it is possible to give important data
   when preparing a medium- and long-term plan to ensure long-term stability of the marine
   structure.
 5
   DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            Fig. 1 is a diagram for illustrating a method for measuring a distance change
   between a reference point and a point set on a marine structure by using an extensometer
   connected to a pipeline at the seabed according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
10          Fig. 2 is a diagram showing a structure of an extensometer according to another
   embodiment of the present disclosure.
            Fig. 3 is a diagram showing an extensometer for measuring a length change of a
   marine structure by providing an optical fiber wire which connects at least two points on
   the marine structure according to another embodiment of the present disclosure.
15          Fig. 4 is a diagram for illustrating a method for measuring a length change of the
   marine structure by means of trigonometrical survey by using an extensometer according
   to another embodiment of the present disclosure.
            Fig. 5 is a diagram showing that an automatic structure control unit changes a
   location or angle of the marine structure according to the control operation information
20 according to another embodiment of the present disclosure.
            Fig. 6 is a flowchart for illustrating a method for fuel savings and safe operation by
   monitoring and controlling a marine structure with respect to an aerodynamic and
   hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force applied to the marine structure of
                                                   28

   the present disclosure.
            Fig. 7 is a diagram showing an aerodynamic vector applied to a marine structure.
            Fig. 8 is a diagram for illustrating a method for measuring an aerodynamic vector
   applied to a marine structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 5          Fig. 9 is a diagram for illustrating a method for fuel savings and safe operation by
   controlling a rudder when an internal or external force is applied by means of
   aerodynamics according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
            Figs. 10 and 11 are a cross-sectional view showing a ballast tank according to
   another embodiment of the present disclosure and a diagram showing a barrier provided at
10 the ballast tank and a structure of the barrier.
            Fig. 12 is a diagram showing maintenance data for a marine structure, which is
   schematized by means of simulation according to another embodiment of the present
   disclosure.
            Fig. 13 is a diagram showing a marine structure (particularly, a ship) and a
15 helideck installed at the marine structure.
            Fig. 14 is a diagram showing that a pressure sensor is installed at a marine
   structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
            < Reference Symbols >
20          100: marine structure                   200: marine structure
            300: extensometer                       301: winding unit
            302: sensing unit                       303: stimulating unit
            304: optical sensor                     310: wire
                                                   29

             320: optical fiber wire               400: automatic structure control unit
             410: coupling unit                    420: displace adjusting unit
             500: ballast tank                     510: sloshing restraining unit
             520: barrier                          530: opening/closing unit
 5           540: pump
   BEST MODE
             Objects, technical configurations and resultant effects of the present disclosure
   will be clearly understood from the following detailed description based on drawings
10 accompanied in the specification of the present disclosure.       Embodiments of the present
   disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.
             Embodiments disclosed in this specification should not be interpreted or used as
   limiting the scope of the present disclosure.     It is obvious to those skilled in the art that
   the descriptions including embodiments have various applications.        Therefore, unless it is
15 limited by the claims, the following embodiments are just examples for better
   understanding of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of the
   present disclosure.
             The term "marine structure" used in the present disclosure has a wide meaning
   including all kinds of marine or submersible structures, for example, jack-up rigs, semi-sub
20 rigs, jackets, compliant towers, TLP, floating petroleum production, storing or extracting
   facilities, wind power generators and wave energy converters as well as directly or
   indirectly associated complex structures (e.g., non-subsea structures/flare towers, top-side),
   berthing-related marine structures, drill rigs, production casings for collecting oil and gas
                                                  30

   at an oilfield, flow lines, production lines, mooring lines, hawser lines, lowering lines,
   tethering cable lines for ROV, structure supports and connection cables of sails for
   environment-friendly fuel savings, tensioners having an optical fiber embedded therein,
   blades and towers of a wind power generator, jackets, tensioners inserted into a foundation,
 5 bridge/cable-stayed bridge cables, structures such as on-water, in-water or under-water
   supports, and concrete tensioners for such structures.        In addition, the term "marine
   structure" includes coupled risers and un-coupled risers.     The coupled riser includes steel
   catenary risers (SCRs), weight-distributed SCRs, steel lazy wave risers (SLWRs), flexible
   riser systems or the like, and the un-coupled riser includes single hybrid riser towers,
10 grouped SLOR, hybrid riser towers, buoyancy supported risers (commonly known as a
   BSR system) or the like.
             1. Mathematical models include computational fluid dynamics (CFD), finite
   element method (FEM), fluid structure interaction (FSI), finite difference method, finite
   volume method, inverse finite element method (iFEM), and inverse finite element analysis.
15          2. Wind, wave and current loads are calculated by means of computational fluid
   dynamics (CFD).
            3. A look-up table for wind, wave and current load response for fluid structure
   interaction (FSI) and situation recognition is calculated.
            4. Self-leaming predictive monitoring and controlling, dynamic monitoring system
20 (DMS)/dynamic       positioning system    (DPS)/energy     efficiency  operational   indicator
   (EEOI)/energy efficiency      design index (EEDI) are accomplished by an artificial
   intelligence.
                                                 31

             4-0-a. Dynamic positioning (DP) or dynamic motion (DM) boundary and priority
   orders of target structures are applied to among individual or complex structures to
   minimize a fatigue, and helicopter taking-off or landing, a separator, and a liquefying
   process are stabilized by means of DMS.
 5           4-0-b. when control is made to satisfy EEOI/EEDI conditions, priority orders are
   applied to target structures among individual or complex structures to determine a fatigue
   minimization priority order, the structures are operated to ensure maximum control
   efficiency of DPS, DMS or EEOI, and quantitative EEDI is measured.
             4-1. Calibrating numerical analysis with empirical data and evolving and/or
10 defining a specific algorithm (the artificial Intelligence) with NA (e.g., CFD/FEM/FSI) is
   performed in real time or as post-processing.
             4-2. Diagnosis (e.g., diagnosis of a motion size, a fatigue of periodic correlation, a
   tension generated by deformation, displacement or location change, or posture of a marine
   structure, or a fatigue accumulated therefrom) is performed in real time or as post
15 processing, and prognostic analysis is made based on the accumulated results.
             4-3. Referring to core technique development of predictive maintenance for
   optimal operation and maintenance of marine plants, a large amount of sensor data are
   processed and analyzed in real time for situation diagnosis and prognosis.
             The term 'optical sensor' used in this specification means a sensor for estimating a
20 measured value by using intensity of light passing through an optical fiber, refractive index,
   length or mode of the optical fiber, change of polarization state, or the like.   In addition, a
   measurement value of the optical sensor is diverse, for example as temperature, pressure,
   strain, rotation rate or the like, and the optical sensor uses substantially no electricity and
                                                  32

   has substantially no limit in its use environment due to excellent corrosion resistance of
   silica material.
            In addition, the term 'Bragg grating' used in this specification means a refractive
   index variation pattern generated by changing an optical refractive index according to the
 5 degree of exposure when an optical fiber is exposed to ultraviolet rays for a predetermined
   time.   In addition, since an optical Bragg grating selectively reflects or eliminates light of
   a specific wavelength according to a variation period of the refractive index, the optical
   Bragg grating may be used for optical communication filters, optical distribution
   compensators, optical fiber laser or the like.     In addition, by using the change of light
10 selectivity according to an external tensile force or temperature change, the optical Bragg
   grating is also widely applied as an optical sensor.
            In addition, the term 'extensometer' used in this specification generally means a
   device for accurately changing a change of target distance, namely an elongation, and the
   term 'inclinometer, used in this specification generally means a device for measuring a
15 change of angle generated at a measurement target.
            In addition, the term 'numerical analysis' used in this specification means an
   analyzing method for numerically investigating a deformation behavior by modeling a
   structure form or actual model with a computer program so that various variables such as
   stress applied thereto are used as input data and displace and stress states are used as output
20 data, and this is an inclusive term including computational fluid dynamics, finite element
   method (FEM), fluid structure interaction (FSI), finite difference method (FDM), finite
   volume method (FVM), inverse finite element method (IFEM) or the like.
                                                  33

            In addition, the term 'finite element method (FEM)' used in this specification
   means a numerical calculation method for dividing a continuous structure into a finite
   number of elements having a one-directional rod, two-directional triangle or rectangle, or
   three-dimensional solid body (a tetrahedron        or a hexahedron) and performing an
 5 approximation solution based on energy principles to each region.
            In addition, the term     'computational   fluid dynamics (CFD)' used in this
   specification means to calculate a dynamic motion of fluid or gas in a numerical analysis
   method by using a computer.
            The present disclosure is directed to a system and method for measuring a
10 buckling or walking phenomenon of a marine structure by using an optical fiber and
   monitoring a physical change of the marine structure accordingly, and the present
   disclosure uses a complex optical measuring instrument including an extensometer capable
   of measuring a distance change from a reference point at each location set on the marine
   structure, an inclinometer capable of measuring a change direction at each location set on
15 the marine structure, or a seismometer capable of detecting a change of a reference point.
   In addition, a thermometer, a flow meter and a manometer may be included.
            The present disclosure provides a system for monitoring a physical change of a
   marine structure, which includes a complex optical measuring instrument for detecting a
   behavior and a structural change of the marine structure by using at least one optical sensor
20 having an optical fiber.
            In addition, the complex optical measuring instrument includes an extensometer
   for measuring a distance change between at least one reference point set out of the marine
   structure and a point set on the marine structure by using the optical sensor, and the optical
                                                 34

   sensor changes a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical sensor
   according to a stress change applied to the optical fiber due to the distance change.
            Referring to Fig. 1, the extensometer includes at least one wire for connecting the
   reference point and a point set on the marine structure.     The wire may be fabricated as a
 5 tapeline made of invar which is an alloy having a low thermal expansion coefficient by
   adding 36.5% of nickel to 63.5% of iron.       By using an invar wire, the extensometer is
   used for measuring a distance with high accuracy without being affected by an external
   temperature change.
            In addition, referring to Fig. 2, the extensometer may further include a winding
10 unit for winding the wire by a predetermined tension and a sensing unit for measuring the
   number of revolutions of the winding unit by using the optical sensor.         In addition, the
   extensometer may further include a stimulating unit for periodically stimulating the optical
   sensor according to the number of revolutions measured by the sensing unit.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
15 reference to Fig. 3.      Here, the complex optical measuring instrument includes an
   extensometer having an optical fiber wire connecting at least one point on the marine
   structure to measure a length change of the marine structure.          The optical fiber wire
   changes a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical sensor according to
   a stress change applied to the optical fiber due to the distance change on the marine
20 structure.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 4.   Here, the extensometer includes at least one wire installed at the same
   point on the structure and made of an optical fiber, and the wire changes a wavelength of
                                                 35

   the optical signal passing through the optical sensor according to a stress change applied to
   the optical fiber due to the distance change on the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   extensometer calculates the degree of tension of each wire by means of the trigonometrical
 5 survey and provides absolute location information of the point.     Here, the trigonometrical
   survey means a method for finding a coordinate and a distance of a point by using
   properties of a triangle.    If this point is given together with two reference points, in a
   triangle formed by the point and two reference points, angles formed by a bottom side and
   other two sides are respectively measured, a length of the bottom side is measured, and
10 then a series of calculations are performed by using a sine law to find a coordinate and a
   distance of the point.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument includes an inclinometer for measuring an angle
   change between plural points on the marine structure by using the optical sensor.          In
15 addition, the inclinometer includes a weight installed in the gravity direction, and an
   optical sensor connected to the weight and having at least one optical fiber, and due to the
   angle change of the point on the marine structure where the inclinometer is installed, a
   wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical fiber is changed according to a
   stress change applied to the optical fiber by means of the weight.
20          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument may further include a seismometer for measuring a
   location change of the reference point.          Moreover, the complex optical measuring
   instrument may further include a vibration gauge for measuring a vibration of the marine
                                                  36

   structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, a
   measurement device for detecting a change of the wavelength of the optical signal by the
   complex optical measuring instrument may be further included.           A data logger or an
 5 interrogator may be used as the measurement device.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument detects a change of a target structure by using at
   least one of optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR), Raman spectra (Raman), Brillouin
   scattering, Rayleigh wave, distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), acoustic emission, and
10 interferometry
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   measurement device may include an optical unit having a laser capable of controlling a
   wavelength, an optical referencing unit for distinguishing a wavelength of the optical
   signal reflected by the optical unit by means of each optical sensor, an optical coupler for
15 connecting a plurality of optical fiber Bragg gratings of each optical sensor output from the
   optical referencing unit and distributing a Bragg reflection wavelength to each channel,
   and a photodiode for converting the Bragg reflection wavelength received from the optical
   coupler into an electric signal.   Moreover, the measurement device may have a function
   of collecting scattered optical signals.
20          The extensometer measures an amount of behavior of the marine structure by
   detecting a length change between points set on the marine structure, and the inclinometer
   measures an angle change by detecting a direction of the behavior of the marine structure.
                                                 37

   The measured result is transferred to the measurement device by using a wired/wireless
   electric, electronic, sonar or optical communication method.
             In order to measure buckling which is macroscopically generated over a several
   ten meters or several hundred meters in a direction horizontal to the seabed surface, a
 5 plurality of extensometers and inclinometers are provided to monitor a physical change of
   the marine structure.
             If it is difficult to install a reference point at the seabed, extensometers are
   installed at intervals of 90 degrees, and an angle change is monitored by using an
   inclinometer to monitor a physical change of the marine structure.
10           An extensometer capable of measuring a length change from the reference point
   and an inclinometer capable of measuring an angle change are provided.        At the reference
   point, a seismometer capable of measuring movement of the ground may be further
   installed, and an optical measurement device for receiving an optical signal from the
   inclinometer and the extensometer is also provided.         The output from the measurement
15 device is transmitted by using at least one of wired/wireless electric, electronic, sonar or
   optical communication methods so as to be checked on the sea or remotely.        In addition, a
   plurality of extensometers or inclinometers may be used.
             In addition, at the reference point, a capable of measuring movement of the ground
   may be further installed, and an optical measurement device for receiving an optical signal
20 from the inclinometer and the extensometer is also provided.             The output from the
   measurement device is transmitted by using at least one of wired/wireless electric,
   electronic, sonar or optical communication methods so as to be checked on the sea or
   remotely.     In addition, a plurality of extensometers or inclinometers may be used.
                                                    38

            Meanwhile, a method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes (a) changing a wavelength
   and/or light quantity of the optical signal passing through an optical sensor according to a
   behavior or structural change of a marine structure by using at least one complex optical
 5 measuring instrument installed on the marine structure or at a reference point, (b) by the
   complex optical measuring instrument, transmitting the optical signal having the changed
   wavelength and/or light quantity to the measurement device, and (c) by the measurement
   device, detecting a change of the wavelength and/or light quantity of the optical signal, and
   the complex optical measuring instrument includes at least one optical sensor using optical
10 fiber Bragg grating.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 1. Here, the complex optical measuring instrument may include an
   extensometer for measuring a distance change between at least one reference point set out
   of the marine structure and a point set on the marine structure.
15          In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 2.    Here, the extensometer includes at least one wire connecting the
   reference point and a point set on the marine structure, a winding unit for winding the wire
   by a predetermined tension, a sensing unit for measuring the number of revolutions of the
   winding unit by using an optical sensor, and a stimulating unit for periodically stimulating
20 the optical fiber according to the number of revolutions measured by the sensing unit.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 3.     Here, the extensometer includes an optical fiber wire 320 for
   connecting at least one point on the marine structure to measure a length change of the
                                                 39

   marine structure, and the optical fiber wire 320 changes a wavelength of the optical signal
   passing through the optical fiber according to a stress change due to a distance change on
   the marine structure.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
 5 reference to Fig. 4.   Here, the extensometer includes at least one wire installed on the
   same point on the marine structure and made of an optical fiber, and the wire changes a
   wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical fiber according to a stress
   change applied to the optical fiber due to a distance change on the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
10 extensometer provides absolute location information of the point by calculating the degree
   of tension of each wire by means of the trigonometrical survey.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument includes an inclinometer for measuring an angle
   change among a plurality of points on the marine structure by using the optical sensor.
15 The inclinometer includes a weight installed in the gravity direction and an optical sensor
   connected to the weight, and the weight simulates the optical fiber according to an angle
   change occurring at the marine structure to generate a stress change, and the generated
   stress change is converted into an optical signal.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
20 complex optical measuring instrument further includes a seismometer for measuring a
   location change of at least one reference point set out of the marine structure by using the
   optical sensor.
                                                 40

            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument further includes a vibration gauge for measuring a
   vibration of the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
 5 measurement device may use a data logger or an interrogator.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   measurement device may include an optical unit having a laser capable of controlling a
   wavelength, an optical referencing unit for distinguishing a wavelength of the optical
   signal reflected by the optical unit by means of each optical sensor, an optical coupler for
10 connecting a plurality of optical fiber Bragg gratings of each optical sensor output from the
   optical referencing unit and distributing a Bragg reflection wavelength to each channel,
   and a photodiode for converting the Bragg reflection wavelength received from the optical
   coupler into an electric signal.
            Meanwhile, in another aspect, a controlling method by real-time monitoring of a
15 physical change of a marine structure includes (a) obtaining data about a physical change
   of a marine structure through experiments at a water tank or a wind tunnel and
   accumulating the obtained data to generate a look-up table, (b) obtaining about an actual
   physical change of the marine structure, output from a measurement device, (c) comparing
   the data obtained in the step (b) with the data accumulated in the look-up table of the step
20 (a) to generate forecasting data about the physical change of the marine structure, and (d)
   generating maintenance information including at least one of structure controlling
   operation information, maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost
   information and required maintenance time and alarm information about gas leak, fire or
                                                 41

   explosion by means of a three-dimensional numerical analysis program which receives the
   forecasting data, and the physical change includes at least one of a length change, an angle
   change, a temperature change, a pressure change and a specific volume change about at
   least one point on the marine structure.
 5          In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, after the
   step (c), the method further includes (c-1) comparing the forecasting data with data about
   an actual physical change of the marine structure to correct the look-up table.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, after the
   step (d), the method further includes generating a simulator with the marine structure
10 control information by means of a fluid structure interaction (FSI) program, and
   associating the simulator with the data about an actual physical change of the marine
   structure, obtained in the step (b), by means of situation recognition middleware to
   generate an algorithm for automatically controlling the marine structure.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the three
15 dimensional numerical analysis program of the step (d) may use finite element method
   (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD).
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, in the step
   (d), the three-dimensional numerical analysis program may be associated with a situation
   analysis module which stores data about a hypothetical situation such as gas leak, gas
20 diffusion, fire or explosion, which probably occurs according to a behavior and structural
   change of the marine structure, and countermeasures against the hypothetical situation, to
   generate maintenance information.
                                                42

            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 5. Here, the method may further include (e) by an automatic structure
   control unit, controlling the marine structure by changing a location or angle of the marine
   structure according to the control operation information, and the automatic structure
 5 control unit may include a coupling unit connected to at least one point on the marine
   structure and a displace adjusting unit connected to the coupling unit to move the marine
   structure in four directions.     By the automatic structure control unit, it is possible to
   control the marine structure to have a minimal behavior and a minimal structural change.
            In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the alarm
10 information is generated by using the data about an actual physical change of the marine
   structure, which is measured by the measurement device by using at least one of tunable
   diode laser absorption spectroscopy (TDLAS), distributed temperature sensing (DTS),
   distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), fiber Bragg grating (FBG) and remote methane leak
   detector (RMLD).
15          The term 'marine structure' used in the present disclosure means, for example,
   jack-up rigs, semi-sub rigs, jackets, compliant towers, TLP, floating petroleum production,
   storing or extracting facilities, wind power generators and wave energy converters as well
   as directly or indirectly associated complex structures (e.g., non-subsea structures/flare
   towers, top-side), berthing-related marine structures, drill rigs, production casings for
20 collecting oil and gas at an oilfield, flow lines, production lines, mooring lines, hawser
   lines, lowering lines, tethering cable lines for ROV, structure supports and connection
   cables of sails for environment-friendly fuel savings, tensioners having an optical fiber
   embedded therein, blades and towers of a wind power generator, jackets, tensioners
                                                 43

   inserted into a foundation, bridge/cable-stayed bridge cables, structures such as on-water,
   in-water or under-water supports, and concrete tensioners for such structures.
            In the present disclosure, if a ship is operated in ballast without loading cargo, a
   propeller may float over the water surface, which may deteriorate the propeller efficiency
 5 or damage the propeller, thereby giving a serious problem in safe navigation.          In order to
   solve this problem a ballast tank is provided so that the ship may maintain a constant sea
   gauge, and also the ballast tank allows the ship not to lose its stability even though cargo
   are loaded disproportionally.    In addition, as the ballast tank, a water ballast filled with
   seawater is generally, but if the water ballast is insufficient, a solid ballast filled with sand
10 may also be used.
            In the present disclosure, it is revealed that the measurement instrument for
   measuring external forces (for example, wind load, wave load, current load) and reactions
   of a structure (for example, displacement, deformation, motion, vortex) has a broad
   meaning including a lidar using electric or optical measurement methods, particle induced
15 velocity (PVI), particle tracking velocity (PTV), a strain sensor, an extensometer, an
   accelerometer, an inclinometer, a pressure meter, a flow meter, a thermometer, a current
   meter, an acoustic emission monitor, a seismic trigger, a flow velocity sensor, a distributed
   temperature sensor, a distributed strain sensor, an optical time-domain reflectometer
   (OTDR) or the like.
20          In the present disclosure, it is revealed that the measurement instrument for
   measuring internal forces (for example, sloshing load, flow load, pressure load, thermal
   load) and reactions of a structure (for example, displacement, deformation, motion,
   walking, buckling, vortex) has a broad meaning including a lidar using an electric or
                                                 44

   optical sensor, particle induced velocity (PVI), particle tracking velocity (PTV), a strain
   sensor, an accelerometer, a current meter, an acoustic emission monitor, a seismic trigger,
   a flow velocity sensor, a distributed temperature sensor, a distributed strain sensor, an
   optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR) or the like.
 5           In addition, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the
   complex optical measuring instrument detects a change of a target structure by using at
   least one of optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR), Raman spectra (Raman), Brillouin
   scattering, Rayleigh wave, distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), acoustic emission, and
   interferometry
10           In the present disclosure, it is revealed that the time and space information and
   shape acquisition technique has a broad meaning including aerodynamic data collection
   methods using an RF- and microwave-GPS, DGPS, RTK, light-lidar, PIV, PIT, an
   interferometer or the like.
             In the present disclosure, it is revealed that the inertial measurement unit (IMU)
15 has a broad meaning including acceleration and rotation measuring devices such as a gyro,
   a photo grid or the like.    In addition, the gyro is a tool used for measuring a direction of
   an axially symmetric high-speed rotor in an inertial space or measuring an angular velocity
   with respect to the inertial space, and the gyro is used for measuring a direction and
   balance (inclination) of an airplane, a ship, a missile or the like to constantly keep a
20 balance with a direction of an airplane or ship in night operation.
             In addition, the time and space information and shape acquisition technique and
   the IMU are operated in association with 6-dof motion, posture reflex, localization and
   database of the marine structure to control posture control by utilizing a monitoring system,
                                                  45

   an alarming system and an automatic control system of the artificial intelligence for
   EEOI/EEDI/DMS/DPS.
            Prior to explaining the present disclosure, it is revealed that mathematical models
   used in the present disclosure has a broad meaning including finite element method (FEM),
 5 gas structure interaction, finite difference method, finite volume method, inverse finite
   element method (IFEM) or the like.        Here, the finite element method (FEM) means a
   numerical calculation method for dividing a continuous structure into a finite number of
   elements having a one-directional rod, two-directional triangle or rectangle, or three
   dimensional solid body (a tetrahedron or a hexahedron) and performing an approximation
10 solution based on energy principles to each region.
            In the present disclosure, if an agent converts situation information input by the
   same sensor as a USN sensor into middleware-dedicated packets and transmits the packets
   to a situation recognition middleware, the situation recognition middleware receives and
   processes the packets in each module classified based on a function and transmits the
15 processing result to a user program, thereby collecting all kinds of sensor information or
   controlling all kinds of equipment through an agent which converts monitored and
   controllable program situation information into middleware-dedicated packets.           The
   middleware is modulated based on each function (notifying, processing, storing, logging,
   controlling, IO, external application), and data are interlinked between modules by using a
20 middleware message defined with XML to ensure independency among modules.
   Therefore, it is revealed that the situation recognition middleware has a broad meaning
   including a correction function, an adding function or the like.
                                                 46

            In the present disclosure, the web-based situation recognition monitoring program
   has a program for monitoring situation information by using the situation recognition
   middleware and is also a web-based program which is available in a system where flash
   normally operates.     It is revealed that the web-based situation recognition monitoring
 5 program has a broad meaning including programs for real-time monitoring (which allows
   graph presentation, chart presentation), historical data inquiry of 10 minutes on average
   (for each period or sensor), setting a threshold value for each sensor and alarming at
   threshold exceed, external program calling for some sensors and result monitoring.
            In the present disclosure, electric or optical measurement instruments are
10 integrated to measure load, strain, deformation, displacement, fatigue, crack, vibration,
   frequency or the like of the marine structure.
            The force applied to a hull by the air is caused by three-dimensional velocity and
   direction, and responses in x, y and z axes with respect to x-, y- or z-axis incident angles
   are different from each other.
15          Referring to Figs. 6 and 7, method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time
   predictive monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or
   external force, hull stresses, 6 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a
   marine structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes a step (1)
   of accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a
20 gas flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind
   tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to the internal or
   external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database, a
   step (2) of measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an
                                                 47

   actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
   database, a step (3) of comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force
   obtained in the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the
   look-up table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure, and a
 5 step (4) of controlling a posture or navigation path of the marine structure in real time by
   using the predicted data about a response of the marine structure.
            Hull resistance caused by a change of sea gauge and trim is measured by means of
   a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data, and aerodynamic energy to be
   applied to the ship is measured by using a radar, a pressure sensor, a strain sensor, an
10 accelerometer or the like in consideration of the influence of 6-dof motion.     In this case,
   direction and velocity of the gas at each altitude are measured according to space and time.
            In addition, according to the above steps, mathematical calculation models are
   associated with actual measurement data to perform automatic control.           Direction and
   velocity of aerodynamic energy to be applied to the hull are measured in advance and
15 applied to the hull, reactions of the marine structure are predicted by utilizing an
   aerodynamic reaction model test, the test results are compared with actual measurement
   data, the look-up table is corrected according to the comparison results to develop an
   optimized aerodynamic reaction model, and then a posture control or navigation path is
   determined accordingly.
20          In addition, the step (3) may further include (3-1) measuring an actual response of
   the marine structure, and (3-2) when the data about a response of the marine structure
   measured in the step (3-1) does not agree with the data about a response of the marine
   structure predicted in the step (3), correcting the data about a response of the marine
                                                  48

   structure stored in the look-up table generated in the step (1) into the data about a response
   of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1) or applying the corrected data to correct
   or supplement a numerical model (CFD and/or FEM).
             In this case, the data about a response of the marine structure may be corrected by
 5 means of a simulator based on finite element analysis (FEA) or inversed finite element
   method (iFEM).
             Regarding the data measured by the measurement instruments, a maximum
   condition of the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is input, and correlations between the
   behavior and 6-dof motion of the marine structure and various physical values.               The
10 mathematical model results of the situation recognition middleware are associated with
   actual measurement data to construct algorithm and simulation.            By constructing a web
   based system through the situation recognition middleware and the web-based situation
   recognition monitoring program, a monitoring and predictive controlling system of an
   artificial intelligence is constructed in addition to a simple monitoring function.
15           Referring to Fig. 8, in the step (2), the internal or external force caused by gas may
   be measured by using a measurement instrument provided at the floating marine structure,
   and the measurement instrument may be an electric sensor or an optical sensor.                In
   addition, the measurement instrument may measure wind direction, wind velocity,
   atmospheric pressure, temperature, humidity and dust at each altitude.
20           In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force applied to the marine
   structure by a gas flow may be actually measured by using the IMU.
                                                    49

            In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a ship, a response of the
   marine structure may include at least one selected from the group consisting of progress
   direction, four-directional slopes, sea gauge and trim of the ship.
            In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed
 5 structure, a response of the marine structure may include at least one selected from the
   group consisting of moving direction, four-directional slopes and sea gauge of the
   temporarily fixed structure.
            In addition, in the step (2), data including natural frequency, harmonic frequency
   and gas characteristics of the marine structure by a gas flow may be measured.
10          In addition, in the step (1), the database storing the look-up table may be a voyage
   data recorder (VDR) provided at the marine structure.
            In addition, an electric or optical sensor may be attached to a mooring line, or a
     support and a connection cable (or, a sail line) of a sail for environmental-friendly fuel
     savings to monitor a change of aerodynamic coupled energy.
15          Measurement data about a stress measured at off-loading or approaching by
   inserting an optical fiber or an electric strain sensor into a hawser and a loading hose as
   well as 6-dof motion (heading, swaying, heaving, rolling, pitching, yawing motions) of the
   marine structure caused by aerodynamic environmental internal or external force are
   associated with structural analysis, and the off-loading line is controlled in real time or
20 predictively in consideration of a priority order or importance of situation judgment to
   minimize a force (inertia and elasticity of pipe lines, pumps, inserted tensioners, risers,
   mooring lines, hawsers, and off-loading lines) applied by aerodynamics.
                                                   50

            In addition, the data stored in the database may be utilized as reference data for
   implementing real-time situation recognition, situation reproduction of a history recording
   and situation prediction in preparation for future predictive cases.      In addition, the stored
   data may be used for performing structure diagnosis and work evaluation by means of
 5 virtual simulation.
            In addition, if the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, the look-up
   table may be recorded as time sequential data by the year, and the look-up table may be
   corrected by comparing with time sequential data by the year which have been
   accumulated till the previous year.     By doing so, errors may be automatically reduced.
10          In addition, in the step (4), the posture or navigation path of the marine structure
   may be controlled in real time by using at least one selected from the group consisting of a
   rudder, a thruster, a propeller, a sail, a kite and a balloon.   In other words, a rudder or the
   like is controlled to minimize 6-dof motion, and if the marine structure is navigating, a
   direction of the rudder is controlled to compensate aerodynamic force so that the marine
15 structure may navigate in an optimized path.
            Meanwhile, if the marine structure is in operation, rolling may turn over the
   marine structure or drop cargo.       In this case, if at least one key is installed below the
   marine structure, rolling may be reduced by means of friction of the key.
            Referring to Fig. 9, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described.
20 In the step (4), if the marine structure is a ship, a direction of the rudder or a RPM of the
   thruster or propeller may be controlled according to the data about a predicted response of
   the marine structure so that a resultant force of a propelling force and the internal or
   external force has a targeted progress direction.      For example, it may be found in Fig. 9
                                                    51

   that a moving distance to a target point is shortened when the rudder is controlled with
   respect to an internal or external force applied to the ship by means of aerodynamics, in
   comparison to the case where the rudder installed at the ship is not controlled.
            In addition, if the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, a thruster may
 5 be controlled according to the predicted data about a response of the marine structure so
   that a resultant force with the internal or external force is minimized to maintain a current
   location.
            Referring to Fig. 13, the marine structure may include a helideck.        Here, in the
   step (4), a center of gravity of the marine structure is changed by controlling a posture of
10 the marine structure or adjusting an 6-dof angle by means of dynamic positioning (DP) or
   dynamic motioning (DM) so as to maintain a balance of the helideck or relieve a shock
   when a helicopter takes off or lands, and balanced state information of the helideck may be
   stored in the database.
            In addition, the balanced state information of the helideck obtained by controlling
15 a posture of the marine structure is stored in the database.        Also, the database may
   transmit the balanced state information of the helideck to an external structure information
   server through a communication unit, and the structure information server may provide the
   helicopter with location information of a marine structure, which has the balanced state
   information of the helideck allowing taking-off or landing of a helicopter, among a
20 plurality of marine structures.   In addition, the 6-dof angle such as a trim may be adjusted
   to change the center of gravity of the marine structure and maintain a balanced state so as
   to maintain a balance suitable for a targeted function (including, helicopter taking-off or
   landing, a separator, and a liquefying process) of the marine structure or relieve shocks.
                                                  52

   In particular, when a helicopter takes off or lands, an impact at the marine structure or
   helideck and the helicopter supporting structure may be relieved.
            In addition, the step (2) may further include (2-1) measuring at least one selected
   from the group consisting of wind direction, wind velocity, temperature, humidity,
 5 atmospheric pressure, solar radiant rays, inorganic ions, carbon dioxide, dust, radioactivity
   and ozone at a remote distance from the marine structure by using a measurement
   instrument, and storing the measurement data in the database.
            The measurement instrument may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of an anemometer, a weathervane, a hygrometer, a thermometer, a barometer, a
10 solarimeter, an atmospheric gassol automatic collector, a C02 flux measurement
   instrument, an atmospheric dust collector, an air sampler and an ozone analyzer.
            In addition, by using the IMU, the time and space information and shape
   acquisition technique and the radar capable of detecting X-band and S-band, collision with
   a dangerous article is prevented, and a wind direction, a wind velocity, an atmospheric
15 pressure and a temperature are predicted.    In addition, by using at least one IMU, hogging,
   sagging and torsion as well as 6-dof motion of the marine structure are measured, and by
   using the time and space information acquisition technique, a moving distance of the
   marine structure and environmental internal or external force data of a coordinate
   measuring satellite are associated with the radar and IMU data to minimize a fatigue of the
20 marine structure.
            In addition, the number of polar images collected by the radar is not limited to 32,
   and when a new polar image is received, a first or oldest polar image is deleted to ensure
   real-time dynamic image processing.     By doing so, collision with a dangerous article may
                                                 53

   be prevented, and a wind velocity, a wind direction, an atmospheric pressure and a
   temperature may be predicted.        In addition, an existing X-band or S-band anti-collision
   radar is used by utilizing a radio frequency (RF) 1x2 splitter or a RF amplifier.            In
   addition, the influence caused by a 6-dof motion is compensated with respect to the
 5 measurement data of the wave radar, and a time-of-flight method and an image overlay
   method are used.
             Referring to Fig. 10, the marine structure may include a ballast tank, and sloshing
   restraining units respectively provided at both sides of the ballast tank to reduce a sloshing
   phenomenon in the ballast tank.          In addition, the sloshing restraining unit restrains a
10 sloshing phenomenon by decreasing an opening area of one horizontal section of the
   ballast tank.
             In addition, referring to Fig. 11, in the step (4), when a slope occurs in marine
   structure due to an aerodynamic internal or external force, ballast water loaded in the
   ballast tank is moved in a direction opposite to the slope to control a posture of the marine
15 structure.    In addition, the ballast tank may include a barrier for partitioning an inside of
   the ballast tank, and an opening/closing unit may be installed at the barrier to move the
   ballast water to another partition.     Also, a pump may be installed in the opening/closing
   unit to control a moving speed and a moving direction of the ballast water.        In addition,
   the ballast tank may be connected to a water gauge to monitor a water level of the ballast
20 tank and perform active control by means of feeding-back and/or feeding-forward.
             In addition, the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the
   step (2) may be transmitted to an external weather information server, and the weather
   information server may store weather information correction data whose error is corrected
                                                    54

   by comparing weather information received from a satellite with the measurement data of
   the internal or external force.
            In addition, the weather information correction data may be provided to an
   external user terminal which accesses the weather information server according to a
 5 request of the external user terminal.
            Meanwhile, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, there is
   also provided a method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure, which includes a step (1) of accumulating data
10 about an internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a gas flow out of the
   marine structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a
   response of the marine structure according to the internal or external force to generate a
   look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database, a step (2) of measuring the
   internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an actual voyage of the
15 marine structure, a step (3) of comparing the measurement data of the internal or external
   force obtained in the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated
   in the look-up table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure,
   a step (3-1) of measuring an actual response of the marine structure, a step (3-2) of
   comparing the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1)
20 with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step (3), and if there
   is a difference, correcting the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the
   look-up table generated in the step (1) into the data about a response of the marine
   structure measured in the step (3-1), a step (4) of obtaining maintenance data about the
                                                  55

   marine structure by performing virtual simulation to the data accumulated in the look-up
   table, and a step (5) of applying actual measurement data of the virtual simulation to
   compare a response result value which is a result of the virtual simulation with real-time
   actual measurement value about a response of the marine structure, and correcting the data
 5 about a response of the marine structure or applying the corrected data to correct or
   supplement a numerical model.
             Referring to Fig. 12, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure, data
   obtained by simulating the maintenance data may be checked.                For example, the
   maintenance data may include location information, maintenance cost information,
10 required maintenance time information, residual life information or the like of individual
   structures provided at the marine structure according to the importance order, when being
   output.
             In addition, after the step (4), the method may further include a step of generating
   a simulator with the marine structure control information by means of a fluid structure
15 interaction (FSI) program, and associating the simulator with the data about an actual
   response of the marine structure, obtained in the step (3-1), by means of situation
   recognition middleware to generate an algorithm for automatically controlling the marine
   structure.
             In addition, in the step (4), a three-dimensional numerical analysis program using
20 finite element method (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is associated with a
   situation analysis module which stores data about a hypothetical situation including gas
   leak, gas diffusion, fire or explosion, which probably occurs according to a behavior and
                                                   56

   structural change of the marine structure, and countermeasures against the hypothetical
   situation, to generate maintenance information.
            In addition, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least
   one selected from the group consisting of strain, deformation, crack, vibration, frequency,
 5 corrosion, and erosion.       The frequency includes natural frequency and harmonic
   frequency and may be associated with a structure analysis method to avoid a frequency
   applied to the marine structure so as to be utilized as data for minimizing a fatigue and
   elongating the life span.
            In addition, the maintenance data of the step (4) may be obtained distinguishably
10 according to preset importance of individual structures provided at the marine structure.
            When control is made to satisfy a DP condition or a DP boundary condition, a
   priority order in relation to fatigue minimization is determined for individual structures
   provided at the marine structure, and the individual structures may be operated in the order
   of emergent, urgent, preferential or the like to suitably enhance the efficiency of
15 EEOI/EEDI/DMS/DPS.
            In addition, the maintenance data may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information,
   required maintenance time information and residual life information of each structure.
            The data about a response of the marine structure by the predicted slamming and a
20 response of the storage tank including the ballast tank are associated with mathematical
   models to obtain an optimizing and artificial intelligence algorithm, and the result is stored
   in a voyage data recorder (VDR) or a separate server as a look-up table to control a posture
   of the marine structure and minimize a damage.       In addition, the stored data is utilized as
                                                 57

   reference data for implementing real-time situation recognition, situation reproduction of a
   history recording and situation prediction in preparation for future predictive cases.      In
   addition, the stored data may be used for performing structure diagnosis and work
   evaluation by means of virtual simulation.
 5          An optimized predictive simulator is implemented by successively applying actual
   measurement data to the algorithm or simulator and correcting the look-up table.          The
   algorithm or simulator may be applied to a marine structure including risers (including a
   steel catenary riser (SCR), a top tensioned riser (TTR) and a tendon), a remotely operated
   vehicle (ROV), a drill rig or the like to implement automation using an automatic learning
10 technique.
            Referring to Fig. 6, a method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time
   predictive monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal
   or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according
   to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes a step (1) of accumulating data about
15 an internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a fluid flow out of the marine
   structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a
   response of the marine structure according to the internal or external force to generate a
   look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database, a step (2) of, by a measurement
   instrument, measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an
20 actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
   database, a step (3) of comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force
   obtained in the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the
   look-up table to predict data about a response of the marine structure, and a step (4) of
                                                 58

   controlling a posture or navigation path of the marine structure in real time by using the
   predicted data about a response of the marine structure.
            Hull resistance caused by a change of sea gauge and trim is measured by means of
   a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data, and aerodynamic energy to be
 5 applied to the ship is measured by using a pressure sensor, a strain sensor, an
   accelerometer or the like in consideration of the influence of 6-dof motion.     In this case,
   directions and velocities of a sea current and a tidal current at each height are measured
   according to space and time.
            In addition, according to the above steps, mathematical calculation models are
10 associated with actual measurement data to perform automatic control.          Direction and
   velocity of hydrodynamic energy to be applied to the hull are measured in advance and
   applied to the hull, reactions of the marine structure are predicted by utilizing a
   hydrodynamic reaction model test, the test results are compared with actual measurement
   data, the look-up table is corrected according to the comparison results to develop an
15 optimized hydrodynamic reaction model, and then a posture control or navigation path is
   determined accordingly.
            In addition, the step (3) may further include (3-1) measuring an actual response of
   the marine structure, and (3-2) when the data about a response of the marine structure
   measured in the step (3-1) does not agree with the data about a response of the marine
20 structure predicted in the step (3), the data about a response of the marine structure stored
   in the look-up table generated in the step (1) is corrected into the data about a response of
   the marine structure measured in the step (3-1) or the corrected data is applied to correct or
   supplement a numerical model.
                                                  59

             In this case, the data about a response of the marine structure may be corrected by
   means of a simulator based on finite element analysis (FEA).
             Regarding the data measured by the measurement instruments, a maximum
   condition of the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is input, and correlations between the
 5 behavior and 6-dof motion of the marine structure and various physical values.             The
   mathematical model results of the situation recognition middleware are associated with
   actual measurement data to construct algorithm and simulation.         By constructing a web
   based system through the situation recognition middleware and the web-based situation
   recognition monitoring program, a monitoring and predictive controlling system of an
10 artificial intelligence is constructed in addition to a simple monitoring function.
             In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force caused by fluid may be
   measured by using a measurement instrument provided at a side of the floating marine
   structure, and the measurement instrument may be an electric sensor or an optical sensor
             In addition, in the step (2), the internal or external force applied to the marine
15 structure by a fluid flow may be actually measured by using an internal measurement unit
   (IMU).
             In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a ship, the data about a
   response of the marine structure may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of progress direction, four-directional slopes, sea gauge and trim of the ship.
20           In addition, in the step (3), when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed
   structure, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least one
   selected from the group consisting of moving direction, four-directional slopes and sea
   gauge of the temporarily fixed structure.
                                                    60

            In addition, in the step (2), directions and velocities of a tidal current and a sea
   current according to space and time may be measured for each water level.
            In addition, in the step (2), data including natural frequency, harmonic frequency
   and fluid characteristics of the marine structure by a fluid flow may be measured.
 5          In addition, in the step (1), the database storing the look-up table may be a voyage
   data recorder (VDR) provided at the marine structure.
            In addition, an electric or optical sensor may be attached to a mooring line, or a
    support and a connection cable (or, a sail line) of a sail for environmental-friendly fuel
    savings to monitor a change of hydrodynamic coupled energy.
10          Measurement data about a stress measured at off-loading or approaching by
   inserting an optical fiber or an electric strain sensor into a hawser and a loading hose as
   well as 6-dof motion (heading, swaying, heaving, rolling, pitching, yawing motions) of the
   marine structure caused by hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force are
   associated with structural analysis, and the off-loading line is controlled in real time or
15 predictively in consideration of a priority order or importance of situation judgment to
   minimize a force (inertia and elasticity of pipe lines, pumps, inserted tensioners, risers,
   mooring lines, hawsers, and off-loading lines) applied by hydrodynamics.
            In addition, the data stored in the database may be utilized as reference data for
   implementing real-time situation recognition, situation reproduction of a history recording
20 and situation prediction in preparation for future predictive cases.    In addition, the stored
   data may be used for performing structure diagnosis and work evaluation by means of
   virtual simulation.
                                                   61

            In addition, if the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, the look-up
   table may be recorded as time sequential data by the year, and the look-up table may be
   corrected by comparing with time sequential data by the year which have been
   accumulated till the previous year.    By doing so, errors may be automatically reduced.
 5          In addition, in the step (4), the posture or navigation path of the marine structure
   may be controlled in real time by using at least one selected from the group consisting of a
   rudder, a thruster, a propeller and a sail.   In other words, a rudder or the like is controlled
   to minimize 6-dof motion, and if the marine structure is navigating, a direction of the
   rudder is controlled to compensate hydrodynamic force so that the marine structure may
10 navigate in an optimized path.
            Meanwhile, if the marine structure is in operation, rolling may turn over the
   marine structure or drop cargo.      In this case, if at least one key is installed below the
   marine structure, rolling may be reduced by means of friction of the key.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
15 reference to Fig. 9.    In the step (4), if the marine structure is a ship, a direction of the
   rudder or a RPM of the thruster or propeller may be controlled according to the data about
   a predicted response of the marine structure so that a resultant force of a propelling force
   and the internal or external force has a targeted progress direction.     For example, it may
   be found in Fig. 9 that a moving distance to a target point is shortened when the rudder is
20 controlled with respect to an internal or external force applied to the ship by means of
   hydrodynamics, in comparison to the case where the rudder installed at the ship is not
   controlled.
                                                   62

            In addition, if the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, a thruster may
   be controlled according to the predicted data about a response of the marine structure so
   that a resultant force with the internal or external force is minimized to maintain a current
   location.
 5          In addition, referring to Fig. 13, the marine structure may include a helideck.
   Here, in the step (4), a center of gravity of the marine structure may be changed by
   controlling a posture of the marine structure by means of dynamic positioning (DP) or
   dynamic motioning (DM) so as to maintain a balance of the helideck, and balanced state
   information of the helideck may be stored in the database.      In addition, the balanced state
10 information of the helideck obtained by controlling a posture of the marine structure is
   stored in the database.    Also, the database may transmit the balanced state information of
   the helideck to an external structure information server through a communication unit, and
   the structure information server may provide the helicopter with location information of a
   marine structure, which has the balanced state information of the helideck allowing taking
15 off or landing of a helicopter, among a plurality of marine structures.      In addition, the 6
   dof angle such as a trim may be adjusted to change the center of gravity of the marine
   structure and maintain a balanced state so as to maintain a balance suitable for a targeted
   function (including, helicopter taking-off or landing, a separator, and a liquefying process)
   of the marine structure or relieve shocks.      In particular, when a helicopter takes off or
20 lands, an impact at the marine structure or helideck and the helicopter supporting structure
   may be relieved.
                                                  63

            In addition, in the steps (1) and (2), the data about the internal or external force
   applied to the marine structure by a fluid flow may be data about vectors of a sea current
   and a tidal current, measured by a pressure sensor installed at a side of the marine structure.
            In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
 5 reference to Fig. 14.    In this embodiment, there may be provided a plurality of pressure
   sensors installed at regular intervals at the side of the marine structure.    Meanwhile, in
   order to monitor a wave applied to the marine structure, a three-dimensional pressure
   sensor module is installed at a side of the marine structure to analyze the measured and
   extract vectors of a sea current and a tidal current.  From this, it may be understood that a
10 wave comes at an installation location of a sensor showing a greatest value.     By doing so,
   a wave velocity as well as a wave direction according to space and time may be analogized
   by calculating a strain value by a wave.
            In addition, the step (2) may further include (2-1) measuring at least one selected
   from the group consisting of a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave cycle, a wave
15 velocity and a wave direction at a remote distance from the marine structure by using a
   weather measurement instrument, and storing the measurement data in the database, and
   the weather measurement instrument may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of a wave radar, a directional wave rider, a sea level monitor, an ultrasonic
   displacement sensor, an amemovane and an ultrasonic wave-height meter.
20          In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 14.     Here, there may be provided a plurality of pressure sensors with
   different heights at the side of the marine structure, and the presence of measurement data
   obtained from the pressure sensors may be analyzed to obtain wave height data from the
                                                  64

   data obtained from an uppermost pressure sensor.      In addition, a wave cycle may also be
   calculated by measuring a period of the measurement data.
            Meanwhile, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 8.    Here, the step (2) may further include (2-1) measuring at least one
 5 selected from the group consisting of a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave cycle, a
   wave velocity and a wave direction at a remote distance from the marine structure by using
   a wave radar 310, and storing the measurement data in the database.         By utilizing the
   wave radar 310, it is possible to calculate hydrodynamics applied to the marine structure
   by measuring a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave cycle, a wave velocity or a wave
10 direction from a distance of several hundred meters.
            By using the IMU, the time and space information and shape acquisition technique
   and the radar capable of detecting X-band and S-band, collision with a dangerous article is
   prevented, and a motion of a wave such as wave intensity or height is predicted.          In
   addition, by using at least one IMU, hogging, sagging and torsion as well as 6-dof motion
15 of the marine structure are measured, and by using the time and space information
   acquisition technique, a moving distance of the marine structure and environmental
   internal or external force data of a coordinate measuring satellite are associated with the
   radar and IMU data to minimize a fatigue of the marine structure.
            In addition, the number of polar images collected by the wave radar is not limited
20 to 32, and when a new polar image is received, a first or oldest polar image is deleted to
   ensure real-time dynamic image processing.       By doing so, collision with a dangerous
   article may be prevented, and a motion of a wave such as wave intensity or height may be
   predicted.   In addition, an existing X-band or S-band anti-collision radar is used by
                                                65

   utilizing a radio frequency (RF) 1x2 splitter or a RF amplifier.      In addition, the influence
   caused by a 6-dof motion is compensated with respect to the measurement data of the wave
   radar, and a time-of-flight method and an image overlay method are used.
             In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
 5 reference to Fig. 10.     Here, the marine structure may include a ballast tank, and sloshing
   restraining units respectively provided at both sides of the ballast tank to reduce a sloshing
   phenomenon in the ballast tank.         In addition, the sloshing restraining unit restrains a
   sloshing phenomenon by decreasing an opening area of one horizontal section of the
   ballast tank.
10           In addition, another embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with
   reference to Fig. 11.    Here, in the step (4), when a slope occurs in marine structure, ballast
   water loaded in the ballast tank may be moved in a direction opposite to the slope to
   control a posture of the marine structure.        In addition, the ballast tank may include a
   barrier for partitioning an inside of the ballast tank, and an opening/closing unit may be
15 installed at the barrier to move the ballast water to another partition.     Also, a pump may
   be installed in the opening/closing unit to control a moving speed and a moving direction
   of the ballast water.    In addition, the ballast tank may be connected to a water gauge to
   monitor a water level of the ballast tank and perform active control by means of feeding
   back and/or feeding-forward.
20           In addition, the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the
   step (2) may be transmitted to an external weather information server, and the weather
   information server may store weather information correction data whose error is corrected
                                                   66

   by comparing weather information received from a satellite with the measurement data of
   the internal or external force.
            In addition, the weather information correction data may be provided to an
   external user terminal which accesses the weather information server according to a
 5 request of the external user terminal.
            Meanwhile, according to another embodiment of the present disclosure, there is
   also provided a method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure, which includes a step (1) of accumulating data
10 about an internal or external force applied to a marine structure by a fluid flow out of the
   marine structure by means of a linear test in a water tank or a wind tunnel and data about a
   response of the marine structure according to the internal or external force to generate a
   look-up table, a step (2) of measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of
   flight method in an actual voyage of the marine structure, a step (3) of comparing the
15 measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the step (2) with the data
   about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up table in the step (1) to
   predict data about a response of the marine structure, a step (3-1) of measuring an actual
   response of the marine structure, a step (3-2) of comparing the data about a response of the
   marine structure measured in the step (3-1) with the data about a response of the marine
20 structure predicted in the step (3), and if there is a difference, correcting the data about a
   response of the marine structure stored in the look-up table generated in the step (1) into
   the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1), and a step (4)
                                                 67

   of obtaining maintenance data about the marine structure by performing virtual simulation
   to the data accumulated in the look-up table.
            Referring to Fig. 12, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure, data
   obtained by simulating the maintenance data may be checked.              For example, the
 5 maintenance data may include location information, maintenance cost information,
   required maintenance time information, residual life information or the like of individual
   structures provided at the marine structure according to the importance order, when being
   output.
            In addition, the data about a response of the marine structure may include at least
10 one selected from the group consisting of strain, deformation, crack, vibration, frequency,
   corrosion, and erosion.       The frequency includes natural frequency and harmonic
   frequency and may be associated with a structure analysis method to avoid a frequency
   applied to the marine structure so as to be utilized as data for minimizing a fatigue and
   elongating the life span.
15          In addition, the maintenance data of the step (4) may be obtained distinguishably
   according to preset importance of individual structures provided at the marine structure.
            When control is made to satisfy a DP condition or a DP boundary condition, a
   priority order in relation to fatigue minimization is determined for individual structures
   provided at the marine structure, and the individual structures may be operated in the order
20 of emergent, urgent, preferential or the like to suitably enhance the efficiency of
   EEOI/EEDI/DMS/DPS.
                                                 68

            In addition, the maintenance data may include at least one selected from the group
   consisting of maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information,
   required maintenance time information and residual life information of each structure.
            An electric or optical sensor is inserted into at least one point of a floating mat
 5 assembly to measure load, strain, deformation, displacement, fatigue, micro crack,
   vibration and frequency of the floating mat assembly, caused by sloshing.       An electric or
   optical sensor is also inserted between walls of a fluid storage tank to measure load, strain,
   deformation, displacement, fatigue, micro crack, vibration and frequency, caused by an
   impact between the floating mat and the wall of the fluid storage tank by sloshing.
10          A floating mat unit has a structure or material floatable in liquid such as LNG and
   is applicable to a LNG tank, a ballast tank or the like.        The floating mat is sized in
   consideration of a maximum amount of substance filling the tank and also minimizes
   sloshing as well as an impact to the mat and the tank by the sloshing.
            Even though the measurement on the marine structure and the tank is important,
15 since a response of the marine structure by slamming is not always constant, an electric or
   optical sensor is inserted to measure load, strain, deformation, displacement, fatigue, micro
   crack, vibration and frequency of the floating mat assembly, caused by sloshing, and then
   the measurement data is utilized as data for minimizing an impact between the marine
   structure and the tank by means of safety diagnosis and control.
20          The data about a response of the marine structure by the measured slamming and a
   response of the storage tank including the ballast tank are associated with mathematical
   models to obtain an optimizing and artificial intelligence algorithm, and the result is stored
   in a voyage data recorder (VDR) or a separate server as a look-up table to control a posture
                                                 69

   of the marine structure and minimize a damage.      In addition, the stored data is utilized as
   reference data for implementing real-time situation recognition, situation reproduction of a
   history recording and situation prediction in preparation for future predictive cases.       In
   addition, the stored data may be used for performing structure diagnosis and work
 5 evaluation by means of virtual simulation.
            An optimized predictive simulator is implemented by successively applying actual
   measurement data to the algorithm or simulator and correcting the look-up table.           The
   algorithm or simulator may be applied to a marine structure including risers (including a
   steel catenary riser (SCR), a top tensioned riser (TTR) and a tendon), a remotely operated
10 vehicle (ROV), a drill rig or the like to implement automation using an automatic learning
   technique.
            A controlling method by real-time monitoring of hydrodynamic environmental
   internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes measuring a wave intensity
15 and a wave height and predicting a wave motion as well as preventing collision by using a
   radar, an internal measurement unit (IMU),           a global positioning system (GPS)
   measurement technique and an X-band radar, measuring hogging, sagging and torsion as
   well as 6-dof motion of a marine structure by using at least one IMU, associating data
   about a moving distance of the marine structure and environmental external force of a
20 coordinate measuring satellite with the data of the radar and the IMU by using a time and
   space information obtaining tool to minimize a fatigue of the marine structure, and
   applying to an energy efficiency operating indicator (EEOI), an energy efficiency design
   index (EEDI), a dynamic positioning (DP) boundary, a motion controlling (MC) boundary,
                                                 70

   risers (including a steel catenary riser (SCR), a top tensioned riser (TTR) and a tendon), a
   lowering line, a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and a drill rig to substitute an algorithm
   and a simulator of a prediction procedure.     In addition, a wave height, a wave intensity, a
   wave period, a wave velocity and a wave direction may be measured by using a radar, the
 5 number of polar images collected by the radar may not be limited to 32, and when a new
   polar image is received, a first or oldest polar image may be deleted to ensure real-time
   dynamic image processing.       In addition, a collision prevention function, a wave intensity
   and height measurement function and a wave motion prediction function may be associated.
   Moreover, measurement results of a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave period and a
10 wave direction may be extracted by using an existing X-band or S-band anti-collision radar
   and utilizing a radio frequency (RF) 1x2 splitter, a RF amplifier or an optical signal
   transmission and amplification function.      In addition, a 6-dof motion compensated X/S
   Band wave radar, a wave height measuring sensor, a Doppler, a time-of-flight and image
   overlay method may be used.
15           1. A time and space information acquisition tool (for example, by utilizing an RF
   and microwave-GPS, DGPS, RTK, light-lidar, PIV, PIT, an interferometer or the like, and
   in the water, by utilizing sonic wave, ultrasonic wave, light/lidar or the like) and a smart
   IMU (including an artificial intelligence in which electric/photoelectric gyro + electric
   acceleration such as photo grid and MEM + environmental external force measurement are
20 associated, indirectly associated or non-associated (direct and indirect experience) and DB
   of situation recognition) are associated with 6-dof motion/reaction response measurement
   and a database (DB) which recognizes situations of a marine structure, and motion control
   is performed to utilize a predictive monitoring system, a predictive adviser system, and/or
                                                  71

   a predictive automated control system for an energy efficiency operating indicator (EEOI),
   a dynamic positioning system (DPS) and a dynamic monitoring system (DMS) of an
   artificial intelligence associated or non-associated with environmental external force
   measurement.
 5           (1) When control is made to satisfy a DP condition or a DP boundary condition, a
   priority order is applied to structures and complex structures (for example, the priority
   order is firstly given to subsea structures/risers/drill rigs/hawser lines and/or mooring lines,
   and then non-subsea structures/flare towers, top-sides, and hulls, ... ) to determine a
   priority order for minimizing a fatigue, and the marine structures are operated to ensure
10 maximum control efficiency of DPS, DMS or EEOI.
             (2) When control is made to satisfy EEOI/EEDI conditions, a priority order is
   applied to structures and complex structures (for example, rudders, thrusters, propeller
   RPM, ballistic, fuel and/or storage tanks, wind sails, mooring line tensioners, risers and/or
   their tensioners) to determine a priority order for minimizing a fatigue, and the marine
15 structures are operated to ensure maximum control efficiency of DPS or EEOI, or
   quantitative EEDI is measured.
             (3) A drill rig/riser is monitored to set a most convenient posture of a marine
   structure and perform predictive control, and damping is performed in consideration of
   necessary 6-dof at a necessary time (for example, motion damping is performed based on
20 heaves at a connection portion, and a hydraulic motor is controlled in advance in
   consideration of a predicted motion to perform necessary damping in consideration of 6
   dof motion).
                                                   72

            2. A life span of a structure is elongated by avoiding inherent response frequency
   (natural frequency or harmonic frequency) of individual or integrated marine complex
   structures according to hydrodynamic and aerodynamic influences applied to the structure
   or changing a condition of an environmental external force applied to the structure.
 5          (1) A life span of a structure is elongated by minimizing a yield stress and a
   fatigue independently or complexly applied to the structure according to importance or a
   priority order on circumstantial judgment by means of real-time measurement of an
   environmental external force applied to a structure, a complex energy applied to a complex
   structure and inertial and elastic kinetic energy possessed by the structure and association
10 of calculated numerical results and 6-dof motion prediction.
            3. Condition-based maintenance is allowed by measuring integrity of a mooring
   line and accurately predicting a life span of the mooring line (for example, by utilizing
   static and dynamic numerals and change rates of tension, strain, elongation, vibration or
   the like, and their acceleration) to extract the integrity in real time, and unusual cold is
15 reflected to control static and dynamic positioning of a marine structure in a manual or
   automatic way and manage operations by applying a residual fatigue.
            (1) In mooring, mooring line tension monitoring is associated to control a motion
   and posture of a structure in consideration of environmental external force-applied DP
   predictive monitoring and predictive controlling, MC predictive monitoring and predictive
20 controlling, and EEOI.
            (2) Optical measurement vibration (including DAS) is measured and applied to a
   seabed structure (for example, mooring lines, risers, umbilical line structures) to measure a
   vibration of the structure and extract a deformation rate of the structure through existing
                                                  73

   strain or acceleration measurement, an environmental external force (including a vector of
   an external force of a tidal current or a sea current) applied in association with a
   deformation state, and a vector of a resultant response of the structure.
             (3) When measurement of an environmental external force is associated, a
 5 situation recognition function is predicted and stored in a DB by inputting a maximum
   condition to CFD, FEA and/or FSI, and CFD, FEA, coupled response models and FSI (an
   environmental external force        and a structure motion model responding to the
   environmental external force) are utilized.
             4. A measurement result for circumstance recognition required for implementing
10 real-time situation recognition, situation reproduction of a history recording and situation
   prediction in preparation for future predictive cases is acquired and stored in a DB.
             (1) A real-time web-based system is constructed by utilizing a situation
   recognition middleware and a web-based situation recognition monitoring program.
             (2) A situation recognition middleware or a software having a similar function is
15 associated with measurement results of all situation recognition functions to serve as a base
   tool for optimizing mathematical models (including CFD, FEA and/or FSI), and the
   optimized mathematical models evolves to an algorithm and simulation to which actual
   measurement is applied.
             (3) An algorithm to which actual measurement or numerical calculation is applied
20 is associated in addition to a simple measurement monitoring function to implement a
   predictive monitoring and predictive controlling system or simulation configured as an
   artificial intelligence.
                                                 74

             (4) A database having integrated measurement for situation recognition is stored in
   or associated with a voyage data recorder (VDR) to extract hydrodynamic and/or
   aerodynamic energy (for example, a wave direction, a wind velocity, a vector of the wind
   direction and the wind velocity, and a vector of a resultant response of the structure).
 5           5. A radar + IMU + GPS measurement technique and an X-band or S-band radar is
   used to prevent a collision as well as measure a wave intensity and a wave height and
   predict a wave motion, at least one IMU is used to measure hogging, sagging and torsion
   as well as 6-dof motion of the hull, a time and space information acquisition tool (for
   example, by utilizing an RF- and microwave-GPS, DGPS, RTK, light-lidar, PIV, PIT, an
10 interferometer or the like, and in the water, by utilizing sonic wave, ultrasonic wave,
   light/lidar or the like) is used to minimize a fatigue of the hull by associating a moving
   distance of the ship and environmental external force data of a coordinate measuring
   satellite with the data of the radar and the IMU, and this is applied to an energy efficiency
   operating indicator (EEOI), an energy efficiency design index (EEDI), a dynamic
15 positioning (DP) boundary, a dynamic monitoring (DM) boundary, risers (including a steel
   catenary riser (SCR), a top tensioned riser (TTR) and a tendon), a lowering line, a remotely
   operated vehicle (ROV) and a drill rig to substitute an algorithm and a simulator of a
   prediction procedure.
             (1) A wave height, a wave intensity, a wave period, a wave velocity and a wave
20 direction may be measured by using a radar, the number of polar images collected by the
   radar may not be limited to 32, and when a new polar image is received, a first or oldest
   polar image may be deleted to ensure real-time dynamic image processing.
                                                 75

            (2) A collision prevention function, a wave intensity and height measurement
   function and a wave motion prediction function may be associated.
            (3) An existing X-band or S-band anti-collision radar is used by utilizing a radio
   frequency (RF) 1x2 splitter or a RF amplifier.
 5          (4) A 6-dof motion compensated X-band wave radar, a Doppler, a time-of-flight
   and image overlay method are used.
            6. A simulation result (by hydrodynamic and aerodynamic information) of
   mathematical models (including CFD, FEA and/or FSI) is applied to CDF analysis to
   evolve for CDF model optimization and algorithm, the analyzed and evolved result is
10 accumulated as a look-up table in a VDR or a separate server, and the accumulated data is
   applied to virtual simulation to perform structure diagnosis and work evaluation.
            (1) Predictive control is performed by utilizing experienced reference data.
            (2) A black box function is added to configure a wire/wireless network.
            (3) A corrected time tag function is added.
15          (4) A structure analysis algorithm function for comparing data measured by an
   environmental monitoring system (EMS) and a motion monitoring system (MMS)
   including an accumulated artificial intelligence is added.
            (5) A monitoring function and a predictive controlling system processed (utilizing
   the resulted influence to 6-dof motion and displacement for DPS, DMS and EEOI/EEDI)
20 by applying the algorithm with actual measurement as an artificial intelligence is stored
   and recorded in addition to a simple measurement monitoring function.
            7. An optical & and electric extensometer, particle induced velocity (PIV), particle
   tracking velocity (PTV), band-pass (BP) filter energy intensity, strain gage, pressure sensor,
                                                 76

   ultrasonic measurement, and DAS-excitation and monitoring are used for hydro-elastic
   slamming and/or sloshing and aero-elastic fire/explosion measurement instrument.
            (1) A deformation of a barrier is measured using a strain sensor and monitored by
   means of ultrasonic measurement or DAS-excitation for global measurement.
 5          (2) A response of a ship barrier by a wave is measured, and a location of the
   measured sensor is checked to extract a wave height.
            8. As a monitoring technique using a sensor (including strain, acceleration and
   temperature sensors) embedded in a structure, a tensioner is inserted into a structure
   including bridges, sewerage systems, waterworks, gas pipes, oil tubes, tunnels and
10 structure supports, and vibration, acceleration, location, all-year or season temperature and
   properties (including stress or stiffness) are measured using the sensor inserted into the
   tensioner to diagnose safety of the structure and monitor earthquake, water leak and
   robbery.
            9. As a leakage accident influence evaluation interpretation technique for ensuring
15 safety of a structure or pipe exposed for a predetermined period due to another construction
   including subway and underground road way construction, a gas explosion damage
   prediction at a closed or partially opened space is interpreted using a computational fluid
   dynamics (CFD) theory.
                                                 77

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
            1.     A system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure,
   comprising:
 5          a complex optical measuring instrument configured to detect a behavior and
   structural change of the marine structure by using at least one optical sensor by means of
   optical fiber Bragg grating.
            2.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
10 according to claim 1,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes an extensometer for
   measuring a distance change between at least one reference point set out of the marine
   structure and a point set on the marine structure by using the optical sensor.
15          3.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 2,
            wherein the optical sensor changes a wavelength of the optical signal passing
   through the optical sensor according to a stress change applied to an optical fiber by the
   distance change.
20
            4.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 2,
            wherein the extensometer includes at least one wire for connecting the reference
                                                 78

   point and a point set on the marine structure.
            5.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 4,
 5          wherein the wire includes an invar.
            6.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 4, wherein the extensometer further includes:
            a winding unit for winding the wire by a predetermined tension; and
10          a sensing unit for measuring the number of revolutions of the winding unit by
   using an optical sensor.
            7.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 6,
15          wherein the extensometer further includes a stimulating unit for periodically
   stimulating the optical sensor according to the number of revolutions measured by the
   sensing unit.
            8.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
20 according to claim 1,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes an extensometer
   having an optical fiber wire (320) for connecting at least one point on the marine structure
   to measure a length change of the marine structure, and
                                                  79

            wherein the optical fiber wire (320) changes a wavelength of the optical signal
   passing through the optical fiber according to a stress change applied to an optical sensor
   due to a distance change on the marine structure.
 5          9.     The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 2,
            wherein the extensometer includes at least one wire installed on the same point on
   the marine structure and made of an optical fiber, and
            wherein the wire changes a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the
10 optical fiber according to a stress change applied to an optical sensor due to a distance
   change on the marine structure.
            10.    The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 7 or 9,
15          wherein the extensometer provides absolute location information of the point by
   calculating the degree of tension of each wire by means of the trigonometrical survey.
            11.    The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 1,
20          wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes an inclinometer for
   measuring an angle change among a plurality of points on the marine structure by using the
   optical sensor.
                                                80

             12.   The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 11, wherein the inclinometer includes:
            a weight installed in the gravity direction; and
            an optical sensor connected to the weight and having at least one optical fiber,
 5          wherein due to the angle change of the point on the marine structure where the
   inclinometer is installed, a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the optical
   fiber is changed according to a stress change applied to the optical fiber by means of the
   weight.
10           13.   The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to any one of claims 2, 8 and 11,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument further includes a seismometer
   for measuring a location change of the reference point.
15           14.   The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 13,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument further includes a vibration
   gauge for measuring a vibration of the marine structure.
20           15.   The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 1, further comprising:
            a measurement device for detecting a change of the wavelength of the optical
   signal by the complex optical measuring instrument.
                                                  81

            16.    The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 15,
            wherein the measurement device is a data logger or an interrogator.
 5
            17.    The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 15,
            wherein the measurement device has a function of collecting scattered optical
   signals, and
10          wherein the measurement device includes:
                   an optical unit having a laser capable of controlling a wavelength;
                   an optical referencing unit for distinguishing a wavelength of the optical
   signal reflected by the optical unit by means of each optical sensor;
                   an optical coupler for connecting a plurality of optical fiber Bragg gratings
15 of each optical sensor output from the optical referencing unit and distributing a Bragg
   reflection wavelength to each channel; and
                   a photodiode for converting the Bragg reflection wavelength received from
   the optical coupler into an electric signal.
20          18.    The system for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 1,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument uses at least one of optical
   time-domain reflectometer       (OTDR), Raman       spectra (Raman), Brillouin scattering,
                                                  82

   Rayleigh wave, distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), acoustic emission, and interferometry.
            19.    A method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure,
   comprising:
 5          (a) changing a wavelength or light quantity of the optical signal passing through an
   optical sensor according to a behavior or structural change of a marine structure by using at
   least one complex optical measuring instrument installed on the marine structure or a
   reference point;
            (b) by the complex optical measuring instrument, transmitting the optical signal
10 having the changed wavelength or light quantity to the measurement device; and
            (c) by the measurement device, detecting a change of the wavelength or light
   quantity of the optical signal,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes at least one optical
   sensor using optical fiber Bragg grating.
15
            20.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 19,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes an extensometer for
   measuring a distance change between at least one reference point set out of the marine
20 structure and a point set on the marine structure.
            21.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 20, wherein the extensometer further includes:
                                                 83

            at least one wire connecting the reference point and a point set on the marine
   structure;
            a winding unit for winding the wire by a predetermined tension;
            a sensing unit for measuring the number of revolutions of the winding unit by
 5 using an optical sensor; and
            a stimulating unit for periodically stimulating the optical fiber according to the
   number of revolutions measured by the sensing unit.
            22.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
10 according to claim 20,
            wherein the extensometer includes an optical fiber wire for connecting at least one
   point on the marine structure to measure a length change of the marine structure, and
            wherein the optical fiber wire changes a wavelength of the optical signal passing
   through the optical fiber according to a stress change due to a distance change on the
15 marine structure.
            23.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 20,
            wherein the extensometer includes at least one wire installed on the same point on
20 the marine structure and made of an optical fiber, and
            wherein the wire changes a wavelength of the optical signal passing through the
   optical fiber according to a stress change applied to the optical fiber due to a distance
   change on the marine structure.
                                                84

            24.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 21 or 23,
            wherein the extensometer provides absolute location information of the point by
 5 calculating the degree of tension of each wire by means of the trigonometrical survey.
            25.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 19,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument includes an inclinometer for
10 measuring an angle change among a plurality of points on the marine structure by using the
   optical sensor.
            26.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 25, wherein the inclinometer includes:
15          a weight installed in the gravity direction; and
            an optical sensor connected to the weight,
            wherein in the step (a), the weight simulates the optical fiber according to an angle
   change occurring at the marine structure to generate a stress change, and the generated
   stress change is converted into an optical signal.
20
            27.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to any one of claims 19, 21 and 25,
                                                  85

            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument further includes a seismometer
   for measuring a location change of at least one reference point set out of the marine
   structure by using the optical sensor.
 5          28.    The method for monitoring a physical change of a marine structure
   according to claim 27,
            wherein the complex optical measuring instrument further includes a vibration
   gauge for measuring a vibration of the marine structure.
10          29.    A controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure, comprising:
            (a) obtaining data about a physical change of a marine structure through
   experiments at a water tank or a wind tunnel and accumulating the obtained data to
   generate a look-up table;
15          (b) obtaining about an actual physical change of the marine structure, output from
   a measurement device;
            (c) comparing the data obtained in the step (b) with the data accumulated in the
   look-up table of the step (a) to generate forecasting data about the physical change of the
   marine structure; and
20          (d) generating maintenance information including at least one of structure
   controlling operation information, maintenance-required location information, maintenance
   cost information and required maintenance time and alarm information about gas leak, fire
                                                86

   or explosion by means of a three-dimensional numerical analysis program which receives
   the forecasting data,
             wherein the physical change includes at least one of a length change, an angle
   change, a temperature change, a pressure change and a specific volume change about at
 5 least one point on the marine structure.
             30.    The controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure according to claim 29, after the step (c), further comprising:
             (c-1) comparing the forecasting data with data about an actual physical change of
10 the marine structure to correct the look-up table.
             31.    The controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure according to claim 29, after the step (d), further comprising:
             generating a simulator with the marine structure control information by means of a
15 fluid structure interaction (FSI) program, and associating the simulator with the data about
   an actual physical change of the marine structure, obtained in the step (b), by means of
   situation recognition middleware to generate an algorithm for automatically controlling the
   marine structure.
20           32.    The controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure according to claim 29,
             wherein the three-dimensional numerical analysis program of the step (d) uses
   finite element method (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD).
                                                 87

            33.    The controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure according to claim 29,
            wherein in the step (d), the three-dimensional numerical analysis program is
 5 associated with a situation analysis module which stores data about a hypothetical situation
   including gas leak, gas diffusion, fire or explosion, which probably occurs according to a
   behavior and structural change of the marine structure, and countermeasures against the
   hypothetical situation, to generate maintenance information.
10          34.    The controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure according to claim 29, further comprising:
            (e) by an automatic structure control unit, controlling the marine structure by
   changing a location or angle of the marine structure according to the control operation
   information,
15          wherein the automatic structure control unit includes:
            a coupling unit connected to at least one point on the marine structure; and
            a displace adjusting unit connected to the coupling unit to move the marine
   structure in four directions.
20          35.    The controlling method by real-time monitoring of a physical change of a
   marine structure according to claim 29,
            wherein the alarm information is generated by using the data about an actual
   physical change of the marine structure, which is measured by the measurement device by
                                                  88

   using at least one of tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy (TDLAS), distributed
   temperature sensing (DTS), distributed acoustic sensing (DAS), fiber Bragg grating (FBG)
   and remote methane leak detector (RMLD).
 5           36.    A method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6 degrees of freedom (6-dof) movement and location of a marine
   structure, the method comprising:
             (1) accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a marine
10 structure by a gas flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a water tank
   or a wind tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to the internal
   or external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database;
             (2) measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an
   actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
15 database;
             (3) comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in
   the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up
   table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure; and
             (4) controlling a posture or navigation path of the marine structure in real time by
20 using the predicted data about a response of the marine structure.
             37.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
                                                   89

   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
   wherein the step (3) includes:
             (3-1) measuring an actual response of the marine structure; and
             (3-2) when the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step
 5 (3-1) does not agree with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the
   step (3), correcting the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the look-up
   table generated in the step (1) into the data about a response of the marine structure
   measured in the step (3-1) or applying the corrected data to correct or supplement a
   numerical model.
10
             38.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 37,
             wherein the data about a response of the marine structure is corrected by means of
15 a simulator based on a numerical model including computational fluid dynamics (CFD),
   finite element analysis (FEA), finite element method (FEM) and fluid structure interaction
   (FSI).
             39.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
20 monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
             wherein in the step (2), the internal or external force caused by gas is measured by
   using a measurement instrument provided at the marine structure, and
                                                   90

            wherein the measurement instrument is an electric sensor or an optical sensor.
            40.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
 5 force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 39,
            wherein the measurement instrument measures wind direction, wind velocity,
   atmospheric pressure, temperature, humidity and dust at each altitude.
            41.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
10 monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (2), the internal or external force applied to the marine
   structure by a gas flow is actually measured by using an internal measurement unit (IMU).
15          42.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (3), when the marine structure is a ship, the data about a
   response of the marine structure includes at least one selected from the group consisting of
20 progress direction, four-directional slopes, sea gauge and trim of the ship.
                                                  91

            43.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (3), when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure,
 5 the data about a response of the marine structure includes at least one selected from the
   group consisting of moving direction, four-directional slopes and sea gauge of the
   temporarily fixed structure.
            44.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
10 monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (2), data including natural frequency, harmonic frequency and
   gas characteristics of the marine structure by a gas flow is measured.
15          45.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (1), the database storing the look-up table is a voyage data
   recorder (VDR) provided at the marine structure.
20
            46.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
                                                 92

            wherein when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure,
            the look-up table is recorded as time sequential data by the year, and
            the look-up table is corrected by comparing with time sequential data by the year
   which have been accumulated till the previous year.
 5
            47.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (4), the posture or navigation path of the marine structure is
10 controlled in real time by using at least one selected from the group consisting of a rudder,
   a thruster, a propeller, a sail, a kite and a balloon.
            48.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
15 force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein in the step (4), when the marine structure is a ship, a direction of a rudder
   or a RPM of a thruster or propeller is controlled according to the data about a response of
   the marine structure so that a resultant force of a propelling force and the internal or
   external force has a targeted progress direction.
20
            49.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
                                                     93

            wherein when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, a thruster is
   controlled according to the predicted data about a response of the marine structure so that a
   resultant force with the internal or external force is minimized to maintain a current
   location.
 5
            50.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
            wherein the marine structure includes a helideck,
10          wherein in the step (4), a center of gravity of the marine structure is changed by
   controlling a posture of the marine structure or adjusting an 6-dof angle by means of
   dynamic positioning (DP) or dynamic motioning (DM) so as to maintain a balance of the
   helideck or relieve a shock when a helicopter takes off or lands, and balanced state
   information of the helideck is stored in the database, and
15          wherein the 6-dof angle including trim is adjusted to change the center of gravity
   of the marine structure and maintain a balanced state so as to maintain a balance suitable
   for a targeted function (including, helicopter taking-off or landing, a separator, and a
   liquefying process) of the marine structure.
20          51.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 50,
                                                 94

            wherein the database transmits the balanced state information of the helideck to an
   external structure information server by means of a communication unit, and
            wherein the structure information server provides the helicopter with location
   information of a marine structure, which has the balanced state information of the helideck
 5 allowing taking-off or landing of a helicopter, among a plurality of marine structures.
            52.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
10 wherein the step (2) further includes:
            (2-1) measuring at least one selected from the group consisting of wind direction,
   wind velocity, temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, solar radiant rays, inorganic
   ions, carbon dioxide, dust, radioactivity and ozone at a remote distance from the marine
   structure by using a measurement instrument, and storing the measurement data in the
15 database,
            wherein the measurement instrument includes at least one selected from the group
   consisting of an anemometer, a weathervane, a hygrometer, a thermometer, a barometer, a
   solarimeter, an atmospheric gassol automatic collector, a C02 flux measurement
   instrument, an atmospheric dust collector, an air sampler and an ozone analyzer.
20
            53.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
                                                 95

             wherein the marine structure includes a ballast tank, and
             wherein sloshing restraining units are respectively provided at both sides of the
   ballast tank to reduce a sloshing phenomenon in the ballast tank.
 5           54.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 53,
             wherein the sloshing restraining unit restrains a sloshing phenomenon by
   decreasing an opening area of one horizontal section of the ballast tank.
10
             55.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
             wherein the marine structure includes a ballast tank, and
15           wherein in the step (4), when the slope occurs, ballast water loaded in the ballast
   tank is moved in a direction opposite to the slope to control a posture of the marine
   structure.
             56.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
20 monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 55,
             wherein the ballast tank includes a barrier for partitioning an inside of the ballast
   tank, and
                                                 96

             wherein an opening/closing unit is installed at the barrier to move the ballast water
   to another partition, and a pump is installed in the opening/closing unit to control a moving
   speed and a moving direction of the ballast water.
 5           57.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 36,
             wherein the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the step
   (2) is transmitted to an external weather information server, and the weather information
10 server stores weather information correction data whose error is corrected by comparing
   weather information received from a satellite with the measurement data of the internal or
   external force.
             58.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
15 monitoring and predictive controlling of aerodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 57,
             wherein the weather information correction data is provided to an external user
   terminal which accesses the weather information server according to a request of the
   external user terminal.
20
             59.    A method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure, the method comprising:
                                                 97

             (1) accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a marine
   structure by a gas flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a water tank
   or a wind tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to the internal
   or external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a database;
 5           (2) measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an
   actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
   database;
             (3) comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in
   the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up
10 table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure;
             (3-1) measuring an actual response of the marine structure;
             (3-2) comparing the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the
   step (3-1) with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step (3),
   and when the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1) does
15 not agree with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step (3),
   correcting the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the look-up table
   generated in the step (1) into the data about a response of the marine structure measured in
   the step (3-1);
             (4) obtaining maintenance data about the marine structure by performing virtual
20 simulation to the data accumulated in the look-up table; and
             (5) applying actual measurement data of the virtual simulation to compare a
   response result value which is a result of the virtual simulation with real-time actual
   measurement value about a response of the marine structure, and correcting the data about
                                                   98

   a response of the marine structure or applying the corrected data to correct or supplement a
   numerical model.
             60.    The method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
 5 monitoring of aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 59, after the step (4), further
   comprising:
             generating a simulator with the marine structure control information by means of a
   fluid structure interaction (FSI) program, and associating the simulator with the data about
10 an actual response of the marine structure, obtained in the step (3-1), by means of situation
   recognition middleware to generate an algorithm for automatically controlling the marine
   structure,
             wherein the data about a response of the marine structure includes at least one
   selected from the group consisting of strain, deformation, crack, vibration, frequency,
15 corrosion, and erosion, and
             wherein in the step (4), a three-dimensional numerical analysis program using
   finite element method (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is associated with a
   situation analysis module which stores data about a hypothetical situation including gas
   leak, gas diffusion, fire or explosion, which probably occurs according to a behavior and
20 structural change of the marine structure, and countermeasures against the hypothetical
   situation, to generate maintenance information.
                                                 99

            61.    The method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 59,
            wherein the maintenance data of the step (4) is obtained distinguishably according
 5 to preset importance of individual structures provided at the marine structure.
            62.    The method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of aerodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 59,
10          wherein the maintenance data includes at least one selected from the group
   consisting of maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information,
   required maintenance time information and residual life information of each structure.
            63.   A method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
15 monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure, the method
   comprising:
            (1) accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a marine
   structure by a fluid flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a water
20 tank or a wind tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to the
   internal or external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a
   database;
                                                100

            (2) measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an
   actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
   database;
            (3) comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in
 5 the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up
   table to predict data about a response of the marine structure; and
            (4) controlling a posture or navigation path of the marine structure in real time by
   using the predicted data about a response of the marine structure.
10          64.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
   wherein the step (3) includes:
            (3-1) measuring an actual response of the marine structure; and
15          (3-2) when the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step
   (3-1) does not agree with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the
   step (3), the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the look-up table
   generated in the step (1) is corrected into the data about a response of the marine structure
   measured in the step (3-1) or the corrected data is applied to correct or supplement a
20 numerical model.
                                                 101

             65.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 64,
             wherein the data about a response of the marine structure is corrected by means of
 5 a simulator based on a numerical model including computational fluid dynamics (CFD),
   finite element analysis (FEA), finite element method (FEM) and fluid structure interaction
   (FSI).
             66.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
10 monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
             wherein in the step (2), the internal or external force caused by fluid is measured
   by using a measurement instrument provided at a side of the marine structure, and
             wherein the measurement instrument is an electric sensor or an optical sensor.
15
             67.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
             wherein in the step (2), the internal or external force applied to the marine
20 structure by a fluid flow is actually measured by using an internal measurement unit (IMU).
                                                  102

            68.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein in the step (3), when the marine structure is a ship, the data about a
 5 response of the marine structure includes at least one selected from the group consisting of
   progress direction, four-directional slopes, sea gauge and trim of the ship.
            69.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
10 force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein in the step (3), when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure,
   the data about a response of the marine structure includes at least one selected from the
   group consisting of moving direction, four-directional slopes and sea gauge of the
   temporarily fixed structure.
15
            70.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein in the step (2), directions and velocities of a tidal current and a sea current
20 according to space and time are measured for each water level.
                                                 103

            71.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein in the step (2), data including natural frequency, harmonic frequency and
 5 fluid characteristics of the marine structure by a fluid flow is measured.
            72.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
10          wherein in the step (1), the database storing the look-up table is a voyage data
   recorder (VDR) provided at the marine structure.
            73.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
15 force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure,
            the look-up table is recorded as time sequential data by the year, and
            the look-up table is corrected by comparing with time sequential data by the year
   which have been accumulated till the previous year.
20
            74.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
                                                 104

            wherein in the step (4), the posture or navigation path of the marine structure is
   controlled in real time by using at least one selected from the group consisting of a rudder,
   a thruster, a propeller, a sail, a kite and a balloon.
 5          75.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein in the step (4), when the marine structure is a ship, a direction of a rudder
   is controlled according to the data about a response of the marine structure so that a
10 resultant force of a propelling force and the internal or external force has a targeted
   progress direction.
            76.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
15 force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein when the marine structure is a temporarily fixed structure, a thruster is
   controlled according to the predicted data about a response of the marine structure so that a
   resultant force of the internal or external force is minimized and the thruster maintains a
   current location.
20
            77.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
                                                    105

            wherein the marine structure includes a helideck,
            wherein in the step (4), a center of gravity of the marine structure is changed by
   controlling a posture of the marine structure or adjusting an 6-dof angle by means of
   dynamic positioning (DP) or dynamic motioning (DM) so as to maintain a balance of the
 5 helideck or relieve a shock when a helicopter takes off or lands, and balanced state
   information of the helideck is stored in the database, and
            wherein the 6-dof angle including trim is adjusted to change the center of gravity
   of the marine structure and maintain a balanced state so as to maintain a balance suitable
   for a targeted function (including, helicopter taking-off or landing, a separator, and a
10 liquefying process) of the marine structure.
            78.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 77,
15          wherein the balanced state information of the helideck according to the control of
   a posture of the marine structure is stored in the database,
            wherein the database transmits the balanced state information of the helideck to an
   external structure information server by means of a communication unit, and
            wherein the structure information server provides location information of a marine
20 structure, which has the balanced state information of the helideck allowing taking-off or
   landing of a helicopter, among a plurality of marine structures.
                                                 106

            79.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
            wherein the data about the internal or external force applied to the marine structure
 5 by a fluid flow is data about vectors of a sea current and a tidal current, measured by a
   pressure sensor installed at a side of the marine structure.
            80.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
10 force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 79,
            wherein there are provided a plurality of pressure sensors installed at regular
   intervals at the side of the marine structure.
            81.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
15 monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 79,
            wherein there are provided a plurality of pressure sensors with different heights at
   the side of the marine structure, and
            wherein the presence of measurement data obtained from the pressure sensors are
20 analyzed to obtain wave height data from data obtained from an uppermost pressure sensor.
                                                  107

            82.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 81,
            wherein among the plurality of pressure sensors, at least three pressure sensors
 5 configure a three-dimensional pressure sensor module, and
            wherein the three-dimensional pressure sensor module obtains three-dimensional
   vector information of a sea current and a tidal current.
            83.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
10 monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
   wherein the step (2) further includes:
            (2-1) measuring at least one selected from the group consisting of a wave intensity,
   a wave height, a wave cycle, a wave velocity and a wave direction at a remote distance
15 from the marine structure by using a weather measurement instrument, and storing the
   measurement data in the database,
            wherein the weather measurement instrument includes at least one selected from
   the group consisting of a wave radar, a directional wave rider, a sea level monitor, an
   ultrasonic displacement sensor, an amemovane and an ultrasonic wave-height meter.
20
            84.     The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
                                                 108

             wherein the marine structure includes a ballast tank, and
             wherein sloshing restraining units are respectively provided at both sides of the
   ballast tank to reduce a sloshing phenomenon in the ballast tank.
 5           85.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 84,
             wherein the sloshing restraining unit restrains a sloshing phenomenon by
   decreasing an opening area of one horizontal section of the ballast tank.
10
             86.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
             wherein the marine structure includes a ballast tank, and
15           wherein in the step (4), when the slope occurs, ballast water loaded in the ballast
   tank is moved in a direction opposite to the slope to control a posture of the marine
   structure.
             87.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
20 monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 86,
             wherein the ballast tank includes a barrier for partitioning an inside of the ballast
   tank, and
                                                 109

             wherein an opening/closing unit is installed at the barrier to move the ballast water
   to another partition, and a pump is installed in the opening/closing unit to control a moving
   speed and a moving direction of the ballast water.
 5           88.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
   monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 63,
             wherein the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in the step
   (2) is transmitted to an external weather information server, and the weather information
10 server stores weather information correction data whose error is corrected by comparing
   weather information received from a satellite with the measurement data of the internal or
   external force.
             89.    The method for fuel savings and safe operation by real-time predictive
15 monitoring and predictive controlling of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external
   force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 88,
             wherein the weather information correction data is provided to an external user
   terminal which accesses the weather information server according to a request of the
   external user terminal.
20
             90.    A method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure, the method comprising:
                                                 110

             (1) accumulating data about an internal or external force applied to a marine
   structure by a fluid flow out of the marine structure by means of a linear test in a water
   tank or a wind tunnel and data about a response of the marine structure according to the
   internal or external force to generate a look-up table, and storing the look-up table in a
 5 database;
             (2) measuring the internal or external force by using a time-of-flight method in an
   actual voyage of the marine structure and storing the internal or external force in the
   database;
             (3) comparing the measurement data of the internal or external force obtained in
10 the step (2) with the data about the internal or external force accumulated in the look-up
   table in the step (1) to predict data about a response of the marine structure;
             (3-1) measuring an actual response of the marine structure;
             (3-2) comparing the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the
   step (3-1) with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step (3),
15 and when the data about a response of the marine structure measured in the step (3-1) does
   not agree with the data about a response of the marine structure predicted in the step (3),
   correcting the data about a response of the marine structure stored in the look-up table
   generated in the step (1) into the data about a response of the marine structure measured in
   the step (3-1);
20           (4) obtaining maintenance data about the marine structure by performing virtual
   simulation to the data accumulated in the look-up table; and
             (5) applying actual measurement data of the virtual simulation to compare a
   response result value which is a result of the virtual simulation with real-time actual
                                                   111

   measurement value about a response of the marine structure, and correcting the data about
   a response of the marine structure or applying the corrected data to correct or supplement a
   numerical model.
 5           91.    The method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 90, after the step (4), further
   comprising:
             generating a simulator with the marine structure control information by means of a
10 fluid structure interaction (FSI) program, and associating the simulator with the data about
   an actual response of the marine structure, obtained in the step (3-1), by means of situation
   recognition middleware to generate an algorithm for automatically controlling the marine
   structure,
             wherein the data about a response of the marine structure includes at least one
15 selected from the group consisting of strain, deformation, crack, vibration, frequency,
   corrosion, and erosion, and
             wherein in the step (4), a three-dimensional numerical analysis program using
   finite element method (FEM) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is associated with a
   situation analysis module which stores data about a hypothetical situation including gas
20 leak, gas diffusion, fire or explosion, which probably occurs according to a behavior and
   structural change of the marine structure, and countermeasures against the hypothetical
   situation, to generate maintenance information.
                                                112

            92.   The method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 90,
            wherein the maintenance data of the step (4) is obtained distinguishably according
 5 to preset importance of individual structures provided at the marine structure.
            93.   The method for providing maintenance information by real-time predictive
   monitoring of hydrodynamic environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof
   motion and location of a marine structure according to claim 90,
10          wherein the maintenance data includes at least one selected from the group
   consisting of maintenance-required location information, maintenance cost information,
   required maintenance time information and residual life information of each structure.
            94.   A    controlling   method   by    real-time  monitoring    of hydrodynamic
15 environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a
   marine structure, the controlling method comprising:
            measuring a wave intensity and a wave height and predicting a wave motion as
   well as preventing collision by using a radar, an internal measurement unit (IMU), a global
   positioning system (GPS) measurement technique and an X-band radar, measuring
20 hogging, sagging and torsion as well as 6-dof motion of a marine structure by using at least
   one IMU, associating data about a moving distance of the marine structure and
   environmental external force of a coordinate measuring satellite with the data of the radar
   and the IMU by using a time and space information obtaining tool to minimize a fatigue of
                                                113

   the marine structure, and applying to an energy efficiency operating indicator (EEOI), an
   energy efficiency design index (EEDI), a dynamic positioning (DP) boundary, a motion
   controlling (MC) boundary, risers (including a steel catenary riser (SCR), a top tensioned
   riser (TTR) and a tendon), a lowering line, a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and a drill
 5 rig to substitute an algorithm and a simulator of a prediction procedure.
            95.     The   controlling method by real-time        monitoring  of hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a
   marine structure according to claim 94,
10          wherein a wave height, a wave intensity, a wave period, a wave velocity and a
   wave direction are measured by using a radar, the number of polar images collected by the
   radar is not limited to 32, and when a new polar image is received, a first or oldest polar
   image is deleted to ensure real-time dynamic image processing.
15          96.     The   controlling method by real-time        monitoring  of hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a
   marine structure according to claim 94,
            wherein a collision prevention function, a wave intensity and height measurement
   function and a wave motion prediction function are associated.
20
            97.     The   controlling method by real-time        monitoring  of hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a
   marine structure according to claim 94,
                                                114

            wherein measurement results of a wave intensity, a wave height, a wave period
   and a wave direction are extracted by using an existing X-band or S-band anti-collision
   radar and utilizing a radio frequency (RF) 1x2 splitter, a RF amplifier or an optical signal
   transmission and amplification function.
 5
            98.    The   controlling  method by real-time      monitoring   of hydrodynamic
   environmental internal or external force, hull stresses, 6-dof motion and location of a
   marine structure according to claim 94,
            wherein a 6-dof motion compensated X/S-Band wave radar, a wave height
10 measuring sensor, a Doppler, a time-of-flight and image overlay method are used.
            99.    A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
            wherein a time and space information acquisition tool and a smart IMU are
15 associated with 6-dof motion/reaction response measurement and a database (DB) which
   recognizes situations of a marine structure, and motion control is performed to utilize a
   predictive monitoring system, a predictive adviser system, and/or a predictive automated
   control system for EEOI/DPS/DMS          of an artificial intelligence associated or non
   associated with environmental external force measurement or to measure or prove
20 quantitative EEDI.
            100.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 99,
                                               115

            wherein when control is made to satisfy a DP boundary condition, a priority order
   of emergency and importance demanded to marine structures are applied to the marine
   structures to determine a priority order of emergency and importance required for
   minimizing a fatigue or 6-dof motion, the marine structures are operated to ensure
 5 maximum control efficiency of DPS or EEOI, and quantitative EEDI is proved and
   measured.
            101.  The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 99,
10          wherein when control is made to satisfy EEOI/EEDI conditions, a priority order of
   emergency and importance required for minimizing a fatigue is determined by applying
   priority orders of the marine structures, the marine structures are operated to ensure
   maximum control efficiency of DPS/MCS or EEOI, and quantitative EEDI is measured
   and proved.
15
            102.  A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
            wherein a life span of a structure is elongated by avoiding natural frequency and
   harmonic frequency of individual or integrated marine complex structures according to
20 hydrodynamic and aerodynamic influences applied to the structure or changing a condition
   of an environmental external force applied to the structure.
                                                116

            103.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 102,
            wherein a life span of a structure is elongated by minimizing a yield stress and a
   fatigue independently or complexly applied to the structure according to importance or a
 5 priority order of emergency and importance on circumstantial judgment by means of real
   time measurement of an environmental external force applied to a structure, a complex
   energy applied to a complex structure and inertial and elastic kinetic energy possessed by
   the structure and association of calculated numerical results and 6-dof motion prediction.
10          104.   A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
            wherein condition-based maintenance is allowed by measuring and extracting an
   integrity of a target structure and accurately predicting a life span of the target structure,
   unusual cold is reflected to control static and dynamic positioning of a marine structure in
15 a manual or automatic way and manage operations by applying a residual fatigue.
            105.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 104,
            wherein in mooring, mooring line tension monitoring is associated to control a
20 motion and posture of a structure in consideration of environmental external force-applied
   DP predictive monitoring and predictive controlling, MC predictive monitoring and
   predictive controlling, and EEOI or predict quantitative EEDI.
                                                 117

            106.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 104,
            wherein optical measurement vibration (including DAS) is measured and applied
   to a seabed structure to measure a vibration of the structure and extract a deformation rate
 5 of the structure through existing strain or acceleration measurement, an environmental
   external force (including a vector of an external force of a tidal current or a sea current)
   applied in association with a deformation state, and a vector of a resultant response of the
   structure.
10          107.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 104,
            wherein when measurement of an environmental external force is associated, a
   situation recognition function is predicted and stored in a DB by inputting a maximum
   condition to CFD, FEA and/or FSI, and CFD, FEA, coupled response models and FSI (an
15 environmental    external  force  and a      structure motion   model responding      to the
   environmental external force) is utilized.
            108.  A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
20          wherein a measurement        result   for circumstance   recognition required    for
   implementing real-time situation recognition, situation reproduction of a history recording
   and situation prediction in preparation for future predictive cases is acquired and stored in
   a DB.
                                                 118

            109.  The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 108,
            wherein a real-time web-based system is constructed by utilizing a situation
 5 recognition middleware and a web-based situation recognition monitoring program.
            110.  The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 108,
            wherein a situation recognition middleware or a software having a similar function
10 is associated with measurement results of all situation recognition functions to serve as a
   base tool for optimizing mathematical models (including CFD, FEA and/or FSI), and the
   optimized mathematical models evolves to an algorithm and simulation to which actual
   measurement is applied.
15          111.  The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 108,
            wherein an algorithm to which actual measurement or numerical calculation is
   applied is associated in addition to a simple measurement monitoring function to
   implement a predictive monitoring and predictive controlling system or simulation
20 configured as an artificial intelligence.
            112.  The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 108,
                                               119

            wherein a database having integrated measurement for situation recognition is
   stored in or associated with a voyage data recorder (VDR) to extract hydrodynamic and/or
   aerodynamic energy (including a wave direction, a wind velocity, a vector of the wind
   direction and the wind velocity, and a vector of a resultant response of the structure).
 5
            113.   A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
            wherein a simulation result (by hydrodynamic and aerodynamic information) of
   mathematical models (including CFD, FEA and/or FSI) is applied to CDF analysis to
10 evolve for CDF model optimization and algorithm, the analyzed and evolved result is
   accumulated as a look-up table in a VDR or a separate server, and the accumulated data is
   applied to virtual simulation to perform structure diagnosis and work evaluation.
            114.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
15 by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 113,
            wherein predictive control is performed by utilizing experienced reference data.
            115.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 113,
20          wherein a black box function is added to configure a wire/wireless network.
            116.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 113,
                                                120

            wherein a corrected time tag function is added.
            117.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 113,
 5          wherein a structure analysis algorithm function for comparing data measured by an
   environmental monitoring system (EMS) and a motion monitoring system (MMS)
   including an accumulated artificial intelligence is added.
            118.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
10 by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 113,
            wherein a predictive monitoring function and a predictive controlling system
   processed (utilizing the resulted influence to 6-dof motion and displacement for DPS and
   EEOI) by applying the algorithm with actual measurement as an artificial intelligence is
   stored and recorded in addition to a simple measurement monitoring function.
15
            119.  A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
            wherein an optical & and electric extensometer, particle induced velocity (PIV),
   particle tracking velocity (PTV), band-pass (BP) filter energy intensity, strain gage,
20 pressure sensor, ultrasonic measurement, and DAS-excitation and monitoring are used for
   hydro-elastic slamming and/or sloshing and aero-elastic fire/explosion measurement
   instrument.
                                                 121

            120.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 119,
            wherein a deformation of a barrier structure is measured using a strain sensor and
   monitored by means of ultrasonic measurement or DAS-excitation for global measurement.
 5
            121.   The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 119,
            wherein a response of a ship barrier structure by a wave is measured, and a
   location of the measured sensor is checked to extract a wave height.
10
            122.   A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
            wherein as a monitoring technique using a sensor (including strain, acceleration
   and temperature sensors) embedded in a structure, a tensioner is inserted into a structure
15 including bridges, sewerage systems, waterworks, gas pipes, oil tubes, tunnels and
   structure supports, and vibration, acceleration, location, all-year or season temperature and
   properties (including stress or stiffness) are measured using the sensor inserted into the
   tensioner to diagnose safety of the structure and monitor earthquake, water leak and
   robbery.
20
            123.   A controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure by
   integrated monitoring of environmental external forces,
                                                 122

            wherein as a leakage accident influence evaluation interpretation technique for
   ensuring safety of a structure or pipe exposed for a predetermined period due to another
   construction including seabed, subway and underground road way construction, a gas
   explosion damage prediction at a closed or partially opened space is interpreted using a
 5 computational fluid dynamics (CFD) theory.
            124.  The controlling method according to a priority order of a marine structure
   by integrated monitoring of environmental external forces according to claim 99,
            wherein a drill rig/riser is monitored to set a most convenient posture of a marine
10 structure and perform predictive control, and damping is performed in consideration of
   necessary 6-dof at a necessary time.
                                                 123

          <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
      5
126                    FIG. 1
                                   DRAWINGS

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      5
127       FIG. 3                   FIG. 2

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      5
128       FIG. 5                   FIG. 4

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
129                   FIG. 6

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      5
130       FIG. 8                   FIG. 7

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      5
131       FIG. 10                   FIG. 9

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      5
132       FIG. 12                   FIG. 11

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      5
133       FIG. 14                   FIG. 13

