   Abstract
   A high strength wind-proof slip-proof water-proof sheet layer comprises: a
   non-woven fabric layer (1), a first membrane layer (2), a first asphalt layer (3),
   a mesh fabric layer (4), a second asphalt layer (5), a second non-woven fabric
 5 layer (6), a second membrane layer (7), and a third non-woven fabric layer (8).
   The first membrane layer (2) and the second membrane layer (7) are
   respectively waterproof elastic membrane layers. The water-proof sheet layer
   comprising structures such as the first membrane layer (2) and the second
   membrane layer (7) can be fixed on a house surface such as a wooden
10 structure and using a nail, enabling quick and simple construction, saving labor
   force, and providing favorable waterproofness.

       1/1
Fig. 1

   High Strength Wind-proof Slip-proof Water-proof Sheet Layer
   Related Applications
   This application is a Divisional Application of International Patent Application
 5 No. PCT/CN2016/083107 published as WO 2017/016296 and claiming priority
   from Chinese Patent Application CN 201520558084.7 filed on 28 July 2015.
   The contents of each of these prior applications are incorporated herein by
   reference.
   Technical Field
10 The present invention relates to the technical field of waterproof materials, and
   particularly  to a   high-strength   wind-resistant    skid-resistant waterproof
   underlayment (high strength wind-proof slip-proof water-proof sheet layer).
   Background Art
   A waterproof underlayment, playing an important role in a tile surface, is a
15 structural layer provided     under the tile,     and serves waterproof and
   moisture-proof functions, because the "tile" itself cannot be considered as a
   waterproof material, and only after the tile and a waterproof underlayment are
   combined, can a waterproof barrier be formed.
   The construction of conventional waterproof underlayment requires a lot of
20 labors due to its complexity; for example, in the buildings from Ming and Qing
   Dynasties, a waterproof underlayment is composed of a roof boarding made of
   graphite containing impurities, roofing formed of some material, roofing made
   of graphite containing impurities, paint formed by processing China wood oil
   and so on, reaching an overall thickness of up to 15 cm, and being capable of
25 preventing penetration for hundred years.
   For existing waterproof underlayment, a cold pasting construction method is
   usually used to paste a waterproof coiled material on a wood-structure roofing
   formed by cement tile, colored clay tile and asphalt tile, etc. Such construction

   is quick, convenient, and labor-saving. However, the cold pasting construction
   method      only provides a     limited   adhesion force, and       the waterproof
   underlayment will likely become loose, leading to water penetration.
   Therefore, to overcome the above-mentioned problems, it is desirable to
 5 provide     a   novel  high-strength    wind-resistant   skid-resistant waterproof
   underlayment.
   Disclosure of the Invention
   It is desirable to provide a high-strength            wind-resistant skid-resistant
   waterproof underlayment. The waterproof             underlayment     is formed    by
10 structures such as a first film layer and a second film layer, and can be fixed
   through nails on roofing made of a wood structure and the like, and the
   construction is quick, convenient, and labor-saving, and the waterproofness is
   good.
   The present invention provides a high-strength, wind-resistant, skid-resistant
15 and    waterproof     underlayment,     wherein   the   waterproof     underlayment
   comprises successively: a first non-woven fabric layer, a first film layer, a first
   asphalt layer, a gridding cloth layer, a second asphalt layer, a second
   non-woven fabric layer, a second film layer and a third non-woven fabric layer;
   the first non-woven fabric layer, the first film layer, the first asphalt layer, the
20 gridding cloth layer, the second asphalt layer, the second non-woven fabric
   layer, the second film layer and the third non-woven fabric layer are laminated
   as one piece; and the first film layer and the second film layer are waterproof
   elastic film layers respectively.
   Preferably at least one of the waterproof elastic film layers is a polyethylene
25 film or polypropylene films.
   In a preferred embodiment, the first film layer is a polyethylene film, and the
   second film layer is a polypropylene film.
                                              2

   A surface of the at least one of the non-woven fabric layers may be provided
   with protruding lines.
   In one embodiment, a surface of the first non-woven fabric layer is provided
   with first protruding lines.
 5 A surface of the second non-woven fabric layer may be provided with second
   protruding lines.
   A surface of the third non-woven fabric layer may be provided with third
   protruding lines.
   Preferably, the protruding lines present a grid form.
10 In one embodiment, all of the first protruding lines, the second protruding lines
   and the third protruding lines present a grid form.
   Preferably, the first non-woven fabric layer, the second non-woven fabric layer
   and the third non-woven fabric layer respectively have a thickness of 0.04-0.06
   mm.
15 In one embodiment, the waterproof elastic film layer has a thickness of
   0.06-0.08 mm; the first asphalt layer and the second asphalt layer respectively
   have a thickness of 0.12-0.16 mm.
   The first non-woven fabric layer, the first film layer, the first asphalt layer, the
   gridding cloth layer, the second asphalt layer, the second non-woven fabric
20 layer, the second film layer and the third non-woven fabric layer preferably
   have a total thickness of 0.5-1.0 mm.
   The high-strength       wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof underlayment
   provided in the present invention uses strong durable gridding cloth layer as a
   felt, providing about 80% of strength of the waterproof underlayment,
25 effectively preventing the waterproof underlayment from deformation due to
   collision and extrusion by external forces, and improving the impact resistance
   of the waterproof underlayment; the gridding cloth layer is provided with the
                                            3

   first asphalt layer and the second asphalt layer respectively on both surfaces,
   improving the waterproof performance of both surfaces of the gridding cloth
   layer, and doubly ensuring the waterproof performance of the waterproof
   underlayment; the non-woven fabric (preferably polyester fiber non-woven
 5 fabric) has features of moisture resistance, air permeability, flexibility, light
   weight, non-combustion-supporting property, high decomposability, non-toxic
   and non-irritating property, low price, recyclability and reusability, etc.,, and the
   process therefor has a short process flow, a quick manufacturing speed, a high
   yield, low cost and a lot of material sources, which can reduce the cost and the
10 weight of the waterproof underlayment; the non-woven fabric has an excellent
   skid resistance, a strong resistance to UV, and a strong resistance to ageing,
   thus, the first non-woven fabric layer on the one hand increases the friction
   coefficient of the surfaces of the waterproof underlayment, and improves its
   skid resistance, so that constructors will not likely slip during construction,
15 thereby improving the construction safety at construction sites, such as roofs,
   especially on sloped roofs, and on the other hand improves the UV resistance
   and ageing resistance of the waterproof underlayment, thereby improving the
   ageing resistance of the waterproof underlayment; the third non-woven fabric
   layer, with its excellent skid resistance, can be better laid on roofs made of
20 wood structures, etc., helping constructors in construction; the first film layer
   and the second film layer are used so that when an external object such as a
   nail pierces through the waterproof underlayment, the first film layer and the
   second film layer respectively wrap where is pierced by the external object in
   an effective way, preventing the waterproof underlayment from water
25 penetration due to piercing by the external object; with the double protection of
   the first film layer and the second film layer, the waterproof underlayment can
   be fixed on roofs made of wood structures, etc. with nails and the like, and the
   construction is quick, convenient and firm, without influencing its waterproof
   performance.
                                             4

   Brief Description of Drawings
   In order to more clearly illustrate technical solutions in embodiments of the
   present invention or in the prior art, figures which are needed for description of
   the embodiments or the prior art will be introduced briefly below. Apparently,
 5 the figures in the following description show some embodiments of the present
   invention, and a person ordinarily skilled in the art still can obtain other relevant
   figures according to these figures, without paying inventive efforts.
   Fig. 1 is a structural schematic diagram of a high-strength wind-resistant
   skid-resistant waterproof underlayment provided in an example of the present
10 invention.
       Reference signs:
   1-first non-woven fabric layer; 2-first film layer; 3-first asphalt layer; 4-gridding
   cloth layer; 5-second asphalt layer; 6-second non-woven fabric layer; 7-second
   film layer; 8-third non-woven fabric layer.
15 Detailed Description of Embodiments
   Below, the technical solutions of the present invention will be described clearly
   and completely in conjunction with the figures. Apparently, some but not all of
   examples of the present invention are described. Based on the examples of
   the present invention, all the other examples, which can be obtained by a
20 person skilled in the art without paying inventive efforts, fall within the scope of
   protection of the present invention.
   In the description of the present invention, it should be noted that orientational
   or positional relationships indicated by terms such as "center", "upper", "lower",
   "left", "right", "vertical", "horizontal", "inner", and "outer" are based on
25 orientational or positional relationships as shown in the figure, merely for
   facilitating describing the present invention and simplifying the description,
   rather than indicating or suggesting that related devices or elements have to
                                              5

   be in the specific orientation or configured and operated in specific orientation,
   therefore, they should not be construed as limiting the present invention.
   Besides, terms "first", "second", "third" and so on are merely for descriptive
   purpose, but should not be understood as indicating or suggesting to have
 5 importance in relativity.
   In the description of the present invention, it should be indicated that unless
   otherwise expressly specified and defined, terms "installation", "link" and
   "connection" should be understood widely. For example, it may be a fixed
   connection, a detachable connection, or an integrated connection; it may be a
10 mechanical connection, or an electrical connection; it may be a direct
   connection, or an indirect connection through an intermediate medium; and it
   also may be an inner communication between two elements. For a person
   ordinarily skilled in the art, the specific meanings of the above-mentioned
   terms in the present invention can be understood according specific
15 circumstances.
       Examples
   Referring     to  Fig.   1, the   present    example   provides   a   high-strength
   wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof        underlayment. The figure is a
   structural schematic diagram of the high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant
20 and waterproof underlayment provided in the example of the present invention,
   wherein section lines shown in the figure do not intend to show section lines,
   but for the purpose of more clearly showing a first non-woven fabric layer, a
   first film layer, a first asphalt layer, a gridding cloth layer, a second asphalt
   layer, a second non-woven fabric layer, a second film layer and a third
25 non-woven fabric layer.
   Referring to Fig. 1, the high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof
   underlayment provided in the present example comprises successively: a first
   non-woven fabric layer 1, a first film layer 2, a first asphalt layer 3, a gridding
                                              6

   cloth layer 4, a second asphalt layer 5, a second non-woven fabric layer 6, a
   second film layer 7 and a third non-woven fabric layer 8. That is to say, both
   outer surfaces of the waterproof underlayment are non-woven fabric layers, i.e.,
   the first non-woven fabric layer 1 and the third non-woven fabric layer 8.
 5 The first non-woven fabric layer 1, the first film layer 2, the first asphalt layer 3,
   the gridding cloth layer 4, the second asphalt layer 5, the second non-woven
   fabric layer 6, the second film layer 7 and the third non-woven fabric layer 8 are
   laminated as one piece.
   The first film layer 2 and the second film layer 7 are waterproof elastic film
10 layers respectively.
   In the present example, the strong durable gridding cloth layer 4 is used as a
   felt, providing about 80% of strength of the waterproof underlayment,
   effectively preventing the waterproof underlayment from deformation due to
   collision and extrusion by external forces, and improving the impact resistance
15 of the waterproof underlayment; the gridding cloth layer 4 is provided with the
   first asphalt layer 3 and the second asphalt layer 5 respectively on both
   surfaces, improving the waterproof performance of both surfaces of the
   gridding cloth layer 4, and doubly ensuring the waterproof performance of the
   waterproof underlayment; the non-woven fabric has features of moisture
20 resistance, air permeability, flexibility, light weight, non-combustion-supporting
   property, high decomposability, non-toxic and non-irritating property, low price,
   recyclability and reusability, etc., and the process therefor has a short process
   flow, a quick manufacturing speed, a high yield, low cost and a lot of material
   sources, which can reduce the cost and the weight of the waterproof
25 underlayment; the non-woven fabric has an excellent skid resistance, a strong
   resistance to UV, and a strong resistance to ageing, thus, the first non-woven
   fabric layer 1 on the one hand increases the friction coefficient of the surfaces
   of the waterproof underlayment, and improves its skid resistance, so that
   constructors will not likely slip during construction, thereby improving the
                                               7

   construction safety at construction sites such as roofs, especially on sloped
   roofs, and on the other hand improves the UV resistance and ageing
   resistance of the waterproof underlayment, thereby improving the ageing
   resistance of the waterproof underlayment; the third non-woven fabric layer 8,
 5 with its excellent skid resistance, can be better laid on roofs made of wood
   structures, etc., helping constructors in construction; the first film layer 2 and
   the second film layer 7 are used so that, when an external object such as a nail
   pierces through the waterproof underlayment, the first film layer 2 and the
   second film layer 7 respectively wrap where is pierced by the external object in
10 an effective way, preventing the waterproof underlayment from water
   penetration due to piercing by the external object ; with the double protection of
   the first film layer 2 and the second film layer 7, the waterproof underlayment
   can be fixed on roofs made of wood structures, etc. with nails and the like, and
   the construction is quick, convenient and firm, without influencing its
15 waterproof performance.
   Specifically, the first non-woven fabric layer 1, the first film layer 2, the first
   asphalt layer 3, the gridding cloth layer 4, the second asphalt layer 5, the
   second non-woven fabric layer 6, the second film layer 7 and the third
   non-woven fabric layer 8 are molded through hot pressing; that is, the first
20 non-woven fabric layer 1, the first film layer 2, the first asphalt layer 3, the
   gridding cloth layer 4, the second asphalt layer 5, the second non-woven fabric
   layer 6, the second film layer 7 and the third non-woven fabric layer 8 are
   hot-pressed into one piece, forming the waterproof underlayment.
   The waterproof elastic film layers in the present example use an existing
25 material, is waterproof, and can form, due to its elasticity, effective wrapping
   for the position pierced through by an external object when the external object,
   such as a nail, etc. pierces through the waterproof underlayment, preventing
   the waterproof underlayment from water penetration due to piercing by the
   external object; preferably, the waterproof elastic film layers are polyethylene
                                            8

   films or polypropylene films, so as to prevent the waterproof underlayment
   from water penetration when pierced, prolonging the service life, reducing the
   maintenance cost, and ensuring the overall waterproof performance of the
   waterproof underlayment.
 5 The first film layer 2 and the second film layer 7 can be made of a same film
   layer or different film layers; preferably, the first film layer 2 is a polyethylene
   film, and the second film layer 7 is a polypropylene film; alternatively, the first
   film layer 2 is a polypropylene film, and the second film layer 7 is a
   polyethylene film.
10 In an optional solution of the present example, a surface of the first non-woven
   fabric layer 1 is provided with first protruding lines (not shown in the figure).
   The first protruding lines protrude from the first non-woven fabric layer 1, so as
   to increase the surface area per unit area of the first non-woven fabric layer 1,
   increasing the contact area of the first non-woven fabric layer 1. Meanwhile,
15 the first protruding lines increase the friction coefficient of the first non-woven
   fabric layer 1, which, on the one hand, increases the friction coefficient of the
   surface of the waterproof underlayment and improves its skid resistance, so
   that constructors will not likely slip during construction, thereby improving the
   construction safety at construction sites such as roofs, particularly sloped roofs,
20 and on the other hand, make the first film layer 2 more firmly connected onto
   the first non-woven fabric layer 1, preventing the waterproof underlayment
   from cracks occurring due to external collision, effectively improving the
   structural strength of the waterproof underlayment, and enhancing the
   waterproof performance of the waterproof underlayment.
25 A surface of the second non-woven fabric layer 6 is provided with second
   protruding lines (not shown in the figure). The second protruding lines protrude
   from the second non-woven fabric layer 6, so as to increase the surface area
   per unit area of the second non-woven fabric layer 6, increasing the contact
   area of the second non-woven fabric layer 6. Meanwhile, the second
                                             9

   protruding lines increase the friction coefficient of the second non-woven fabric
   layer 6, so that the second asphalt layer 5 and/or the second film layer 7 can
   be more firmly connected onto the second non-woven fabric layer 6,
   preventing the waterproof underlayment from cracks occurring due to external
 5 collision, effectively improving the structural strength of the waterproof
   underlayment, and enhancing the waterproof performance of the waterproof
   underlayment.
   Specifically, the first protruding lines can be provided on one surface of the first
   non-woven fabric layer 1, or also can be provided on both surfaces of the first
10 non-woven fabric layer 1; preferably, the surface of the first non-woven fabric
   layer 1 close to the first film layer 2 is provided with the first protruding lines, so
   as to increase the contact area and the friction coefficient between the first
   non-woven fabric layer 1 and the first film layer 2; the other surface of the first
   non-woven fabric layer is relatively smooth, making it easy to lay thereon tiles
15 such as cement tiles, colored clay tiles and asphalt tiles and the like.
   The second protruding lines can be provided on one surface of the second
   non-woven fabric layer 6, or also can be provided on both surfaces of the
   second non-woven fabric layer 6; preferably, both surfaces of the second
   non-woven fabric layer 6 are provided with the second protruding lines, so as
20 to increase the contact areas and the friction coefficients between the second
   non-woven fabric layer 6 and the second asphalt layer 5 and between the
   second non-woven fabric layer and the second film layer 7.
   The third protruding lines can be provided on one surface of the third
   non-woven fabric layer 8, or also can be provided on both surfaces of the third
25 non-woven fabric layer 8; preferably, the surface of the third non-woven fabric
   layer 8 close to the second film layer 7 is provided with the third protruding
   lines, so as to increase the contact area and the friction coefficient between the
   third non-woven fabric layer 8 and the second film layer 7.
                                               10

   The first protruding lines, the second protruding lines and the third protruding
   lines respectively can be provided on a part of the surfaces of the first
   non-woven fabric layer 1, the second non-woven fabric layer 6 and the third
   non-woven fabric layer 8, or also can be provided on all of their surfaces; the
 5 specific distribution conditions of the protruding lines on the surfaces of the
   non-woven fabric layers depend on factors such as thickness, waterproof
   performance, cost performance of the waterproof underlayment.
   The first protruding lines, the second protruding lines and the third protruding
   lines can be arranged to be of irregular shapes or regular shapes, such as strip
10 shapes or grid forms; the first protruding lines, the second protruding lines and
   the third protruding lines, can be of a same shape or different shapes;
   preferably, all of the first protruding lines, the second protruding lines and the
   third protruding lines have a grid form, so as to improve the structural strength
   of the waterproof underlayment, facilitating producing and processing of the
15 waterproof underlayment.
   The first non-woven fabric layer 1, the second non-woven fabric layer 6 and
   the third non-woven fabric layer 8 in the present example respectively have a
   thickness of 0.04-0.06 mm.
   The waterproof elastic film layer in the present example has thickness of
20 0.06-0.08 mm, that is, the first film layer and the second film layer respectively
   have a thickness of 0.06-0.08 mm.
   The first asphalt layer 3 and the second asphalt layer 5 in the present example
   respectively have a thickness of 0.12-0.16 mm.
   In another optional solution of the present example, the first non-woven fabric
25 layer 1, the first film layer 2, the first asphalt layer 3, the gridding cloth layer 4,
   the second asphalt layer 5, the second non-woven fabric layer 6, the second
   film layer 7 and the third non-woven fabric layer 8 have a total thickness of
   0.5-1.0 mm; using the waterproof underlayment of this thickness not only
                                               11

   ensures that the waterproof underlayment has a certain weight, which prevents
   the waterproof underlayment from being blown away by wind when it is to be
   laid and results in difficulty in construction, but also ensures that the waterproof
   underlayment is so light that it can be carried by one person, reducing the labor
 5 cost for carrying during the construction.
   Finally, it should be indicated that the above-mentioned examples are merely
   used to illustrate technical solutions of the present invention, rather than
   limiting the present invention. While detailed description is made to the present
   invention with reference to the above-mentioned examples, those ordinarily
10 skilled in the art should understand that the technical solutions of the
   above-mentioned examples can be modified, or equivalent substitutions can
   be made to some or all of the technical features thereof; and these
   modifications or substitutions will not make the essence of the corresponding
   technical solutions depart from the scope of the technical solutions of the
15 examples of the present invention.
                                               12

      Claims:
   1. A high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof underlayment,
        wherein the waterproof underlayment successively comprises: a first
        non-woven fabric layer, a first film layer, a first asphalt layer, a gridding
 5      cloth layer, a second asphalt layer, a second non-woven fabric layer, a
        second film layer and a third non-woven fabric layer;
             the first non-woven fabric layer, the first film layer, the first asphalt
        layer, the gridding cloth layer, the second asphalt layer, the second
        non-woven fabric layer, the second film layer and the third non-woven
10      fabric layer are laminated as one piece; and
             the first film layer and the second film layer are waterproof elastic film
        layers respectively.
   2.   The high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof underlayment
        according to Claim 1, wherein at least one of the waterproof elastic film
15      layer is a polyethylene film or a polypropylene film.
   3.   The high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof underlayment
        according to Claim 2, wherein the first film layer is a polyethylene film, and
        the second film layer is a polypropylene film.
   4.   The high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof underlayment
20      according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein a surface of at least one of
        the first non-woven fabric layer, the second non-woven fabric layer and
        the third non-woven fabric layer is provided with protruding lines.
   5.   The high-strength wind-resistant skid-resistant waterproof underlayment
        according to Claim 4, wherein protruding lines are of a grid form.
25
                                             13

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1
                                    1/1

