                                                ABSTRACT
           A new method for the ablation of undesirable tissue such as cells of a cancerous or non
cancerous tumor is disclosed. It involves the placement of electrodes into or near the vicinity of the
undesirable tissue through the application of electrical pulses causing irreversible electroporation of the
cells throughout the entire area of the undesirable tissue. The electric pulses irreversibly permeate the cell
membranes, thereby invoking cell death. The irreversibly permeabilized cells are left in situ and are
removed by the body immune system. The amount of tissue ablation achievable through the use of
irreversible electroporation without inducing thermal damage is considerable.

                                        1/13
                                         Typical parameters
         Electric Field                    for drug delivery
                                               Lysing of Cells
                                                                  Typical parameters
                           1                                      for gene delivery
                           z
  Minimum     -50 V/cm-
 Membrane
 Breakdown                                    No Effect
Voltage -0.7 V
                                 -100 sec                -20 msec
                                           Pulse Length
                        Relaxation Time
                        of Cell = 1gsec
                                          FIG. 1

                    TISSUE ABLATION WITH IRREVERSIBLE ELECTROPORATION
1001]      This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/532,588, filed
December 24, 2003. The application is a divisional application of AU 2015201643 which is a divisional
application of AU 2012220523 which in turn is a divisional application of AU 2010214761 which is a
divisional application of AU 2004311842 which is the Australian national phase application of
PCT/US2004/043477 filed 21 December 2004. The entire contents of each of these referenced
applications is herein incorporated by reference.
                                       FIELD OF THE INVENTION
1002]      This invention resides in the fields of electroporation of tissue and to treatments whereby tissue
is destroyed by irreversible electroporation.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1003]      In many medical procedures, such as the treatment of benign or malignant tumors, it is
important to be able to ablate the undesirable tissue in a controlled and focused way without affecting the
surrounding desirable tissue. Over the years, a large number of minimally invasive methods have been
developed to selectively destroy specific areas of undesirable tissues as an alternative to resection surgery.
There are a variety of techniques with specific advantages and disadvantages, which are indicated and
contraindicated for various applications. For example, cryosurgery is a low temperature minimally
invasive technique in which tissue is frozen on contact with a cryogen cooled probe inserted in the
undesirable tissue (Rubinsky, B., ed. Cryosurgery. Annu. Rev. Biomed. Eng. Vol. 2. 2000. 157-187.). The
area affected by low temperature therapies, such as cryosurgery, can be easily controlled through
imaging. However, the probes are large and difficult to use. Non-selective chemical ablation is a
technique in which chemical agents such as ethanol are injected in the undesirable tissue to cause ablation
(Shiina, S., et al., Percutaneous ethanol injection therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma: results in 146
patients. AJR, 1993. 160: p. 1023-8). Non-selective chemical therapy is easy to apply. However, the
affected area cannot be controlled because of the local blood flow and transport of the chemical species.
Elevated temperatures are also used to ablate tissue. Focused ultrasound is a high temperature non
invasive technique in which the tissue is heated to coagulation using high-intensity ultrasound beams
focused on the undesirable tissue (Lynn, J.G., et al., A new method for the generation of use of focused
ultrasound in experimental biology. J.Gen Physiol., 1942. 26: p. 179-93; Foster, R.S., et al., High
intensity focused ultrasound in the treatment ofprostatic disease. Eur. Urol., 1993. 23: p. 44-7). Electrical
currents are also commonly used to heat tissue. Radiofrequency ablation (RF) is a
                                                   1

     high temperature minimally invasive technique in which an active electrode is introduced in
     the undesirable tissue and a high frequency alternating current of up to 500 k1z is used to heat
     the tissue to coagulation (Organ, L.W., Electrophysiologicalprinciples ofradiofrequency
     lesion making. Apple. Neurophysiol., 1976. 39: p. 69-76). In addition to RF heating traditional
     Joule heating methods with electrodes inserted in tissue and dc or ac currents are also common,
     (Erez, A., Shitzer, A. (Controlleddestruction andtemperature distributionin biologicaltissue
     subjected to monoactive electrocoagulation)J Biomech. Eng. 1980:102():42-9). Interstitial
     laser coagulation is a high temperature thennal technique in which tumors are slowly heated to
     temperatures exceeding the threshold of protein denaturation using low power lasers delivered
     to the tumors by optical fibers (Bown, S.G., Phototherapyof tumors. World. J. Surgery, 1983.
     7: p. 700-9). High temperature thermal therapies have the advantage of ease of application.
     The disadvantage is the extent of the treated area is difficult to control because blood
     circulation has a strong local effect on the temperature field that develops in the tissue. The
     armamentarium of surgery is enhanced by the availability of the large number of minimally
     invasive surgical techniques in existence, each with their own advantages and disadvantages
     and particular applications. This document discloses another minimally invasive surgical
     technique for tissue ablation, irreversible electroporation. We will describe the technique,
     evaluate its feasibility through mathematical modeling and demonstrate the feasibility with in
     vivo experimental studies.
)04]         Electroporation is defined as the phenomenon that makes cell membranes permeable by
     exposing them to certain electric pulses (Weaver, J.C. and Y.A. Chizmadzhev, Theory of
     electroporation:a review. Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg., 1996. 41: p. 135-60). Electroporation
     pulses are defined as those electrical pulses that through a specific combination of amplitude,
     shape, time length and number of repeats produce no other substantial effect on biological cells
     than the permeabilization of the cell membrane. The range of electrical parameters that
     produce electroporation is bounded by: a) parameters that have no substantial effect on the cell
     and the cell membrane, b) parameters that cause substantial thermal effects (Joule heating) and
     c) parameters that affect the interior of the cell, e.g. the nucleus, without affecting the cell
     membrane. Joule heating, the thermal effect that electrical currents produce when applied to
     biological materials is known for centuries. It was noted in the previous paragraph that
     electrical thermal effects which elevate temperatures to values that damage cells are commonly
     used to ablate undesirable tissues. The pulse parameters that produce thermal effects are longer
                                                        2

      and/or have higher amplitudes than the electroporation pulses whose only substantial effect is
      to permeabilize the cell membrane.
[051           There are a variety of methods to electrically produce thermal effects that ablate tissue.
      These include RF, electrode heating, and induction heating. Electrical pulses that produce
      thermal effects are distinctly different from the pulses which produce electroporation. The
      distinction can be recognizing through their effect on cells and their utility. The effect of the
      thermal electrical pulses is primarily on the temperature of the biological material and their
      utility is in raising the temperature to induce tissue ablation through thermal effects.
[061           The effect of the electroporation parameters is primarily on the cell membrane and their
      utility is in permeabilizing the cell membrane for various applications. Electrical parameters
     that only affect the interior of the cell, without affecting the cell membrane were also identified
     recently. They are normally referred to as "nanosecond pulses". It has been shown that high
      amplitude, and short (substantially shorter than electroporation pulses - nanoseconds versus
     millisecond) length pulses can affect the interior of the cell and in particular the nucleus
     without affecting the membrane. Studies on nanosecond pulses show that they are "distinctly
     different than electroporation pulses" (Beebe SJ. Fox PM. Rec LJ. Somers K. Stark RH.
      Schoenbach KH. Nanosecondpulsed electricfield (nsPEF)effects on cells and tissues:
     apoptosisinduction and tumor growth inhibition.PPPS-2001 Pulsed Power Plasma Science
     2001. 28th IEEE International Conference on Plasma Science and 13th IEEE International
     Pulsed Power Conference. Digest of Technical Papers (Cat. No.01CH3725 1). IEEE. Part vol.1,
     2001, pp. 2 1 1-15 vol.1. PiscatawayNJ, USA. Several applications have been identified for
     nano-second pulses. One of them is for tissue ablation through an effect on the nucleus
     (Schoenbach, K.H., Beebe, S.J., Buescher, K.S. Method and apparatusfor intracellular
     electro-manipulationU.S. Pattent Application Pub No. US 2002/0010491 Al, Jan 24 2002).
     Another is to regulate genes in the cell interior, (Gunderson, M.A. et al. Methodfor
     intracellularmodificationwithin living cells usingpulsed electricalfields- regulate gene
     transcriptionandentering intracellularUS Patent application 2003/0170898 Al, Sept 11,
     2003). Electrical pulses that produce intracellular effects are distinctly different from the pulses
     which produce electroporation. The distinction can be recognizing through their effect on cells
     and their utility. The effect of the intracellular electrical pulses is primarily on the intracellular
     contents of the cell and their utility is in manipulating the intracellular contents for various uses
     - including ablation. The effect of the electroporation parameters is primarily on the cell
                                                         3

      membrane and their utility is in permeabilizing the cell membrane for various applications,
      which will be discussed in greater detail later.
007]           Electroporation is known for over half a century. It was found that as a function of the
      electrical parameters, electroporation pulses can have two different effects on the permeability
      of the cell membrane. The permeabilization of the membrane can be reversible or irreversible
      as a function of the electrical parameters used. In reversible electroporation the cell membrane
      reseals a certain time after the pulses cease and the cell survives. In irreversible electroporation
      the cell membrane does not reseal and the cell lyses. A schematic diagram showing the effect
      of electrical parameters on the cell membrane permeabilization (electroporation) and the
      separation between: no effect, reversible electroporation and irreversible electroporation is
      shown in Figure 1 (Dev, S.B., Rabussay, D.P., Widera, G., Hofiann, G.A., Medical
      applicationsof electroporation,IEEE Transactions of Plasma Science, Vol28 No 1, Feb 2000,
     pp 206 - 223) Dielectric breakdown of the cell membrane due to an induced electric field,
     irreversible electroporation, was first observed in the early 1970s (Neumann, E. and K.
     Rosenheck, Permeabilitychanges inducedby electric impulses in vesicularmembranes. J.
     Membrane Biol., 1972. 10: p. 279-290; Crowley, J.M., Electrical breakdown of biomolecular
     lipid membranes as an electromechanicalinstability.Biophysical Journal, 1973. 13: p. 711
     724; Zimmermann, U., J. Vienken, and G. Pilwat, Dielectric breakdown of cell membranes,.
     Biophysical Journal, 1974. 14(11): p. 881-899). The ability of the membrane to reseal,
     reversible electroporation, was discovered separately during the late 1970s (Kinosita Jr, K. and
     T.Y. Tsong, Hemolysis of human erythrocytes by a transientelectricfield. Proc. Natl. Acad.
     Sci. USA, 1977. 74(5): p. 1923-1927; Baker, P.F. and D.E. Knight, Calcium-dependent
     exocytosis in bovine adrenalmedullary cells with leaky plasma membranes.Nature, 1978. 276:
     p. 620-622; Gauger, B. and F.W. Bentrup, A Study of DielectricMembrane Breakdown in the
     Fucus Egg,. J. Membrane Biol., 1979. 48(3): p. 249-264).
008]          The mechanism of electroporation is not yet fully understood. It is thought that the
     electrical field changes the electrochemical potential around a cell membrane and induces
     instabilities in the polarized cell membrane lipid bilayer. The unstable membrane then alters its
     shape forming aqueous pathways that possibly are nano-scale pores through the membrane,
     hence the term "electroporation" (Chang, D.C., et al., Guide to Electroporationand
     Electrofusion. 1992, San Diego, CA: Academic Press, Inc.). Mass transfer can now occur
     through these channels under electrochemical control. Whatever the mechanism through which
                                                       4

     the cell membrane becomes penneabilized, electroporation has become an important method
     for enhanced mass transfer across the cell membrane.
)09]          The first important application of the cell membrane permeabilizing properties of
     electroporation is due to Neumann (Neumann, E., et al., Gene transfer into mouse lyoma cells
     by electroporationin high electricfields.J. EMBO, 1982. 1: p. 841-5). He has shown that by
     applying reversible electroporation to cells it is possible to sufficiently permeabilize the cell
     membrane so that genes, which are macromolecules that normally are too large to enter cells,
     can after electroporation enter the cell. Using reversible electroporation electrical parameters is
     crucial to the success of the procedure, since the goal of the procedure is to have a viable cell
     that incorporates the gene.
)10]         Following this discovery electroporation became commonly used to reversible
     permeabilize the cell membrane for various applications in medicine and biotechnology to
     introduce into cells or to extract from cells chemical species that normally do not pass, or have
     difficulty passing across the cell membrane, from small molecules such as fluorescent dyes,
     drugs and radioactive tracers to high molecular weight molecules such as antibodies, enzymes,
     nucleic acids, HMW dextrans and DNA. It is important to emphasize that in all these
     applications electroporation needs to be reversible since the outcome of the mass transport
     requires for the cells to be alive after the electroporation.
)11]          Following work on cells outside the body, reversible electroporation began to be used
     for permeabilization of cells in tissue. Heller, R., R. Gilbert, and M.J. Jaroszeski, Clinical
     applicationsofelectrochemotherapy.Advanced drug delivery reviews, 1999. 35: p. 119-129.
     Tissue electroporation is now becoming an increasingly popular minimally invasive surgical
     technique for introducing small drugs and macromolecules into cells in specific areas of the
     body. This technique is accomplished by injecting drugs or macromolecules into the affected
     area and placing electrodes into or around the targeted tissue to generate reversible
     permeabilizing electric field in the tissue, thereby introducing the drugs or macromolecules
     into the cells of the affected area (Mir, L.M., Therapeuticperspectives of in vivo cell
     electropermeabilization.Bioelectrochemistry, 2001. 53: p. 1-10).
012]          The use of electroporation to ablate undesirable tissue was introduced by Okino and
     Mohri in 1987 and Mir et al. in 1991. They have recognized that there are drugs for treatment
     of cancer, such as bleomycin and cys-platinum, which are very effective in ablation of cancer
     cells but have difficulties penetrating the cell membrane. Furthermore, some of these drugs,
     such as bleomycin, have the ability to selectively affect cancerous cells which reproduce
                                                         5

      without affecting normal cells that do not reproduce. Okino and Mori and Mir et al. separately
      discovered that combining the electric pulses with an impermeant anticancer drug greatly
      enhanced the effectiveness of the treatment with that drug (Okino, M. and H. Mohri, Effects of
      a high-voltage electrical impulse and an anticancerdrug on in vivo growing tumors. Japanese
      Journal of Cancer Research, 1987. 78(12): p. 1319-21; Mir, L.M., et al., Electrochemotherapy
      potentiation of antitumoureffect of bleomycin by local electricpulses. European Journal of
      Cancer, 1991. 27: p. 68-72). Mir et al. soon followed with clinical trials that have shown
      promising results and coined the treatment electrochemotherapy (Mir, L.M., et al.,
      Electrochemotherapy,a novel antitumor treatment:first clinical trial.C. R. Acad. Sci., 1991.
      Ser. III 313(613-8)).
 113]          Currently, the primary therapeutic in vivo applications of electroporation are antitumor
      electrochemotherapy (ECT), which combines a cytotoxic nonpermeant drug with
      permeabilizing electric pulses and electrogenetherapy (EGT) as a form of non-viral gene
      therapy, and transdermal drug delivery (Mir, L.M., Therapeuticperspectives of in vivo cell
      electropermeabilization.Bioelectrochemistry, 2001. 53: p. 1-10). The studies on
      electrochemotherapy and electrogenetherapy have been recently summarized in several
      publications (Jaroszeski, M.J., et al., In vivo gene delivery by electroporation.Advanced
      applications of electrochemistry, 1999. 35: p. 131-137; Heller, R., R. Gilbert, and M.J.
      Jaroszeski, Clinicalapplicationsofelectrochemotherapy.Advanced drug delivery reviews,
       1999. 35: p. 119-129; Mir, L.M., Therapeuticperspectives of in vivo cell
      electropermeabilization.Bioelectrochemistry, 2001. 53: p. 1-10; Davalos, R.V., Real Time
      Imagingfor Molecular Medicine through electricalImpedance Tomography of
      Electroporation,in MechanicalEngineering.2002, University of California at Berkeley:
      Berkeley. p. 237). A recent article summarized the results from clinical trials performed in
      five cancer research centers. Basal cell carcinoma (32), malignant melanoma (142),
      adenocarcinoma (30) and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (87) were treated for a total
      of 291 tumors (Mir, L.M., et al., Effective treatment of cutaneous and subcutaneous malignant
      tumours by electrochemotherapy.British Journal of Cancer, 1998. 77(12): p. 2336-2342).
014]           Electrochemotherapy is a promising minimally invasive surgical technique to locally
      ablate tissue and treat tumors regardless of their histological type with minimal adverse side
      effects and a high response rate (Dev, S.B., et al., Medical Applications ofElectroporation.
      IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science, 2000. 28(1): p. 206-223; Heller, R., R. Gilbert, and
      M.J. Jaroszeski, Clinicalapplicationsof electrochemotherapy.Advanced drug delivery
                                                        6

     reviews, 1999. 35: p. 119-129). Electrochemotherapy, which is performed through the
     insertion of electrodes into the undesirable tissue, the injection of cytotoxic dugs in the tissue
     and the application of reversible electroporation parameters, benefits from the ease of
     application of both high temperature treatment therapies and non-selective chemical therapies
     and results in outcomes comparable of both high temperature therapies and non-selective
     chemical therapies..
115]           In addition, because the cell membrane permeabilization electrical field is not affected
     by the local blood flow, the control over the extent of the affected tissue by this mode of
     ablation does not depend on the blood flow as in thermal and non-selective chemical therapies.
     In designing electroporation protocols for ablation of tissue with drugs that are incorporated in
     the cell and function in the living cells it was important to employ reversible electroporation;
     because the drugs can only function in a living cell. Therefore, in designing protocols for
     electrochemotherapy the emphasis was on avoiding irreversible electroporation. The focus of
     the entire field of electroporation for ablation of tissue was on using reversible pulses, while
     avoiding irreversible electroporation pulses, that can cause the incorporation of selective drugs
     in undesirable tissue to selectively destroy malignant cells. Electrochemotherapy which
     employs reversible electroporation in combination with drugs, is beneficial due to its
     selectivity however, a disadvantage is that by its nature, it requires the combination of
     chemical agents with an electrical field and it depends on the successful incorporation of the
     chemical agent inside the cell.
)16]           The present inventors have recognized that irreversible electroporation, whose ability to
     lyse various types of cells outside the body has been known for at least five decades, has never
     been used for tissue ablation in the body and in fact was considered detrimental to
      conventional electrochemotherapy. Although irreversible electroporation of tissue is not as
      selective as reversible electroporation with drug incorporation the present inventors have found
      it to be effective in ablating volumes of undesirable tissues in a way comparable to other non
      discriminating bulk ablative methods such as cryosurgery, thermal methods or alcohol
      injection.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
017]           The present invention comprises a method for the ablation of undesirable tissue,
      involving the placement of electrodes into or near the vicinity of the undesirable tissue with the
      application of electrical pulses causing irreversible electroporation of the cells throughout the
                                                        7

     entire undesirable region. The electric pulses irreversibly permeate the membranes, thereby
     invoking cell death. The length of time of the electrical pulses, the voltage applied and the
     resulting membrane permeability are all controlled within defined ranges. The irreversibly
     permeabilized cells may be left in situ and may be removed by natural processes such as the
     body's own immune system. The amount of tissue ablation achievable through the use of
     irreversible electroporation without inducing thermal damage is considerable, as disclosed and
     described here.
118]         This concept of irreversible electroporation in tissue to destroy undesirable tissues is
     different from other forms of electrical therapies and treatments. Irreversible electroporation is
     different from intracellular electro-manipulation which substantially only affects the interior of
     the cell and does not cause irreversible cell membrane damage. Irreversible electroporation is
     not electrically induced thermal coagulation - which induces cell damage through thermal
     effects but rather a more benign method to destroy only the cell membrane of cells in the
     targeted tissue. Irreversible electroporation which irreversible destroys the cell membrane is
     also different from electrochemotherapy in which reversible electroporation pulses are used to
     introduce drugs into the living cells and in which the drugs subsequently affect the living cell.
[191         An electrical pulse can either have no effect on the cell membrane, effect internal cell
     components, reversibly open the cell membrane after which cells can survive, or irreversibly
     open the cell membrane, after which the cells die. Of these effects, irreversible electroporation
     of tissue was (prior to present invention) generally considered undesirable due to the
     possibility of instantaneous necrosis of the entire-tissue affected by the electrical field,
     regardless of its diseased or healthy state. Irreversible electroporation is detrimental in certain
     applications, such as gene therapy or electrochemotherapy, where the sole purpose of the
     electric pulses is to facilitate the introduction of the drug or gene into the cells of a tissue
     without killing the cell (Mir., L.M. and S. Orlowski, The basis ofelectrochemotherapy,in
     Electrochemotherapy,electrogenetherapy,and transdermaldrug delivery: Electrically
     mediateddelivery ofmolecules to cells, M.J. Jaroszeski, R. Heller, R. Gilbert, Editors, 2000,
     Humana Press, p. 99-118).
020]         In contrast, irreversible electroporation of the type described here, solely uses electrical
     pulses to serve as the active means for tissue destruction by a specific means, i.e. by fatally
     disrupting the cell membrane. Electrochemotherapy may be selective, but it does require the
     combination of chemical agents with the electrical field. Irreversible electroporation, although
     non-selective, may be used for the ablation of undesirable tissue (such as a tumor) as a
                                                        8

      minimally invasive surgical procedure without the use of adjuvant drugs. Its non-selective
      mode of tissue ablation is acceptable in the field of minimally invasive surgery and provides
      results which in some ways are comparable to cryosurgery, non-selective chemical ablation
      and high temperature thermal ablation.
 321]          An aspect of the invention is a method whereby cells of tissue are irreversibly
      electroporated by applying pulses of very precisely determined length and voltage. This may
      be done while measuring and/or observing changes in electrical impedance in real time and
      noting decreases at the onset of electroporation and adjusting the current in real time to obtain
      irreversible cellular damage without thermal damage. In embodiments where voltage is
      applied, the monitoring of the impedance affords the user knowledge of the presence or
      absence of pores. This measurement shows the progress of the pore formation and indicates
      whether irreversible pore formation, leading to cell death, has occurred.
 )22]          An aspect of this invention is that the onset and extent of electroporation of cells in
      tissue can be correlated to changes in the electrical impedance (which term is used herein to
      mean the voltage over current) of the tissue. At a given point, the electroporation becomes
      irreversible. A decrease in the resistivity of a group of biological cells occurs when membranes
      of the cells become permeable due to pore formation. By monitoring the impedance of the
      biological cells in a tissue, one can detect the average point in time in which pore formation of
      the cells occurs, as well as the relative degree of cell membrane permeability due to the pore
      formation. By gradually increasing voltage and testing cells in a given tissue one can
      determine a point where irreversible electroporation occurs. This infonnation can then be used
      to establish that, on average, the cells of the tissue have, in fact, undergone irreversible
      electroporation. This information can also be used to control the electroporation process by
      governing the selection of the voltage magnitude.
023]           The invention provides the simultaneous irreversible electroporation of multitudes of
      cells providing a direct indication of the actual occurrence of electroporation and an indication
      of the degree of electroporation averaged over the multitude. The discovery is likewise useful
      in the irreversible electroporation of biological tissue (masses of biological cells with
      contiguous membranes) for the same reasons. The benefits of this process include a high level
      of control over the beginning point of irreversible electroporation.
024]           A feature of the invention is that the magnitude of electrical current during
      electroporation of the tissue becomes dependent on the degree of electroporation so that
      current and pulse length are adjusted within a range predetermined to obtain irreversible
                                                          9

      electroporation of targeted cells of the tissue while minimizing cellular damage to surrounding
      cells and tissue.
 D251           An aspect of the invention is that pulse length and current are precisely adjusted within
      ranges to provide more than mere intracellular elecctro-manipulation which results in cell
      death and less than that which would cause thermal damages to the surrounding tissues.
 0261           Another aspect of the invention is that the electroporation is carried out without adding
      drugs, DNA, or other materials of any sort to be brought into the cells.
 D27]          Another feature of the invention is that measuring current (in real time) through a
      circuit gives a measurement of the average overall degree of electroporation obtained.
 D28]          Another aspect of the invention is that the precise electrical resistance of the tissue is
      calculated from cross-time voltage measurement with probe electrodes and cross-current
      measurement with the circuit attached to electroporation electrodes.
 329]          Another aspect of the invention is that the precise electrical resistance of the tissue is
      calculated from cross-time voltage measurement with probe electrodes and cross-current
      measurement with the circuit attached to electroporation electrodes.
  30           Another aspect of the invention is that electrical measurements of the tissue can be used
      to map the electroporation distribution of the tissue.
 )31]          Unlike electrical impedance tomography for detection of reversible electroporation
      which needs to be done during or close to the time the reversible electroporation pulses are
      applied - because of the transient nature of the reversible electroporation; in irreversible
      electroporation it is possible and perhaps even preferential to perform the current or EIT
      measurements a substantial time (several minutes or more) after the electroporation to verify
      that it is indeed irreversible.
032]           These and further features, advantages and objects of the invention will be better
      understood from the description that follows.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
0331           The invention is best understood from the following detailed description when read in
      conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is emphasized that, according to common
      practice, the various features of the drawings are not to scale. On the contrary, the dimensions
      of the various features are arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. Included in the drawings
      are the following figures:
034]           Fig 1. is a graph showing a schematic relationship between field strength and
      pulselength applicable to the electroporation of cells.
                                                        10

)035]          Figures 2 A, 2B and 2C are each images of irreversibly electroporated areas for two
       electrode configurations using 10 mm center-to-center spacing as following for Figures 2A, B
       and C: (2A) 0.5mm (857V); (2B) 1.0mm (1295V); (2C) 1.5mm (1575V) diameter electrodes
       with a 680V/cm threshold for irreversible electroporation.
 036]          Figures 3A, 3B, and 3C are images showing irreversibly electroporated regions using a
       680 V/cm threshold for a two-electrode confirmation with 1mm diameter and 876V and 5mm
       spacing for Figures 3A; 11 16V and 7.5mm for Figure 3B; and 1295V and 10mm spacing for
       Figure 3C.
 D37]          Figures 4A, 4B and 4C are images showing the effect of electrode diameter for a 4
       electrode configuration with 10mm spacing wherein Figure 4A is for 0.5mm diameter and
       940V; Figure 4B is for 1.0mm diameter and 1404V and Figure 4C is for 1.5mm and 1685V.
 D38]          Figures 5A, 5B and 5C are images showing the effect of electrode spacing for a 4
       electrode configuration wherein the electrode is 1mm in diameter and Figure 5A shows results
      with a 5mm and 910V; Figure 5B 7.5mm and 1175V and Figure 5C 10mm and 1404V.
 )391          Figure 6 is an image showing the irreversible (1295V, 680V/cm threshold) as compared
      to the reversible region (1300V, 360V/cm threshold) using virtually the same electrical
      parameters. 1300V is the most common voltage applied across two electrodes for ECT. The
      most common voltage parameters are eight 100pts pulses at a frequency of 1Hz. Applying a
      single 800jis pulse provides a conservative estimate of the heating associated with a procedure.
      The one second space normally between pulses will enlarge an area amount of heat to be
      dissipated through the tissue.
 )40]          Figure 7 is an image showing reversible electroporation with 1mm electrodes, 10mm
      spacing. A voltage of 189V applied between the electrodes induces reversible electroporation
      without any irreversible electroporation by not surpassing the 680V/cm irreversible
      electroporation threshold anyone in the domain. The shaded area is greater than 360 V/cm.
0411          Figures 8A and 8B show a comparison of the effect of blood flow and metabolism on
      the amount of irreversible electroporation. Figure 8A no blood flow or metabolism. Figure 8B
      wb=lkg/m , cb = 3640 J/(kg K), Tb = 37*C, and q.' = 33.8kW/m3.
042]          Figure 9 is a schematic view of a liver between two cylindrical Ag/AgCl electrodes.
      The distance between the electrodes was 4mm and the radius of the electrodes is 10mm. The
      electrodes were clamped with special rig parallel and concentric to each other. The liver lobe
      was compressed between the electrodes to achieve good contact.
                                                      11

043]           Figure 10 is a photo of a view of a liver which was electroporated by irreversible
      electroporation with two cylindrical surface electrodes of 10mm in diameter. Histology shows
      that the dark area is necrotic.
 344]          Figure 11 is a photo of a cross section through an electroporated liver. Histology
      shows that the dark area is necrotic. The distance between the two Al plates that hold the liver
      is exactly 4 mm. The electroporation electrodes were 10 mm in diameter and centered in the
      middle of the lesion.
[45]           Figure 12 shows the liver of calculated temperature distribution (C), upper panel , and
      electrical potential gradient (electroporation gradient) (V/cm), lower panel, for the in vivo
      experiment. The Figure 12 also shows conditions through a cross section of a liver slab
      through the center of the electroporated area. Height of the slab is 4 mm.
[46]           Figure 13 combines Figures 11 and 12 to show a comparison between the extent of
      tissue necrosis (dark area) and the temperature and voltage gradient distribution in the
      electroporated tissue. The photo of Figure 11 is shown schematically at the bottom on Figure
      13. It is evident that most of the dark area was at a temperature of about 42 C following the 40
      milliseconds electroporation pulse. The edge of the dark area seems to correspond to the 300
      V/cm electroporation gradient line.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
347]           Before the present methods, treatments and devices are described, it is to be understood
      that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described, as such may, of course,
      vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
      describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of
      the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.
0481           Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to the
      tenth of the unit of the lower limit, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between the
      upper and lower limits of that range is also specifically disclosed. Each smaller range between
      any stated value or intervening value in a stated range and any other stated or intervening value
      in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these
      smaller ranges may independently be included or excluded in the range, and each range where
      either, neither or both limits are included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the
      invention, subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range
      includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are
      also included in the invention.
                                                        12

049]           Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
      meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
      belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein
      can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, the preferred methods and
      materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by
      reference to disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the
      publications are cited. The present disclosure is controlling to the extent it conflicts with any
      incorporated publication.
 )50]          It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a",
      "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for
      example, reference to "a pulse" includes a plurality of such pulses and reference to "the
      sample" includes reference to one or more samples and equivalents thereof known to those
      skilled in the art, and so forth.
 )51]          The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the
      filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that
      the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention.
      Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates
      which may need to be independently confirmed.
                                             DEFINITIONS
 )52]          The term "reversible electroporation" encompasses permeabilization of the cell
      membrane through the application of electrical pulses across the cell. In "reversible
      electroporation" the permeabilization of the cell membrane ceases after the application of the
      pulse and the cell membrane permeability reverts to normal. The cell survives "reversible
      electroporation." It is used as a means for introducing chemicals, DNA, or other materials into
      cells.
10531          The term "irreversible electroporation" also encompasses the permeabilization of the
      cell membrane through the application of electrical pulses across the cell. However, in
      "irreversible electroporation" the permeabilization of the cell membrane does not cease after
      the application of the pulse and the cell membrane permeability does not revert to normal. The
       cell does not survive "irreversible electroporation" and the cell death is caused by the
       disruption of the cell membrane and not merely by internal perturbation of cellular
       components. Openings in the cell membrane are created and/or expanded in size resulting in a
                                                        13

       fatal disruption in the normal controlled flow of material across the cell membrane. The cell
       membrane is highly specialized in its ability to regulate what leaves and enters the cell.
       Irreversible electroporation destroys that ability to regulate in a manner such that the cell can
       not compensate and as such the cell dies.
                                      INVENTION IN GENERAL
 054]          The invention provides a method and a system for destruction (ablation) of undesirable
       tissue. It involves the insertion (bringing) electroporation electrodes to the vicinity of the
       undesirable tissue and in good electrical contact with the tissue and the application of electrical
       pulses that cause irreversible electroporation of the cells throughout the entire area of the
       undesirable tissue. The cells whose membrane was irreversible permeabilized may be left in
       situ (not removed) and as such may be gradually removed by the body's immune system. Cell
       death is produced by inducing the electrical parameters of irreversible electroporation in the
       undesirable area.
 055]          Electroporation protocols involve the generation of electrical fields in tissue and are
       affected by the Joule heating of the electrical pulses. When designing tissue electroporation
       protocols it is important to determine the appropriate electrical parameters that will maximize
       tissue permeabilization without inducing deleterious thermal effects. It has been shown that
       substantial volumes of tissue can be electroporated with reversible electroporation without
       inducing damaging thermal effects to cells and has quantified these volumes (Davalos, R.V.,
       B. Rubinsky, and L.M. Mir, Theoretical analysis of the thermal effects during in vivo tissue
       electroporation.Bioelectrochemistry, 2003. Vol. 61(1-2): p. 99-107).
 356]          The electrical pulses required to induce irreversible electroporation in tissue are larger
      in magnitude and duration from the electrical pulses required for reversible electroporation.
      Further, the duration and strength of the pulses required for irreversible electroporation are
      different from other methodologies using electrical pulses such as for intracellular electro
      manipulation or thermal ablation. The methods are very different even when the intracellular
      (nano-seconds) electro-manipulation is used to cause cell death, e.g. ablate the tissue of a
      tumor or when the thermal effects produce damage to cells causing cell death.
10571          Typical values for pulse length for irreversible electroporation are in a range of from
      about 5 microseconds to about 62,000 milliseconds or about 75 microseconds to about 20,000
      milliseconds or about 100 microseconds + 10 microseconds. This is significantly longer than
      the pulse length generally used in intracellular (nano-seconds) electro-manipulation which is 1
                                                        14

     microsecond or less - see published U.S. application 2002/0010491 published January 24,
     2002.
)58]         The pulse is at voltage of about 100 V/cm to 7,000 V/cm or 200 V/cm to 2000 V/cn or
     300V/cm to 1000 V/cm about 600 V/cm + 10% for irreversible electroporation. This is
     substantially lower than that used for intracellular electro-manipulation which is about 10,000
     V/cm, see U.S. application 2002/0010491 published January 24, 2002.
)59]         The voltage expressed above is the voltage gradient (voltage per centimeter). The
     electrodes may be different shapes and sizes and be positioned at different distances from each
     other. The shape may be circular, oval, square, rectangular or irregular etc. The distance of
     one electrode to another may be 0.5 to 10 cm., 1 to 5 cm., or 2-3 cm. The electrode may have
     a surface area of 0.1 - 5 sq. cm. or 1-2 sq. cm.
)60]         The size, shape and distances of the electrodes can vary and such can change the
     voltage and pulse duration used. Those skilled in the art will adjust the parameters in
     accordance with this disclosure to obtain the desired degree of electroporation and avoid
     thermal damage to surrounding cells.
)611         Thermal effects require electrical pulses that are substantially longer from those used in
     irreversible electroporation (Davalos, R.V., B. Rubinsky, and L.M. Mir, Theoretical analysis
     ofthe thermal effects during in vivo tissue electroporation.Bioelectrochemistry, 2003. Vol.
     61(1-2): p. 99-107). Figure 1 is showing that irreversible electroporation pulses are longer and
     have higher amplitude than the reversible electroporation pulses. When using irreversible
     electroporation for tissue ablation, there may be concern that the irreversible electroporation
     pulses will be as large as to cause thermal damaging effects to the surrounding tissue and the
     extent of the tissue ablated by irreversible electroporation will not be significant relative to that
     ablated by thermal effects. Under such circumstances irreversible electroporation could not be
     considered as an effective tissue ablation modality as it will act in superposition with thermal
     ablation.
062]         The present invention evaluates, through mathematical models and experiment, the
     maximal extent of tissue ablation that could be accomplished by irreversible electroporation
     prior to the onset of thermal effects. The models focused on electroporation of liver tissue with
     two and four needle electrodes and on electroporation of liver tissue with two infinite parallel
     plates using available experimental data. The experiment (EXAMPLE 3) evaluates irreversible
     electroporation between two cylindrical electrodes, also in the liver. The liver was chosen
     because it is considered a potential candidate for irreversible electroporation ablation. The
                                                       15

        results show that the area that can be ablated by irreversible electroporation prior to the onset
        of thermal effects is comparable to that which can be ablated by electrochemotherapy,
        validating the use of irreversible electroporation as a potential minimally invasive surgical
        modality.
 10631          Earlier studies have shown that the extent of electroporation can be imaged in real time
        with electrical impedance tomography (EIT) (Davalos, R.V., B. Rubinsky, and D.M. Otten, A
       feasibilitystudy for electricalimpedance tomographyas a means to monitor tissue
        electroporationformolecular medicine. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 2002.
        49(4): p. 400-403). In irreversible electroporation the electroporated area persists indefinitely
        after the electroporation pulse, showing that irreversible electroporation may be imaged
        leisurely with EIT. Irreversible electroporation, therefore, has the advantage of a tissue
        ablation technique that is as easy to apply as high temperature ablation, without the need for
        adjuvant chemicals as electrochemotherapy and with real-time control of the affected area with
        electrical impedance tomography.
                                               EXAMPLES
 1064]          The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art
       with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present invention, and
        are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention nor are they
        intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only experiments performed.
       Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g. amounts,
       temperature, etc.) but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for.
        Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is weight average
       molecular weight, temperature is in degrees Centigrade, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
                                               EXAMPLE 1
00651           The mathematical model provided here shows that irreversible tissue ablation can affect
        substantial volumes of tissue, without inducing damaging thermal effects. To this end, the
       present invention uses the Laplace equation to calculate the electrical potential distribution in
       tissue during typical electroporation pulses and a modified Pennes (bioheat), (Pennes, H.H.,
       Analysis of tissue and arterialbloodflow temperaturesin the restingforearm. J of Appl.
       Physiology., 1948. 1: p. 93-122), equation to calculate the resulting temperature distribution. It
       is important to note that there are several forms of the bioheat equation which have been
                                                         16

      reviewed (Carney, C.K., Mathematicalmodels of bioheat transfer, in Bioengineeringheat
      transfer, Y.I. Choi, Editor. 1992, Academic Press, Inc: Boston. p. 19-152; Eto, T.K. and B.
      Rubinsky, Bioheat transfer, in Introduction to bioengineering,S.A. Berger, W. Goldsmith, and
      E.R. Lewis, Editors. 1996, Oxford Press). While the Pennes equation is controversial, it is
      nevertheless commonly used because it can provide an estimate of the various biological heat
      transfer parameters, such as blood flow and metabolism. The modified Pennes equation in this
      study contains the Joule heating term in tissue as an additional heat source.
 166]         The electrical potential associated with an electroporation pulse is determined by
      solving the Laplace equation for the potential distribution:
                                      V -(GV#)=0                                                         (1)
 '67]         where # is the electrical potential and o is the electrical conductivity. The electrical
      boundary condition of the tissue that is in contact with the leftmost electrode(s) on which the
      electroporation pulse is applied is:
                                          #=V                                                            (2)
 68]          The electrical boundary condition at the interface of the rightmost electrode(s) is:
                                          #=0                                                            (3)
 69]          The boundaries where the analyzed domain is not in contact with an electrode are
      treated as electrically insulative to provide an upper limit to the electrical field near the
      electroporation electrodes and an upper limit to the temperature distribution that results from
      electroporation:
                           =0                                                          (4)
                       an
D70]          Solving the Laplace equation enables one to calculate the associated Joule heating, the
      heat generation rate per unit volume from an electrical field (p):
                                                  p =o1V1 2                                              (5)
D71]          This term is added to the original Pennes equation, (Pennes, H.H., Analysis of tissue
      andarterialbloodflow temperaturesin the restingforearm.J of Appl. Physiology., 1948. 1: p.
      93-122) to represent the heat generated from the electroporation procedure:
                              V -(kVT )+w,,cb,(T -T)+q" + p=pcP,?                                        (6)
D72]          To solve equation (4) it is assumed that the entire tissue is initially at the physiological
      temperature of 37"C:
                                                        17

                                     T(x,y, z,0) = 37                                                 (7)
)73]          The outer surface of the analyzed domain and the surfaces of the electrodes are taken to
     be adiabatic, which should produce an upper limit to the calculated temperature distribution in
     the tissue:
                           T= 0 on the electrodes boundary and the outer surface
                                                                                   domain            (8)
                          an
)74]          The analysis modeled conditions typical to tissue electroporation in the liver. The liver
     was chosen because it is the organ that most minimally invasive ablation techniques treat since
     cancer in the liver can be resolved by extirpation of the diseased area while surgical resection
     is not possible in many cases for this organ (Onik, G., B. Rubinsky, and et al., Ultrasound
     Guided Hepatic Cryosurgeryin the Treatment of Metastatic Colon Carcinoma.Cancer, 1991.
     67(4): p. 901-907).. The electroporation parameters, i.e. pulse parameters for reversible and
     irreversible electroporation where obtained from rat liver data (Miklavcic, D., et al., A
     validatedmodel of in vivo electricfield distributionin tissuesfor electrochemotherapyandfor
     DNA electrotransferforgene therapy. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 2000. 1523(1): p. 73
     83; Suzuki, T., et al., Directgene transferinto ratliver cells by in vivo electroporation.FEBS
     Letters, 1998. 425(3): p. 436-440), but biological parameters corresponding to the human liver
     were used in the analysis. Tissue thermal properties are taken from reference (Duck, F.A.,
     PhysicalPropertiesof Tissues: A Comprehensive Reference Book. 1990, San Diego: Academic
     Press) and the electrical properties from reference (Boone, K., D. Barber, and B. Brown,
     Review - Imagingwith electricity: report ofthe European ConcertedAction on Impedance
     Tomography. J. Med. Eng. Technol., 1997. 21: p. 201-232) and are listed in table 1. The tissue
     is assumed isotropic and macroscopically homogeneous.The intent of the analysis was to
     determine the extent of the region in which reversible or irreversible electroporation is induced
     in the liver for various electroporation voltages and durations while the maximal temperature
     in the tissue is below 50*C. Thermal damage is a time-dependent process described by an
     Arhenius type equation (Henriques, F.C. and A.R. Moritz, Studies in thermal injuries: the
     predictabilityand the significance of thermally induced rateprocesses leadingto irreversible
     epidermaldamage. Arch Pathol., 1947. 43: p. 489-502; Diller, K.R., Modeling of bioheat
     transferprocesses at high and low temperatures,in Bioengineeringheat transfer, Y.I. Choi,
     Editor. 1992, Academic Press, Inc: Boston. p. 157-357),
                                        S= Je-EIRT dt                                                (9)
                                                      18

0751           Where Q is a measure of thermal damage, 4 is the frequency factor, Ea is the activation
      energy and R is the universal gas constant. A detailed description on the various degrees of
      thermal damage as described in Equation (9) above can be found in (Diller, K.R., Modeling of
      bioheattransferprocessesat high and low temperatures,in Bioengineeringheat transfer, Y.I.
      Choi, Editor. 1992, Academic Press, Inc: Boston. p. 157-357).
576]           A careful examination shows that the thermal damage is a complex function of time,
      temperature and all the parameters in Equation (9) above and that there are various degrees of
      thermal damage. In various applications or for various considerations it is possible to design
      irreversible electroporation protocols that induce some degree of thermal damage, either in part
      of the electroporated region or at a reduced level throughout the electroporated region.
      However, in this example we have chosen 50*C as the target temperature for several reasons.
      Thermal damage begins at temperatures higher than 42*C, but only for prolonged exposures.
      Damage is relatively low until 50*C to 60*C at which the rate of damage dramatically
      increases (Diller, K.R., Modeling of bioheattransferprocesses at high and low temperatures,
      in Bioengineeringheat transfer, Y.I. Choi, Editor. 1992, Academic Press, Inc: Boston. p. 157
      357). Therefore 50 C will be a relatively low bound on the possible thermal effects during
      irreversible electroporation. It is anticipated that the electrical parameters chosen for
      irreversible electroporation without a thermal effect could be substantially longer and higher
      than those obtained from an evaluation for 50 C in this example. Furthermore, since the
      Laplace and bioheat equations are linear, the results provided here can be extrapolated and
      considered indicative of the overall thermal behavior.
 )77]          The analyzed configurations have two needles or four needle electrodes embedded in a
      square model of the liver. Needle electrodes are commonly used in tissue electroporation and
      will be most likely also used in the liver (Somiari, S., et al., Theory and in vivo applicationof
      electroporativegene delivery. Molecular Therapy, 2000. 2(3): p. 178-187). The square model
      of the liver was chosen large enough to avoid outer surface boundary effects and to produce an
      upper limit for the temperature, which develops during electroporation in the liver. For each
      configuration the surface of one electrode is assumed to have a prescribed voltage with the
      other electrode set to ground. The effect of the spacing between the electrodes was investigated
      by comparing distances of 5, 7.5 and 10 mm, which are typical. The electrodes were also
      modeled with typical dimensions of 0.5, 1 and 1.5 mm in diameter. The blood flow perfusion
      rate was taken to zero or 1.0 kg/m3 s (Deng, Z.S. and J. Liu, Bloodperfusion-basedmodelfor
      characterizingthe temperaturefluctuations in living tissue. Phys A STAT Mech Appl, 2001.
                                                        19

      300: p. 521-530). The metabolic heat was taken to be either zero or 33.8 kW/m3 (Deng, Z.S.
      and J. Liu, Bloodperfusion-basedmodelfor characterizingthe temperaturefluctuations in
      living tissue. Phys A STAT Mech Appl, 2001. 300: p. 521-530).
178]           The calculations were made for an electroporation pulse of 800 ps. This pulse duration
      was chosen because typically, reversible electroporation is done with eight separate 100 ps
      pulses, (Miklavcic, D., et al., A validatedmodel of in vivo electricfield distributionin tissues
     for electrochemotherapyandfor DNA electrotransferfor gene therapy. Biochimica et
      Biophysica Acta, 2000. 1523(1): p. 73-83) and therefore the value we chose is an upper limit
      of the thermal effect in a pulse time frame comparable to that of reversible electroporation.
      Consequently, the results obtained here are the lower limit in possible lesion size during
      irreversible electroporation. It should be emphasized that we believe irreversible
      electroporation tissue ablation can be done with shorter pulses than 800 ss. To evaluate the
      thermal effect, we gradually increased in our mathematical model the applied pulse amplitude
      for the 800 ps pulse length until our calculations indicated that the electroporation probe
      temperature reached 50*C, which we considered to be the thermal damage limit. Then, we
      evaluated the electric field distribution throughout the liver.
)791           A transmembrane potential on the order of 1V is required to induce irreversible
      electroporation. This value is dependent on a variety of conditions such as tissue type, cell size
      and other external conditions and pulse parameters. The primary electrical parameter affecting
      the transmembrane potential for a specific tissue type is the amplitude of the electric field to
      which the tissue is exposed. The electric field thresholds used in estimating the extent of the
      region that was irreversibly electroporated were taken from the fundamental studies of
      Miklavcic, Mir and their colleagues performed with rabbit liver tissue (Miklavcic, D., et al., A
      validatedmodel of in vivo electricfield distributionin tissuesfor electrochemotherapyandfor
      DNA electrotransferforgene therapy. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 2000. 1523(1): p. 73
       83). In this study, that correlated electroporation experiments with mathematical modeling,
      they have found that the electric field for reversible electroporation is 362 +/- 21 V/cm and is
       637 +/- 43 V/cm for irreversible electroporation for rat liver tissue. Therefore, in the analysis
       an electric field of 360 V/cm is taken to represent the delineation between no electroporation
       and reversible electroporation and 680 V/cm to represent the delineation between reversible
       and irreversible electroporation.
080]            All calculations were performed using MATLAB's finite element solver, Femlab v2.2
       (The MathWorks, Inc. Natick, MA). To ensure mesh quality and validity of solution, the mesh
                                                         20

     was refined until there was less than a 0.5% difference in solution between refinements. The
     baseline mesh with two 1mm electrodes, 10mm spacing had 4035nodes and 7856 triangles.
     The simulations were conducted on a Dell Optiplex GX240 with 512MB of RAM operating on
     Microsoft Windows 2000.
                                   RESULTS and DISCUSSION
)811          Figures 2 and 3 examine the effect of the electrode size and spacing on the ablated area
     in a two-needle electroporation configuration. In obtaining these figures, we ignored the effect
     of the blood flow and metabolism in the heat transfer equation, which should give an upper
     limit for the estimated ablation area. Figure 2 compares the extent of the irreversible
     electroporated area for electroporation electrode sizes of 0.5, 1 and 1.5 mm in diameter and a
     distance between electrodes of 10 mm. The strong effect of the electrode size is evident. It is
     seen that for the smaller electrodes, the irreversibly electroporated area is not contiguous, while
     for a 1.5 mm electrode the area of potential tissue, ablation has an elliptical shape with
     dimensions of about 15 mm by 10 mm. In the brackets, we give the electroporation voltage for
     which the probe temperature reaches 50*C in these three configurations. It is seen that the
     range is from 857V for the 0.5 mm probe to 1575V for the 1.5 mm probe. This is within the
     typical range of tissue electroporation pulses. Figure 3 evaluates the effect of the spacing
     between the electrodes. It is observed that in the tested range, the small dimension of the
     contiguous elliptical shape of the ablated lesion remains the same, while the larger dimension
     seems to scale with the distance between the electrodes.
)821          Figures 2 and 3 demonstrate that the extent of tissue ablation with irreversible
     electroporation is comparable to that of other typical minimally invasive methods for tissue
     ablation, such as cryosurgery (Onik, G.M., B. Rubinsky, and et. al., Ultrasound-guidedhepatic
     cryosurgery in the treatmentofmetastatic colon carcinoma.Cancer, 1991. 67(4): p. 901-907;
     Onik, G.M., et al., Transrectalultrasound-guidedpercutaneousradicalcryosurgicalablation
     of the prostate.Cancer, 1993. 72(4): p. 1291-99). It also shows that varying electrode size and
     spacing can control lesion size and shape. The shape and size of the ablated lesion can be also
     controlled by varying the number of electrodes used. This is shown in Figures 4 and 5, for a
     four-electrode configuration. These figures also compare the effect of probe size and spacing
     and the results were also obtained by ignoring the effect of blood flow and metabolism in the
     energy equation. Again, it is seen that larger electrodes have a substantial effect on the extent
                                                      21

      of the ablated region and that the extent of ablation scales with the spacing between the
      electrodes.
 )83]          A comparison between reversible and irreversible electroporation protocols can be
      achieved from Figures 6 and 7. In Figure 6, an 800 ps, 1295 V pulse was applied between two
       1.5 mm diameter electrodes placed 10 mm apart. This produces a tissue temperature lower than
      50*C. The figure plots the margin of the irreversibly electroporated region, i.e. the 680 V/cm
      voltage-to-distance gradients and that of the reversible electroporated region, the 360 V/cm
      gradients. Figure 7 was obtained for two 1 mm electrodes placed 10 mm apart. In this figure,
      we produced an electroporated region that was only reversibly electroporated, i.e. with electric
      fields lower than 360 V/cm. In comparing Figures 6 and 7, it is obvious that the extent of the
      ablated area possible through electrochemotherapy alone is substantially smaller than that
      through irreversible electroporation alone.
 )84]          The effect of blood flow and metabolism on the extent of irreversible electroporation is
      illustrated in Figure 8. The figures compare a situation with metabolism and a relatively high
      blood flow rate to a situation without blood flow or metabolism. It is obvious that metabolism
      and blood perfusion have a negligible effect on the possible extent of irreversible tissue
      electroporation. This is because the effect of the Joule heating produced by the electroporation
      current is substantially larger than the effects of blood flow or metabolism.
 )85]          An even more conservative estimate for the thermal damage can be obtained by
      assuming that the tissue reaches 50 "Cinstantaneously, during the electroporation pulses such
      that the damage is defined as
                                        Q=t    e-AE IRT                                             (10)
0861           Several values taken from the literature for activation energy and frequency factor were
      applied to equation (10) with the pulse lengths calculated in the examples above. Because the
      application of the pulse is so short, the damage would be near zero, many times less than the
      value (0=0.53) to induce a first degree bum (Diller, K.R., Modeling of bioheattransfer
      processes at high andlow temperatures,in Bioengineeringheat transfer, Y.I. Choi, Editor.
      1992, Academic Press, Inc: Boston. p. 157-357) regardless of the values used for activation
      energy and frequency factor.
087]           Currently, tissue ablation by electroporation is produced through the use of cytotoxic
      drugs injected in tissue combined with reversible electroporation, a procedure known as
      electrochemotherapy. The present invention shows that irreversible electroporation by itself
      produces substantial tissue ablation for the destruction of undesirable tissues in the body. The
                                                        22

      concern was that higher voltages required for irreversible electroporation would cause Joule
     heating and would induce thermal tissue damage to a degree that would make irreversible
     electroporation a marginal effect in tissue ablation. Using a mathematical model for calculating
     the electrical potential and temperature field in tissue during electroporation, the present
     invention shows that the area ablated by irreversible tissue electroporation prior to the onset of
     thermal effects is substantial and comparable to that of other tissue ablation techniques such as
     cryosurgery. Our earlier studies have shown that the extent of electroporation can be imaged
     in real time with electrical impedance tomography (Davalos, R.V., B. Rubinsky, and D.M.
     Otten, A feasibility studyfor electrical impedance tomography as a means to monitor tissue
     electroporationformolecular medicine. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 2002.
     49(4): p. 400-403; Davalos, R.V., et al., Electricalimpedance tomographyfor imaging tissue
     electroporation.IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 2004). Irreversible
     electroporation, therefore, has the advantage of being a tissue ablation technique, which is as
     easy to apply as high temperature ablation, without the need for adjuvant chemicals as required
     in electrochemical ablation and electrochemotherapy. In addition, a unique aspect of
     irreversible electroporation is that the affected area can be controlled in real time with
     electrical impedance tomography.
                                                EXAMPLE 2
88]           This example was developed to produce a correlation between electroporation pulses
    and thermal effects. The system analyzed is an infinitesimally small control volume of tissue
    exposed to an electroporation voltage gradient of V (Volts/cm).The entire electrical energy is
    dissipated as heat and there is no conduction of heat from the system. The calculations produce
    the increase in temperature with time during the application of the pulse and the results are a
    safe lower limit for how long a certain electroporation pulse can be administered until a certain
    temperature is reached. To generate the correlation an energy balance is made on a control
    volume between the Joule heating produced from the dissipation of heat of the V (volt/cm)
    electrical potential gradient (local electrical field) dissipating through tissue with an electrical
    conductivity of o (ohm-cm) and the raise in temperature of the control volume made of tissue
    with a density p (g/cc) and specific heat, c, (J/g K). The calculation produces the following
    equation for the raise in temperature (T) per unit time (t) as a function of the voltage gradients
    and the thermal and electrical properties of the liver.
                                                       23

                                              dT     V 2c.
                                                                                      (2-1)
                                               dt     poc
)891 The table below was obtained for the liver with the following properties:
)90] Electrical resistivity of liver - 8.33 Ohm-meter
)91] Specific heat of liver - J/g K
)92] Density of liver - 1 g/cc
)93] We obtain the following table:
                                        TABLE 1
      Voltage Gradient - V     Time per degree C rise      time from 37 C to 65 C
      (V/cm)                   (ms)                        (ms)
                          50                     1199.52                     33586.56
                         100                      299.88                      8396.64
                         150                      133.28                      3731.84
                         200                        74.97                     2099.16
                         250                        47.98                     1343.46
                         300                        33.32                      932.96
                         350                        24.48                      685.44
                         400                        18.74                      524.79
                         450                        14.81                      414.65
                         500                        12.00                      335.87
                         550                         9.91                      277.57
                         600                         8.33                      233.24
                         650                         7.10                      198.74
                         700                         6.12                      171.36
                         750                         5.33                      149.27
                         800                         4.69                      131.20
                         850                         4.15                      116.22
                         900                         3.70                      103.66
                         950                         3.32                       93.04
                        1000                         3.00                       83.97
                        1050                         2.72                       76.16
                        1100                         2.48                       69.39
                        1150                         2.27                       63.49
                        1200                         2.08                       58.31
                        1250                         1.92                       53.74
                        1300                         1.77                       49.68
                        1350                         1.65                       46.07
                                               24

               Voltage Gradient - V Time per degree C rise        time from 37 C to 65 C
               (V/cm)                 (ms)                        (ms)
                                1400                        1.53                       42.84
                                1450                        1.43                       39.94
                                1500                        1.33                       37.32
94]           The second column of Table 1 gives the amount of time it takes for the temperature of
     the liver to raise 1 C, when the tissue experiences the electroporation pulse in column 1. The
     time for even a relatively high electroporation voltage of 1500V/cm is of the order of 1.33
     millisecond for 1 C rise and 37.32 millisecond until a temperature of 65 C is reached. Using
     the equation (2-1) or Table l it is possible to evaluate the amount of time a certain pulse can be
     applied without inducing thermal effects. Considering the typical electroporation parameters
     reported so far there is no limitation in the electroporation length from thermal considerations.
     Column 3 of Table 1 shows the time required to reach 65 C, which is where thermal damage
     may begin. The calculations in this example give a lower limit for the extent of time in which a
     certain thermal effects will be induced by electroporation pulses. For more precise calculations
     it is possible to use the equation developed in this example with equation (9) or (10) from
     Example 1.
                                                 EXAMPLE 3
195]          The goal of this experiment was to verify the ability of irreversible electroporation
     pulses to produce substantial tissue ablation in the non-thermal regime. To this end we have
     performed experiments on the liver of Spraque-Dawley male rats (250g to 350 g) under an
     approved animal use and care protocol. After the animals were anesthetized by injection of
     Nembutal Sodium Solution (50mg/ml Pentobarbital) the liver was exposed via a midline
     incisions and one lobed clamped between two cylindrical electrodes of Ag/AgCl, with a
     diameter of 10 mm (In Vivo Metric, Healdsburg, CA). The electrodes had their flat surface
     parallel; they were concentric and the liver between the electrodes was compressed so that the
     lobes were separated by 4 mm. A schematic of the electrodes and the liver is shown in Figure
     9. The liver was exposed to a single electroporation pulse of 40 milliseconds. One electrode
     was set to 400 V and the other grounded. The rest of the liver was not in contact with any
     media and therefore is considered electrically insulated. After electroporation the rat was
     maintained under controlled anesthesia for three hours. Following exsanguination the liver was
     flushed with physiological saline under pressure and fixed by perfusion with formaldehyde.
     The liver was resected through the center of the electroporated region and analyzed by
                                                       25

     histology. Figures 10 and 11 show the appearance of the liver. Histology has determined that
     the dark area corresponds to the region of tissue necrosis. The electrical field in the
     electroporated liver and the temperature distribution were calculated using the equations in
     Example 1, subject to one electrode at a voltage of 400V and the other grounded, for 40
     milliseconds. The liver was modeled as an infinite slab of 4 mm thickness, with concentric
     cylindrical electrodes (see Figure 9). The results are shown in Figure 12. Figure 12 shows
     lines of constant voltage gradients (V/cm) and lines of constant temperature. It is evident that
     in the majority of the electroporated tissue the temperature is about 42 C immediately after the
     pulse. The highest temperature occurs near the edge of the cylindrical electrodes, where it is
     about 50 C. Figure 13 was obtained by bringing together Figures 11 and 12. Superimposing
     the calculated results on the histological measurements reveals that the dark (necrotic) area
     margin corresponds to electroporation parameters of about 300 V/cm. The results demonstrate
     that irreversible electroporation can induce substantial tissue necrosis without the need for
     chemical additives as in electrochemotherapy and without a thermal effect.
)96]          The preceding merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will be appreciated
     that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which, although not
     explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the invention and are included
     within its spirit and scope. Furthermore, all examples and conditional language recited herein
     are principally intended to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and
     the concepts contributed by the inventors to furthering the art, and are to be construed as being
     without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover, all
     statements herein reciting principles, aspects, and embodiments of the invention as well as
     specific examples thereof, are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents
     thereof. Additionally, it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known
     equivalents and equivalents developed in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform
     the same function, regardless of structure. The scope of the present invention, therefore, is not
     intended to be limited to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Rather, the
     scope and spirit of present invention is embodied by the appended claims.
                                                        26

1.       A device for ablating tissue, comprising:
                 a first electrode and a second electrode positioned a tissue zone;
                 a voltage generator that applies a voltage between the first and second electrodes
in a manner which provides a predetermined electric field around the tissue zone for a time
sufficient to perform irreversible electroporation to kill substantially all of the cells in the
identified tissue zone;
                 a controller for adjusting the voltage and pulse duration of the generator to obtain
irreversible electroporation of cells in the tissue zone while minimizing damage to cells not in
the tissue zone; and
                 a monitor to display treatment information.
2.       The device of claim 1, wherein the generator generates pulses of 100 microseconds
about 10 microseconds at a voltage gradient in a range of from about 50 volt/cm to about 8000
volt/cm.
3.       A device for ablating tissue, comprising:
                 a first electrode and a second electrode positioned a tissue zone;
                 a voltage generator that applies a voltage between the first and second electrodes
in a manner which provides a predetermined electric field around the tissue zone for a time
sufficient to perform irreversible electroporation to kill substantially all of the cells in the
identified tissue zone; and
                 a controller for adjusting the voltage and pulse duration of the generator means to
obtain irreversible electroporation of cells in the tissue zone while minimizing damage to cells
not in the tissue zone using the Laplace equation to calculate the electrical potential distribution
in tissue during typical electroporation pulses and a modified Pennes equation to calculate the
resulting temperature distribution.
4.       The device of claim 3, wherein the generator generates pulses of 100 microseconds
about 10 microseconds at a voltage gradient in a range of from about 50 volt/cm to about 8000
volt/cm.
                                                       27

5.       A system for ablating tissue cells by non-thermal irreversible electroporation,
comprising:
                 a first electrode;
                 a second electrode, the first and second electrodes in use defining a target tissue
zone containing target tissue cells;
                 voltage generator adapted to generate between the first and second electrodes a
plurality of electrical pulses in an amount which has been predetermined to be sufficient to
induce irreversible electroporation of the target tissue cells, but which has been predetermined to
be insufficient to induce thermal damage to the target tissue cells such that substantially all of the
target tissue cells in the target tissue zone are killed by non-thermal irreversible electroporation.
6.       The system of claim 5, further comprising:
                 a monitor for monitoring electroporation; and
                 a controller for controlling the extent of electroporation of the target tissue zone.
7.       The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to generate the electrical
pulses in an amount which has been predetermined to maintain the temperature of the target
tissue cells at 50'C or less in a second selected portion of the target tissue zone.
8.       The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to generate the electrical
pulses in an amount which has been predetermined to maintain the temperature of the target
tissue cells at 65'C or less in a second selected portion of the target tissue zone.
9.       The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to generate the electrical
pulses in an amount which has been predetermined to be insufficient to induce thermal damage
in a second selected portion of the target tissue zone without the use of chemicals or other drugs.
10.      The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to generate the electrical
pulses in an amount which has been predetermined to be sufficient to induce irreversible
electroporation in a second selected portion of the target tissue zone based on a transmembrane
potential required for irreversible electroporation of the tissue to be ablated.
                                                        28

11.      The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to generate each
electrical pulse having a pulse length of between 5 microseconds and 110 microseconds.
12.      The system of any one of claims 5 to 11, further comprising detection means adapted to
detect the occurrence of irreversible electroporation of the tissue to be ablated.
13.      The system of any one of claims 5 to 12, further comprising:
                 a monitor to display the electrical impedance of the tissue to be ablated to detect
the occurrence of irreversible electroporation.
14.      The system of any one of claims 5 to 13, further comprising:
                 detection means adapted to detect the occurrence of irreversible electroporation of
the tissue to be ablated based on electrical impedance tomography.
15.      The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to adjust at least one
pulse parameter to maintain the temperature of the target tissue cells in a second selected portion
of the target tissue zone at 50'C or less.
16.      The system of claim 5, wherein the voltage generator is adapted to:
                 continuously detect an electrical resistance of the target tissue cells; and
                 adjust at least one pulse parameter to achieve irreversible electroporation of the
target tissue cells.
                                                       29

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
