ABSTRACT
Baggage drop system for depositing and checking of baggage into
airline flights, the system comprising a first conveyor, equipped
with a static or dynamic weighing scale, comprising multiple,
spaced apart load cells, and a barrier, mounted above and
extending across the first conveyor at a distance from the upper
surface of the first conveyor and configured to form a physical
barrier for oversized baggage.

             2/7
     3 11 12
                    10
 4     -     13
             15
                  9
  14
2
           Fig. 2

   Method and system for depositing and checking of baggage into airline flights
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a method and system for depositing and checking of
 5 baggage into airline flights.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   At airports, passengers usually have to check in and deposit their baggage prior to the
   boarding procedure. In this process, a label is affixed to the baggage, and the baggage is
10 subsequently deposited and taken away on a conveyor system to a baggage processing
   area. In the processing area the baggage is sorted on the basis of the label, and more
   specifically on the basis of flight number and/or baggage characteristics, and is
   ultimately placed on board of the correct aircraft.
15 Until recently, the checking in and depositing of baggage was handled by an airline
   employee or a member of the ground staff. Presently, passengers without hold baggage
   and with or without carry-on baggage can check in independently and without the
   assistance of an airline employee or a member of the ground staff, using for instance
   Common Use Self-Service (CUSS) check-in kiosks. Although such kiosks may also be
20 used by passengers with hold baggage, depositing hold baggage has to be carried out
   with the assistance of an airline employee or a member of the ground staff. These will
   furnish the baggage with a label, assess its weight and transportability and ultimately
   take receipt of that baggage.
25 The above described known method of checking in and depositing baggage requires the
   assistance of an airline employee or a member of the ground staff, each of which is
   manning a check-in desk. The required number of desks at airports is determined by the
   maximum number of baggage items that are expected to be checked in and deposited
   simultaneously. The number of check-in desks needed therefore is large whereas most
30 of them are used infrequently and therefore ineffectively. The desks take up a
   substantial part of the available terminal space, making it difficult to expand (baggage)
   handling capacity within existing terminals. Furthermore, the need for staffing makes
   this known method of checking in and depositing baggage a very expensive one. To

                                                    2
   keep costs under control, the availability of desks and staffing is kept limited, eventually
   resulting in long passenger waiting queues.
   A known system and method for checking passengers and baggage into airline flights is
 5 known from US 2004035928, which discloses the use of self-service electronic kiosks and
   baggage drop systems. A problem of the known baggage drop systems lies in the open nature
   of the conveyance system. Without the presence of supervision of an airline employee or
   member of the ground staff, it is impossible to prevent anyone from gaining access to
   forbidden and/or dangerous sections of the airport through the conveyance system, which is
10 in direct connection with said sections. Especially for children, entering such forbidden and
   dangerous sections entails considerable hazards.
   Closed baggage drop systems were subsequently developed in order to prevent said
   situations. Such closed systems are disclosed for instance in CA 2186076 and EP 2114767.
15 Important drawback of closed baggage drop systems is that they require substantial
   alterations to the existing infrastructure present at airports and hence are relatively expensive.
   Furthermore, closed baggage drop systems are of higher complexity than the open-natured
   systems and the associated purchase cost is therefore higher. The savings in wages for airline
   employees or members of ground staff may therefore be outweighed by the high cost of
20 purchase and installation of these closed baggage drop systems.
   Other systems have been disclosed, all of which however rely on the attention of an operator
   or other personnel, and as such are prone to errors.
25 It is an aim of the present invention to provide an open-type baggage drop system and method
   without the disadvantages and limitations of known open and closed baggage drop solutions.
   Reference to cited material or information contained in the text should not be understood as a
   concession that the material or information was part of the common general knowledge or
30 was known in Australia or any other country.
   Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly
   incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be read and

                                                     2A
   considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent application,
   or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons for conciseness.
   Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
 5 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
   the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer
   or group of integers.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
10 The present invention provides an improved airport check-in process comprising self-service
   electronic check-in kiosks and self-service baggage drop systems. The electronic kiosks may
   be provided in various locations around the terminal to enable passengers to obtain boarding
   passes and perform check-in.

                                                 3
   In an aspect of the invention, a baggage drop system for depositing and checking of
   baggage into airline flights is provided, the system comprising a first conveyor,
   equipped with a static or dynamic weighing scale, comprising multiple, spaced apart
 5 load cells, and computing means adapted to compare the output of the weighing scale
   with allowable baggage weights, and a substantially horizontal frame member, mounted
   above the first conveyor at a distance from the upper surface of the first conveyor equal
   to the maximum allowable height of baggage, thereby forming a physical barrier for
   oversized baggage. The baggage drop system provides a secure method for checking in
10 baggage.
   According to the invention, the stable baggage weight is checked with the baggage
   handling system requirements. Baggage which is too light or too heavy to be taken
   away on a conveyor system to a baggage processing area will be rejected and returned
15 to the passenger by the baggage drop system.
   In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the stable baggage weight is
   checked with the baggage weight allowance, obtained from the airline departure control
   system. If the baggage is overweight, it will be rejected by the baggage drop system and
20 returned to the passenger.
   In a embodiment of the invention, a system is provided that further comprises spaced
   apart vertical members or walls, provided at a distance from each other equal to the
   maximum allowable width of baggage.
25
   A system according to yet another embodiment of the invention comprises a frame of
   spaced apart vertical members that support the substantially horizontal frame member,
   the frame having dimensions such that the space enclosed by the upper surface of the
   first conveyor and the frame members has a surface area equal to the maximum
30 allowable cross-sectional surface area of baggage. The vertically extending frame
   member(s) could either be mounted to the (side guarding of) the first conveyor or to the
   floor underneath this first conveyor. The frame, and in particular the horizontal member
   thereof, functions as a physical barrier for predetermined oversized baggage items,

                                                   4.
   which also reduces the risk that living creatures - accidentally or intentionally - enter
   the baggage processing area via the conveyor system.
   According to an embodiment of the invention wherein the frame is constructed from
 5 one component only, such a frame is manufactured such that it forms a gate, optionally
   in combination with one or two adjacently positioned check-in desks. All cabling
   necessary for the correct functioning of the baggage check-in apparatus is preferably
   held and concealed in the frame.
10 In accordance with a further preferred embodiment of the invention, the baggage drop
   system further comprises a photoelectric cell mounted at the downstream end of the first
   conveyor. More preferably, the first conveyor is equipped with at least two
   photoelectric cells arranged in a spaced apart configuration in the moving direction of
   the first conveyor, whereby the spacing is substantially equal to the maximum allowable
15 length of the baggage. This embodiment allows to perform a check on the length of
   baggage items and prevent too long (oversize) baggage from entering the baggage
   handling system. A load is transported by the first conveyor over a very short distance.
   The first conveyor belt is stopped instantly once the photoelectric cell at the
   downstream end of the first conveyor system is triggered. Subsequently, the weight is
20 determined once more by the static or dynamic weighing scale installed in said first
   conveyor system. As a result of the instant stopping of the conveyor belt subsequent to
   the photoelectric cell being triggered, the conveyor's load will vibrate during a limited
   period of time. If a baggage item is placed onto the conveyor belt, the readings from the
   load cells will - as a result of said vibrations - show different (more stable)
25 characteristics than in case of a living creature. Only in case the (variations of the)
   readings are within predetermined limits, the baggage check-in process will be allowed
   to proceed.
   The computing means preferably are adapted to compare the variation in the output of
30 the load cells with an allowable variation. The output of the load cells is used to
            a.      Check for the presence of living creatures on the first conveyor belt,
            purposed to prevent living creatures from entering the baggage processing area
            via the conveyor system;
            b.      Check for conformity with baggage handling system requirements; and

                                                  5
           c.       Check for conformity with the weight allowance
   When a living creature for instance enters the first conveyor belt, it is likely that the
   variation in the output of the load cells will be relatively large, due to movements of the
   living creature.
 5
   Furthermore, the baggage drop system and in particular the computing means thereof
   comprises a baggage check-in apparatus, comprising a computer with a graphical user
   interface and a display screen for the display of said interface and information
   concerning the process of baggage check-in. The computer is preferably adapted to
10 identify and contact the airline departure control system to obtain baggage allowances
   and check-in the passenger's baggage, communicate with the baggage handling system,
   and/or run the software for the graphical user interface which guides the passenger
   through the baggage check-in process.
15 In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, the baggage drop system, and in
   particular the baggage check-in apparatus comprises automatic baggage label and/or
   boarding pass reading means. These reading means could either be barcode reading
   means and/or QR code reading means and/or radio frequency identification chip reading
   means, depending on the type of baggage label used at the specific airport and by the
20 specific airline. The computer is furthermore equipped with barcode reading software
   and/or QR code reading software and/or radio frequency identification chip reading
   software.
   In accordance with a further preferred aspect of the invention, the baggage drop system
25 comprises handheld barcode and/or QR code scanning equipment and/or digital camera
   equipment and means for storing this equipment. Passengers are to use said equipment
   to scan the barcode and/or QR code printed onto the baggage label and/or boarding pass
   manually and/or make a picture of the baggage label and/or boarding pass. The
   computer is equipped with barcode reading software and/or QR code reading software
30 and/or optical character recognition software to extract the code corresponding with the
   baggage label.
   In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the baggage check-in apparatus is
   mounted to the frame and more specifically either on the right-hand side of de left

                                                   6
   vertical frame member, or on the left-hand side of the right vertical member, or
   preferably on top of the horizontal frame member. Placement of the baggage check-in
   apparatus substantially above the first conveyor, makes it possible for passengers to
   easily and simultaneously receive instructions through the graphical user interface and
 5 at the same time follow said instructions. In case a check-in desk is present on one or
   both sides of the first conveyor, the horizontal frame member is preferably connected
   directly to the check-in desk(s), instead of via a vertical frame member to (the side
   guarding of) the first conveyor.
10
   In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, the baggage check-in apparatus
   is equipped with a motion and/or distance sensor, connected to the computer, to detect
   the presence of passengers in close vicinity of the baggage drop system and initiate the
   process of baggage check-in.
15
   Furthermore, in accordance with yet another preferred embodiment of the invention, the
   first conveyor of the baggage drop system is lowered at the front end and/or angled, to
   facilitate the placing of baggage items by the passenger onto the conveyor belt.
20 Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a baggage drop system wherein the
   first conveyor, equipped with a static or dynamic weighing scale, starts running slowly
   and automatically as soon as weight is detected by the weighing scale, in order to
   facilitate the placing of baggage onto the conveyor belt even further. In another
   embodiment, the first conveyor starts running slowly and automatically as soon as the
25 presence of a passenger in close vicinity of the baggage drop system is detected by
   means of the motion and/or distance sensor. This, in order to further facilitate the
   placing of baggage onto the conveyor belt by the passenger.
   A further aspect of the invention relates to a baggage drop system wherein it is verified
30 that the handheld barcode and/or QR code scanning equipment and/or digital camera
   equipment is correctly placed in the appropriate storage means by automatically or
   manually perform a scan action and/or take a picture. A barcode, QR code, text or
   image is placed inside the storage means, such that the barcode or QR code is scanned,
   or a picture is taken of the text or image if the equipment is placed correctly. The

                                                   7
   baggage check-in apparatus' computer is equipped with barcode reading software
   and/or QR code reading software and/or optical character recognition software and/or
   digital image analysis and processing software, which is used to confirm that the
   equipment is correctly placed in the storage means. If not, the passenger will be
 5 instructed through the graphical user interface to do so.
   In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, the baggage label is read by the
   passenger manually by means of a wireless handheld device, such as a mobile phone.
   The handheld device is equipped with a digital camera and used to make a picture of the
10 baggage label. The device is furthermore equipped with barcode reading software
   and/or QR code reading software and/or optical character recognition software to
   extract the code corresponding with the baggage label. The handheld device is
   furthermore equipped with near field communication technology used to communicate
   with the baggage check-in apparatus, and more specifically the computer.
15
   In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, the baggage weight is
   determined by means of the static or dynamic weighing scale - integrated in the first
   conveyor, being equipped with multiple load cells. Condition for transporting the
   baggage item from the first to the second conveyor belt is that the measured weight is
20 sufficiently stable. In case a living creature is positioned on the conveyor belt, the
   weight measurements show much larger fluctuations than in case of a non-moving
   object, such as a baggage item.
   In accordance with an even further preferred aspect of the invention, the baggage drop
25 system comprises a light grid, installed substantially vertically at the downstream end of
   the conveyor, the light grid being connected to the baggage check-in apparatus'
   computer. The light grid is preferably installed at the position of the photoelectric cell at
   the downstream end of the first conveyor system. The vibration of the conveyor's load
   as a consequence of the instant stopping of the first conveyor belt will not only result in
30 unstable weight measurements, but also in the intermittent blockage of (part of) the light
   grid. For living creatures, this blockage shows different characteristics than for rigid
   objects, such as baggage items. By monitoring the output of the light grid, living
   creatures can be prevented from entering forbidden and dangerous sections of the
   airport. It must be mentioned that some baggage as a result of the instant stopping of the

                                                  8
   first conveyor belt will also exhibit atypical and intermittent blockage of (part of) the
   light grid. This is the case for instance with very round-shaped baggage. Such baggage
   is unfit for automatic handling and hence may not be taken away on a conveyor system.
   It must therefore be rejected by the baggage drop system. Apart from preventing living
 5 creatures from entering the baggage processing area via the conveyor system, the light
   grid also functions as a transportability check puposed to prevent unfit baggage from
   being handled automatically.
   In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention, the output of the light grid is
10 monitored continuously, even when no blockage is to be expected. As such, the light
   grid functions as a security gate. If blockage of (any part of the) light grid is detected, a
   warning signal is sent out by the baggage drop system
   According to a further aspect of the invention, a passenger will be offered the possibility
15 to accept the corresponding charges in case the stable baggage weight exceeds the
   obtained weight allowance. If accepted, the excess baggage fee is transmitted to a
   payment device installed in the baggage check-in apparatus to process the transaction.
   Another aspect of the invention relates to a system wherein the computer of the baggage
20 check-in apparatus accesses the airline's website, and more in particular the payment
   section of said website, after the passenger has accepted to pay the excess baggage fee.
   The passenger is subsequently prompted to complete the payment transaction online. In
   accordance with a further aspect of the invention, after acceptance of the excess
   baggage fees, the passenger is instructed to wait for assistance of an employee of the
25 airline or a member of the ground staff. This employee or staff member carries a mobile
   payment device at which the passenger can fulfil the requested payment. The graphical
   user interface requires input of the employee or staff member, and more in particular the
   confirmation of fulfilment of the payment process, before the baggage check-in process
   is continued.
30
   In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a stand-alone payment terminal
   equipped with a computer - is provided in the near vicinity of the baggage drop system
   or systems. At this terminal, having accepted to pay the excess baggage fee, passengers
   can fulfil payment after completion of the baggage drop process. The passenger

                                                  9
   preferably identifies himself/herself by for instance scanning the barcode and/or QR
   code printed on his boarding pass or baggage claim tag and fulfil payment using cash,
   credit card or debit card. Once payment has been completed, the computer is used to
   identify and contact the airline departure control system to alter the status of the code
 5 corresponding with the baggage label, which is attached to the overweight baggage
   from 'inactive' to 'active'.
   In case all weight requirements are met, the baggage is in a particular embodiment
   transported from the first onto the second conveyor belt. Using a photoelectric cell at
10 the end of the side guarding of the first conveyor and at least one photoelectric cell
   mounted at the side guarding of the second conveyor, the length of the baggage item is
   determined. In case the length is within limits, successful bag drop is confirmed and the
   baggage is taken away on a conveyor system to a processing area. If not, the baggage is
   returned to the passenger by the baggage drop system.
15
   In accordance with yet other aspect of the invention, baggage is transported backward
   and forward over the first conveyor belt. Using photoelectric cells mounted to the side
   guarding and near the beginning (upstream end) and the (downstream) end of the first
   conveyor, with a spacing substantially equal to the maximum allowable length of
20 baggage to be taken away on a conveyor system to a processing area, it is determined
   whether or not the baggage item's length is within limits. If the latter is not the case, the
   baggage will be returned to the passenger by the baggage drop system. If the baggage
   length is however within limits, successful bag drop is confirmed and the baggage is
   taken away on a conveyor system to a processing area.
25
   According to another aspect of the invention, after being transported from the first onto
   the second conveyor belt, the baggage is checked by means of an infrared camera
   system. Typically, baggage items show relatively low average and maximum
   temperature values as compared to most living creatures. By monitoring the output of
30 the infrared camera system, the risk of living creatures to be taken away on a conveyor
   system and enter forbidden and dangerous sections of the airport is minimized. In case
   the conveyor's load is classified as a living creature, movement of the second belt is
   stopped and a warning signal is sent out by the baggage drop system. Else, successful

                                                 10
    bag drop is confirmed and the baggage item is taken away on a conveyor system to a
    processing area.
    In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, after being transported from the
 5  first onto the second conveyor belt, the baggage is checked further for length and/or
    shape and/or movement and/or vibrations using a 3-dimensional laser measurement
    system and/or light grid and/or motion sensor and/or ultra wideband radar to further
   reduce the risk of living creatures and baggage unfit for automatic handling to be taken
    away on a conveyor system to forbidden and dangerous sections of the airport.
10
    In another embodiment of the invention, the passenger is prompted to identify himself
   by scanning or reading his boarding pass as part of the baggage check-in process. The
   boarding pass could either be a traditional paper boarding pass, or an electronic
   boarding pass, which may be received for instance on a cell phone or personal digital
15 assistant. Hereto, the baggage check-in apparatus is equipped either with handheld or
   built-in barcode and/or QR code scanning equipment and/or a digital camera used to
   make a picture of the boarding pass. The computer is furthermore equipped with
   barcode reading software and/or QR code reading software and/or optical character
   recognition software.
20
   In accordance with another embodiment, the baggage check-in apparatus is equipped
   with a claim tag printer to issue a claim tag to the passenger after successful completion
   of the baggage check-in process. In still another embodiment, a barcode and/or QR code
   is printed onto the claim tag, which has shape and dimensions substantially similar to
25 those of a credit card. The claim tag may be used to fulfil payment of excess baggage
   fees at the stand-alone payment terminal.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a baggage drop system that is equipped with
   an exit door, positioned above and at the downstream end of the conveyor at which the
30 length of the baggage item is determined. The exit door comprises an automatic opening
   and closing mechanism and a control circuit to control said mechanism. The exit door is
   opened if all weight requirements are met, the baggage length is within limits and it is
   confirmed that no living creature is positioned on the conveyor belt. Subsequently, the
   baggage is discharged from said conveyor and taken away on a conveyor system to a

                                                  11
   processing area. Shortly after discharging of the baggage, the exit door will be closed
   again and successful bag drop is confirmed.
   In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the baggage drop system is
 5 furthermore equipped with an entry door, positioned above and at the upstream end of
   the first conveyor. The entry door comprises an automatic opening and closing
   mechanism and a control circuit to control said mechanism. The entry door is opened if
   the presence of a passenger in close vicinity of the baggage drop system is detected by
   means of the motion and/or distance sensor, and/or if a passenger has successfully
10 identified himself by scanning or reading his boarding pass. The entry door will be
   closed if the baggage check-in process is completed or aborted and/or presence of a
   passenger in close vicinity of the baggage drop system is no longer detected.
   Preferably, the self-service electronic check-in kiosks and baggage drop system in
15 accordance with the invention includes a passport reader, a printer for printing boarding
   passes, a touch-screen, and optionally in some cases a card reader device and a baggage
   label printer. Baggage labels may be obtained by the passenger at the self-service
   baggage drop system. Depending on airport and airline practice, the baggage labels
   preferably are equipped with a barcode and/or QR code and/or radio frequency
20 identification (RFID) chip. One or more of the baggage drop systems according to the
   invention are preferably located near the check-in kiosks but separated therefrom so that
   passengers will first check-in at a self-service electronic check-in kiosk, and
   subsequently move to a baggage drop system to check in and deposit their baggage.
25 In another aspect of the invention, baggage labels are preferably obtained by the
   passenger either at the electronic kiosks - if equipped with a baggage label printer, or at
   stand-alone self-service baggage label print kiosks. The baggage drop systems in
   accordance with the invention are preferably located either near the baggage label print
   kiosks, or near the check-in kiosks (whichever is applicable) but separated from said
30 kiosks so that passengers will first check-in at a check-in kiosk, then (if applicable)
   proceed to a baggage label print kiosk, and ultimately move to a baggage drop system
   of the invention to check in and deposit their baggage.

                                                  12
    In yet another aspect of the invention, at the self-service electronic check-in kiosk as
    much information is gathered as possible, to facilitate the process of baggage check-in
     at the baggage drop system. For instance, during the self-service check-in process
    passengers will provide information such as the number of bags to check in. Passengers
 5  may also pay additional charges or fees during the check-in process to facilitate
     acceptance of example given overweight or excess baggage at the baggage drop system.
    As much information is gathered and process steps completed as possible, to minimize
    the time to be spent at the baggage drop system. Depending on legislation and common
    airport practice, security questions for instance may have to be answered by the
10  passenger during check-in as well.
    In accordance with another aspect of the invention, passengers may check-in remotely,
    such as over the Internet, and after arrival at the airport proceed directly to a baggage
    label print kiosk. In case of remote check-in, passengers preferably print the boarding
15  passes themselves. Furthermore, passengers may pay additional charges for example
    given excess or overweight baggage, and answer security questions during the remote
    check-in process.
    In another aspect of the invention, passengers do not obtain baggage labels at the
20- airport, but remotely. They then either print the baggage labels themselves - for
    example during the remote check-in process, or the labels are sent to the desired address
    by the airline or travelling agency prior to the date of departure.
    DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
25  The invention will now be described by way of example without however being limited
    thereto and with reference to the accompanying figures, in which:
    Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a baggage drop system in accordance with and
    embodying some preferred principles of the present invention;
    Fig. 2 is a perspective view of a baggage drop system in accordance with and
30  embodying alternative preferred aspects of the present invention;
    Fig. 3 is a side view of a conveyor, equipped with a static weighing scale, comprising
    multiple load cells;
    Fig. 4 is a side view of a baggage drop system in accordance with and embodying some
    preferred principles of the present invention;

                                                 13
   Fig. 5 is a side view of a baggage drop system in accordance with and embodying some
   other preferred principles of the present invention;
   Fig. 6 is a side view of a baggage drop system in accordance with and embodying yet
   other preferred principles of the present invention;
 5 Fig. 7 is a perspective view of a stand-alone baggage label print kiosk;
   Fig. 8 is a perspective view of a stand-alone payment terminal; and
   Fig. 9 is a side view of a baggage drop system in accordance with and embodying some
   preferred principles of the present invention.
10 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Throughout this application, the term "about" is used to indicate that a value includes
   the standard deviation of error for the device or method being employed to determine
   the value.
15 The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more than one, i.e. to at
   least one of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "a door" means
   one door or more than one door.
   Throughout this application, the term "substantially" means more than 90% of the
20 indicated value or property.
   Referring to Fig. 1 there is illustrated an embodiment of the baggage drop system in
   accordance with the present invention. The baggage drop system comprises a (first)
   conveyor 1, lowered and angled at the front end. It furthermore comprises a baggage
25 check-in apparatus 3, connected to a frame 2. The frame 2 in turn is connected to the
   side guarding 5 of conveyor 1. The baggage check-in apparatus 3 comprises a display
   screen 4 for the display of a graphical user interface. It furthermore comprises handheld
   scanning equipment 6, and means for storage of said equipment 7. Furthermore, there
   are connecting means 8 for connecting the handheld scanning equipment to the
30 computer (not visible) inside the baggage check-in apparatus. The baggage drop system
   furthermore comprises a second conveyor 9, and an infrared camera system 10 focused
   at conveyor 9, for monitoring the (temperature of) the load of said conveyor.

                                                   14
    Referring now to Fig. 2, there is illustrated another embodiment of the baggage drop
    system in accordance with the present invention. The baggage drop system comprises a
    (first) conveyor 1, lowered and angled at the front end, a baggage check-in apparatus 3,
   connected to a frame 2. The frame 2 in turn is connected to the side guarding 5 of
 5 conveyor 1. The baggage check-in apparatus 3 comprises a display screen 4 for the
    display of a graphical user interface. It furthermore comprises a second conveyor 9, and
    an infrared camera system 10 focused at conveyor 9, for monitoring the (temperature
    of) the load of said conveyor. Furthermore, the baggage check-in apparatus comprises a
   reader 11 for reading (example given) boarding passes, a payment terminal 12, a printer
10  13 for printing baggage labels and/or claim tags, a motion sensor 14 and card reader
   device 15.
   Referring to Fig. 3, there is illustrated a conveyor 16, equipped with a static weighing
   scale 17, comprising multiple load cells 18 in accordance with the invention.
15
   Now referring to Fig. 4, there is depicted yet another embodiment of the baggage drop
   system in accordance with the present invention, comprising a conveyor 16, equipped
   with a static weighing scale 17 and comprising multiple load cells 18. The system
   furthermore comprises a baggage check-in apparatus 3, connected to a frame 2, one
20 photoelectric cell 20 mounted at the downstream end of conveyor 16 and another
   photoelectric cell 19 mounted at the upstream end of conveyor 16. Photoelectric cells 19
   and 20 are spaced apart, whereby the spacing is substantially equal to the maximum
   allowable length of baggage.
25 Referring to Fig. 5, there is illustrated another embodiment of the baggage drop system,
   comprising a conveyor 16, equipped with a static weighing scale 17 and comprising
   multiple load cells 18. The system furthermore comprises a baggage check-in apparatus
   3, connected to a frame 2 and a second conveyor 9. Furthermore, the baggage drop
   system comprises automatic baggage label reading means 21, a light grid 22 mounted at
30 the downstream end of conveyor 16 and a photoelectric cell 19 mounted at the upstream
   end of conveyor 16. A second photoelectric cell 23 is mounted to conveyor 9. Light grid
   22 and photoelectric cell 19 are spaced apart, whereby the spacing is substantially equal
   to the maximum allowable length of baggage. Similarly, light grid 22 and photoelectric

                                                    15
    cell 23 are spaced apart, whereby the spacing is substantially equal to the maximum
    allowable length of baggage.
    In Fig. 6, an embodiment of the baggage drop system is depicted, comprising a baggage
 5  check-in apparatus 3, connected to a frame 2, a conveyor 16, equipped with a static
    weighing scale 17 and comprising multiple load cells 18, automatic baggage label
    reading means 21, a light grid 22 mounted at the downstream end of conveyor 16 and a
    second conveyor 9. The system furthermore comprises one photoelectric cell 23
    mounted at the downstream end of conveyor 9 and another photoelectric cell 24
10  mounted at the upstream end of conveyor 9. Photoelectric cells 23 and 24 are spaced
   apart, whereby the spacing is substantially equal to the maximum allowable length of
   baggage.
   Fig. 7 shows a stand-alone baggage label print kiosk 25, comprising a baggage label
15 printer 28, a reader 26 for reading (example given) boarding passes and a card reader
   device 27.
   Fig. 8 depicts a stand-alone payment terminal 29, comprising a payment device 32, a
   reader 30 for reading (example given) boarding passes and a reader device 31 for
20 reading (frequent flyer) cards and/or claim tags.
   Referring now to Fig. 9, there is illustrated still another embodiment of the baggage
   drop system, comprising a baggage check-in apparatus 3, connected to a frame 2, a
   conveyor 16, equipped with a static weighing scale 17 and comprising multiple load
25 cells 18, automatic baggage label reading means 21, a light grid 22 mounted at the
   downstream end of conveyor 16 and a second conveyor 9. The system furthermore
   comprises a second light grid 33 mounted at the upstream end of conveyor 16, an exit
   door 34 positioned behind light grid 22 at the downstream end of conveyor 16 and an
   entry door 35 positioned in front of light grid 33. Furthermore, the baggage drop system
30 comprises a cover 36, connecting entry door 35 and exit door 34 and purposed to close
   off the space between both doors, preventing access to conveyor 16 from either side
   except by means of either door.
   Related application
   This application is divided from Australian patent application <removed-apn>, the content of which
   is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

                                                16
   CLAIMS
    1.     Baggage drop system for depositing and checking of baggage into airline flights,
   the system comprising a first conveyor, equipped with a static or dynamic weighing
 5 scale, comprising multiple, spaced apart load cells, and a barrier, mounted above and
   extending across the first conveyor at a distance from the upper surface of the first
   conveyor and configured to form a physical barrier for oversized baggage.
   2.      Baggage drop system according to claim 1, wherein the barrier comprises a
10 frame member.
   3.      Baggage drop system according to claim 2, wherein the frame member extends
   horizontally.
15 4.       System according to claim 3, wherein the frame comprises spaced apart vertical
   members that support the horizontal extending frame member, the frame having
   dimensions such that the space enclosed by the upper surface of the first conveyor and
   the frame members has a surface area substantially equal to the maximum allowable
   cross-sectional surface area of baggage.
20
   5.      Baggage drop system according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the frame
   member is mounted above the first conveyor at a distance from the upper surface of the
   first conveyor substantially equal to the maximum allowable height of baggage.
25 6.       System according to claim 5, further comprising spaced apart vertical members
   or walls, provided at a distance from each other substantially equal to the maximum
   allowable width of baggage.
   7.       System according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first conveyor
30 is equipped with at least two photoelectric cells arranged in a spaced apart configuration
   in the moving direction of the first conveyor, whereby the spacing between the at least
   two photoelectric cells is substantially equal to the maximum allowable length of the
   baggage.

                                                  17
   8.      System according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a computing
   means adapted to compare the variation in the output of the load cells with an allowable
   variation.
 5 9.      System according to claim 8, wherein the computing means further comprise a
   baggage check-in apparatus, comprising a computer with a graphical user interface and
   a display screen for the display of said interface and information concerning the process
   of baggage check-in.
10  10.    System according to claim 9, wherein the baggage check-in apparatus comprises
   automatic baggage label and/or boarding pass reading means.
    11.    System according to claim 10, where the baggage label and/or boarding pass
   reading means comprise wireless handheld devices, and the computer is equipped with
15 near field communication technology.
    12.    System according to claim 11, wherein the wireless handheld devices are mobile
   phones.
20  13.    System according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a light
   grid, installed substantially vertically at the downstream end of the first conveyor, the
   light grid being connected to a baggage check-in apparatus' computer.
    14.    System according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
25 motion and/or distance sensor, connected to a baggage check-in apparatus' computer
   and adapted to detect the presence of passengers in close vicinity of the baggage check
   in apparatus and initiate the process of baggage check-in.
    15.    System according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an exit
30 door that is positioned above and at the downstream end of the first conveyor, the exit
   door comprising an automatic opening and closing mechanism and a control circuit to
   control said mechanism.

                                                 18
    16.     System according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
   entry door that is positioned above and at the upstream end of the first conveyor, the
   entry door comprising an automatic opening and closing mechanism and a control
   circuit to control said mechanism.
 5
    17.     A barrier for use in a baggage drop system according to any one of claims I to 16,
   the barrier being adapted for mounting above and extending across the first conveyor at
   a distance from the upper surface of the first conveyor and configurable to form a physical
   barrier for oversized baggage.
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
