MARINE DUCTED PROPELLER JET PROPULSION SYSTEM
ABSTRACT
      A marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus comprising: an intake section; an
impeller section; a discharge section; a passage extending from an intake opening of the
intake section to an outlet of the discharge section, the passage having a length and an axial
cross-sectional area, the passage capable of creating a flow path for a water stream on a
volumetric basis; and a plurality of internal working parts, the plurality of internal working
parts being at least partially accommodated within the passage, wherein the axial cross
sectional area of the passage is varied throughout the length of the passage to accommodate a
volumetric mass of the plurality of the internal working parts enhancing a solid state
characteristic of the flow path for the water stream from the intake opening of the intake
section to the outlet of the discharge section.

             MARINE DUCTED PROPELLER JET PROPULSION SYSTEM
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Pat. Application No. 61/799,274,
filed on March 15, 2013 entitled "MARINE DUCTED PROPELLER JET PROPULSION
 SYSTEM," hereby incorporated by reference.
FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
 [0002] The present disclosure relates to exemplary embodiments of a marine ducted propeller
jet propulsion apparatus, and more particularly, to exemplary embodiments of an impeller
assembly and ducted design for a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion unit.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
 [0003] The use of jet propulsion devices for marine craft is well known technology.        Jet
propulsion has many advantages over the simple propeller, particularly in terms of shallow
water, maneuverability, though jet propulsion energy consumption is much less efficient than
traditional propeller systems. However, widespread acceptance of jet propulsion for marine
craft has not occurred because of certain common problems associated with marine jet
propulsion. For example, marine jet propulsion poses significant design problems because of
uncertain performance over a wide range of speeds, water depth, sea conditions, excess water
pickup at the jet propulsion unit inlet that may cause balling, etc.
 [0004] Cavitation is another common problem.         Cavitation represents an uneven pressure
load (net positive suction head) on the impeller. Cavitation can be produced by excessive
radial acceleration of the fluid, excess swirl and turbulence of the fluid column, and pressure
changes that cause unintentional partial vaporization of the fluid throughput associated with a
vacuum produced by impeller action.
                                                 - 1-

[0005] Accordingly, it would be desirable to design a jet propulsion unit for marine vessels
where each feature synergistically works together to provide for a constant column of water
even at high output and where the water throughput is neither turbulent nor swirling in order
to eliminate cavitation and pressure changes effects.     Furthermore, the unit should have
maximum flexibility to cope with the entire speed range of the marine vessel and varied
loading on the unit of its prime mover without producing the above-mentioned balling and
cavitation effects.
SUMMARY
[0006] A jet propulsion unit for a marine vessel that comprises a diffuser/confusor; a steering
control nozzle assembly; and a radius. The radius is introduced at a transition point between
the diffuser/confusor and steering control nozzle assembly so that the diffuser/confusor can
control a shape of water flow exiting the propulsion unit and can control corresponding
acceleration over a large pressure differential presented by a wide range of vessel speeds,
maneuvers and sea conditions.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007] The foregoing and other objects of the present disclosure will be apparent upon
consideration   of the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings and claims, in which like reference characters refer to like parts
throughout, and in which:
[0008] Figure 1 is an illustration of a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion apparatus
according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0009] Figure 2 is an exploded view of a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion apparatus
according to an exemplary embodiment of Figure 1;
                                               -2-

 [0010] Figure 3 is an exploded view of a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion apparatus
according to an exemplary embodiment of Figure 1;
 [0011] Figure 4 is an exploded view of a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion apparatus
according to an exemplary embodiment of Figure 1;
 [0012] Figure 5 is an illustration of an impeller and a diffuser for a marine ducted propeller
jet propulsion apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of Figure 1;
 [0013] Figure 6 is an illustration of an impeller hub and a diffuser hub for a marine ducted
propeller jet propulsion apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
 [0014] Figure 7 is various views of an impeller for a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion
apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
 [0015] Figure 8 is various views of a diffuser/confusor for a marine ducted propeller jet
propulsion apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
 [0016] Figure 9 is an illustration of a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion apparatus
according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure; and
 [0017] Figure 10 is various views of trim for a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion
apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0018] Throughout the figures, the same reference numerals and characters, unless otherwise
stated, are used to denote like features, elements, components or portions of the illustrated
embodiments.    Moreover, while the subject disclosure will now be described in detail with
reference to the figures, it is done so in connection with the illustrative embodiments. It is
intended that changes and modifications can be made to the described embodiments without
departing from the true scope and spirit of the subject disclosure.
                                                -3-

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019] Exemplary embodiments of the methods and systems of the present disclosure will
now be described with reference to the figures. U.S. Patent Application Numbers 5,123,867
and 6,027,383 also describe conventional jet propulsion units, both of which are incorporated
by reference.
[0020] The present disclosure provides a propulsion system that substantially enhances
propulsive efficiency.    The efficiency can be obtained by (1) converging a passing water
mass on a volumetric basis as exhibited by fluid flow through a nozzle and (2)
accommodating the mass of the internal workings of the system volumetrically in the flow
volume thereby enhancing the convergent properties given by the housing to the flow. In use,
an axial cross-sectional flow area substantially and regularly decreases from the inlet to the
outlet without resistance of the mass of the internal working representing a restriction or
obstruction to the flow. Also, a use of a volumetric nozzle design in the present disclosure
reduces turbulence and enhances solid plug-flow or solid state character of the water stream
more efficiently.
[0021] 1. Figure 1 illustrates a diagram of a marine ducted propeller jet propulsion
apparatus 100 that has an encased exhaust housing 1. The heat of the engine exhaust can heat
the housing of the diffuser and steering nozzle assembly, which in turn can improve the
Coefficient of Viscosity by up to by heating the inner walls of the flow control housing. This
can impart heat to the water, reducing the drag coefficient of the surface of the housing
material and increasing flow viscosity. A benefit of the exhaust exiting around the nozzle
efflux can be that it provides a pocket of exhaust for the exiting column, reducing the drag
losses of the column hitting solid water and improving the reactionary effect of the potential
energy in the column to kinetic energy or thrust.
                                                -4-

[0022] Referring to Figures 1 and 4, the propulsion system 10 functions similarly to an axial
flow, positive head pump or turbine pump having an intake section 100 extending between
lines A-A to B-B, an impeller section 200 extending between lines B-B to C-C and a
discharge section 400 between lines C-C to E-E. A water column induced into inlet passage
102 by atmospheric pressure is energized and accelerated through the discharge section 400
to provide thrust for craft 12.
[0023] The marine craft 12 has the ducted propeller jet propulsion system 10 installed in a
rear section 14 so that the intake section 100 of the propulsion system 10 is incorporated into
the bottom hull 18 using the adapter plate 16 and the discharge section 400 of the propulsion
system 10, supported by transom 20, extends out a rear of the boat 12 in place of an ordinary
propeller. The propulsion system 10 is shown diagrammatically in two of its thrust positions:
F - the forward propulsion position and R - the reverse propulsion position. A prime mover
22 is directly attached to an impeller shaft 24 and a steering linkage 26 is attached to a
steering module 28 of the propulsion unit 10.
[0024] An interchangeable thrust bearing assembly 30 also provides for the thrust bearing to
be changed in position whether the vessel 12 is in the water or not by disconnecting a drive
coupling positioned at the end of a drive shaft and removing the securing bolts, which then
allows the interchanging of the shaft thrust bearing assembly 30. The thrust bearing assembly
30 is designed to be self-greasing to ensure that the bearings and seals are always lubricated.
[0025] As shown in Figures 2 and 3, the intake section 100 more particularly defines an
intake passage 102 in a housing 104 communicating between an intake opening 106 formed
in a bottom surface of the hull at one end, and an impeller intake 203 to the impeller section
200 at the other end. Passage 110, initially rectangular or elliptic, transitions to a circular
shape in a manner to control the convergences of the flow to the face of impeller 202 and to
enhance the flow characteristics.     As shown in Fig. 2, the passage 110 can include two
                                                -5-

vertical walls 112, a long sloping wall 114, and a short sloping wall 116 converging onto a
cylindrical chamber 118 at bend 120. Following bend 120, passage 122 is cylindrical.
Converging walls of the passage 122 are suitably smoothed and rounded at places of
intersection to facilitate flow without turbulence. Typically, the angle of bend 120 varies
from, but is not limited to, about 30 to about 45 degrees depending on specific design
requirements and also can be adjusted to accommodate the volumetric mass of the internal
working parts of the impeller intake 203.
[0026] As shown in Fig. 2, the impeller intake 203 can include shaft 204, guide vanes 206
and directional vanes 208, while maintaining a Reynolds Number (Re) between 2300 and
4000 but typically closer to 2300. The cross-sectional area of intake 203 is preferably
proportional to the cross-sectional area at inlet 102 to an impeller 202 at a ratio varying from
about 1.5 to about 2.5:1 and also can be adjusted to include the volumetric insertion in the
flow of the mass of the drive shaft 204, straightener vanes 206 and directional or pre-swirl
vanes 208 by increasing the external dimensions accordingly.
[0027] The internal flow characteristic of the upper and lower intakes, 110 and 203, can
accommodate the intake grill 210, shaft 204, guide vanes 206 and directional or anti-pre-swirl
vanes 208, by cross-sectionally adjusting the shape of the intake transition from the intake
entrance to the impeller face to ensure that the convergent flow through the intake 203 to the
impeller 202 is uninhibited. Not doing so can create a flow restriction, which can induce a
pressure change in the flow to the impeller 202 (shown in Figure 4 in more detail), which can
induce aeration in the flow, pressure change and cavitation.
[0028] Situated along the intake walls of inlet housing 104 in front of the impeller 202 is a
straight tube section 211 of a minimum length equal to 20% of the impeller blade width
adjusted to accommodate the volumetric mass of the internal working parts within its
parameters where the flow with one or more straightener vanes 208 is induced to flow in a
                                                 -6-

solid state to the face of the impeller 202. Other directional vanes 206 are spaced radially
along the side surfaces of inlet housing 104 so that equal volumes of water may be directed
through the straightener vanes 208 to the periphery of the impeller 202. Vanes 208 minimize
radial loads on the impeller 202 for optimized flow efficiency so the fluid is presented to the
face of the impeller 202 in a solid state. The vanes 208 also act to dampen any preliminary
pre-rotation or turbulence in the inlet water column to the impeller 202. It is important that
the internal flow characteristic of the intake 203 accommodates the volumetric intrusion of
the straightener and directional vanes 206, 208 by cross-section adjustment to the shape of
the intake transition from the intake 203 to the impeller face to ensure that the flow through
the intake to the impeller 202 is volumetrically uninhibited or restricted. Not doing so can
create a flow restriction which can induce a pressure change in the flow to the impeller 202
which can induce pressure changes and aeration in the flow and cavitation.
[0029] Within passage 102 an intake grill 210 is disposed adjacent the hull opening. The
mass of this grill 210 will be volumetrically displaced in the intake passage 102 so as not to
present a restriction to incoming flow. If this is not done the flow will suffer a low pressure
drop on the intake side of the grill 210 causing turbulent flow or aerated liquid of a reduced
pressure to be presented to the face of the impeller 202. This will induce cavitation from the
face of the impeller along its blades widths. Grill 210 is typically a span of parallel bars
disposed lengthwise of the hull 18 angled down and to the rear of the intake housing 104. The
bars of grill 210 have streamlined or hydrofoil cross-section in the direction of the incoming
stream to create minimal resistance to water flow. The spacing between bars of grill 210
should preferably not exceed the spacing between diffuser vanes so that the largest objects
entering the impeller 202 may pass through the diffuser vanes.
[0030] An induction plate of the intake system 100 can be adjusted by design to
accommodate hull dead rise variations to ensure the smooth entry of solid state water into the
                                                -7-

intake 110 at the correct angle and flow proportions to maximize the solid state flow input
velocities to the impeller 202. This part also works in conjunction with the intake pressure
release by-pass valve by assuring the pressure build up in front of the impeller 202 does not
exceed its designed needs or induce drag under the hull by creating a back-up pressure back
down the intake. This release pressure has been determined by testing to be in the range
between 3 to 6 psi.
[0031] The variable sized intake section 203 can be provided in different sizes to allow the
installation of the propulsion system 10 to be adapted to any type of vessel regardless of its
hull shape, size or dead rise or speed and will connect to the upper intake section 205 by
means of a coupling or bolt assembly. The inlet section 200 is installed in the rear section of
the hull so that forward motion of the vessel and subsequent elevation off the surface of the
water, in the case of planning hulls, enables the intake section 200 to be positioned slightly
below the water level of the craft hull. However, for proper operation at rest or at low speed,
the unit 10 should be installed so that at least about 60 to 80 percent of impeller 202 cross
sectional area is submerged. Intake section 203 is bolted, for example, to the hull by means of
a flange.
[0032] If fouling inside housing 104 occurs, an arm-hole duct 216 is provided to enable quick
access to passage 212. Duct 216 is situated at bend 120 and comprises a cylindrical housing
220, with an outer flange 222 and a plug 224. Plug 224 is provided with a solid section 226
affixed to a flanged cover 228 which completely fills the duct housing 220. Section 226 is
provided with a smooth contoured surface that matches the surface section removed from the
upper intake housing 104 in bend 120 when duct 216 is installed. Duct 216, when properly
plugged in position, poses no flow disruption. Flange 222 is provided with upstanding
threaded bolts 230 which are inserted into bolt holes in flange 222 so that plug 226 may be
properly aligned when installed. Handle 232 attached to cover 228 provides additional
                                                -8-

alignment indicia. A sensor can be positioned between the flange 222 and duct 216 to activate
an engine shut-off mode if there is an attempt to remove the plug 224 when the prime mover
22 is running.
[0033] A bypass valve assembly (not shown) can also be fitted in housing 104 near inlet 203
shown in FIGS. 1 and 2. Excess water is bled through bypass valve assembly (not shown) if
water pressure between the hull of the vessel 12 and the induction inlet 106 exceeds handling
capacity exceeds 3 to 6 psi. Excess water buildup, known colloquially as balling, is a
common occurrence in marine jet propulsion units. Occurring at high vessel speeds when the
vessel is undergoing sharp maneuvers and/or during rough sea conditions, excessive balling
introduces a drag characteristic upon the hull of vessel 12 and affects the propulsive
efficiency of unit 10. The valve assembly (not shown) functions as an anti-balling device to
relieve pressure. It is now known that this pressure should not exceed 3 to 6 psi. The intake
pressure release by-pass valve 232 can work in conjunction with the induction plate by
allowing for excessive pressure build up in front of the impeller 202 to be released around the
impeller into the exhaust heat exchanger 207. The pressure by-pass valve pressure release
valve (not shown) can be set to the desired pressure release as may be needed subject to sea
conditions or the work load of the vessel to improve unit performance. This is controlled
automatically by pressure sensors attached to the side of the housing 104 that relay the
running pressure before the impeller 202 so the valve can be adjusted by a programmable
controller (not shown).    To not have the pressure release ability can lead to incidents of
pressure build up in front of the impeller 202 and down the intake causing a drag effect at the
intake entrance and further affecting the characteristics of the host vessel. The flow
emanating from the by-pass valve (not shown) will exit into the propulsion system exhaust
housing 207.
                                                -9-

[0034] The impeller section 200 of the present invention, as seen in Figures 1 and 3, from
line B-B to line C-C, is shown to incorporate a single stage impeller 202. The impeller
assembly 200 comprises a removable housing 236 made up of two smaller sections, an
impeller housing 251 and a diffuser/confusor housing 242 having impeller 202 and
diffuser/confusor 242. Impeller housing 251 is cylindrical with a generally uniform diameter
at the inlet port 344 and discharge port 346. Diffuser housing 242 is cylindrical with an inside
surface tapered inwardly from a maximum diameter adjacent the impeller section 200 to a
minimum diameter adjacent the discharge section 400. The convergent inside surface of
impeller housing 240 has an outlet cross-sectional area preferably proportional to the impeller
section intake cross-sectional area at a ratio varying from about 0.5 to 0.75:1 adjusted to
accommodate the volumetric mass of the internal working parts of the impeller 202 being the
blades 250 and hub 252. The preferred ratio is about 0.60 to about 0.70:1, adjusted to
accommodate the volumetric mass of the internal working parts of the impeller being the
blades    and hub,    and optimally about     0.64:1,    so that volumetric    displacement   of
diffuser/confusor housing 240 is less than volumetric displacement of impeller section 200.
Volumetric displacement of the diffuser section is from about 75 to about 90 percent adjusted
to accommodate a volumetric mass of the internal working parts of the impeller being the
blades and hub, preferably from about 80 to about 90 percent adjusted to accommodate the
volumetric mass of the internal working parts of the impeller being the blades and hub of the
volumetric displacement of the impeller section and optimally about 85 percent adjusted to
accommodate the volumetric mass of the internal working parts of the impeller being the
blades    and hub.     Furthermore,  the   annular    flow  channel  provided    by the    axial
impeller/diffuser/confusor hub combination in the impeller housing has smooth substantially
contiguous inner and outer surfaces for preventing turbulent boundary eddies. An important
                                               - 10 -

design criterion of impeller section 200 is that the cross-sectional area of the impeller housing
251 and diffuser housing 240 should be the same at the junction point.
[0035] With particular regard to the individual parts of impeller section 200, the impeller
assembly 202 has a unique design having previously undergone much testing and
modifications as to both the shape of a hub portion 252 and impeller blades 250. The
interchangeable blade assembly impeller makes it possible to easily replace individual
impeller blades 250 on the impeller 202 if damaged, or to change the pitch of the impeller
202 for different applications. An essential aspect of impeller 202 is that impeller blades 250
are fixed along an outwardly tapered convex surface of the detachable hub portion 252 rather
than a flat section as is typical in the prior art impeller design.
[0036] Assembled impeller hub 252 has preferably an outwardly tapered convex surface, and
annular interior, more preferably, hub 252 has an outer surface comprising a concave portion
and a convex portion when viewed in axial cross-section and an annular interior. Assembled
hub 252 has an outer surface with a narrow diameter leading end, an increasing variable
diameter mid-portion and a large diameter trailing end. Distal end of shaft 204 extends
through a concentric axial bore 266 the length of hub 252. Leading end has an annular end
surface abutting a shoulder 264 on shaft 204 to present a smooth, continuous surface for fluid
flow. Annular walls of assembled hub 252 are substantially of constant thickness except for a
distal annular end extending outwardly from bore 266 providing an engageable surface blade
section retainer and for a locking sheath.
[0037] Impeller 202 has blades 250 attached along the contoured surface of hub 252 at an
inclination designed to maximize blade exposure to the passing fluid and reduce radial
acceleration component imparted by impeller 202. Blade 250 has a convex outer radius 272, a
concave inner radius 274, a short trailing edge, a long leading edge, broad surface sides
having a midpoint, and thickness.
                                                   - 11 -

[0038] The inclination of impeller blades 250 is defined as an average inclination or degree
of twist in the length of blades 250 as determined from the perpendicular with respect to a
line tangent to the outer surface of the assembled hub 252 at the leading edge and at the
trailing edge. When viewed along either the inner radius 274 or outer radius 272 or when
viewed down either leading or trailing blade edge, an average angle of inclination of both
leading or trailing edges is preferably in a range from about 20-40 degrees off the
perpendicular, more preferably about 30 degrees off the perpendicular with one edge inclined
opposite the other as required by blade 250 to follow hub 252 surface contour. The leading
edge is twisted into the direction of the advance of the impeller 202. It will be appreciated the
leading edge corresponds to the leading end of hub 252 which has a narrow diameter and the
trailing edge corresponds to the trailing end of hub 252 and that the mid-section radial width
of blade 250 is a function of the radius of mid-section portion of hub 252 so that impeller
diameter is substantially constant. The overall length of blade 250 is equal to the length of
assembled hub 252 plus the angular component.
[0039] In a radial direction the thickness 284 of blade 250 is low profile foiled in design as a
result of improved design instead of substantially uniform as in previous defined. Leading
edge has substantially uniform tapering with a maximum thickness at a midpoint
approximately equidistant from either edge. The leading edge entry angle needs to be
between 13 and 15 degrees related to the rotary velocity of the impeller 202.
[0040] FIG. 7 shows a typical fan of five blades extending along assembled hub 252. The
number of blades, impeller diameter and degree of inclination may be optimized in relation to
the power supplied by prime mover 22 and the required design consideration of the vessel at
hand.
[0041] The internal flow characteristic of the impeller housing 251 can accommodate the
volumetric displacement of the impeller blades 250 and hub 252 by cross section by adjusting
                                                - 12 -

the shape of the impeller housing 251 and the dimensions of the impeller hub 252. This will
allow the transition of the flow from the intake 203 through the impeller 202 to the
diffuser/confusor 242 to be without restriction, and maintain the correct flow volume
velocities to the steering nozzle 400.      Not doing so can create a change in the flow
characteristic through the system, resulting in cavitation at the leading edge of the impeller
blades or an induced pressure change in the flow to the diffuser/confusor and into the steering
nozzle assembly 400, which can induce turbulent flow or flow choke and a resulting back
pressure reducing efficiency and eventually causing a hydraulic brake effect.
[0042] The pitch effect of the impeller blade(s) 250 on the accelerated flow can be enhanced
by the extension of the blade width beyond the required pitch length by adding a continued
parallel section to end of the assembly impeller hub 252 and to the width of the blades
representing a continuation of the exiting pitch of the blade 250. The designed pitch of the
impeller blade 250 can be a combined interpretation of the required efflux velocity efficiency
and the power available from the power source driving the impeller 202. This power source
can be from any type of drive, whether it is electric, gasoline, diesel, gas or alternative fuel
driven. The effect of the added blade width can work with the interchangeable diffuser blade
component to enhance the efficiency transfer of the rotating exiting flow velocities of the
back of the impeller blades 250 to linear, laminar type flow through the diffuser 242 on to the
steering nozzle assembly 400.     Similar to the ability to match traditional propellers to the
needs of a vessel by adjusting the diameter to pitch ratios, the adjustment of the extension of
the added blade width provides an ability to enhance the performance and efficiency of the
impeller output against the drive. The internal flow characteristic of the impeller housing 251
can accommodate the volumetric displacement of the impeller blades 250 and the added pitch
extension by cross-section by adjusting the impeller housing diameter or by adjustment of the
impeller hub displacement in the flow volume. This can allow the transition of the flow from
                                               - 13 -

the intake through the impeller 202 to the diffuser 242 to be without restriction and maintain
the correct flow volume and velocities through the diffusor/confusor 242 on to the steering
nozzle 400. Not doing so can create a change in the flow characteristic through the system
resulting in a drop in propulsive efficiency proportional to the inconsistency eventuating, at
an expediential rate, in system failure.
[0043] A durable plastic removal and replaceable impeller wear sleeve 260 can be provided
to stop wear and tear to the impeller housing 251. The clearance dimension between the blade
tips and the internal wall of the removal and replaceable impeller wear sleeve is critical and
should be no more than and no less than touch contact.
[0044] The    internal   flow characteristic  of the    diffuser/confusor   housing   242  can
accommodate the volumetric displacement of the blades of the diffuser 242 and hub 243 by
cross section by adjusting the shape of the diffuser/confusor housing 242 This can allow the
transition of the flow off the back for impeller blades 250 through the diffuser 242 to the
upper nozzle of the nozzle assembly 400 to be without restriction and maintain the correct
flow volume and velocities to the upper steering nozzle 401.        Not doing so can create a
change in the flow characteristic through the system resulting in turbulent flow or flow choke
with resulting back pressure. This can lead to cavitation at the leading edge of the impeller
blades 250, which can induce expediential pressure change in the flow to the diffuser and on
to the steering nozzle assembly 401 resulting in reduced efficiency and eventual system
failure.
[0045] The interchangeable diffuser/confusor blade component 245 can allow for the
changing of the leading edge blades to the diffuser 242 to be replaced if damaged, or to
change the pitch of the leading edge of the diffuser vanes 244a if they need to be adjusted to
meet the needs of the trailing edge velocities of the impeller 202 or a change in pitch of the
impeller blades 250.
                                               - 14 -

[0046] The radii of the leading edge of the diffuser blades 244 to their straight trailing section
can be of a greater radius than in previous designs to ensure a less turbulent transition of the
flow from the impeller blade 250, which can allow the change from rotary flow to
linear/laminar type flow to be less aggressive reducing turbulent flow. The entry angle of the
diffuser/confusor vane 244 needs to correspond to the velocity of the flow of the trailing edge
of the impeller 202 trailing edge. The leading radius of each blade can extend to
approximately half way down the diffuser/confusor blade length. The change in radius and
the resulting change in blade shape can be incorporated in the volumetric flow characteristics
of the diffusor/confusor housing's internal flow characteristics and/or the hub supporting the
diffusor vane 244 supporting in a more precise convergent flow effect on the ensuing flow
characteristic than was attainable previously.
[0047] The exit radius 246 to the diffuser/confusor 242 can be adjusted to be increased. The
sharp angled transition from the diffuser/confusor exit to the steering nozzle assembly 400
can cause inducement of flow turbulence as the flow transitions from the diffuser/confusor
242 to the steering control nozzle assembly 400. This sharp and sudden change in angle, as
shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,123,867 and 6,027,383, induces flow turbulence at higher flow
velocities at the diffuser exit restricting flow and creating back pressure, which can affect the
efficiency of the impeller 202 by presenting a resistance to the flow off the back of the
impeller blades 250. Increasing this radius provides for the reduction of the acceleration of
the flow in proportion to the constant velocity acceleration imparted to the flow by the
impeller 202 under power and the convergent flow characteristic provided by design. The
flow needs to be controlled through the expediential flow acceleration without the flow
becoming turbulent in nature, which causes the turbulence, which induces back pressure. By
introducing a radius at the transition point from the diffuser/confusor 242 to the steering
control nozzle assembly 401, the reduction of turbulent flow has been discovered to be
                                                  - 15 -

reduced expedientially and proportionally to the increase of the radial length of the provided
radius at the points of contact of the diffuser/confusor 242 and the steering control nozzle
assembly 400.
[0048] The diffuser/confusor 242 is disposed immediately adjacent the impeller 202 and is
designed to work in conjunction with impeller 202 to achieve several important performance
functions: (1) damping a radial acceleration component imparted by the impeller 202; (2)
diffusing the path of the water throughput across the entire impeller area cross-section; (3)
preventing partial vaporization of the passing fluid resulting from a vacuum associated with
impeller action by providing a low artificial back pressure upon impeller 202; and (4)
allowing maximum reaction of the impeller 202 and permitting more efficient transfer of the
prime movers 22 available energy into potential energy. Any degree of vapor present would
introduce uneven loading on impeller 202 and cavitation. These performance functions are
improved by the volumetric flow characteristic of the diffusor/confusor 242 being adjusted to
accommodate the volumetric mass of the internal working parts of the diffusor/confusor 242.
[0049] The diffuser/confusor hub 243 preferably has an inwardly tapered convex surface and
annular interior, oppositely disposed in relation to hub impeller 252. Hub 243 comprises a
large flat diameter leading end, decreasing variable diameter mid-section and a small
diameter trailing end forming a rounded nose with a concentric bore cavity 246 drilled
through the middle thereof and a central annular end extension. Concentric outer annular
cavity 246 is primarily for reduction of excess weight providing hub 252b with walls of
substantially constant thickness. A concentric inner annular bore 246 defines a cylindrical
housing for a support bearing for impeller shaft 204 supporting impeller 202. . Bore 246 has a
reduced diameter in the nose section of hub 243 as required by design strength criteria.
[0050] The diffuser/confusor blade design is typically based upon standard straight vane
design except for significant changes incorporated into vanes 244 associated with the surface
                                               - 16 -

contour of diffuser hub 252b. The vanes 244 have a radial width which is a function of a
diameter of hub 243 so that the diffuser 242 has a constant diameter. The thickness of each
vane 244 may be airfoil shaped or typically may have uniform thickness throughout except
for an edge side which may be blunted or sharpened as design fine-tuning requires. Vanes
244 have an interchangeable      leading edge port of interchangeable section 245 which is
curved in a direction opposite the directional advance of the impeller 202 and a straight
section which is typically perpendicular to the hub surface, yet may also be inclined at an
angle of up to about 10 degrees off an orthogonal plane bisecting the hub 243 at point of
juncture and opposite the directional advance of the impeller 202 depending on performance
fine-tuning. The curved end of the removable diffusor/confusor blade section is typically
inclined at an angle of about 10 to about 40 degrees off a longitudinal plane bisecting the hub
243 a of the interchangeable blade section and incorporating straight portion. The vanes 244
are securely affixed lengthwise on one end to the contour surface of hub 243 and on the other
to the inside walls of housing and provide girding support for the bearing function of hub
243. The number of diffuser/confusor vanes 244 is selected with respect to the number of
impeller blades 250 in such a relation that the performance criteria of the diffuser/confusor
section e.g. provides back-pressure and such that damping of radial acceleration is achieved
and that resonance and noise levels are minimized. In an important design feature, the ratio of
impellers blades to diffuser/confusor vanes is odd:even or vice versa. For example, given 3,
5, or 7 impeller blades the corresponding number of diffuser vanes would preferably be 6, 8,
or 10.
 [0051] Overall, the diffuser/confusor 242 is designed to control the shape of water flow and
corresponding acceleration over a large pressure differential presented by a wide range of
vessel speeds, maneuvers and sea conditions.
                                               - 17 -

[0052] The impeller assembly 200 is axially symmetrically disposed in the cylindrical
impeller housing 251 with the diffuser/confusor apparatus 242 attached rearward of the
impeller apparatus 202 in close proximity. The outer surface of trailing end on rotatable hub
252 is substantially continuous with the outside surface of leading end on fixed hub 243.
Impeller assembly 200 is so arranged to make this assembly simple and quick and to enable
mating of the impeller 202 and matched diffuser 242 to prime mover 22 and craft design
requirements. Impeller housing 251 may have a replaceable sleeve enabling the diameter of
housing be reduced corresponding to reduction of impeller diameter. Thus a smaller diameter
impeller arrangement can be used for smaller boats. There is, however, no limitation
regarding horsepower or vessel size and propulsion system 10 may have proportionally
expanded capacity for large ships or for greater speeds.
[0053] Impeller shaft 204 extending axially through propulsion system 10 is provided with a
first bearing support by interchangeable bearing assembly 30 mounted on inlet housing 203
and a second bearing support 247 at fixed hub 243. Bearing assembly 30 includes housing,
roller bearing and locking ring. Bearing assembly 30 may also include a gear housing (not
shown) for unit gearing to a particular prime mover requirement.
[0054] Shaft 204 is provided with a shoulder and a concentric distal section which has
progressively smaller concentric diameter sections. Impeller 202 slides onto section of shaft
204 so that the annular end of leading edge on hub 252 abuts shoulder to present a smooth
continuous surface for fluid flow. An annular locking sleeve with a proximal annular end
having greater diameter than a minimal diameter of the distal annular end extending
outwardly from hub bore 266 engages the annular end holding impeller 202 securely against
shoulder on shaft 204. A washer and locking nut so secure the sleeve. Distal section of shaft
204 is threaded for locking nut so that standard key (not shown) and keyway combination
synchronously engage impeller 202 upon shaft 204.
                                               - 18 -

[0055] The bearing sleeve is inserted into the center annular portion of hub housing 252.
Assembly is completed by inserting the shaft portion having the sleeve through the bearing so
that clearance between hubs 252 and 243 is about 1/8 inch. Bore 266 in the nose end of
stationary hub 243 provides an exit for water flushing around the exterior of the bearing. The
bearing is self-lubricating, self-cooling and self-flushing, typical of bearings used in marine
application.
[0056] An alternative bearing application for larger vessels is to set the bearing in the
directional vanes and have the impeller positioned on the counter levered section of the shaft
extending beyond the bearing housing positioned in the directional vanes support.
[0057] The shaft can also be housed in a shaft housing of a foil shape to provide minimal
resistance to the intake flow supported by directional vanes in front of the impeller forming a
support structure. The mass of this housing designed into the flow characteristics of the
intake can provide less resistance to the intake flow than the naked shaft as it stops the effects
of the rotational velocities of the shaft pre-rotating the flow to the face of the impeller.
[0058] A means for joining impeller section casing to intake housing 104 and an upper
nozzle housing 401 to discharge housing nozzle 402 comprises identical ring clamps or bolt
flanges which are tightened by bolts within the clamp fitting over mated flanges affixed to
respective sections. The clamp typically comprises two semicircular grooved pieces attached
at a hinge. Additional joining means comprise matching flange connectors as between
impeller housing 251 and diffuser housing 242 utilizing flanges and diffuser casing and
discharge casing utilizing flanges. A preferably rubber seal, gasket or O-ring is utilized in
between. Design of propulsion system 10 is such that the steering means 28 with a housing
sits centrally atop pump housing section. Sections of housing are also joined by flanges.
[0059] An outlet or discharge section 400 extending from line C--C to line E--E comprises
three cylindrical sections and provides two primary functions: fluid acceleration and a means
                                                  - 19 -

for swivelably directing the exiting stream to provide control means. Discharge section 400
incorporates complementary angles of preferably 60 degrees in order that a discharge point is
horizontally aligned with bottom hull of craft 12.
[0060] The first section extending midway out from line C-C is angled cylindrical housing
291. Housing 400 comprises a swivel able portion 293 which is swivel able horizontally
through 360 degrees. Swivel able second section 293 and angled section are joined by
bearing assembly. Bearing assembly comprises inner race attached to the exterior surface of
housing 291, outer race attached to the exterior surface of section and bearing ring there
between.
[0061] Steering device 28 links the steering column in a marine vessel to rotatable section of
the jet propulsion unit of the present invention. Steering linkage comprises a steering rod
having a sleeve bearing and a first and second universal joint. Second universal joint mounted
atop a steering rod angularly extending through the interior of housing 291 is operatively
associated with rotating section by means of spoke vanes. Angle spoke vanes are designed
and installed so as not to present an impediment to flow.
[0062] The third section of discharge 400 is complementary angled housing clamped to
section as mentioned previously and extending out to line E--E. Housing 291 includes lower
nozzle 402 and is designed to be interchangeable to enable performance guided selection of
nozzle. The cross-sectional area of the steering assembly 291 in discharge section 400 is
preferably proportional to the impeller inlet cross-sectional area at a ratio from about 0.25 to
about 0.50:1. By adjusting the entry diameter of steering assembly 291 to accommodate the
volumetric mass of the internal workings of the steering shaft, spoke vanes and flow control
vanes in the flow volume, preferably at a ratio from about 0.30 to about 0.40:1 but optimally
about 0.35:1, the interior surfaces of discharge nozzle are smooth and convergent onto outlet
cross-sectional area.
                                                - 20 -

[0063] Lower nozzle 402 includes one or more straightener vanes preferably affixed
perpendicularly to the inner surface of section. Straightener vanes are designed to dampen
swirl and enable a steady laminar column of water throughput to be discharged from unit 10.
In addition, nozzle 402 comprises a ring attached to the outer edge of nozzle. The ring
artificially enhances the propulsive reaction of the water being discharged through the nozzle
401 by means of eddies around the edges of ring to permit a smoother transition of the exiting
water.
[0064] The internal flow characteristic of the upper steering nozzle 401 can accommodate the
volumetric displacement of the steering shaft 501 by cross section by adjusting the shape of
the upper nozzle 401. This can allow the transition of the flow off the back the back of the
diffuser vanes 244 through the upper nozzle 401 to the lower nozzle 402 of the nozzle
assembly to be without restriction and maintain the correct flow volume and velocities to the
steering nozzle. Not doing so can create a change in the flow characteristic through the
system resulting in turbulent flow with resulting back pressure. This can induce expediential
pressure change in the flow to the steering nozzle resulting in the creation of turbulent flow
and back pressure affecting the efficiency of the diffuser 242 which will reduce overall
system efficiency and eventual system failure. By discovery the increasing of the radius of
the upper nozzle 401 will reduce flow resistance and working with the changed exit radius of
the diffusor/confusor to improve the efficiency of the flow through the upper nozzle 401. The
increase in efficiency is directly related to the radial length of the elbow shape of the upper
nozzle 401 and the improved internal flow velocities gained with the increase in radial length.
[0065] The internal flow characteristic of the steering nozzle steering bearing assembly 291
can accommodate the volumetric displacement of the steering shaft 501 and spider arms by
cross section by adjusting the shape of the steering bearing assembly. This can allow the
transition of the flow from the upper nozzle 401 through the bearing assembly to the lower
                                                - 21 -

nozzle 402 of the nozzle assembly to be without restriction and maintain the correct flow
volume and velocities to the steering nozzle. Not doing so can create a change in the flow
characteristic through the system resulting in turbulent flow with resulting back pressure.
This can induce expediential pressure change in the flow to the steering nozzle resulting in
the creation of turbulent flow and back pressure and a drop in efficiency.
[0066] The internal flow characteristic of the lower steering nozzle 402 can accommodate the
volumetric displacement of guide vanes by cross section by adjusting the shape of the lower
nozzle. This can allow the transition of the flow from the bearing assembly to the lower
nozzle exit point to be without restriction and maintain the correct flow volume and velocities
to the steering nozzle. Not doing so can create a change in the flow characteristic through the
system resulting in a drop in efficiency.
[0067] The lower steering nozzle 402 guide vanes 403 can be carried up the length of the
radius to incorporate the same radius as the exterior walls of the nozzle. This can provide a
smoother transition for the guiding of the exiting transition of the flow through the radius of
the nozzle and reduces the creation of turbulence at the radius turn of the nozzle improving
flow through efficiency. The internal flow characteristic of the nozzle can accommodate any
of the guide vanes by cross section adjustment to the shape of the nozzle to ensure the flow
through the nozzle is uninhibited. As with the upper nozzle 401, increasing the radius of the
lower steering nozzle 402 will reduce flow resistance and improve the efficiency of the flow
through the lower nozzle. The increase in efficiency is directly related to the radial length of
the elbow shape of the lower nozzle 402 and internal flow velocities. The interchangeability
of the lower steering nozzle 402 allows for the height of the exiting efflux to be adjustable by
using nozzles of differing radius length which in turn lifts or lowers the efflux exit point
changing the thrust point and its effect on the vessel relative to the change in radial length of
the lower steering nozzle.
                                                - 22 -

[0068] The jump-up steering vane 405 in the lower nozzle 402 can aid in the tracking and
better control of marine vessels with low angle dead rise hulls. The jump up steering vane
405 will retract in to the steering nozzle if it encounters any obstacles in the water whether
they are animal or mineral. The lower steering nozzle housing diameter accommodates the
volumetric mass of the internal workings of the jump-up steering vane 305 in the flow
volume by dimension.
[0069] Discharge housing 400 also includes a bleeder hole bored approximately in line with
the end of diffuser hub 243 so that trapped air introduced into unit 10 may escape and unit 10
can be self-priming. The flow from the bleeder hole can exit to the atmosphere or into the
exhaust housing 500.
[0070] The control function of discharge section 400 is incorporated by the directing of
nozzle thrust as provided by the steering apparatus 28. Directional headings are associated
with operation of nozzle in position F, R, and radial positions in between.
[0071] The reversing bumper 700 with rubber protector 701 can be designated to protect the
steering nozzle assembly 409 from damage from ramming from the rear or the when the
vessel is reversing or as an anchor for towing.
[0072] The hydraulic trim 600, incorporating hydraulic ball joint components 601, 602 and
603, as seen in Figure 9 and 10, can allow an up or down trimming of the vessel while
underway without unduly affecting the flow efficiency of the drive. The available trim 600
can permit an approximately 20 degree change up or down in the positioning of the nozzle
efflux.   The internal flow characteristic of the hydraulic trim 600 can be parallel, and the
entrance and exit flow velocities of the trim device can be as equal as possible. The trim 600
can be included with or without the exhaust shroud.
[0073] The marine jet propulsion unit 10 of the present invention is preferably fabricated and
assembled from stainless steel chosen for its strength and resistance to corrosion properties,
                                                - 23 -

however, a non-corroding engineering aluminum or plastic having good cohesive, impact and
structural strength would also be suitable for one or more parts of the propulsion unit 10.
[0074] It will be appreciated that the performance of the marine jet propulsion system 10 is
dependent upon the synergistic interrelation of the function of each individual section. Each
individual section must be manufactured and assembled proportionally and symmetrically
with consideration given to required pressure and flow balance needed to permit the jet
propulsion unit 10 to function efficiently.
[0075] Predictability of performance in regards to the power requirements of the jet
propulsion unit 10 enables the unit to be fine-tuned to a particular prime mover respecting
design criteria of the impeller blades, associated diffuser vanes and nozzle.
[0076] The foregoing description of the invention is illustrative and explanatory thereof.
Various changes in the materials, apparatus, and particular parts employed will occur to those
skilled in the art. It is intended that all such variations within the scope and spirit of the
appended claims be embraced thereby.
                                                 - 24 -

                                                 25
CLAIMS:
1.     A marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus comprising:
       an intake section;
       an impeller section;
       a discharge section;
       a passage extending from an intake opening of the intake section to an outlet of the
discharge section, the passage having a length and an axial cross-sectional area, the passage
capable of creating a flow path for a water stream on a volumetric basis; and
       a plurality of internal working parts, the plurality of internal working parts being at
least partially accommodated within the passage,
       wherein the axial cross-sectional area of the passage is varied throughout the length of
the passage to accommodate a volumetric mass of the plurality of the internal working parts
enhancing a solid state characteristic of the flow path for the water stream from the intake
opening of the intake section to the outlet of the discharge section.
2.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of
internal working parts includes at least one of a drive shaft, straightener vanes, directional
vanes, an impeller hub, a diffuser/confusor hub, a steering shaft, spoke vanes, flow control
vanes, guide vanes and steering vanes.
3.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 1 wherein a
diffuser/confusor hub of the impeller section and an upper steering nozzle of the discharge
section form an exit radius at a transition point between the diffuser/confusor hub and the
upper steering nozzle which allows for a reduction of turbulent flow for the water stream.
4.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 1 further comprising:
       an exhaust heater exchange;
       a diffuser/confusor hub; and
       an upper steering nozzle, wherein the exhaust heater exchange heats the
diffuser/confusor hub and the upper steering nozzle.
5.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 4 further comprising:
       a lower steering nozzle, the lower steering nozzle being interchangeable.

                                                26
6.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 5 wherein the lower steering
nozzle includes a steering vane, the steering vane being retractable and maintaining the lower
steering nozzle in straight position when a marine vessel is in motion.
7.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 1 further comprising:
       straightener vanes, the straightener vanes being positioned on either side of an impeller
hub, the straightener vanes directing the water stream from the intake opening to the impeller
hub.
8.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 1 further comprising:
       an upper steering nozzle; and
       a lower steering nozzle, wherein the lower steering nozzle is removably attached to an
end of the upper steering nozzle.
9.     The marine ducted propeller propulsion apparatus of claim 8 further comprising:
straightener vanes, the straightener vanes being positioned around an interior of the lower
steering nozzle thereby controlling a water stream through a radius of the lower steering
nozzle.
                                       Stefan Broinowski
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
