Abstract
The present invention discloses a fire-extinguishing composition consisting of substances
having the following mass percentages: an aromatic organic acid compound, 20% to 90%; an
alcohol-based compound, 10% to     8 0%;  the fire-extinguishing composition produces a great
quantity of substances available for fire extinguishing by utilizing the high temperature from
combustion of a pyrotechnic agent. The aromatic organic acid compound and the alcohol
based compound of the present invention may undergo sublimation by endothermic process,
decomposition and reaction between each other at the high temperature, releasing a great
quantity of fire-extinguishing substances to carry out the fire extinguishing; the fire
extinguishing composition of the present invention compensates            for the loss in the
performance of an aerosol generating agent caused by a general cooling layer, and also
enhances the fire-extinguishing performance of the entire fire-extinguishing product, while
reducing the temperature at a nozzle of the product; the sediment of the present fire
extinguishing composition has low hygroscopicity and high insulation resistance, which is
suitable for electric places without causing corrosion of and other adverse effects on the
electrical equipment.

                                     Fire-Extinguishing Composition
   This application is a divisional application of PCT/CN2016/107856 filed on 30 November
   2016, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by reference.
 5 PCT/CN2016/107856 claims the benefit of Chinese application No. 201510867612.5, filed 1
   December 2015, the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference.
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention pertains to the technical field of aerosol fire extinguishing, particularly
10 to a thermal aerosol fire-extinguishing composition.
   Background of the Invention
   Since the specific target of each country for substitution of Halon fire-extinguishing agents
   was put forth in Canadian Montreal Convention in 1987, all countries in the world have been
15 committed to the research of new fire-extinguishing techniques. Fire-extinguishing techniques
   with high fire-extinguishing efficiency and no environmental pollution are directions of our
   effort.
   A gas fire-extinguishing system, a powder extinguishing system, a water fire-extinguishing
   system and the like are harmless to environment, so they are selected as substitutes of Halon
20 fire-extinguishing agents and are widely used. The fire-extinguishing mechanism of the fire
   extinguishing systems of carbon dioxide, IG541 and inert gases mainly relies on physical fire
   extinguishing. The fire is put out by lowering the concentration of oxygen in the firing area.
   This fire-extinguishing method would easily threaten human safety. The powder extinguishing
   system puts out a fire by spraying powder under the action of pressurized gas to contact flame
25 and realize physical and chemical suppression effect. A water mist fire-extinguishing system
   achieves the aspects of controlling, suppressing and putting out a fire through triple actions of
   cooling, smothering, and isolation of thermal radiation by using water mist.
   However, all these fire-extinguishing systems need high pressure storage. Not only the volume
   is large but also there is a risk of physical explosion during storage. A document "Safety
30 Analysis of Gas Fire-extinguishing System" (Fire Science and Technology 2002 21(5))
                                                      1

   analyzes the risk of a gas fire-extinguishing system and enumerates the safety accidents
   triggered by the stored pressure gas fire-extinguishing system during use.
   The existing thermal aerosol fire-extinguishing agents are mainly type S and type K fire
   extinguishing agents. The comprehensive analysis of their performance and features indicates
 5 that their fire-extinguishing mechanism is that the thermal aerosol fire-extinguishing agents
   take a redox reaction through agent combustion to release a great quantity of gas and active
   particles and one aspect of integrated chemical and physical fire-extinguishing is realized
   through the chain scission reaction of the active particles and covering and smothering of a
   great quantity of gas. The disadvantage of the thermal aerosol fire-extinguishing agents is that
10 the thermal aerosol fire-extinguishing agent will release a great quantity of heat while it takes
   the combustion reaction to release the thermal aerosol, which may cause a secondary
   combustion. In order to effectively reduce the temperature of the device and aerosol and avoid
   the secondary fire, a cooling system needs to be added. The cooling materials of the existing
   thermal aerosol fire-extinguishing units can reduce the temperature of products, but they also
15 greatly weaken the fire-extinguishing performance of the products. In order to compensate the
   loss in the fire-extinguishing performance caused by the cooling system, many products either
   lower the fire-extinguishing level or continuously increase the mass of the actual fire
   extinguishing agent, rendering the increase of product volume and the decrease of use
   efficiency, which results in a complex and cumbersome structure of the device, such as the S
20 type fire-extinguishing agent. The traditional K type fire-extinguishing agent, however, has
   high fire extinguishing efficiency and small volume, but the sediment thereof is corrosive and
   would bring secondary damage.
   Therefore, there is an urgent need in the market for a fire-extinguishing composition which not
   only ensures the fire extinguishing efficiency of the K type fire-extinguishing agent, makes the
25 fire-extinguishing equipment small in size, light in weight and easy to be installed, but also
   ensures that the fire-extinguishing particles released would not produce secondary damage to
   the places where the fire extinguishing is carried out, in particular some places having
   electrical equipment, and has good corrosion resistance.
   The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included in this
30 specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It is not
   suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or
                                                     2

   were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed
   before the priority date of each claim of this application.
   Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
   specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the
 5 stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more
   other features, integers, steps or components, or groups thereof.
   Summary of the Invention
   With respect to the defects of the prior art, an aspect of the present invention is to provide a
10 fire-extinguishing composition that has high fire extinguishing efficiency, good corrosion
   resistance, and tends not to bring secondary damage.
   The technical scheme of the present invention is:
   A fire-extinguishing composition, wherein the fire-extinguishing composition consists of
   substances having the following mass percentages:
15 an aromatic organic acid compound 20%-90%
   an alcohol-based compound 10%-80%
   the fire-extinguishing composition produces a great quantity of substances available for fire
   extinguishing by utilizing the high temperature from combustion of a pyrotechnic agent.
   Further, the aromatic organic acid compound is a monobasic aromatic organic acid compound
20 and/or a dibasic aromatic organic acid compound.
   Further, the monobasic aromatic organic acid compound comprises: one or more of 2,5
   dimethylbenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, m-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3
   hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 2,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid, m-methylbenzoic acid, 2-amino-3
   methylbenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-methylsalicylic acid, 2-pyrazinecarboxylic
25 acid, 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxy-4-methylbenzoic acid, 4-phenylbenzoic
   acid, p-tert-butylbenzoic acid, 4-isopropylbenzoic acid, 4'-hydroxybiphenyl-4-carboxylic acid,
   3-amino-4-methylbenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trimethylbenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoic acid,
   2,6-dimethoxybenzoic acid, 4-(hydroxymethyl)phenoxyacetic acid, 2,6-dimethylbenzoic acid,
   3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid, 2,2-diphenylacetic acid, 5-methoxysalicylic acid, 3,4
30 dimethylbenzoic acid, o-benzoylbenzoic acid, 3-phenylbenzoic acid, 2,5-dimethylphenylacetic
                                                     3

   acid, 5-methylsalicylic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2-hydroxy-6-naphthoic acid, p
   methylbenzoic acid, p-methoxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dimethoxybenzoic acid, 3-phenyl-2
   propenoic acid, 3-benzoylbenzoic acid, coumaric acid, and 2,4,6- trihydroxybenzoic acid.
   Further, the dibasic aromatic organic acid compound comprises: one or more of 5
 5 hydroxyisophthalic acid, biphenyl-4,4'-dicarboxylic acid, isophthalic acid, phthalic acid,
   terephthalic acid, p-benzenediacetic acid, 1,2-cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1,2
   benzenediacetic acid, 1,4-naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, 2,2'-biphenyldicarboxylic acid, 2,7
   naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, 5-methoxyisophthalic acid, and 1,3-benzenediacetic acid.
   Further, the alcohol-based compound comprises: one or more of p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol,
10 erythritol, lactitol, triphenylmethanol, 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzyl alcohol, sorbitol,
   tebuconazole, 2-hydroxy-5-methyl-1,3-benzenedimethanol, maltitol, pentaerythritol,
   dipentaerythritol, tripentaerythritol, diethylene glycol dodecyl ether,
   tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]decan-2-ol, mannitol, and glucitol.
   Further, the mass percentages of various components in the fire-extinguishing composition are
15 preferably:
   the aromatic organic acid compound 40%-90%
   the alcohol-based compound 10%-60%.
   Further, the fire-extinguishing composition also contains an additive which has a mass
   percentage of greater than 0 to less than or equal to 5%.
20 Further, the additive is one or more of stearate, graphite, sodium silicate, phenolic resin,
   shellac, starch, dextrin, rubber, epoxy resin, acetal adhesive, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose,
   and ethyl cellulose.
    Further, the components and their mass percentages in the fire-extinguishing composition are
   preferably:
25 the aromatic organic acid compound 30%-80%
   the alcohol-based compound 15%-65%
   the additive 0.2%-5%.
   Further, the components and their mass percentages in the fire-extinguishing composition are
   preferably:
                                                     4

   the aromatic organic acid compound 40%- 8 0%
   the alcohol-based compound 15%- 5 5 %
   the additive 0.2%-5%.
   The flame suppression mechanism of the fire-extinguishing composition of the present
 5 invention is as follows:
   When used, the pyrotechnic agent is used as a source of heat and a source of power, and with
   the heat released from ignition and combustion of the pyrotechnic agent, the fire-extinguishing
   composition is further decomposed at a high temperature to release fire-extinguishing
   substances, which may react with one or more of 0-, OH-, H- free radicals necessary for the
10 chain combustion reaction via free radicals, thereby cutting off the chain combustion reaction.
   It is also possible to reduce the oxygen partial pressure by physical action to suppress the
   flame, or that physical and chemical inhibitions may take place simultaneously to achieve fire
   extinguishing. Meanwhile, they take a synergistic interaction effect with the pyrotechnic agent
   to further raise the fire extinguishing efficiency of the fire-extinguishing agent and greatly
15 shorten the effective fire extinguishing time.
   As compared with the existing thermal aerosol fire extinguishing agents, the fire-extinguishing
   composition of the present invention has the following advantages:
   1.    The aromatic organic acid compound and the alcohol-based compound in the fire
         extinguishing composition of the present invention may undergo sublimation by
20       endothermic process, decomposition, and reaction between each other at a high
         temperature to generate a large number of nanometer-level effective fire-extinguishing
         particles and a plurality of free radicals, cutting off the combustion reaction chain; and
         function in fire extinguishing along with the reaction products of the thermal aerosol
         generating agent, which further improves the fire extinguishing efficiency of the fire
25       extinguishing agent and shortens the effective fire extinguishing time.
   2.    The fire-extinguishing composition of the present invention compensates for the loss in
         the performance of the aerosol generating agent caused by a general cooling layer, and
         also enhances the fire-extinguishing performance of the entire fire-extinguishing product,
         while reducing the temperature at a nozzle of the fire-extinguishing device. Therefore, the
30       fire-extinguishing composition is safer, would not do harm to fire fighters and also avoids
         secondary fires.
                                                       5

   3.   The sediment from the fire-extinguishing composition of the present invention after being
        sprayed has low hygroscopicity and high insulation resistance, which is suitable for
        electric places without causing corrosion of and other adverse effects on the electrical
        equipment to avoid secondary damage to the electrical equipment.
 5 4.   An aerosol fire extinguishing device adopting the fire-extinguishing composition of the
        present invention does not need a cooling system with a complex structure and a large
        volume, so it has the characteristics of a handy structure, a simple technological process
        and good economy.
10 Detailed Description of the Embodiments
   Below are embodiments of the present invention for illustrating a technical scheme for
   addressing the technical issues in this application document and helping those skilled in the art
   understand the content of the present invention, however, the realization of the technical
   scheme of the present invention is not limited to these embodiments.
15 Example 1
   Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: m-hydroxybenzoic acid 30%, lactitol 70%
   When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
   together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
   shown in Table 1.
20 Example 2
   Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: 2,5-dimethylbenzoic acid 20%, 4-methyl salicylic
   acid 15%, mannitol 64.8%, sodium silicate 0.2%
   When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
   together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
25 shown in Table 1.
   Example 3
   Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: phthalic acid 35%, mannitol 55%, maltitol 9%,
   phenolic resin 1%
                                                     6

   When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
   together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
   shown in Table 1.
   Example 4
 5 Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: 5-methoxysalicylic acid 10%, isophthalic acid
   10%, terephthalic acid 20%, maltitol 28%, pentaerythritol 30%, starch 2%
   When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
   together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
   shown in Table 1.
10 Example 5
   Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: 3-phenyl-2-propenoic acid 50%, pentaerythritol
   47%, epoxy resin 3%
   When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
   together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
15 shown in Table 1.
   Example 6
   Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: phthalic acid 76%, dipentaerythritol 10%,
   mannitol 10%, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 4%
   When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
20 together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
   shown in Table 1.
   Example 7
   Fire-extinguishing composition formulation: terephthalic acid 89%, dipentaerythritol 10%,
   ethyl cellulose 1%
25 When used, 60g of the above-described fire-extinguishing agent was weighed and assembled
   together with 50g of the aerosol generating agent for use, and the fire extinguishing effect is
   shown in Table 1.
   The various components of each of Examples 1-7 were taken in a certain proportion, using
   water or alcohol as a solvent, pelletized by using a 20-mesh sieve before air-drying, a mold
                                                    7

     release agent was added, and after mixing the same, the mixture was sieved by a 15-mesh
     sieve, and molded into a shape of ball, slice, strip, block or honeycomb through pelleting,
     mould pressing, extruding or other processes; 60 g of the mixture was added to a fire
     extinguishing device filled with 50 g of a type K aerosol generating agent, and a fire
 5   extinguishing experiment was performed according to a fire extinguishing experiment model.
     This fire extinguishing experiment set 4 control groups:
     Comparative Example 1: 60 g of an alcohol-based compound
     Comparative Example 2: 60 g of an aromatic organic acid compound
     Comparative Example 3: 60g of a type K aerosol generating agent
10   Comparative Example 4: 60 g of a type S aerosol generating agent
     The samples of Comparative Examples 1-4 were put into a fire-extinguishing device and a fire
     extinguishing experiment was performed according to a fire extinguishing experiment model.
     The fire extinguishing experiment and the test method for the insulation resistance of the
     sediment were carried out by referring to the relevant method in GA499.1-2010 "Aerosol Fire
15   Extinguishing System Section 1: Thermal Aerosol Fire-Extinguishing Device". The space for
     the fire extinguishment was a 2 cubic-meter test box, with 5 fire pots set inside, and the
     number of fire extinguishments was an average number in three tests. The number of fire
     extinguishments, the temperature at the nozzle and the insulation resistance of the sediment
     were recorded, respectively.
20   The experimental results are shown in Table 1:
                       Table 1 Comparison of various compositions and experimental results
                                 Composition of the Example (mass percentage)      Comparative Comparative Comparative Comparative
         Component                                                                  example      example    example     example
                            NO.1   NO.2     NO.3      NO.4   NO.5     NO.6    NO.7     1            2          3           4
     m-Hydroxybenzoic
                             30
             acid
    2,5-Dimethylbenzoic
                                    20
             acid
   4-Methyl salicylic acid          15
         Phthalic acid                        35                        76                         99.8
     5-Methoxysalicylic
                                                       10
             acid
       Isophthalic acid                                10
      Terephthalic acid                                20                      89
    3-Phenyl-2-propenoic
                                                              50
             acid
                                                                         8

            lactitol        70
           mannitol            64.8  55                    10                  99.8
           maltitol                   9  28
       pentaerythritol                   30     47
     Dipentaerythritol                                     10      10
       sodium silicate          0.2
        phenolic resin                1
             starch                       2
         epoxy resin                             3
  Hydroxypropyl methyl                                     4                    0.2 0.2
           cellulose
       ethyl cellulose                                              1
         type K fire
    extinguishing agent
            type S
     fire-extinguishing
             agent
                                            Comparison in experimental results
                       s   4.3   4    4 4.7     4.3       4.3       4           4.7 4.3   4.7      2
      et nguishme
  Insulation resistance of  24  25   22  20     29         19      22          0.21 0.37 0.08     21
     the sediment MQ
    Temperature at the     431 529  496 417     534       488     405          508  472
                   0                                                                     1417    1342
          nozzle C
   Flaming at the nozzle   No   No  No  No      No         No      No           No  No   Yes     Yes
    The foregoing embodiments are merely explanations to the preferred schemes of the present
    invention, and are not the limitation to the present invention. All changes and modifications to
    the foregoing embodiments within the essential spirit scope of the present invention should fall
5   within the scope of protection of the claims of the present application.
                                                            9

   The Claims Defining the Invention are as Follows:
   1.   A fire-extinguishing composition, wherein the fire-extinguishing composition consists of
        substances having the following mass percentages:
         an aromatic organic acid compound 20%-90% and
 5       an alcohol-based compound 10%-80%
         wherein the fire-extinguishing composition produces a great quantity of substances
         available for fire extinguishing by utilizing the high temperature from combustion of a
         pyrotechnic agent.
10 2.   The fire-extinguishing composition according to claim 1, wherein the aromatic organic
        acid compound is a monobasic aromatic organic acid compound and/or a dibasic
        aromatic organic acid compound.
   3.   The fire-extinguishing composition according to claim 2, wherein the monobasic
15      aromatic organic acid compound comprises: one or more of 2,5-dimethylbenzoic acid,
        2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, m-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 2,4
        dimethoxybenzoic acid, m-methylbenzoic acid, 2-amino-3-methylbenzoic acid, 2,3
        dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-methylsalicylic acid, 2-pyrazinecarboxylic acid, 3-hydroxy-4
        methoxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxy-4-methylbenzoic acid, 4-phenylbenzoic acid, p-tert
20      butylbenzoic acid, 4-isopropylbenzoic acid, 4'-hydroxybiphenyl-4-carboxylic acid, 3
        amino-4-methylbenzo ic acid, 2,4,6-trimethylbenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoic acid,
        2,6-dimethoxybenzoic acid, 4-(hydroxymethyl)phenoxyacetic acid, 2,6-dimethylbenzoic
        acid, 3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid, 2,2-diphenylacetic acid, 5-methoxysalicylic acid, 3,4
        dimethylbenzoic acid, o-benzoylbenzoic acid, 3-phenylbenzoic acid, 2,5
25      dimethylphenylacetic acid, 5-methylsalicylic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2
        hydroxy-6-naphthoic acid, p-methylbenzoic acid, p-methoxybenzoic acid, 2,3
        dimethoxybenzoic acid, 3-phenyl-2-propenoic acid, 3-benzoylbenzoic acid, coumaric
        acid, and 2,4,6- trihydroxybenzoic acid.
30 4.   The fire-extinguishing composition according to claim 2, wherein the dibasic aromatic
        organic acid compound comprises: one or more of 5-hydroxyisophthalic acid, biphenyl
        4,4'-dicarboxylic acid, isophthalic acid, phthalic acid, terephthalic acid, p
                                                   10

       benzenediacetic acid, 1,2-cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1,2-benzenediacetic acid, 1,4
       naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, 2,2'-biphenyldicarboxylic acid, 2,7
       naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, 5-methoxyisophthalic acid, and 1,3-benzenediacetic acid.
 5 5.  The fire-extinguishing composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
       alcohol-based compound comprises: one or more of p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol, erythritol,
       lactitol, triphenylmethanol, 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzyl alcohol, sorbitol, tebuconazole,
       2-hydroxy-5-methyl-1,3-benzenedimethanol, maltitol, pentaerythritol, dipentaerythritol,
       tripentaerythritol, diethylene glycol dodecyl ether, tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]decan-2-ol,
10     mannitol, and glucitol.
   6.  The fire-extinguishing composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
       mass percentages of various components in the fire-extinguishing composition are:
        the aromatic organic acid compound 40%-90% and
15      the alcohol-based compound 10%-60%.
   7.  The fire-extinguishing composition according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the
       fire-extinguishing composition further contains an additive which has a mass percentage
       of greater than 0 to less than or equal to 5%.
20
   8.  The fire-extinguishing composition according to claim 7, wherein the additive is one or
       more of stearate, graphite, sodium silicate, phenolic resin, shellac, starch, dextrin,
       rubber, epoxy resin, acetal adhesive, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, and ethyl cellulose.
25  9. The fire-extinguishing composition according to claim 8, wherein the components and
       their mass percentages in the fire-extinguishing composition are:
        the aromatic organic acid compound 30%-80%
        the alcohol-based compound 15%-65%
        the additive 0.2%-5%.
                                                  11

