Abstract:
[001]   A method and process for organising a sports event.
[002]   This is a method of organising a sports event for any number of participants by
determining a location for the event with a series of checkpoints which carry a value of
reward points which will be rewarded to those participants able to reach those checkpoints
within the rules of the event; a step of determining the location of a series of checkpoints
which provide multiple optional routes that participants may take to accumulate points
during the event; a step of determining the location of the checkpoints and according points
to those checkpoints on the basis of the difficulty to be experienced by participants in
reaching those checkpoints.

                     1/1
   Figure 1
            Start/Finish Location
                     104A
                                    P1
P2
                                 P2

      Editorial Note
        <removed-apn>
There are seven pages of description only

Field of the Invention
[001]   This invention relates to a system and process for operating a sports event.
Background
[002]   The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement or
admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
[003]   Due to increased participation in sports events which cover large distances across
shared public lands difficulties may arise due to competing land users. This may otherwise
prevent sports events from being conducted across those public lands without significant
costs and planning requiring sharing of lands or limiting access to other users. Events for
sports such as cycling, running, orienteering, skiing, horse riding, walking, motor racing are
examples of the sports that will often share public lands to hold events over longer
distances.
[004]   More commonly sports events over public lands may pass along a predetermined
route and are often based on point to point style event between a different start and a
finish point which may also include way points or checkpoints. Alternatively sports events
can also involve loop style races where the start and finish will be the same location and
may include way points and checkpoints.
[005]   Some sports events can be of a competitive race style where the performance is
determined according to various rules such as the order of finishing, by some system of
handicap, or points won. Other sports events can merely be based on participation without
competitive results being awarded such as charitable events or events for fun only.
[006]   In Australia, for example, there exists a range of sports events which can cover large
distances over public lands such as cycling races which can traverse the entire continent.

There are also long distance triathlons, rally car races and the like which take place on
shared public roads. For safety many of these events will require elaborate planning where
there will be other road or trail users. Some events will also seek road closures either
wholly or partly for the purpose of enabling their sporting event to be held on those public
roads. This can be expensive and may require traffic management services to provide
signals to both event entrants and other users.
[007]   Most often sports events will be planned by a central organising body and will
require an evaluation of the planned event route before finalising on the final event route.
This event route may be based on a range of factors including safety, difficulty, ease of
navigation, competing use, distance or time to traverse etc. Some events may require
approval from other authorities including local government, sports bodies, police and
others. The organising authority will be required to liaise with those relevant authorities to
secure any necessary approvals thereby consuming resources which may be limited
especially where sports remain non-professional and are undertaken by hobbyists.
[008]   A range of efforts to increase the appeal of events has been undertaken to promote
safety but also to promote events to potential participants. In more recent times there has
been a trend involving participation in events which introduce aspects of adventure or
uncertainty. Adventure sports events can be promoted by adding some increased element
of uncertainty by holding longer races which may occur over longer periods of time
including days or weeks. Uncertainty introduced by event organisers in the route of the
event may be another method of increasing interest in participation in the event so that the
route is progressively revealed at checkpoints or certain waypoints.
[009]   Event organisers may increase the appeal of an event for participants by modulating
the rules and guidelines of the event to include sufficient elements of certainty and
uncertainty. By doing so the parameters of human endeavour may be tested so as to
produce demonstrated competency in those desired fields such as the ability to prepare,
plan, perform, adapt and compete including both internal and external challenges.

[010]    By the combination of physical exertion, climatic, environmental and other stressors
such as sleep reduction, events which challenge the human condition have become popular
for both participants and observers. The modulation of those stressors by event organisers
can determine the success or otherwise of a sports event.
[011]    Certain sports events routes are determined as a fixed distance or a fixed time to
complete a given route. Fixed event routes are more common however routes involving
aspects of choice have been known but are less common.
[012]    However, the problem with present types of sports events is that they do not allow
sufficient uncertainty whilst also permitting entrants to modify the route for their
preference. Fixed route events limit the uncertainty and adventure desired by participants
or may not sufficiently test decision making ability and planning skills which are desired in
certain sports events.
Summary of Invention
[013]    According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for organising a
sports event involving a start position or time, a series of known physical checkpoints
through which competitors must reach to be accorded with a points based reward to
determine the sports event performance of the participants comprising:
[014]    a step of an event organiser creating the rules for a sports event including a start
location, a start time, a bounded geographical area, a series of waypoints or checkpoints, a
finish location, a finish time, and a system to determine who is the winner on the basis of
points earned or time taken to earn those points during the event;
[015]    a step of an event organiser planning the location of a series of waypoints or
checkpoints for an event which provide for alternative routes determined by the decisions
of the participants;

[016]   a step of an event organiser attributing each waypoint or checkpoint on the event
route with a number of points to be awarded to participants who are able to comply with
the rules upon reaching those points;
[017]   a step of an event organiser tracking participants to determine which waypoints or
checkpoints are reached and the number of points awarded during the sports event;
[018]   a step of an event organiser attributing each waypoint or checkpoint on the event
route with a number of points determined in accordance with the difficulty in reaching
those points;
[019]   and/or a step of an event organiser releasing the details of the route prior to or
during the event in a predetermined order and time for participants.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[020]   Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[021]   Figure 1:      shows a diagram of the points system in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention for a sports event.
Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out the Invention
[022]   The present invention provides a method for operating a points based sports event
based on according points to a series of waypoints or checkpoints which are located away
from a designated start location or area to provide a challenge to participants. The
checkpoints would ordinarily be in a series of locations which are approximately concentric
to the start point which may also be used as the finish point for the event. The points
attributed may take into account various geographical or environmental characteristics
when determining the difficulty level such as distance, time, temperature, prevailing wind,
elevation, time of day, terrain, surface condition, obstacles. The points accorded to each

checkpoint will increase in value as the assumed difficulty level in reaching each respective
checkpoint increases in a manner so that participants should plan their route to maximise
their performance as determined by the points which they are able to accrue within the
event rules.
[023]    Figure 1 illustrates the main components of a system for organising a sports event.
The system 100 shows a sports event with a start location that can be the same as the finish
location with a series of optional checkpoints for participants to consider and to attempt to
reach during the event time. The checkpoints are arranged in a manner that not all
checkpoints can be reached by any one competitor during the event time and so that
several routes may be taken that may be of similar difficulty. The system 100 provides a
sports event where participants will use the information provided prior to the event start
time in combination with their own knowledge and inquiries to determine their preferred
event route. The participant may then adjust their route throughout the event to maximise
their performance and ability with the prevailing climatic and environmental conditions with
the aim of accumulating the most points from reaching the checkpoints within the rules of
the event which may stipulate a maximum time limit.
[024]    The system 100 would usually be governed by rules which may be common for that
particular sport or as amended by the event organiser and published and provided to the
participants prior to the event. Those rules may specify the location of the event and the
start, information on the location of checkpoints to a greater or lesser extent, the total
duration of the event, rules pertaining to the safety of the event and rules that ensure the
efficient operation of the event to maximise the utility of the event for participants.
[025]    In step 101 a series of the checkpoints which have the least difficulty to reach from
the start will be determined by the event organiser so that they are given lesser points but
the checkpoints at step 101 may be given the same points reward. Those checkpoints are
arranged so as to provide several optional routes in different directions. Those checkpoints
can be arranged in locations based upon certain characteristics which contribute to the
difficulty in reaching each checkpoint such as the distance from the start location and the

total elevation that must be travelled to reach each checkpoint, or the difficulty in traversing
the terrain to reach that checkpoint.
[026]    In step 101 the location of each checkpoint could also be adjusted to be near a
certain geographical feature such as a town, a water point, or a shop to assist the
confirmation of the participants reaching that particular checkpoint.
[027]    At step 102 intermediate checkpoints will be determined by the event organiser to
have more difficulty than the checkpoints at step 101 but less than those at step 103. Those
checkpoints at step 102 can be organised to provide more optional routes for participants.
The checkpoints at step 102 would be accorded more reward points than those checkpoints
at step 101 but less than those at step 103. Those checkpoints at step 102 may be located
having regard to the difficulty in reaching those from both the start and from the
checkpoints at step 101. The checkpoints at 102 may carry the same points rewards for each
of those checkpoints.
[028]    At step 103 additional checkpoints will be determined by the event organiser to have
more difficulty than the checkpoints at step 101 and step 102. Those checkpoints at step
103 can be organised to provide additional optional routes for participants. The checkpoints
at step 103 would be accorded more reward points than those checkpoints at step 101 and
those at step 102. Those checkpoints at step 103 may be located having regard to the
difficulty in reaching those from both the start and from the checkpoints at step 101 and
102. The checkpoints at 103 may carry the same points rewards for each of those
checkpoints.
[029]    At step 101, step 102 and step 103 the event organiser can determine the location of
the checkpoints and the points reward having regard to the likelihood of participants
reaching those checkpoints within the rules of the event. This may include the accrual of
points as participants journey away from the start location and upon their return from the
most difficult checkpoints.

[030]    At step 104 the event may include a location for the finish which may be the same or
different location to the start and could also be accorded with reward points for reaching
that location.
[031]    In one example of the invention an event organiser promotes an adventure cycling
event to potential participants who register and agree to be bound by the rules of the event.
In this example the details of the location of the checkpoints are progressively released to
participants so as to increase the interest in the event and to maximise the number of
participants. In this example the event is organised as a race whereby the winner who can
start at step 100 and ride to accumulate the most reward points at steps 101, 102 and 103
at each of the various checkpoints and return to the finish at step 104 within the time limit
specified in the rules will be declared the winner of the adventure cycling event. If there are
two or more riders with the same number of points at step 104, whichever of these riders
returned to the finish at step 104 first, will be deemed the winner. This event is organised
to be a test of the ability to interpret the map details provided by the event organiser to
participants and to plan the optimum route for their performance taking into account the
climatic and environmental factors which may influence the performance of participants
during the race as well as the physical and mental performance of the participants. The
arrangement of the checkpoints would be made to ensure the difficulty in reaching the
checkpoints is sufficiently challenging for the adventure cyclists that are likely to participate.
In this example the event organiser considers all combinations of the checkpoints and the
reward points that could be received so that there is sufficient challenge to reward those
participants who are able to best demonstrate the required skills for the event. In this
example the locations of the start and finish at step 100 and step 104 and the checkpoints at
steps 101, 102 and 103 would be located at geographical locations to ensure the efficient
organisation of the event for parking, safety, amenities and the ability to verify when
participants have reached each of those checkpoints.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims:
[001] A method of organising a sports event including:
[002] determining the rules and the location of the event, the start, finish and a series of
checkpoints which are to be accorded with reward points;
[003]   providing a series of checkpoints which enable participants to choose alternative
routes whilst obtaining reward points for reaching each of those checkpoints;
[004] determining the location and the reward points for each checkpoint based upon the
anticipated difficulty in reaching each of those checkpoints;
[005] The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the checkpoints and the points
accorded to each checkpoint are arranged so that the level of difficulty likely to be
experienced by participants in reaching those checkpoints is correlated to the points
rewarded.
[006] The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the checkpoints and the points
accorded to each checkpoint takes into account the level of difficulty likely to be
experienced by participants by reaching any combination of the checkpoints so as to reward
those participants who are able to demonstrate the skills required for the event by the
event organiser.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
