Abstract
Anti-PHF-tau antibodies and methods of making and using them are disclosed.

                          Anti-PHF-tau Antibodies and Their Uses
         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2012359039, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
         This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Application Number
61/577,817, filed 20 December 2011, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to anti- PHF-tau antibodies, and methods of making
and using them.
Background of the Invention
         Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a degenerative brain disorder characterized clinically
by progressive loss of memory, cognition, reasoning, judgment and emotional stability that
gradually leads to profound mental deterioration and ultimately death. AD is a very
common cause of progressive mental failure (dementia) in aged humans and is believed to
represent the fourth most common medical cause of death in the United States. AD has
been observed in ethnic groups worldwide and presents a major present and future public
health problem.
         The brains of individuals with AD exhibit characteristic lesions termed senile (or
amyloid) plaques, amyloid angiopathy (amyloid deposits in blood vessels) and
neurofibrillary tangles. Large numbers of these lesions, particularly amyloid plaques and
neurofibrillary tangles of paired helical filaments, are generally found in several areas of the
human brain important for memory and cognitive function in patients with AD.
         The main protein component of the neurofibrillary degeneration in AD and several
other neurodegenerative diseases is a hyperphosphorylated form of the microtubule
associated protein tau. Developing therapeutics preventing or clearing tau aggregation has
been of interest for many years but candidate drugs, including anti-aggregation compounds
and kinase inhibitors, have only just entered in clinical testing (Brunden, et al. Nat Rev Drug
Discov 8:783-93, 2009)
         Recently, preclinical evidence has been produced in transgenic tau mouse models
that active and passive immunization for tau can have therapeutic potential (Chai, et al. J
Biol Chem 286:34457-67, 2011, Boutajangout, et al. JNeurochem 118:658-67, 2011,
                                                1

Boutajangout, et al. JNeurosci 30:16559-66, 2010, Asuni, et al. JNeurosci 27:9115-29,
2007). A tauopathy transmission and spreading hypothesis has recently been described and
is based on the Braak stages of tauopathy progression in human brain and tauopathy
spreading after tau aggregate injections in preclinical tau models (Frost, et al. JBiol Chem
                                               l a

284:12845-52, 2009, Clavaguera, et al. Nat Cell Biol 11:909-13, 2009). Thus, there is a
need for therapeutics to prevent tau aggregation and tauopathy progression to treat AD and
other neurodegenerative diseases.
Brief Description of the Figures
Figure I shows competition of labeled AT8 by various anti-tau antibodies.
Figure 2 shows competition of labeled PTI by various anti-tau antibodies.
Figure 3 shows competition of labeled PT3 by various anti-tau antibodies.
Figure 4 shows competition of labeled ATI 00 by various anti-tau antibodies.
Figure 5 shows competition of labeled HT7 by various anti-tau antibodies.
Figure 6 (A) Analysis of phosphorylated tau in brainstem homogenates (fraction P1) of 5
month old female P30 IL transgenic animals treated with saline, mouse IgG1, PT3 or ATS as
indicated in the figure, or from non-treated non-transgenic animals (B6). ELISA was done
using AT8 (left panel) or AT100 (right panel) as capture antibodies followed by
biotinylated-HT7 and avidin-HRP. ELISA signals are plotted as a relative amount of AD
brain homogenate (ng/ml) providing the same ELISA signal as an average samples from a
non-transgenic animal (B6). Data are plotted individually together with mean +/-S.D. p
values for differences between PT3- and IgG I-treated animals are indicated. (B) Western
blot of brainstem homogenates fraction P1 from IgGI- or PT3-treated animals using AT 100.
Signal from homogenates of 10 animals treated with IgG (IgG I-I to IgGI-10) and 7
animals treated with PT3 (PT3-1, PT3-2, PT3-7 to PT3-10 are shown. Actin was used as a
loading control.
 Figure 7 Levels of total tau in sarcosyl soluble (pT4 soluble), total tau in insoluble (pT4
insoluble) and phosphorylated tau in insoluble (AT8 insoluble) cortex homogenates derived
from 5-month old female P30 IL transgenic mice treated with PT3 or isotype control (IgG)
as indicated in the figure. Levels are shown as a measure of a singal from ELISA plotted
individually together with mean +/- SD. The sample Im inj is a positive control sample
derived from a P301L mouse brain injected with a tau aggregate.
Summary of the Invention
         One aspect of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau comprising
an antigen-binding site of a heavy chain variable region (VH) of SEQ ID NO:35 or 37, and
an antigen-binding site of a light chain variable region (VL) of SEQ ID NO:36 or 38.
         Another aspect of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PIIF-tau
comprising certain heavy chain and light chain complementarity determining regions.
                                                2

         Another aspect of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising an antigen-binding site of a VH1 of SEQ ID NO:35 and an antigen-binding site
of a VL of SEQ ID NO: 36.
         Another aspect of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising an antigembinding site of a VH of SEQ ID NO:37 and an antigen-binding site
ofa VL of SEQ ID NO: 38.
         Another aspect of the invention is an isolated antibody or fragment that competes
for PHF-tau binding with a monoclonal antibody comprising an antigen-binding site of a
VH of SEQ ID NO: 35 and an antigen-binding site of a VL of SEQ ID NO: 36, or an
antigen-binding site of a VII of SEQ ID NO: 37 and an antigen-binding site of a VL of SEQ
ID NO: 38.
         Another aspect of the invention is polynucleotides encoding the antibodies of the
invention or fragments thereof.
         Another aspect of the invention is a vector comprising the polynucleotides of the
invention.
         Another aspect of the invention is a host cell comprising the vector of the invention.
         Another aspect of the invention is a method of making an antibody that binds PHF
tau comprising culturing the host cell of the invention and recovering the antibody produced
by the host cell.
Detailed Description of the Invention
         The term "antibodies" as used herein is meant in a broad sense and includes
immunoglobulin or antibody molecules including polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies including marine, human, human-adapted, humanized and chimeric monoclonal
antibodies and antibody fragments.
         In general, antibodies are proteins or peptide chains that exhibit binding specificity
to a specific antigen. Antibody structures are well known. Immunoglobulins can be
assigned to five major classes, namely IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG and IgM, depending on the heavy
chain constant domain amino acid sequence. IgA and IgG are further sub-classified as the
isotypes IgAl, IgA2, IgG1, IgG2, IgG 3 and IgG4 . Antibody light chains of any vertebrate
species can be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types, namely kappa (x) and lambda
(%), based on the amino acid sequences of their constant domains.
         The term "antibody fragments" means a portion of an intact antibody. Examples of
antibody fragments include Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 and Fv fragments, CDR, antigen-binding site,
heavy or light chain variable region, diabodies, single chain antibody molecules and
multispecific antibodies formed from at least two intact antibodies or fragments thereof.
                                                3

         An immunoglobulin light or heavy chain variable region consists of a "framework"
region interrupted by "antigen-binding sites". The antigen-binding sites are defined using
various tenrs as follows: (i) Complenientarity Determining Regions (CDRs) are based on
sequence variability (Wu and Kabat JExp Med 132:21 1-50, 1970). Generally, the antigen
binding site has three CDRs in each variable region (HCDR 1, HCDR2 and HCDR3 in
heavy chain variable region (VH) and LCDRI, LCDR2 and LCDR3 in light chain variable
region (VL)) (Kabat er al., Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public
Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., 1991). (ii) The term
"hypervariablte region", "HVR", or "HTV" refers to the regions of an antibody variable
domain which are hypervariable in stricture as defined by Cbothia and Leak (Chothia and
Lesk J Mol Biol 196:901-17,1987). Generally, the antigen-binding site has three
bypervariable regions in each V-I (H 1, H2, H3) and VL (L 1, L2, L3). Chothia and Lesk
refer to structurally conserved HVs as "canonical structures". Numbering systems as well
as annotation of CDRs and HVs have recently been revised by Abhinandan and Martin
(Abhinandan and Martin Mol Immunol 45:3832-9, 2008). (iii) Another definition of the
regions that form the antigen-binding site has been proposed by Lefranc (Lefranc, et al Dev
Comp Immunol27:55-77, 2003) based on the comparison of V domains from
immunoglobulins and T-cell receptors. The International ImMunoGeneTics (IMGT)
database (http: //www ingt org) provides a standardized numbering and definition of these
regions. The correspondence between CDRs, HVs and 1MGT delineations is described in
Leftanc er al., supra. (iv) The antigen-binding site can also be delineated based on
Specificity Determining Residue Usage (SDRU) (Almagro J Mol Recognit 17:132-43,
2004), where Specificity Determining Residues (SDR), refers to amino acid residues of an
immunoglobulin that are directly involved in antigen contact.
         "Framework" or "framework sequence" are the remaining sequences within the
variable region ofan antibody other than those defined to be antigen-binding site sequences.
Because the exact definition of an antigen-binding site can be determined by various
delineations as described above, the exact framework sequence depends on the definition of
the antigen-binding site.
         The term "monoclonal antibody" (mAb) as used herein means an antibody (or
antibody fragment) obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies.
Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, typically being directed against a single antigenic
determinant.
         The term "epitope" as used herein means a portion of an antigen to which an
antibody specifically binds. Epitopes usually consist of chemically active (such as polar,
non-polar or hydrophobic) surface groupings of moieties such as amino acids,
                                               4

phosphorylated amino acids or polysaccharide side chains and can have specific three
dimensional structural characteristics, as well as specific charge characteristics. An epitope
can be linear in nature or can be a discontinuous epitope, e.g., a conformational epitope,
which is formed by a spatial relationship between non-contiguous amino acids of an antigen
rather than a linear series of amino acids. A conformational epitope includes epitopes
resulting from folding of an antigen, where amino acids from differing portions of the linear
sequence of the antigen come in close proximity in 3-dimensional space.
         Tau is an abundant central and peripheral nervous system protein having multiple
well known isofonns. In the human CNS, six major tau isoforms ranging in size from 352
to 441 exist due to alternative splicing (Hanger, et a. Trends Mot Med 15:112-9, 2009).
These isoformns differ from each other by the regulated inclusion of 0-2 N-terminal inserts,
and 3 or 4 tandemly arranged microtubule-binding repeats, and are referred to as ON3R
(SEQ ID NO: 1), 1N3R (SEQ ID NO:2), 2N3R (SEQ ID NO:3), ON4R (SEQ ID NO:4),
IN4R (SEQ ID NO:5) and 2N4R (SEQ ID NO:6). The term "control tau" as used herein
refers to the tau isoform of SEQ ID NO:6 that is devoid of phosphorylation and other post
translational modifications.
         Tau binds microtubules and regulates transport of cargo through cells, a process that
can be modulated by tau phosphorylation. In AD and related disorders abnormal
phosphorylation of tau is prevalent and thought to precede and/or trigger aggregation of tau
into fibrils, termed paired helical filaments (PHF). The major constituent of PHF is
hyperphosphorylated tau. The term "paired helical filament-tau" or "PHF-tau" as used
herein refers to well known tau aggregates in paired helical filaments. Two major regions in
PHF structure are evident in electron microscopy, the fuzzy coat and the core filament; the
fuzzy coat being sensitive to proteolysis and located outside of the filaments, and the
protease resistant core of filaments forming the backbone of PHFs (Wischik, et al. ProcNat
AcadSci USA 85:4884-8, 1988).
         "Antibodies that bind P-F-tau" as used herein refers to antibodies that bind PHF
tau as assessed on western blot. Typically, antibody binding to PHIF-tau can be assessed
after Coomassie stain of about 500 ng of PHF-tau after I hour blocking in 5%(w/v) nonfat
dry milk (NFDM) TBS-T, 0.05% Tween-20. Antibodies that bind PF-tau optionally do
not bind control tau (SEQ ID NO:6) as measured by western blot when tested under antigen
loading condition where both control tau and PIF-Lau is detected equally by tau antibodies
that have no preference for PHF-tau epitopes (e.g. antibody HT7, (ThermoScientific,
Rockford, IL) (Mercken, et al JNeurochem 58:548-53, 1992). Such exemplary antigen
loading conditions are 5OOng PHF-tau and 200 ng control tau.
         Conventional well known one and three-letter amino acid codes are used herein.
                                                5

Compositions of matter
         The present invention relates to anti-PHF-tau antibodies and uses of such
antibodies. Such anti-PFI-tau antibodies may have the properties of binding a
phosphorylated epitope on PHF-tau or binding to a non-phosphorylated epitope on PHlF-tau.
Anti-PHF-tau antibodies may be useful as therapeutics, and as research or diagnostic
reagents to detect PIF- tau in biological samples, for example in tissues or cells.
         One embodiment of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising an antigen-binding site of a heavy chain variable region (VH) of SEQ ID NO:35
or 37, or an antigen-binding site of a light chain variable region (VL) of SEQ ID NO:36 or
38. Table I shows antigen-binding site residues of exemplary antibodies of the invention
defined according to Kabat or Chothia as well as exemplary heavy and light chain variable
regions.
         In another embodiment, the antigen-binding site of the VH ofthe antibodies of the
invention comprises heavy chain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) I (HICDRI),
2 (HCDR2) and 3 (HCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:7, 8 and 9 or 13, 14 and 15, respectively, or the
antigen-binding site of the VL of the antibodies of the invention comprises light chain CDRs
I (LCDRI), 2 (LCDR2) and 3 (LCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:10, I1 and 12 or 16,17 and 18,
respectively.
         Another embodinient of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PF-tau
comprising an antigen-binding site of a heavy chain variable region (VI) of SEQ ID NO:35
or 37, and an antigen-binding site of a light chain variable region (VL) of SEQ ID NO:36 or
38.
         In another embodiment, the antigen-binding site of the VH of the antibodies of the
invention comprises heavy chain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) I (HCDRI),
2 (HCDR2) and 3 (HCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:7, 8 and 9 or 13, 14 and 15, respectively, and
the antigen-binding site of the VL of the antibodies of the invention comprises light chain
CDRs I (LCDRI), 2 (LCDR2) and 3 (LCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:10, 11 and 12 or 16, 17 and
18, respectively.
                                                6

Table 1.
      Sequence  name
            Sequnce
                 ame        NO:ID
                          SEQ                          Sequence
     PT1 HCDR1, Kabat        7    SSWMG
     PT1 HCDR2, Kabat        8     DLPGSGGTNYNERFKG
     PT1 HCDR3,Kabat         9    SYDYDRFAN
     PTi LCDR1, Kabat        10   RSSESLLHSNGNTYLY
     PT1 LCDR2,Kabat        11     RMSNLAS
     PT1 LCDR3,Kabat        12     MQYLEYPLT
     PT3 HCDR1, Kabat        13   SYAMS
     PT3 HCDR2, Kabat        14   SISKGGNTYYPNSVKG
     PT3 HCDR3, Kabat        15   GWGDYGWFAY
     PT3LCDR1,Kabat          16   KASQDINRYLN
     PT3LCDR2,Kabat          17    RANRLLD
     PT3LCDR3,Kabat          18   LQYDEFPLT
    PT1 HCDR1,Chothia        19   GYTFSSS
    PT1 HCDR2, Chothia      20    LPGSGG
    PT1 HCDR, ChotNa        21    SYYDYDRFA
    PT1 LCDR1,Clha          22    SESLLHSNGNTY
    PT1 LCDR2, Chotia       23     RMS
    PT1 LCDR3, Chothia      24    YEYPL
    PT3 HCDR1, Chotha       25    GFTFSSY
    PT3 HCDR2, Chothia      26    SKGGN
    PT3 HCDR3, Chothia      27    GWGOYGWFA
    PTsLCDR1,Chothia        28    SODINRY
    P3 LCDR2, Chotia        29     RAN
    PT3 LCDR3, Chthia       30    YDEFPL
                                  QVQLQQSGTELMKPGA5VKISCKATGYTFSWMGWKQRPGHG
          PT1 VH             35   LEWIGDILPGSGGTNYNERFKGKA5FTAETS5NTAYMQLSSLTSEDSA
                                  VYYCVRSYYDYDRFANWGQGTLVTVSA
                                  DIVMTQAAPSVPVTPGESVSISCRSE5LLHSNGNTYLYWFLQRPGQ
           PT VL             36   SPQLLIYRMSNLASGVPDRFSGSGSGTAFTLRISRVEAEDVGVYYCM
                                  QYLEYPLTFGAGTKLELK
                                  EVKLVESGGDLVKPGGSLKLSCAASGFTFSSYAMWVRQNPEKRLE
          PT3 VH             37   WVASISKGGNTYYPNSVKGRFTISRDNARNILYLQMSSLRSEDTALYY
                                  CARGWGDYGWFAYWGQVTLVTVSA
                                  DIKMTQSPSSMYASLGERVTITCKASQDINRYLNWFQQKPGKSPKTL
           PT3VL             38   IYRANRLLDGVPSR F5GSGSGQDYSLTISSLDYEDMGIYYCLQYDEFP
                                  LTFGDGTKLELK
         Although the embodiments illustrated in the Examples comprise pairs of variable
regions, one from a heavy and one from a light chain, a skilled artisan will recognize that
alternative embodiments may comprise single heavy or light chain variable regions. The
single variable region can be used to screen for variable domains capable of forming a two
domain specific antigen-binding fragment capable of, for example, binding to PHF-tau. The
screening may be accomplished by phage display screening methods using for example
hierarchical dual combinatorial approach disclosed in PCT Pub]. No. W092/01047. In this
                                                .7

approach, an individual colony containing either a H or L chain clone is used to infect a
complete library of clones encoding the other chain (L or H), and the resulting two- chain
specific antigen-binding domain is selected in accordance with phage display techniques as
described.
         Another embodiment of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising an antigen-binding site of a heavy chain variable region (VH) of SEQ ID NO:35
and an antigen-binding site of a light chain variable region (VL) of SEQ ID NO: 36.
         Another embodiment of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising an antigen-binding site of a heavy chain variable region (VH) of SEQ ID NO:37
and an antigen-binding site of alight chain variable region (VL) of SEQ ID NO: 38.
         Another embodiment of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising heavy chain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) I (HCDRI), 2
(HCDR2) and 3 (HCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:7, 8 and 9, respectively, and light chain CDRs 1
(LCDRI), 2 (LCDR2) and 3 (LCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:10, 11 and 12, respectively.
         Another embodiment of the invention is an isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau
comprising heavy chain complementarity determining regions (CDRs) I (HCDRI), 2
(HCDR2) and 3 (HCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:13, 14 and 15, respectively, and light chain
CDRs I (LCDRI), 2 (LCDR2) and 3 (LCDR3) of SEQ ID NOs:16, 17 and 18, respectively.
         In any of the preceding embodiments, the isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau may
be humanized.
         Antibodies of the present invention can be produced by a variety of techniques, for
example by the hybridoma method (Kohler and Milstein Nature 256:495-7, 1975).
Chimeric mAbs containing a light chain and heavy chain variable region derived from a
donor antibody (typically marine) in association with light and heavy chain constant regions
derived from an acceptor antibody (typically another mammalian species such as human)
can be prepared by the method disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,816,567. CDR-grafted mAbs
having CDRs derived from a non-human donor immunoglobulin (typically murine) and the
remaining immunoglobulin-derived parts of the molecule being derived
from one or more human immunoglobulins can be prepared by techniques known to those
skilled in the art such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,225,539. Fully human mAbs
lacking any non-human sequences can be prepared from human immunoglobulin transgenic
mice by techniques referenced in (Lonberg, et at Nature 368:856-9, 1994, Fishwild, etal.
Nat Biotechnol 14:845-51, 1996, Mendez, eta[ Nat Genet 15:146-56, 1997). HumannmAbs
can also be prepared and optimized from phage display libraries (Knappik, et aL J Mol Biol
296:57-86, 2000, Krebs, et al.JImmunol Methods 254:67-84, 2001, Shi, et aL J Mol Biod
397:385-96, 2010).
                                                 8

         Antibody humanization can be accomplished using well known methods, such as
specificity determining residues resurfacing (SDRR) (U.S. Pub. No. 2010/0261620),
resurfacing(Padlan et aL MoL ImnmunoL 28:489-98, 1991), super humanization (Int. Pat.
Pub]. No. W004/006955) and human string content optimization (U.S. Pat. No. 7,657,380).
Human framework sequences useful for grafting/ humanization can be selected from
relevant databases by those skilled in the art. The selected frameworks may further be
modified to preserve or enhance binding affinity by techniques such as those disclosed in
Queen et al.(Queen, et aL ProcNad Acad Sci U SA 86:10029-33, 1989) or in U.S. Publ.
No. 2011/0092372.
         Preparation of PHF-tau to be used as an antigen for immunization or isolating
antibodies from phage display libraries can be done using any suitable technique. In an
exemplary method, PHF-tau is isolated from brains of patients having AD using well know
protocols, such as described in Greenberg and Davies (Greenberg and Davies Proc Nal
Acad Sci U S A 87:5827-31, 1990). PHF-tau may be isolated from the postmortem cortex of
an Alzheimer patient. The isolated PHF-tau is characterized for its purity and
hyperphosphorylation status with antibodies known to react with PHF-tau. In a typical
PHF-tau preparation, the hyperphosphorylated bands migrating at about 60, 64, 68 and 72
kDa in western blot (Spillantini and Goedert Trends Neurosci 21:428-33, 1998) are detected
by an AT8 antibody that specifically binds hyperphosphorylated PHF-tau but not
dephoshporylated PHF-tau.
         Antibodies of the present invention may have the characteristics of not binding
control tau of SEQ ID NO:6. Such antibodies may be generated using methods described
above and testing the antibodies for their lack of binding to control tat in westem blots
followed by Coomassie stain as described above. Control tau may be recombinantly
expressed and purified using standard methods. Exemplary antibodies binding PHF-tau but
not control tau are antibodies PTI and PT3. The antibodies of the invention may further be
evaluated for their specificity for example using immunohistochemistry on control and AD
brain slices.
         The antibodies ofthe invention may have affinities towards PHF-tau with a
dissociation constant (K,) less than or equal to about 10 , 10,   1,    100", 10-1 or 10 2 M.
The affinity of a given molecule for PHF-tau can be determined experimentally using any
suitable method. Such methods may utilize Biacore, ProteOn or KinExA instrumentation,
ELISA or competitive binding assays known to those skilled in the art.
         Another aspect of the invention is an isolated antibody or fragment that competes
for PHF-tau binding with a monoclonal antibody comprising an antigen-binding site of a
heavy chain variable region (VI-) of SEQ ID NO:35 and an antigen-binding site of a light
                                                9

chain variable region (VL) of SEQ ID NO:36, or an antigen-binding site of a heavy chain
variable region (VH) of SEQ ID NO:37 and an antigen-binding site of a light chain variable
region (VL) of SEQ ID NO:38.
         Competition between binding to PHF-tau can be assayed in vitro using well known
methods. For example, binding of MSD Sulfo-Tagr' NHS-ester-labeled antibody to PIF
tau in the presence of an unlabeled antibody can be assessed using immunoassay followed
by electrochemiluminescence detection.
         Several well known methodologies in addition to competitive binding can be
employed to determine the binding epitope of the antibodies of the invention. For example,
when the structures of both individual components are known, in silico protein-protein
docking can be carried out to identify compatible sites of interaction. lydrogen-deuterium
(I/D) exchange can be carried out with the antigen and antibody complex to map regions on
the antigen that may be bound by the antibody. Segment and point mutagenesis of the
antigen can be used to locate amino acids important for antibody binding. Co-crystal
structure of antibody-antigen complex is used to identify residues contributing to the epitope
and paratope.
         Antibodies of the invention may be monoclonal antibodies of the IgG, IgD, IgA or
IgM isotypes. Antibodies of the invention may be bispecific or multispecific. An
exemplary bispecific antibody may bind two distinct epitopes on PF-tau or may bind PHF
tau and amyloid beta (As). Another exemplary bispecific antibody may bind PHF-tau and
an endogenous blood-brain barrier transcytosis receptor such as insulin receptor,
transferring receptor, insulin-like growth factor-I receptor, and lipoprotein receptor. An
exemplary antibody is of IgG I type.
         Immune effector properties of the antibodies of the invention may be enhanced or
silenced through Fc modifications by techniques known to those skilled in the art. For
example, Fc effector functions such as Clq binding, complement dependent cytotoxicity
(CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), phagocytosis, down
regulation of cell surface receptors (e.g., B cell receptor; BCR), etc. can be provided and/or
controlled by modifying residues in the Fc responsible for these activities. Pharmacokinetic
properties could also be enhanced by mutating residues in the Fc domain that extend
antibody half-life (Strohl CarrOpin Biotechnol 20:685-91, 2009).
         Additionally, antibodies of the invention can be post-translationally modified by
processes such as glycosylation, isomerization, deglycosylation or non-naturally occurring
covalent modification such as the addition of polyethylene glycol moieties (pegylation) and
lipidation. Such modifications may occur in vivo or in vitro. For example, the antibodies of
the invention can be conjugated to polyethylene glycol (PEGylated) to improve their
                                                10

pharmacokinetic profiles. Conjugation can be carried out by techniques known to those
skilled in the art. Conjugation of therapeutic antibodies with PEG has been shown to
enhance phamnacodynarnics while not interfering with function (Knight, et al.Platelets
15:409-18,2004, Leong, eral. Cyrokine 16:106-19, 2001, Yang, et al Protein Eng 16:761
70, 2003).
          Another embodiment of the invention is an isolated polynucleotide encoding the
antibodies of the invention or their complement, or fragments thereof. Exemplary isolated
polynucleotides are polynucleotides encoding polypeptides comprising an immunoglobulin
heavy chain CDRs HCDRI, HCDR2 and HCDR3 shown in SEQ ID NOs:7, 8 and 9 or 13,
14 and 15, respectively, orpolypeptides comprising an immunoglobulin light chain CDRs
LCDR 1, LCDR2 and LCDR3 shown in SEQ ID NOs:10, 11 and 12 or 16, 17 and 18,
respectively, and polynucleotides having a sequence shown in SEQ ID NOs:31-34,
encoding antibody variable regions of the invention. Other polynucleotides which, given
the degeneracy of the genetic code or codon preferences in a given expression system,
encode the antibodies of the invention are also within the scope of the invention. The
isolated nucleic acids of the present invention can be made using well known recombinant
or synthetic techniques. DNA encoding the monoclonal antibodies is readily isolated and
sequenced using methods known in the art. Where a hybridoma is produced, such cells can
serve as a source of such DNA. Alternatively, using display techniques wherein the coding
sequence and the translation product are linked, such as phage or ribosomal display
libraries, the selection of the binder and the nucleic acid is simplified. After phage
selection, the antibody coding regions from the phage can be isolated and used to generate
whole antibodies, including human antibodies, or any other desired antigen binding
fragment, and expressed in any desired host, including mammalian cells, insect cells, plant
cells, yeast, and bacteria.
          Another embodiment of the invention is a vector comprising at least one
polynucleotide ofthe invention. Such vectors may be plasmid vectors, viral vectors,
transposon based vectors or any other vector suitable for introduction of the polynucleotides
of the invention into a given organism or genetic background by any means.
          Another embodiment of the invention is a host cell comprising any of the
polynucleotides of the invention. Such host cells may be eukaryotic cells, bacterial cells,
plant cells or archeal cells. Exemplary eukaryotic cells may be of mammalian, insect, avian
or other animal origins. Mammalian eukaryotic cells include immortalized cell lines such as
hybridomas or myeloma cell lines such as SP2/0 (American Type Culture Collection
(ATCC), Manassas, VA, CRL-1581), NSO (European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC),
Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK, ECACC No. 85110503), FO (ATCC CRL-1646) and Ag653
                                                11

(ATCC CRL-1580) murine cell lines. An exemplary human myeloma cell line is U266
(ATTC CRL-TIB-196). Other useful cell lines include those derived from Chinese Hamster
Ovary (CHO) cells such as CHO-KISV (Lonza Biologies), CHO-KI (ATCC CRL-61,
Invitrogen) or DG44.
         Another embodiment of the invention is a method of making an antibody that binds
PHF- tau comprising culturing a host cell of the invention and recovering the antibody
produced by the host cell. Methods of making antibodies and purifying them are well
known in the art.
Methods of treatment
         Anti-PHF-tau antibodies of the invention or fragments thereof, including Fab,
(Fab')2, scFv fragments, or antibodies comprising antigen-binding sites of the antibodies of
the invention can be used to treat, reduce or prevent symptoms in patients having a
neurodegenerative disease that involves pathological aggregation of tau within the brain,
such as patients suffering from AD or any other tauopathy. While not wishing to be bound
by any particular theory, the antibodies of the invention may exert their beneficial effect by
reducing pathological tau aggregation and hence the amount of PHF-tau in the brain. The
antibodies of the invention may be used to treat an animal patient belonging to any
classification. Examples of such animals include mammals such as humans, rodents, dogs,
cats and farm animals. For example, the antibodies of the invention are useful in the
preparation of a medicament for treatment of AD wherein the medicament is prepared for
administration in dosages defined herein.
         Another embodiment of the invention is a method of reducing aggregation of tau in
patients in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective
amount of the isolated antibody of the invention for a time sufficient to reduce the
aggregation of tau.
         Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or reducing symptoms
of a neurodegenerative disease that involves aggregation of tau in a patient comprising
administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the isolated antibody of the
invention for a time sufficient to treat or reduce symptoms of the neurodegenerative disease.
         In any of the embodiments above, the neurodegenerative disease that involves
aggregation of tau is a tauopathy.
         In any of the embodiments above, the isolated antibody comprises an antibody that
binds PHF-tau comprising an antigen-binding site of a VII of SEQ ID NO:35 and an
antigen-binding site of a VL of SEQ ID NO:36:
                                                12

          In any of the embodiments above, the isolated antibody comprises an antibody that
binds PHF-tau comprising an antigen-binding site of a VH of SEQ ID NO:37 and an
antigen-binding site of a VL of SEQ ID NO: 38.
          As used herein a "tauopathy" encompasses any neurodegenerative disease that
involves the pathological aggregation of tau within the brain. In addition to familial and
sporadic AD, other exemplary tauopathies are frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism
linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal
degeneration, Picks disease, progressive subcortical gliosis, tangle only dementia, diffuse
neurofibrillary tangles with calcification, argyrophilic grain dementia, amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis parkinsonism-dementia complex, Down syndrome, Gerstmann-Striussler
Scheinker disease, Hallervorden-Spatz disease, inclusion body myositis, Creutzfeld-Jakob
disease, multiple system atropy, Niemann-Pick disease type C,prion protein cerebral
amyloid angiopathy, subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, myotonic dystrophy, non
guanamian motor nemon disease with neurofibrillary tangles, postencephalitic
parkinsonism, and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, such as dementia pugulistica (boxing
disease). (Morris, et ci. Neuron 70:410-26, 2011).
          A tauopathy-related behavioral phenotype includes cognitive impairments, early
personality change and disinhibition, apathy, abulia, mutism, apraxia, perseveration,
stereotyped movements/behaviors, hyperorality, disorganization, inability to plan or
organize sequential tasks, selfishness/callousness, antisocial traits, a lack of empathy,
halting, agrammatic speech with frequent paraphasic errors but relatively preserved
comprehension, impaired comprehension and word-finding deficits, slowly progressive gait
instability, retropulsions, freezing, frequent falls, non-levodopa responsive axial rigidity,
supranuclear gaze palsy, square wave jerks, slow vertical saccades, pseudobulbar palsy,
limb apraxia, dystonia, cortical sensory loss, and tremor.
          Patients amenable to treatment include asymptomatic individuals at risk of AD or
other tauopatby, as well as patients presently showing symptoms. Patients amenable to
treatment include individuals who have a known genetic risk of AD, such as a family history
of AD or presence of.genetic risk factors in the genome. Exemplary risk factors are
mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP), especially at position 717 and positions
670 and 671 (Hardy and Swedish mutations, respectively). Other risk factors are mutations
in the presenilin genes, PSI and PS2, and ApoE4, family history of hypercholesterolemia or
atherosclerosis. Individuals presently suffering from AD can be recognized from
characteristic dementia by the presence of risk factors described above. In addition, a
number of diagnostic tests are available to identify individuals who have AD. These include
measurement of cerebrospinal fluid tau and A042 levels. Elevated tau and decreased Ap42
                                                13

levels signify the presence of AD. Individuals suffering from AD can also be diagnosed by
AD and Related Disorders Association criteria.
Administration/Pharmaceutical Compositions
         Anti-PHF-tau antibodies of the invention are suitable both as therapeutic and
prophylactic agents for treating or preventing neurodegenerative diseases that involves
pathological aggregation of tau, such as AD or other tauopathies. In asymptomatic patients,
treatment can begin at any age (e.g., at about 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 years). Usually, however, it
is not necessary to begin treatment until a patient reaches about 40, 50, 60, or 70 years.
Treatment typically entails multiple dosages over a period of time. Treatment can be
monitored by assaying antibody, or activated T-cell or B-cell responses to the therapeutic
agent over time. If the response falls, a booster dosage is indicated.
         In prophylactic applications, pharmaceutical compositions or medicaments are
administered to a patient susceptible to, or otherwise at risk of, AD in an amount sufficient
to eliminate or reduce the risk, lessen the severity, or delay the outset of the disease,
including biochemical, histologic and/or behavioral symptoms of the disease, its
complications and intermediate pathological phenotypes presented during development of
the disease. In therapeutic applications, compositions or medicaments are administered to a
patient suspected of, or already suffering from, such a disease in an amount sufficient to
reduce, arrest, or delay any ofthe symptoms ofthe disease (biochemical, histologic and/or
behavioral). Administration of a therapeutic may reduce or eliminate mild cognitive
impairment in patients that have not yet developed characteristic Alzheimers pathology. An
amount adequate to accomplish therapeutic or prophylactic treatment is defined as a
therapeutically- or prophylactically-effective dose. In both prophylactic and therapeutic
regimes, compositions or medicaments are usually administered in several dosages until a
sufficient immune response has been achieved.
         Anti- PHF-tau antibodies or fragments thereof of the invention may be administered
in combination with other agents that are effective for treatment of related
neurodegenerative diseases. In the case of AD, antibodies of the invention may be
administered in combination with agents that reduce or prevent the deposition of amyloid
beta (AP). It is possible that PHF-tau and Ap pathologies are synergistic. Therefore,
combination therapy targeting the clearance of both PHF-tau and As and Ap-related
pathologies at the same time may be more effective than targeting each individually.
         In the case of Parkinson's Disease and related neurodegenerative diseases, immune
modulation to clear aggregated forms of the a-synuclein protein is also an emerging therapy.
                                               14

A combination therapy which targets the clearance of both tau and a-synuclein proteins
simultaneously may be more effective than targeting either protein individually.
           i the methods of the invention, the therapeuticallyy effective amount" of the
antibody in the treatment or ameliorating symptoms of a tauopathy can be determined by
standard research techniques. For example, the dosage of the antibody can be determined
by administering the agent to relevant animal models well known in the art.
          In addition, in vitro assays can optionally be employed to help identify optimal
dosage ranges. Selection of a particular effective dose can be determined (e.g., via clinical
trials) by those skilled in the art based upon the consideration of several factors. Such
factors include the disease to be treated or prevented, the symptoms involved, the patient's
body mass, the patient's immune status and other factors known by the skilled artisan. The
precise dose to be employed in the formulation will also depend on the route of
administration, and the severity of disease, and should be decided according to the judgment
of the practitioner and each patient's circumstances. Effective doses can be extrapolated
from dose-response curves derived from in virro or animal model test systems.
          The mode of administration for therapeutic use of the antibodies of the invention
may be any suitable route that delivers the agent to the host. Pharmaceutical compositions
of these antibodies are useful for parenteral administration, e.g., intradermal, intramuscular,
intraperitoneal, intravenous, subcutaneous, intranasal or intracranial or they can be
administered into the cerebrospinal fluid of the brain or spine.
          The antibodies of the invention may be prepared as pharmaceutical compositions
containing an effective amount of the antibody as an active ingredient in a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. The ternm "carrier" refers to a diluent, adjuvant, excipient, or vehicle with
which the antibody is administered. Such pharmaceutical vehicles can be liquids, such as
water and oils, including those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, such as
peanut oil, soybean oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and the like. For example, 0.4% saline and
0.3% glycine can be used. These solutions are sterile and generally free of particulate
matter. They may be sterilized by conventional, well-known sterilization techniques (e.g.,
filtration). The compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances
as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering
agents, stabilizing, thickening, lubricating and coloring agents, etc. The concentration of the
antibodies of the invention in such pharmaceutical formulation can vary widely, i.e., from
less than about 0.5%, usually at or at least about 1%to as much as 15 or 20% by weight and
will be selected primarily based on required dose, fluid volumes, viscosities, etc., according
to the particular mode of administration selected.
                                                 15

         The treatment may be given in a single dose schedule, or as a multiple dose
schedule in which a primary course of treatment may be with 1-10 separate doses, followed
by other doses given at subsequent time intervals required to maintain and or reinforce the
response, for example, at 1-4 months for a second dose, and if needed, a subsequent dose(s)
after several months. Examples of suitable treatment schedules include: (i) 0, 1 month and 6
months, (ii) 0, 7 days and I month, (iii) 0 and I month, (iv) 0 and 6 months, or other
schedules sufficient to elicit the desired responses expected to reduce disease symptoms, or
reduce severity of disease.
         Thus, a pharmaceutical composition of the invention for intramuscular injection
could be prepared to contain I m1 sterile buffered water, and between about I ng to about
100 mg, about 50 ng to about 30 mg or about 5 mg to about 25 mg of an antibody of the
invention. Similarly, a pharmaceutical composition of the invention for intravenous
infusion could be made up to contain about 250 ml of sterile Ringer's solution, and about 1
mg to about 30 mg or about 5 mg to about 25 mg of an antibody of the invention. Actual
methods for preparing parenterally administrable compositions are well known and are
described in more detail in, for example, "Remington's Pharmaceutical Science", 15th ed.,
Mack Publishing Company, Easton, PA.
         The antibodies of the invention can be lyophilized for storage and reconstituted in a
suitable carrier prior to use. This technique has been shown to be effective with antibody
and other protein preparations and art-known lyophilization and reconstitution techniques
can be employed.
Diagnostic methods and kits
         Antibodies of the invention may be used in methods of diagnosing AD or other
tauopathy in a subject. This method involves detecting, in the subject, the presence of PHF
tau using a diagnostic reagent such as an antibody et a fragment thereof of the present
invention.
         PHF-tau may be detected in a biological sample from a subject (e.g., blood, urine,
cerebral spinal fluid) by contacting the biological sample with the diagnostic antibody
reagent, and detecting binding of the diagnostic antibody reagent to PIF-tau in the sample
from the subject. Assays for carrying out the detection include well known methods such as
ELISA, immunohistochemistry, western blot, or in vivo imaging. Exemplary diagnostic
antibodies are antibodies PTI and PT3 of the invention, and are of IgG1,c type.
         Diagnostic antibodies or similar reagents can be administered by intravenous
injection into (lie body of the patient, or directly into the brain by any suitable route that
delivers the agent to the host as exemplified above. The dosage of antibody should be within
                                                 16

the same ranges as for treatment methods. Typically, the antibody is labeled, although in
some methods, the primary antibody with affinity for PHF-tau is unlabelled and a secondary
labeling agent is used to bind to the primary antibody. The choice of label depends on the
means of detection. For example, a fluorescent label is suitable for optical detection. Use of
paramagnetic labels is suitable for tomographic detection without surgical intervention.
Radioactive labels can also be detected using PET or SPECT.
         Diagnosis is performed by comparing the number, size, and/or intensity of labeled
PHF-tau, tau aggregates, and/or neurofibrillary tangles in a sample from the subject or in the
subject, to corresponding baseline values. The baseline values can represent the mean levels
in a population of undiseased individuals. Baseline values can also represent previous levels
determined in the same subject.
         The diagnostic methods described above can also be used to monitor a subject's
response to therapy by detecting the presence of P1-F-tau in a subject before, during or after
the treatment. A decrease in values relative to baseline signals a positive response to
treatment. Values can also increase temporarily in biological fluids as pathological tau is
being cleared from the brain.
         The present invention is further directed to a kit for performing the above described
diagnostic and monitoring methods. Typically, such kits contain a diagnostic reagent such
as the antibodies of the invention, and optionally a detectable label. The diagnostic antibody
itself may contain the detectable label (e.g., fluorescent molecule, biotin, etc.) which is
directly detectable or detectable via a secondary reaction (e.g., reaction with streptavidin).
Alternatively, a second reagent containing the detectable label may be utilized, where (he
second reagent has binding specificity for the primary antibody. In a diagnostic kit suitable
for measuring PHF-tau in a biological sample, the antibodies of the kit may be supplied
prebound to a solid phase, such as to the wells of a microtiter dish.
         The contents of all cited references (including literature references, issued patents,
published patent applications, and co-pending patent applications) cited throughout this
application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.
                                           Example I
                    Purification of paired helical filament-tau (PHF-tau)
         PHF-tau was partially purified by a modified method of Greenberg and Davies
(Greenberg and Davies Proc NatlAcadSci U SA 87:5827-31, 1990). Briefly, postmortem
tissue from the cortex obtained from a histologically confirmed Alzheimer patient was
partially purified. Typically, 5 mg of frontal cortex was homogenized in 10 vol of cold
buffer Buffer H (10 mM Tris, 800 mM NaCl, I mM EGTA and 10% sucrose/ pH 7.4) using
                                                17

a glass/Teflon Potter tissue homogenizer (IKA Works, Inc; Staufen, Germany) at 1000 rpm.
The homogenized material was centrifuged at 2 7 0 0 0 g for 20 min in a Sorvall rotor SS34.
The pellet was discarded and the supernatant was adjusted to a final concentration of 1%
(w/v) N-lauroylsarcosine and 1% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol and incubated for 2 h at 370 C.
Subsequently the supernatant was centrifuged at 108000g for 35 min at 20"C in a Beckman
60Ti rotor. The pellet was carefully washed in PBS and suspended in PBS. The supernatant
was centrifuged a second time as described and the final pellet was dissolved, aliquoted and
frozen at -80*C. The quality of the PHF-tau preparations were evaluated on a 12% SDS
PAGE and western blot with anti-tau antibodies AT8 and HT7 (ThermoScientific,
Rockford, IL). AT8 detects PHF-tau phosphorylated at S202/T205, but does not bind to
non-phosphorylated PHF-tau nor to the wild type tau. HT7 binds to a non-phosphorylated
epitope at Tau amino acids 159-163 (of SEQ ID NO: 6), and recognizes both tau and PHF
tau. A good quality PHF-tau preparation is composed of 4 bands having molecular weights
of about 60, 64, 66 and 72 kDa on a Western blot detected with an antibody reactive with
hyperphosphorylated PHF-tau such as AT8. Two separate PHF-tau preparations with
comparable quality and purity were made from the same brain sample. Preparation I was
used for immunization.
                                              Example 2
                  Generation of monoclonal antibodies against PHF-tau
         Anti- PHF-tau antibodies were generated using standard hybridoma technology in
normal Balb/c mice (Kohler and Milstein Nature 256:495-7, 1975). Obtained hybridomas
were seeded in 96-well plates and screened after 10 days in a direct ELISA on 25 ng/well
coated PHF-tau as described below. Positive cells were tested for cross-reactivity on 10
ng/well coated with control tau (SEQ ID NO:6) expressed in K Coli BL21 cells and purified
by heat treatment and ammonium sulphate precipitation, and were immediately subcloned
and positive clones were frozen in liquid nitrogen. All hybridomas were grown in
Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 10 % fetal calf serum (Hyclone,
Europe), Hybridoma Fusion Cloning Supplement (2%) (Roche, Brussels, Belgium) 2% IT
(Sigma, USA), 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 2 mM L-glutamine and penicillin (100 U/nl) and
Streptomycin (50 mg/ml).
         Antibody variable regions were cloned from select hybridoma cells onto mouse
IgGI/IgG2/ ,c background and expressed and purified using routine methods.
                                              18

Direct ELISA for antibody selection
         25 ng/well PHF-tau was coated overnight at 4 *C in NUNC Maxisorp (Life
Technologies) flat-bottom high-binding 96-well micro titer plates in 50 li/well coating
buffer (10 mM Tris, 10 mM NaCl, and 10 mM NaN3, pH 8.5). The next day, the plates
were blocked with 75 p1/well of 0.1 % casein in PBS for 60 min at room temperature. Next,
50 ll hybridoma supenatant was added and incubated for I h at 37 "C. After washing, the
bound monoclonal antibodies were detected with 50 pl/well of Sheep-anti-mouse IgG
conjugated with horseradish peroxidase for I hr at 37 "C (Amersham-Pharmacia Biotech).
Both reagents were diluted in 0.1 % Casein/PBS. The plates were washed and 50 pl of a
solution of0.42 mM 3,5,3',5'-tetramethyl-benzidine, 0.003 % (v/v) H202 in 100 mM citric
acid and 100 mM disodium hydrogen phosphate (pH 4.3) was added as the substrate. The
reaction was allowed to proceed for maximum 15 min on a plate shaker at room
temperature, after which the color development was stopped with 2 N H 2S0 4 , 50 pl/well and
the plates, were read on a micro titer plate reader at 450 nm (Thermomax, Molecular
Devices).
Specificity of the monoclonal antibodies
         Select antibodies obtained from the hybridoma screen were tested for their cross
reactivity with recombinantly expressed control tau (SEQ ID NO:6). 500 ng of PHF-tau and
200 ng of control tau were loaded on a NuPAGE* Novex"Bis-Tris 4-12% gel and blotted
on a nitrocellulose membrane by use of an iBlot system (Invitrogen), according to the
manufacturer's instructions. Membranes were blocked for I hour with Tris-Buffered Saline
Tween-20 (TBS-T; IM Tris, 150mM NaC1 and 0.05% Tween-20, pH 8.5) containing non
fat dry milk (NFDM) (5% w/v; Biorad) and washed three times in TBS-T. Incubation with
the primary control antibodies (I kg/ml) HT7, AT8, ATIO (ThermoScientific, Rockford,
IL), and BT2 diluted in TBS-T containing NFDM (5% w/v) was overnight at 4'C. PTI,
PT2, PT3, PT4 and PTS monoclonal antibodies selected from the hybridoma screen were
added in culture supernatant containing 10 % FCS. Primary antibodies were detected using
Sheep-anti-mouse Ig conjugated with HRPO (1:20000 in TBS-T, Amersham Biosciences)
via West Dura* enhanced chemiluminescence (Pierce, Thermoscientific). Signals were
captured by the Lumi-imaging system (Roche Diagnostic). PTI and PT3 reacted with PHF
tau and did not react with control tau in western blots. PT2 was reactive with both proteins.
Binding profiles of HT7 and ATS are described above. ATIOO binds to phosphorylated
Ser212/Thr214 and binds to PHF-tau but not wild type tau. BT2 recognizes a non
phosphorylated epitope comprising S199/S202, and thus recognizes wild type tau but not
PIF-tau.
                                               19

Competitive epitope binding
         Monoclonal antibodies PTI, PT2, PT3, PT4, PT5, AT8 (ThermoScientific,
Rockford, IL), ATI00 (ThermoScienti fic, Rockford, IL) and HT7 (MN!1000) (Thermo
Scientific, Rockford, IL) were evaluated for competitive binding to PHF-tau or
phosphorylated tau peptides. Antibodies were labeled sing MSD* SULFO-TAG NHS Ester
(Meso Scale Discovery) according to the manufacturer's instruction
         For competition with labeled PTI, PT3, ATI00 and HT7, 5 liL (50 pg/mL)/well of
enriched PHF-Tau proteins (purified as described above) was coated on MSD HighBind
plate (Meso Scale Discovery, Gaithersburg, MD) for 2 hr at room temperature (RT). For
competition with AT8, 25 pL of 0.1 mg/well synthetic biotinylated and pegylated peptide
RSGYSSPG(pS)PG(pT)PGSRSR-OH (New England Peptide, LLC., Gardner, MA) (SEQ
ID NO:39) corresponding to residues 194-211 of control tau (SEQ ID NO:6) phosphorylated
at residues corresponding to S202/T205 in control tau was coated on Streptavidin-charged
plates (Meso Scale Discovery, Gaithersburg, MD). After coating, wells were blocked with
150 pL of 5%MSD Blocker A buffer at RT for 2 hr, and washed three times with 0.1 M
HEPES buffer, pH 7.4. 25 pL of a mixture of labeled individual anti-tau antibody (10 nM
or 50 nM) and serial dilutions of various unlabeled competitor antibodies (I nM to 2 pM)
was added on each well. The plates were incubated for 2 hours at RT with gentle shaking
and washed 3 times as above. 150 pL/well of diluted MSD Read Buffer T was added and
the plates were read in a SECTOR Imager 6000 (Meso Scale Discovery, Gaithersburg, MD).
         Non-overlapping epitopes of anti-Tau mAbs HT7, AT 100 and AT8 are described
above. Based on the published data, these antibodies were not expected to compete with
each other in binding to Tau proteins or peptides.
         Based on competition assays performed, none of the antibodies competed with each
other for binding, indicating that they all bind to different epitopes. In each experiment,
only self-inhibition was observed. Figures 1-5 show results of competition assays with
labeled AT8, PT 1, PT3, ATI00, and HT7, respectively.
                                                     Example 3
                   Anti-PHF tau antibodies reduce PHF-tan accumulation in vivo
         5-month old female P30 IL mice (Taconic, cat#002508) were treated once weekly
with mouse IgG1, saline, PT3 (500 pg/mouse) or AT8 (expressed from hybridoma ECACC,
deposit number 9110086) for 5 months. Mice were anesthetized, perfused with cold PBS
and the brains dissected on ice. For each mouse, one brain hemisphere was homogenized in
10 volume of H- buffer, followed by centrifugation at 2 1,000g for 20 min at 40 C. The
                                                20

resulting supernatant was further centrifuged at I 00,000g for 60 min. After centrifugation,
the pellet (fraction P1) was recovered and re-suspended with lysis buffer for Western and
ELISA analyses, as described by Chai et al. JBiol Chem 286:34457-67,2011. For cortex
samples, the fraction PI was further treated with 1%(w/v) N-lauroylsarcosine and
ultracentrifuged to further enrich PHF-tau in the pellet. Male P301L mice were found to
have low transgene expression and were not included in the analyses.
         Phosphorylated tau was measured in brainstem homogenates (fraction P1) with
sandwich ELISA using antibodies AT8 and ATI00 as capture antibodies followed by
detection by biotinylated HT7 and avidin-HRP (Figure 6A and 6B), and with ATI00 in a
western blot (Figure 6C) essentially as described in Chai et al. JBiol Chem 286:34457-67,
2011. Briefly, the PI pellet was resuspended with lysis buffer (Cell Signaling). P1 pellet
samples were incubated in AT8 or ATI00 (Thermo Scientific) pre-coated wells and the
biotin labeled HT-7 antibody. Samples were then washed 5 times with buffer, followed by
incubation with avidin-HRP for one hour. Following this, samples were incubated with one
step TMB substrate (Thermo Scientific) for 30 min, followed by 2N H2SO 4. Finally, the
reaction was read at 450 nm and the quantity of ATS- or ATIO- reactive tau in brain was
determined using a standard curve derived from human AD brain homogenates, and plotted
as a relative amount of AD brain homogenate (ng/ml) providing the same ELISA signal as
an average samples from a non-transgenic animal (B6).
         A statistically significant decrease or trend towards significance in phosphorylated
tau was seen in P301 L transgenic animals treated with PT3 when compared to the isotype
control administered animals in ELISA assays using either AT] 00 (p=0.057) or AT8
(p=0. 0 475 ) to detected phosphorylation (ELISA signal: Saline group (1135i228.8); IgGI
group (1344245.6); PT3 group (660.5134.5); AT8.group (1271*274)).
         To confirm the data obtained with ELISA, brainstem homogenates (fraction P1)
from IgGI- or PT3-treated animals were analyzed on western blot by detecting PHF-tau
using ATIOO antibody. The filters were blotted using anti-actin antibody as a loading
control (Figure 6B). Western blots showed attenuated PHF-tan amount detected with
ATI00 antibody when compared to the animals treated with IgG 1.
         For cortex analysis, both sarcosyl soluble (representing soluble tau) and insoluble
(representing PIF-tau) cortex fractions were analyzed by sandwich ELISA using a pan-tau
antibody (PT4) or phospho-tan antibody (AT8) for capturing followed by abiotin -pan-tau
antibody (hTaul 0) followed by HIRP-avidin. Animals treated with PT3 had similar levels of
total tau in comparison to animals treated with the isotype control IgG 1. A trend towards
lower PHF-tan levels were evident in animals treated with PT3 when compared to the
isotype control in the N-lauroylsarcosine insoluble fractions (ELISA capture with PT4: IgG
                                                21

group: 851026261198 and PT3 group: 585639*120498; ELISA, capture with AT8: IgG
group: 1125886i286240 (N=10) and pT3 group: 746582=124970 (N=7)).
                                                 Example 4
                            Characterization of anti-PHF-tau antibodies
Affinity determination
         The interactions of monoclonal antibodies PTI and PT3 with recombinant human
soluble tau or PHF-tau were studied by ProteOn. All interactions were studied at 25"C
using PBS pH 7.4, supplemented with 3 mM EDTA, and 0.005% Tween-20 as running or
system buffer. Two different experiment formats were used, one for the interaction with
recombinantly expressed control tau and another for the interaction with PHF-tau. In these
experiments HT7 (Pierce, cat #MN 1000), a mouse anti-tau antibody was used as a positive
control.
         To study the interaction with recombinantly expressed control tau a biosensor
surface was prepared by coupling an anti-human or anti-mouse JgG Fey fragment specific
antibody (Ab) to the surface of a GLC (ProteOn) sensor chip using each manufacturer's
instructions for amine-coupling chemistry (-5000 response units (RU)). The coupling
buffer was 10 mM sodium acetate, pH 4.5. The anti-PHF-tau antibodies were diluted in the
running buffer and injected to obtain a capture of 60-130 RUs. Capture of anti-PFH-Tau
mAbs was followed by injection of recombinantly expressed control tau (Tau-441, Sigma
catalog# T0576-50ug) in solution (0.1 to 75 nM in 5-fold dilutions). The association was
monitored for 2 minutes (80 pL injected at 40 pL/min). The dissociation was monitored for
10 minutes. Regeneration of the sensor surface was obtained with 0.85% H3PO 4, or 0.85%
H3P0 4 followed by 50 mM NaCH. The data were fit using a 1:1 binding model. The data
were fit using a 1:1 binding model.
Table 2.
                                              -.1 -1               -1
     mAb           Antigen            k (M s )                kr(s )            *KO (pM)
     PTI        Control Tau                **
     PTI          PHF-Tau              2.01E+05              6.47E-05              322
     PT3        Control Tau
     PT3          PHF-Tau          (1.23i0.06)E+06       (2.180.28)E-05          18 2
* For PIF-tau this is the apparent intrinsic affinity where KD is obtained as the ratio of
kffl/kon-1 derived from a fit performed using a bivalent binding model.
                                                  22

** No signi ficant binding
***No binding in 4 of 5 experiments
         To study the interaction with PHF-tau a biosensor surface was prepared by capture
coupling PIF-tau using HT7 as the capture reagent. Additional preparation of the PHF-tau
as described earlier was required for ProteOn to limit the amount of insoluble material
entering the fluidics. PHF-tau as described above was additionally prepared by 2-times
centrifugation at 5000g, 5C, 10 min where the supernatant from the second centrifugation
was then diluted 1/20 or 1/40 in running buffer. To prepare the chip, HT7 was covalently
immobilized to the surface of a GLC (ProteOn) sensor chip using each manufacturer's
instructions for amine-coupling chemistry (-3000 response units (RU). The coupling buffer
was 10 mM sodium acetate, pH 4.5. After HT7 immobilization PlF-tau was injected and
captured (-300 RU) by HT7. After capture, PHF-tau was covalently immobilized to the
sensor chip by activation of the chip using each manufacturer's instructions for amine
coupling chemistry. Remaining reactive sites were finally blocked by injection of
ethanolamine. After preparation and stabilization of the PHF-tau-modified surface and
reference surface (containing no antigen), the anti-PHF-tau antibodies were diluted in the
running buffer and injected in solution (0.1-75 nM in 5-fold dilutions). The association was
monitored for 3 minutes (120 pL injected at 40 pL/min). The dissociation was monitored
for 10 or 15 minutes. Regeneration of the sensor surface was obtained with 10 mM Gly pH
2. The data were fit using a bivalent binding model where the apparent intrinsic affinity was
reported as the ratio of koff-I/kon-1.
         Based on the ProteOn experiments PTI bound PHF-tau with 322 pM affinity and
showed no binding to control tau under the conditions tested (Table 2). PT3 bound PHF-tau
with I +2 pM affinity and showed no binding to control tau in 4 out of 5 measurements
under the conditions tested. One out of the 5 ProteOn measurements showed weak binding
which could be used to estimate affinity > 75 nM on the basis of the highest concentration
of control tau used.
         The present invention now being fully described, it will be apparent to one of
ordinary skill in the art that many changes and modifications can be made thereto without
departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.
                                              23

Claims
    1.          An isolated antibody that binds paired helical filament tau (PHF-tau)
       comprising a heavy chain complementarity determining region (HCDR) 1, a heavy
       chain complementarity determining region( HCDR) 2 and a heavy chain
       complementarity determining region (HCDR) 3 comprising SEQ ID NOs:25, 26
       and 27, respectively, and a light chain complementarity determining region (LCDR)
       1, a light chain complementarity determining region (LCDR) 2 and a light chain
       complementarity determining region (LCDR) 3 comprising SEQ ID NOs:28, 29 and
       30, respectively.
    2.          The isolated antibody of claim 1 wherein the HCDR 1, the HCDR 2 and the
       HCDR 3 is SEQ ID NOs:25, 26 and 27, respectively, and the LCDR 1, the LCDR 2
       and the LCDR 3 is SEQ ID NOs:28, 29 and 30, respectively
    3.          An isolated antibody that binds PHF-tau comprising a HCDR 1, a HCDR 2
       and a HCDR 3 comprising SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20 and 21, respectively, and a LCDR 1,
       a LCDR 2 and a LCDR 3 comprising SEQ ID NOs:22, 23 and 24, respectively.
    4.          The isolated antibody of claim 3 wherein the HCDR 1, the HCDR 2 and the
       HCDR 3 is SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20 and 21, respectively, and the LCDR 1, the LCDR 2
       and the LCDR 3 is SEQ ID NOs:22, 23 and 24, respectively.
    5.          The isolated antibody of any of claims 1-4 that is humanized.
    6.          An isolated antibody that binds to PHF-tau comprising a HCDR1, a
       HCDR2 and a HCDR3 comprising SEQ ID NOs:13, 14 and 15, respectively, and a
       LCDR1, a LCDR2 and LCDR3 comprising SEQ ID NOs: 16, 17 and 18,
       respectively wherein the antibody is humanized.
    7.          The isolated antibody of claim 6 wherein the HCDR1, the HCDR2 and the
       HCDR3 is SEQ ID NOs:13, 14 and 15, respectively, and the LCDR1, the LCDR2
       and the LCDR3 is SEQ ID NOs: 16, 17 and 18, respectively wherein the antibody is
       humanized.
    8.          An isolated antibody that binds to PHF-tau comprising a HCDR1, a
       HCDR2 and a HCDR3 comprising SEQ ID NOs:7, 8 and 9, respectively, and a
                                             24

    LCDR1, a LCDR2 and LCDR3 comprising SEQ ID NOs: 10, 11 and 12,
    respectively wherein the antibody is humanized.
9.           The isolated antibody of claim 8 wherein the HCDR1, the HCDR2 and the
    HCDR3 is SEQ ID NOs:7, 8 and 9, respectively, and the LCDR1, the LCDR2 and
    the LCDR3 is SEQ ID NOs: 10, 11 and 12, respectively wherein the antibody is
    humanized.
10.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody heavy chain comprising a
    VH of the antibody of claim 1.
11.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody light chain comprising a
    VL of the antibody of claim 1.
12.          A vector comprising a polynucleotide of claims 10 and 11.
13.          A host cell comprising the vector of claim 12.
14.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody heavy chain comprising a
    VH of the antibody of claim 3.
15.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody light chain comprising a
    VL of the antibody of claim 3.
16.          A vector comprising a polynucleotide of claims 14 and 15.
17.          A host cell comprising the vector of claim 16.
18.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody heavy chain comprising a
    VH of the antibody of claim 6.
19.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody light chain comprising a
    VL of the antibody of claim 6.
20.          A vector comprising a polynucleotide of claims 18 and 19.
                                          25

21.          A host cell comprising the vector of claim 20.
22.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody heavy chain comprising a
    VH of the antibody of claim 8.
23.          An isolated polynucleotide encoding an antibody light chain comprising a
    VL of the antibody of claim 8.
24.          A vector comprising a polynucleotide of claims 22 and 23.
25.          A host cell comprising the vector of claim 24.
26.          A pharmaceutical composition for reducing tau aggregates in PHF tau
    comprising the antibody of any of claims 1-4 and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier.
27.          The pharmaceutical composition of claim 26 wherein the antibody is
    humanized.
28.          A pharmaceutical composition for reducing tau aggregates in PHF tau
    comprising the antibody of any of claims 6-9 and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier.
29.          Use of an isolated antibody of any of claims 1-9 for treating or reducing the
    symptoms of a neurodegenerative disorder that involves pathological aggregation of
    tau within the brain.
30.          The method of claim 29, wherein the neurodegenerative disorder is
    Alzheimer's Disease.
                                          26

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                       SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Janssen Biotech, Inc.
                      Christopher, Alderfer
                      Dariusz, Janecki
                      Xuesong, Liu
                      Marc, Mercken
                      Melissa, Murdock
                      Marc, Vandermeeren
<removed-apn>
                      Sam, Wu
              <120>   Anti-PHF-tau Antibodies and Their Uses
              <130>   CEN5316WOPCT
              <150>   61/577817
              <151>   2011-12-20
              <160>   39
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   352
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   1
              Met Ala Glu Pro Arg Gln Glu Phe Glu Val Met Glu Asp His Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gly Leu Gly Asp Arg Lys Asp Gln Gly Gly Tyr Thr Met His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Asp Gln Glu Gly Asp Thr Asp Ala Gly Leu Lys Ala Glu Glu Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Ile Gly Asp Thr Pro Ser Leu Glu Asp Glu Ala Ala Gly His Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Gln Ala Arg Met Val Ser Lys Ser Lys Asp Gly Thr Gly Ser Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly Ala Asp Gly Lys Thr Lys Ile Ala Thr Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Gly Ala Ala Pro Pro Gly Gln Lys Gly Gln Ala Asn Ala Thr Arg
                                                 Page 1

<removed-date>
                         100                 105                 110
              Ile Pro Ala Lys Thr Pro Pro Ala Pro Lys Thr Pro Pro Ser Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Pro Pro Lys Ser Gly Asp Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Pro Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Thr Arg Glu Pro Lys Lys Val Ala Val Val Arg Thr Pro Pro Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Pro Ser Ser Ala Lys Ser Arg Leu Gln Thr Ala Pro Val Pro Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Lys Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Thr Glu Asn Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys His Gln Pro Gly Gly Gly Lys Val Gln Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Leu Ser Lys Val Thr Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Leu Gly Asn Ile His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Lys Pro Gly Gly Gly Gln Val Glu Val Lys Ser Glu Lys Leu Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Phe Lys Asp Arg Val Gln Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Leu Asp Asn Ile Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly Asn Lys Lys Ile Glu Thr His Lys Leu Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Phe Arg Glu Asn Ala Lys Ala Lys Thr Asp His Gly Ala Glu Ile Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Lys Ser Pro Val Val Ser Gly Asp Thr Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                Page 2

<removed-date>
              Asn Val Ser Ser Thr Gly Ser Ile Asp Met Val Asp Ser Pro Gln Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Ala Thr Leu Ala Asp Glu Val Ser Ala Ser Leu Ala Lys Gln Gly Leu
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              <210>   2
              <211>   381
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   2
              Met Ala Glu Pro Arg Gln Glu Phe Glu Val Met Glu Asp His Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gly Leu Gly Asp Arg Lys Asp Gln Gly Gly Tyr Thr Met His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Asp Gln Glu Gly Asp Thr Asp Ala Gly Leu Lys Glu Ser Pro Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Thr Pro Thr Glu Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu Pro Gly Ser Glu Thr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Ala Lys Ser Thr Pro Thr Ala Glu Ala Glu Glu Ala Gly Ile Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Thr Pro Ser Leu Glu Asp Glu Ala Ala Gly His Val Thr Gln Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Met Val Ser Lys Ser Lys Asp Gly Thr Gly Ser Asp Asp Lys Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Lys Gly Ala Asp Gly Lys Thr Lys Ile Ala Thr Pro Arg Gly Ala
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Pro Pro Gly Gln Lys Gly Gln Ala Asn Ala Thr Arg Ile Pro Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Thr Pro Pro Ala Pro Lys Thr Pro Pro Ser Ser Gly Glu Pro Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                Page 3

<removed-date>
              Lys Ser Gly Asp Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Pro Gly Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Gly Ser Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro Pro Thr Arg
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Glu Pro Lys Lys Val Ala Val Val Arg Thr Pro Pro Lys Ser Pro Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Ala Lys Ser Arg Leu Gln Thr Ala Pro Val Pro Met Pro Asp Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Asn Val Lys Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Thr Glu Asn Leu Lys His Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Pro Gly Gly Gly Lys Val Gln Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Val Asp Leu Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Val Thr Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Leu Gly Asn Ile His His Lys Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Gly Gly Gln Val Glu Val Lys Ser Glu Lys Leu Asp Phe Lys Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Val Gln Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Leu Asp Asn Ile Thr His Val Pro
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Gly Gly Asn Lys Lys Ile Glu Thr His Lys Leu Thr Phe Arg Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asn Ala Lys Ala Lys Thr Asp His Gly Ala Glu Ile Val Tyr Lys Ser
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Val Val Ser Gly Asp Thr Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ser Asn Val Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Thr Gly Ser Ile Asp Met Val Asp Ser Pro Gln Leu Ala Thr Leu
                      355                 360                 365
                                                Page 4

<removed-date>
              Ala Asp Glu Val Ser Ala Ser Leu Ala Lys Gln Gly Leu
                  370                 375                 380
              <210>   3
              <211>   410
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
<removed-apn>
              <400>   3
              Met Ala Glu Pro Arg Gln Glu Phe Glu Val Met Glu Asp His Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gly Leu Gly Asp Arg Lys Asp Gln Gly Gly Tyr Thr Met His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Asp Gln Glu Gly Asp Thr Asp Ala Gly Leu Lys Glu Ser Pro Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Thr Pro Thr Glu Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu Pro Gly Ser Glu Thr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Ala Lys Ser Thr Pro Thr Ala Glu Asp Val Thr Ala Pro Leu Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Glu Gly Ala Pro Gly Lys Gln Ala Ala Ala Gln Pro His Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Pro Glu Gly Thr Thr Ala Glu Glu Ala Gly Ile Gly Asp Thr Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Leu Glu Asp Glu Ala Ala Gly His Val Thr Gln Ala Arg Met Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Lys Ser Lys Asp Gly Thr Gly Ser Asp Asp Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Asp Gly Lys Thr Lys Ile Ala Thr Pro Arg Gly Ala Ala Pro Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Gln Lys Gly Gln Ala Asn Ala Thr Arg Ile Pro Ala Lys Thr Pro
                              165                 170                 175
                                                Page 5

<removed-date>
              Pro Ala Pro Lys Thr Pro Pro Ser Ser Gly Glu Pro Pro Lys Ser Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Pro Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro Pro Thr Arg Glu Pro Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Val Ala Val Val Arg Thr Pro Pro Lys Ser Pro Ser Ser Ala Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Arg Leu Gln Thr Ala Pro Val Pro Met Pro Asp Leu Lys Asn Val
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Thr Glu Asn Leu Lys His Gln Pro Gly Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Lys Val Gln Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Val Asp Leu Ser Lys Val Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Leu Gly Asn Ile His His Lys Pro Gly Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Gln Val Glu Val Lys Ser Glu Lys Leu Asp Phe Lys Asp Arg Val Gln
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Leu Asp Asn Ile Thr His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Asn Lys Lys Ile Glu Thr His Lys Leu Thr Phe Arg Glu Asn Ala Lys
                          340                 345                 350
              Ala Lys Thr Asp His Gly Ala Glu Ile Val Tyr Lys Ser Pro Val Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Ser Gly Asp Thr Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ser Asn Val Ser Ser Thr Gly
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Ile Asp Met Val Asp Ser Pro Gln Leu Ala Thr Leu Ala Asp Glu
                                                Page 6

<removed-date>
              385                    390                 395             400
              Val Ser Ala Ser Leu Ala Lys Gln Gly Leu
                              405                 410
              <210>   4
              <211>   383
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   4
              Met Ala Glu Pro Arg Gln Glu Phe Glu Val Met Glu Asp His Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gly Leu Gly Asp Arg Lys Asp Gln Gly Gly Tyr Thr Met His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Asp Gln Glu Gly Asp Thr Asp Ala Gly Leu Lys Ala Glu Glu Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Ile Gly Asp Thr Pro Ser Leu Glu Asp Glu Ala Ala Gly His Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Gln Ala Arg Met Val Ser Lys Ser Lys Asp Gly Thr Gly Ser Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly Ala Asp Gly Lys Thr Lys Ile Ala Thr Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Gly Ala Ala Pro Pro Gly Gln Lys Gly Gln Ala Asn Ala Thr Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Ile Pro Ala Lys Thr Pro Pro Ala Pro Lys Thr Pro Pro Ser Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Pro Pro Lys Ser Gly Asp Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                Page 7

<removed-date>
              Pro Thr Arg Glu Pro Lys Lys Val Ala Val Val Arg Thr Pro Pro Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Pro Ser Ser Ala Lys Ser Arg Leu Gln Thr Ala Pro Val Pro Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Lys Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Thr Glu Asn Leu
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys His Gln Pro Gly Gly Gly Lys Val Gln Ile Ile Asn Lys Lys Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Leu Ser Asn Val Gln Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Lys Asp Asn Ile Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly Ser Val Gln Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Val Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Ser Lys Val Thr Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Leu Gly Asn Ile His His
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Pro Gly Gly Gly Gln Val Glu Val Lys Ser Glu Lys Leu Asp Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Asp Arg Val Gln Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Leu Asp Asn Ile Thr His
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Pro Gly Gly Gly Asn Lys Lys Ile Glu Thr His Lys Leu Thr Phe
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Arg Glu Asn Ala Lys Ala Lys Thr Asp His Gly Ala Glu Ile Val Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Ser Pro Val Val Ser Gly Asp Thr Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ser Asn
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Ser Ser Thr Gly Ser Ile Asp Met Val Asp Ser Pro Gln Leu Ala
                      355                 360                 365
              Thr Leu Ala Asp Glu Val Ser Ala Ser Leu Ala Lys Gln Gly Leu
                  370                 375                 380
                                                Page 8

<removed-date>
              <210>   5
              <211>   441
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   5
<removed-apn>
              Met Ala Glu Pro Arg Gln Glu Phe Glu Val Met Glu Asp His Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gly Leu Gly Asp Arg Lys Asp Gln Gly Gly Tyr Thr Met His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Asp Gln Glu Gly Asp Thr Asp Ala Gly Leu Lys Glu Ser Pro Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Thr Pro Thr Glu Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu Pro Gly Ser Glu Thr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Ala Lys Ser Thr Pro Thr Ala Glu Asp Val Thr Ala Pro Leu Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Glu Gly Ala Pro Gly Lys Gln Ala Ala Ala Gln Pro His Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Pro Glu Gly Thr Thr Ala Glu Glu Ala Gly Ile Gly Asp Thr Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Leu Glu Asp Glu Ala Ala Gly His Val Thr Gln Ala Arg Met Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Lys Ser Lys Asp Gly Thr Gly Ser Asp Asp Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Asp Gly Lys Thr Lys Ile Ala Thr Pro Arg Gly Ala Ala Pro Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Gln Lys Gly Gln Ala Asn Ala Thr Arg Ile Pro Ala Lys Thr Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Ala Pro Lys Thr Pro Pro Ser Ser Gly Glu Pro Pro Lys Ser Gly
                                                Page 9

<removed-date>
                         180                 185                 190
              Asp Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Pro Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro Pro Thr Arg Glu Pro Lys
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Lys Val Ala Val Val Arg Thr Pro Pro Lys Ser Pro Ser Ser Ala Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Arg Leu Gln Thr Ala Pro Val Pro Met Pro Asp Leu Lys Asn Val
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Thr Glu Asn Leu Lys His Gln Pro Gly Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Lys Val Gln Ile Ile Asn Lys Lys Leu Asp Leu Ser Asn Val Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Lys Asp Asn Ile Lys His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Gln Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Val Asp Leu Ser Lys Val Thr Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Cys Gly Ser Leu Gly Asn Ile His His Lys Pro Gly Gly Gly Gln
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Glu Val Lys Ser Glu Lys Leu Asp Phe Lys Asp Arg Val Gln Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Lys Ile Gly Ser Leu Asp Asn Ile Thr His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Lys Ile Glu Thr His Lys Leu Thr Phe Arg Glu Asn Ala Lys Ala
                  370                 375                 380
              Lys Thr Asp His Gly Ala Glu Ile Val Tyr Lys Ser Pro Val Val Ser
              385                 390                 395                 400
                                                Page 10

<removed-date>
              Gly Asp Thr Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ser Asn Val Ser Ser Thr Gly Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Ile Asp Met Val Asp Ser Pro Gln Leu Ala Thr Leu Ala Asp Glu Val
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ala Ser Leu Ala Lys Gln Gly Leu
                      435                 440
              <210>   6
              <211>   441
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   6
              Met Ala Glu Pro Arg Gln Glu Phe Glu Val Met Glu Asp His Ala Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Tyr Gly Leu Gly Asp Arg Lys Asp Gln Gly Gly Tyr Thr Met His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Asp Gln Glu Gly Asp Thr Asp Ala Gly Leu Lys Glu Ser Pro Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Thr Pro Thr Glu Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu Pro Gly Ser Glu Thr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Ala Lys Ser Thr Pro Thr Ala Glu Asp Val Thr Ala Pro Leu Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Glu Gly Ala Pro Gly Lys Gln Ala Ala Ala Gln Pro His Thr Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Pro Glu Gly Thr Thr Ala Glu Glu Ala Gly Ile Gly Asp Thr Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Leu Glu Asp Glu Ala Ala Gly His Val Thr Gln Ala Arg Met Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Lys Ser Lys Asp Gly Thr Gly Ser Asp Asp Lys Lys Ala Lys Gly
                  130                 135                 140
                                                Page 11

<removed-date>
              Ala Asp Gly Lys Thr Lys Ile Ala Thr Pro Arg Gly Ala Ala Pro Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Gln Lys Gly Gln Ala Asn Ala Thr Arg Ile Pro Ala Lys Thr Pro
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Pro Ala Pro Lys Thr Pro Pro Ser Ser Gly Glu Pro Pro Lys Ser Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Pro Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Leu Pro Thr Pro Pro Thr Arg Glu Pro Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Val Ala Val Val Arg Thr Pro Pro Lys Ser Pro Ser Ser Ala Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Arg Leu Gln Thr Ala Pro Val Pro Met Pro Asp Leu Lys Asn Val
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Lys Ile Gly Ser Thr Glu Asn Leu Lys His Gln Pro Gly Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Lys Val Gln Ile Ile Asn Lys Lys Leu Asp Leu Ser Asn Val Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Lys Cys Gly Ser Lys Asp Asn Ile Lys His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Gln Ile Val Tyr Lys Pro Val Asp Leu Ser Lys Val Thr Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Cys Gly Ser Leu Gly Asn Ile His His Lys Pro Gly Gly Gly Gln
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Glu Val Lys Ser Glu Lys Leu Asp Phe Lys Asp Arg Val Gln Ser
                          340                 345                 350
                                                Page 12

<removed-date>
              Lys Ile Gly Ser Leu Asp Asn Ile Thr His Val Pro Gly Gly Gly Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Lys Ile Glu Thr His Lys Leu Thr Phe Arg Glu Asn Ala Lys Ala
                  370                 375                 380
              Lys Thr Asp His Gly Ala Glu Ile Val Tyr Lys Ser Pro Val Val Ser
<removed-apn>
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Gly Asp Thr Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ser Asn Val Ser Ser Thr Gly Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Ile Asp Met Val Asp Ser Pro Gln Leu Ala Thr Leu Ala Asp Glu Val
                          420                 425                 430
              Ser Ala Ser Leu Ala Lys Gln Gly Leu
                      435                 440
              <210>   7
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   7
              Ser Ser Trp Met Gly
              1               5
              <210>   8
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   8
              Asp Ile Leu Pro Gly Ser Gly Gly Thr Asn Tyr Asn Glu Arg Phe Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly
              <210>   9
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
                                                Page 13

<removed-date>
              <400>   9
              Ser Tyr Tyr Asp Tyr Asp Arg Phe Ala Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   10
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   10
              Arg Ser Ser Glu Ser Leu Leu His Ser Asn Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   11
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   11
              Arg Met Ser Asn Leu Ala Ser
              1               5
              <210>   12
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   12
              Met Gln Tyr Leu Glu Tyr Pro Leu Thr
              1               5
              <210>   13
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   13
              Ser Tyr Ala Met Ser
              1               5
              <210>   14
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
                                                Page 14

<removed-date>
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   14
              Ser Ile Ser Lys Gly Gly Asn Thr Tyr Tyr Pro Asn Ser Val Lys Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   15
<removed-apn>
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   15
              Gly Trp Gly Asp Tyr Gly Trp Phe Ala Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   16
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   16
              Lys Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Asn Arg Tyr Leu Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   17
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   17
              Arg Ala Asn Arg Leu Leu Asp
              1               5
              <210>   18
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   18
              Leu Gln Tyr Asp Glu Phe Pro Leu Thr
              1               5
              <210>   19
              <211>   7
                                                Page 15

<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   19
              Gly Tyr Thr Phe Ser Ser Ser
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   20
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   20
              Leu Pro Gly Ser Gly Gly
              1               5
              <210>   21
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   21
              Ser Tyr Tyr Asp Tyr Asp Arg Phe Ala
              1               5
              <210>   22
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   22
              Ser Glu Ser Leu Leu His Ser Asn Gly Asn Thr Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   23
              <211>   3
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   23
              Arg Met Ser
              1
              <210>   24
                                                Page 16

<removed-date>
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   24
              Tyr Leu Glu Tyr Pro Leu
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   25
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   25
              Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   26
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   26
              Ser Lys Gly Gly Asn
              1               5
              <210>   27
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   27
              Gly Trp Gly Asp Tyr Gly Trp Phe Ala
              1               5
              <210>   28
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   28
              Ser Gln Asp Ile Asn Arg Tyr
              1               5
                                                Page 17

<removed-date>
              <210>   29
              <211>   3
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   29
              Arg Ala Asn
              1
<removed-apn>
              <210>   30
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   30
              Tyr Asp Glu Phe Pro Leu
              1               5
              <210>   31
              <211>   357
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 31
              caggttcagc tgcagcagtc tggaactgag ctgatgaagc ctggggcctc agtgaagata
              60
              tcctgcaagg ctactggcta cacattcagt agctcctgga tggggtgggt taagcagagg
              120
              cctggacatg gccttgagtg gattggagac attttacctg gaagtggtgg tactaactac
              180
              aatgagaggt tcaagggcaa ggcctcattc actgcagaaa catcctccaa cacagcctac
              240
              atgcaactca gcagcctgac atctgaggac tctgccgtct attactgtgt aagaagctac
              300
              tatgattacg accgctttgc taactggggc caagggactc tggtcactgt ctctgca
              357
              <210>   32
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   32
                                                Page 18

<removed-date>
              gatattgtga tgactcaggc tgcaccctct gtacctgtca ctcctggaga gtcagtttcc
              60
              atctcctgca ggtctagtga gagtctcctg catagtaatg gcaacactta cttgtattgg
              120
              ttcctgcaga ggccaggcca gtctcctcag ctcctgatat atcggatgtc caaccttgcc
              180
<removed-apn>
              tcaggagtcc cagacaggtt cagtggcagt gggtcaggaa ctgctttcac actgagaatc
              240
              agtagagtgg aggctgagga tgtgggtgtt tattactgta tgcaatatct agaatatccg
              300
              ctcacgttcg gtgctgggac caagctggag ctgaaa
              336
              <210>   33
              <211>   354
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 33
              gaagtgaagc tggtggagtc tgggggagac ttagtgaagc ctggagggtc cctgaaactc
              60
              tcctgtgcag cctctggatt cactttcagt agctatgcca tgtcttgggt tcgccagaat
              120
              ccagagaaga ggctggagtg ggtcgcatcc attagtaagg gtggtaacac ctactatcca
              180
              aacagcgtga agggccgatt caccatctcc agagataatg ccaggaacat cctgtacctg
              240
              caaatgagca gtctgaggtc tgaggacacg gccctttatt actgtgcaag aggctggggt
              300
              gattacgggt ggtttgctta ctggggccaa gtgactctgg tcactgtctc tgca
              354
              <210>   34
              <211>   321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 34
              gacatcaaga tgacccagtc tccatcttcc atgtatgcat ctctaggaga gagagtcact
              60
                                                Page 19

<removed-date>
              atcacttgca aggcgagtca ggacattaat aggtatttaa actggttcca gcagaaacca
              120
              gggaaatctc ctaagaccct gatctatcgt gcaaacagat tgctagatgg ggtcccatca
              180
              aggttcagtg gcagtggatc tgggcaagat tactctctca ccatcagcag cctggattat
              240
<removed-apn>
              gaagatatgg gaatttatta ttgtctacag tatgatgagt ttccgctcac gttcggtgat
              300
              gggaccaagc tggagctgaa a
              321
              <210>   35
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   35
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Thr Glu Leu Met Lys Pro Gly Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val Lys Ile Ser Cys Lys Ala Thr Gly Tyr Thr Phe Ser Ser Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Trp Met Gly Trp Val Lys Gln Arg Pro Gly His Gly Leu Glu Trp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Asp Ile Leu Pro Gly Ser Gly Gly Thr Asn Tyr Asn Glu Arg Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Lys Ala Ser Phe Thr Ala Glu Thr Ser Ser Asn Thr Ala Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Gln Leu Ser Ser Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Arg Ser Tyr Tyr Asp Tyr Asp Arg Phe Ala Asn Trp Gly Gln Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ala
                      115
                                                Page 20

<removed-date>
              <210>   36
              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   36
              Asp Ile Val Met Thr Gln Ala Ala Pro Ser Val Pro Val Thr Pro Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Ser Val Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Glu Ser Leu Leu His Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Asn Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu Tyr Trp Phe Leu Gln Arg Pro Gly Gln Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Arg Met Ser Asn Leu Ala Ser Gly Val Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Ala Phe Thr Leu Arg Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Val Gly Val Tyr Tyr Cys Met Gln Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Glu Tyr Pro Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   37
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   37
              Glu Val Lys Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Asp Leu Val Lys Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Asn Pro Glu Lys Arg Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                Page 21

<removed-date>
              Ala Ser Ile Ser Lys Gly Gly Asn Thr Tyr Tyr Pro Asn Ser Val Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Arg Asn Ile Leu Tyr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Gln Met Ser Ser Leu Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Leu Tyr Tyr Cys Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Gly Trp Gly Asp Tyr Gly Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Val Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ala
                      115
              <210>   38
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   38
              Asp Ile Lys Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Met Tyr Ala Ser Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Asn Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Phe Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ser Pro Lys Thr Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Arg Ala Asn Arg Leu Leu Asp Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Gln Asp Tyr Ser Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Asp Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Met Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln Tyr Asp Glu Phe Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Asp Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu Lys
                          100                 105
                                                Page 22

<removed-date>
              <210>   39
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   phosphorylated tau peptide corresponding to residues 194-211 of
<removed-apn>
                      control tau
              <220>
              <221>   Phosphorylation
              <222>   (9)..(9)
              <220>
              <221>   Phosphorylation
              <222>   (12)..(12)
              <400>   39
              Arg Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ser Pro Gly Ser Pro Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Arg
                                                 Page 23

