   ABSTRACT
         The present invention discloses a direct-current (DC) charging system for a storage battery of an
   electric vehicle. The charging system includes a distribution transformer and a DC charging pile. The
   DC charging pile includes a charging pile controller and a step-down high-frequency PWM rectification
 5 filter circuit. The primary high-voltage side of the distribution transformer is connected to a public
   medium-voltage distribution network; the secondary low-voltage side is connected to an input end of
   the step-down (Buck) high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit; and an output end of the
   step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit is connected to a charge interface of the DC
   charging pile. A positive output end of the rectifier bridge is connected to a negative electrode of the
10 flyback diode and one end of the energy storage inductor, the other end of the energy storage
   inductor is connected to a positive electrode of the filter capacitor, and a negative output end of the
   rectifier bridge is connected to a positive electrode of the flyback diode and a negative electrode of
   the filter capacitor. The output end of the charging pile controller is connected to the switch
   transistors. The present invention can reduce complexity of the structure and circuits of a charging
15 pile, and decrease the energy consumption of the device, thus reducing the costs.

                  1/1
             FIGURE 1
                                                     L4
                                                        U1I
  12    Lr               _j                r- -rj V3
_    __                         I                     T
           j    I       C2   C3     r      I,
                    E  s aio     an   driv    I
                  Contoand modulation
                FIG. 1

                      DC CHARGING SYSTEM FOR STORAGE BATTERY OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE
   TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present invention relates to the field of storage battery rapid charging technology, and in
   particular, to a direct-current (DC) charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle.
 5 BACKGROUND
         A DC charging device is required so as to meet a rapid charging requirement for a storage battery
   of an electric vehicle. At present, a DC charging pile uses a switching power supply. Affected by
   properties of electronic components, an individual switching power supply has a relatively small
   capacity, failing to meet the rapid charging requirement for a large-capacity storage battery. Therefore,
10 a conventional DC charging pile is formed by multiple parallel-connected switching power supplies,
   and a control device distributes power among the parallel-connected switching power supplies
   according to the storage battery charging requirement. The switching power supply uses Boost
   rectification to electrically isolate inputs and outputs with a high-frequency transformer. The foregoing
   device uses a lot of power electronic components of which the wiring is complex, and has high energy
15 consumption, resulting in high costs.
   SUMMARY
         An objective of the present invention is to provide a DC charging system for a storage battery of
   an electric vehicle, which can reduce complexity of the structure and circuits of a charging pile, and
   decrease the energy consumption of the device, thus reducing the costs.
20       To achieve the above purpose, the present invention provides the following solution.
         A DC charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle includes a distribution
   transformer and a DC charging pile, where
         the distribution transformer includes a primary high-voltage side and a secondary low-voltage
   side, and the DC charging pile includes a charging pile controller and a step-down high-frequency
25 PWM rectification filter circuit;
         the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit includes a filter, a rectifier bridge,
   and a filter loop, the filter including a filter inductor and an energy storage capacitor; the rectifier
   bridge including six rectifier arms and each rectifier arm being formed by connecting a switch
   transistor in series with a diode; and the filter loop including a flyback diode, an energy storage
30 inductor and a filter capacitor;
         the primary high-voltage side is connected to a public medium-voltage distribution network; the
   secondary low-voltage side is connected to an input end of the step-down high-frequency PWM
   rectification filter circuit, to supply power to the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter
   circuit; and an output end of the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit is
35 connected to a charge interface of the DC charging pile;

         a positive output end of the rectifier bridge is connected to a negative electrode of the flyback
   diode and one end of the energy storage inductor, the other end of the energy storage inductor is
   connected to a positive electrode of the filter capacitor, and a negative output end of the rectifier
   bridge is connected to a positive electrode of the flyback diode and a negative electrode of the filter
 5 capacitor; and
         an output end of the charging pile controller is connected to the switch transistors by means of
   isolation drive, to control switch-on/switch-off of the switch transistors in the step-down
   high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit.
         Alternatively, the output end of the charging pile controller is connected to gate electrodes of the
10 switch transistors.
         Alternatively, the secondary low-voltage side is provided with at least one three-phase secondary
   winding.
         Alternatively, a voltage of the low-voltage side of the three-phase secondary winding equals to a
   non-standard voltage value.
15       According to specific embodiments provided in the present invention, the present invention
   discloses the following technical effects:
         The present invention provides a DC charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle,
   which uses a combination of a distribution transformer and a step-down high-frequency PWM
   rectification filter circuit, and avoids the use of a high-frequency transformer for a switching power
20 supply, thus decreasing the number of components and reducing investment on a charging device. A
   voltage input to the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit is relatively high, such
   that the current through the switch transistor and the diode loop is reduced, thus reducing the energy
   consumption of the device. Moreover, a capacity can be expanded by connecting multiple groups of
   rectifier circuits (Buck) in parallel.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         To describe the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present invention or in the prior
   art more clearly, the following briefly describes the accompanying drawings required for describing the
   embodiments. Apparently, the accompanying drawings in the following description show some
   embodiments of the present invention, and a person of ordinary skill in the art may still derive other
30 drawings from these accompanying drawings without creative efforts.
         FIG. 1 is a schematic structural diagram of a DC charging system for a storage battery of an
   electrical vehicle according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         The following clearly and completely describes the technical solutions in the embodiments of the
35 present invention with reference to the accompanying drawings in the embodiments of the present

   invention. Apparently, the described embodiments are merely a part rather than all of the
   embodiments of the present invention. All other embodiments obtained by a person of ordinary skill
   in the art based on the embodiments of the present invention without creative efforts shall fall within
   the protection scope of the present invention.
 5       An objective of the present invention is to provide a DC charging system for a storage battery of
   an electric vehicle, which can reduce complexity of the structure and circuits of a charging pile, and
   decrease the energy consumption of the device, thus reducing the costs.
         To make the foregoing objective, features, and advantages of the present invention clearer and
   more comprehensible, the present invention is further described in detail below with reference to the
10 accompanying drawings and specific embodiments.
         FIG. 1 is a schematic structural diagram of a DC charging system for a storage battery of an
   electrical vehicle according to Embodiment 1 of the present invention. As shown in FIG. 1, the DC
   charging system for a storage battery of an electrical vehicle includes a distribution transformer and a
   DC charging pile.
15       The distribution transformer 1 includes a primary high-voltage side 11 and a secondary
   low-voltage side 12, and the DC charging pile includes a charging pile controller and a step-down
   high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit.
         The step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit includes a filter, a rectifier bridge,
   and a filter loop. The filter includes filter inductors L1, L2, and L3 and energy storage capacitors C1, C2,
20 and C3. The rectifier bridge includes six rectifier arms and each rectifier arm is formed by connecting a
   switch transistor in series with a rectifier diode. The filter loop includes a flyback diode D7, an energy
   storage inductor L4 and a filter capacitor C4.
         The primary high-voltage side 11 is connected to a public medium-voltage distribution network.
   The secondary low-voltage side 12 is connected to an input end of the step-down high-frequency
25 PWM rectification filter circuit, to supply power to the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification
   filter circuit; and an output end of the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit is
   connected to a charge interface of the DC charging pile.
         A positive output end of the rectifier bridge is connected to a negative electrode of the flyback
   diode D7 and one end of the energy storage inductor L4, and the other end of the energy storage
30 inductor L4 is connected to a positive electrode of the filter capacitor C4. A negative output end of the
   rectifier bridge is connected to a positive electrode of the flyback diode D7 and a negative electrode of
   the filter capacitor C4.
         An output end of the charging pile controller is connected to the switch transistors V1, V2, V3,
   V4, V5 and V6 via an isolation-driven loop, to control switch-on/switch-off of the switch transistors V1,
35 V2, V3, V4, V5 and V6 in the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit.

        The output end of the charging pile controller is connected to gate electrodes of the switch
   transistors V1, V2, V3, V4, V5, and V6 by means of isolation drive.
        The secondary low-voltage side 12 is provided with at least one three-phase secondary winding.
        A voltage of the low-voltage side of the three-phase secondary winding equals to a non-standard
 5 voltage value.
         Embodiment 1: One three-phase secondary winding is set on the secondary low-voltage side 12
   of the distribution transformer. There are a plurality of DC charging piles. The non-standard voltage
   value output by the secondary low-voltage side 12 can simultaneously meet a storage battery charging
   requirement, a power factor control requirement, and a grid voltage fluctuation requirement of 15%.
10 A modulation wave output by the charging pile controller controls gate electrodes of the switch
   transistors V1, V2, V3, V4, V5 and V6. The magnitude of an output current of a rectifier circuit and an
   input power factor are controlled through PWM modulation. The filter circuit makes a current ripple
   achieve the storage battery charging requirement of the electric vehicle. Specifically, the charging pile
   controller modulates the carrier pulse width according to a storage battery charging policy and a
15 power factor control requirement, to control switch-on/switch-off of the switch transistors V1, V2, V3,
   V4, V5 and V6 in the rectifier circuit. The whole DC charging system device charges the storage battery
   of the electric vehicle via an output terminal U1.
         Embodiment 2: A difference between this embodiment and Embodiment 1 is that, a plurality of
   three-phase secondary windings is set on the secondary low-voltage side 12 of the distribution
20 transformer. The number of the DC charging piles is the same as that of the three-phase secondary
   windings. Other content is identical with that in Embodiment 1.
        The present invention uses a combination of a step-down (Buck) high-frequency PWM rectifier
   device and a dedicated distribution transformer 1. A voltage of a low-voltage side of the distribution
   transformer equals to a non-standard voltage value, and is used to supply power to the step-down
25 (Buck) high-frequency PWM rectifier device. The voltage value simultaneously meets a storage battery
   charging requirement, a power factor control requirement, and a grid voltage fluctuation requirement
   of 15%. A charging current is output after rectification and filtering on the current at the low-voltage
   side of the distribution transformer, and thus the use of a high-frequency transformer for a switching
   power supply is avoided, decreasing the number of components and reducing investment on a
30 charging device. A voltage input to the high-frequency PWM rectification circuit (Buck) is relatively
   high, such that the current through the switch transistors and a diode loop is reduced at the same
   power, thus reducing the energy consumption of the device. Moreover, a capacity can be expanded by
   connecting multiple groups of rectifier circuits (Buck) in parallel, and thus the structure of the charging
   pile can be simplified and the complexity of the circuits can be reduced, reducing the investment on
35 pile construction.

       Several examples are used for illustration of the principles and implementation methods of the
  present invention. The description of the embodiments is used to help illustrate the method and its
  core principles of the present invention. In addition, those skilled in the art can make various
  modifications in terms of specific embodiments and scope of application in accordance with the
5 teachings of the present invention. In conclusion, the content of this specification shall not be
  construed as a limitation to the invention.

   What is claimed is:
         1. A direct-current (DC) charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle, comprising a
   distribution transformer and a DC charging pile, wherein
         the distribution transformer comprises a primary high-voltage side and a secondary low-voltage
 5 side, and the DC charging pile comprises a charging pile controller and a step-down high-frequency
   PWM rectification filter circuit;
         the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit comprises a filter, a rectifier bridge,
   and a filter loop, the filter comprising a filter inductor and an energy storage capacitor; the rectifier
   bridge comprising six rectifier arms and each rectifier arm being formed by connecting a switch
10 transistor in series with a diode; and the filter loop comprising a flyback diode, an energy storage
   inductor and a filter capacitor;
         the primary high-voltage side of the distribution transformer is connected to a public
   medium-voltage distribution network; the secondary low-voltage side is connected to an input end of
   the step-down high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit, to supply power to the step-down
15 high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit; and an output end of the step-down high-frequency
   PWM rectification filter circuit is connected to a charge interface of the DC charging pile; and
         an output end of the charging pile controller is connected to the switch transistors by means of
   isolation drive, to control switch-on/switch-off of the switch transistors in the step-down
   high-frequency PWM rectification filter circuit.
20       2. The DC charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle according to claim 1,
   wherein the output end of the charging pile controller is connected to gate electrodes of the switch
   transistors by means of isolation drive.
         3. The DC charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle according to claim 1,
   wherein a positive output end of the rectifier bridge is connected to a negative electrode of the
25 flyback diode and one end of the energy storage inductor, the other end of the energy storage
   inductor is connected to a positive electrode of the filter capacitor, and a negative output end of the
   rectifier bridge is connected to a positive electrode of the flyback diode and a negative electrode of
   the filter capacitor.
         4. The DC charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle according to claim 1,
30 wherein the secondary low-voltage side is provided with at least one three-phase secondary winding.
         5. The DC charging system for a storage battery of an electric vehicle according to claim 4,
   wherein a voltage of the low-voltage side of the three-phase secondary winding equals to a
   non-standard voltage value that simultaneously meets a storage battery charging requirement, a
   power factor control requirement, and a grid voltage fluctuation requirement of 15%.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
