Abstract
Automotive battery with smart features. Battery is adapted for cars, boats, motorcycles and trucks is
to enable constant power for internal GPS tracking to vehicle owner's smart-device. Battery includes
a remote de-activation or anti-theft capability. Battery is activated through call to business or
through smart-phone battery application. Through smart-phone application, a battery health
component provides status of battery health or life. Internal jump start kit fitted within the battery
provides a jump start capability in the event of a flat battery. Vehicle theft notification or release of
vehicle data allows authorities direct access to vehicle locations in the event of theft. Vehicle
collision automated notification sent to authorities in the event of a substantial collision. Generic or
non-vehicle ID specific vehicle location managed in creation of smart streets system optimising
transportation efficiency.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Battrax
'Smart Battery', Automotive battery with built-in GPS tracking, remote shut-down,
battery health monitor and internal jump starter.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

BATTRAX
Automotive battery with smart features.
The battery, which could be adapted for cars, boats, motorcycles and trucks is to
enable constant power for internal GPS tracking to vehicle owner's smart-device.
The 'smart battery' would also include a remote de-activation (anti-theft) capability.
This can be activated through call to business or through smart-phone battery
application.
Through that smart-phone application, a battery health component will be added to
provide status of battery health/life.
An internal jump start kit will be fitted within the battery to provide a jump start
capability in the event of a flat battery.
Optional vehicle theft notification (release of vehicle data) to allow authorities direct
access to vehicle locations in the event of theft.
Optional vehicle collision automated- notification to authorities in the event of a
substantial collision.
Scope for generic (non-vehicle ID specific) vehicle location to be managed in creation
of 'smart streets' system designed to optimise transportation efficiency.

