                                              22
   ABSTRACT
                 A livestock head holder features a top holding member, a bottom
   holding member and an intermediate link connecting same. An operating [ever
   connected to the bottom holding member so that downward pulling of the operating
 5 lever performs a closing stroke of the head holder that swings both holding members
   into place against the animal's neck. A lock and release mechanism automatically
   blocks the linkage from performing a reverse opening stroke that withdraws the
   holding members away from one another under raising of the operating lever. The
   operating lever is arranged to release the locking action during initial raising of lever to
10 enable completion of the opening stroke, thereby using the same lever for all opening,
   closing and unlocking functions, whereas prior designs required a separate lock
   release mechanism.

                                                  1
   LIVESTOCK        HEAD     HOLDER WITH          SINGULAR OPERATING           LEVER     FOR
   CLOSING, UNLOCKING AND OPENING SAME
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                   The present invention relates generally to livestock handling equipment,
 5 and more particularly to a livestock head holder of a type useful on the head gate of a
   livestock squeeze chute to provide additional restraint of the animals head for the
   purpose of ear-tagging, oral inspection (mouthing), etc.
   BACKGROUND
                   Applicant currently markets a livestock head holder of the aforementioned
10 type, which is illustrated in Figure 1. Top and bottom closing members respectively act
   against the top and bottom of the animal's neck to hold the animal's head in place, for
   example to restrain the animal's head during ear tagging, oral examination (mouthing),
   etc. The head holder features a frame 10 mounted to the head gate of a squeeze chute
   (not shown), and a linkage in which the two holding members 12, 14 are connected by
15 an intermediate link 16 and moved via an operating lever 18. The operating lever 18 is
   affixed to the bottom holding member 12 to reach outward therefrom at a first end 12a
   thereof opposite a U-shaped neck-cradle 20 that is carried at an opposed working end
   12b of the bottom holding member 12 to fit against the underside of the animal's neck.
                   The drawing shows the prior art head holder apparatus in a closed state
20 in which both holding members span laterally outward from the frame in a common
   direction so that the cradle 20 of the bottom holding member resides below the top
   holding member 14 near the working end 14b thereof in an orientation opening
   upwardly theretoward. The operating lever 18 is used to transition to the apparatus to
   this illustrated closed state from an initially opened state in which the top and bottom
25 holding members instead reach upward and downward from the top and bottom of the
   frame in nearly vertical orientations. To perform the closing stroke that transitions the
   linkage from the open state to the closed state, the free end 18a of the operating lever
   18 pulled downwardly from its initial position reaching upward from the first end of the
   upright bottom holding member. This swings the bottom holding member 12 into the
30 laterally reaching orientation of the illustrated closed state to brace the attached neck-

                                                2
   cradle 20 against the underside of the animal's neck. During this closing stroke of the
   head holder, the intermediate link 16 causes the top holding member 14 to
   simultaneously swing down against the topside of the animal's neck, thereby firmly
   holding the neck in a stationary position between the holding members 14, 16 to restrain
 5 head movement of the animal.
                  So that exertion of force against the holding members by attempted
   movement by the animal will not open the head holder, a lock and release mechanism
   22 automatically locks the linkage to block movement thereof in a reverse opening
   stroke that would otherwise allow the holding members to move away from one another
10 toward the opened state. The lock and release mechanism 22 features a shaft 24
   whose lower end is pivotally pinned to the bottom holding member 12. The shaft 24
   passes upwardly through a lock housing 26 carried on a mounting plate 28 that is
   pivotally pinned to the top end of the frame 10. Inside the lock housing 26, the shaft 24
   passes through an opening in a locking plate that is spring-biased into a tilted locking
15 position in which the perimeter edge of the plate's opening bites against the periphery
   of the shaft to lock the shaft against upward movement through the lock housing 26.
   This locks the linkage against opening, as the opening stroke requires lifting the free
   end of the operating lever, would in turn attempts to force the shaft 24 upwardly. The
   locked state of the shaft 24 prevents such upward movement, thus preventing the
20 operating handle from being lifted to initiate the opening stroke.
                  Opening of the head holder thus requires temporary release of the locking
   action, which is achieved by pulling upward on a release pin 30 that projects upwardly
   out of the lock housing 26 at the upper end thereof. Inside the lock housing, one end
   of the locking plate is pivotally supported between a pair of locating pins 36 that cross
25 horizontally through the lock housing, while the other end of the lock plate engages with
   a circumferentially-recessed reduced-diameter area of the release pin 30. As a result,
   manual lifting the release pin 30 overcomes the resistance of a spring that is coiled
   around the release pin 30 between the top wall of the housing and the locking plate in
   order to raise this pin-engaged end of the locking plate. This lifting of the release pin
30 30 thus straightens out the locking plate into a lock-releasing position perpendicular to

                                                 3
   the shaft, whereupon the shaft can slide freely through the opening in the lock plate.
                   From the forgoing, it will be appreciated that the prior art head holder
   requires two separate input actions by the operator in order to open the apparatus,
   namely manual lifting of the release pin 30 to release the locked state of the linkage,
 5 and a separate lifting of the operator lever 18 with the other hand to perform the opening
   stroke.
                   It would be desirable to provide a livestock head holder with a simplified
   unlock and opening procedure.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
10                According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a livestock
   head holder comprising:
                  a frame;
                  a linkage comprising:
                          a top holding member pivotally coupled to the frame proximate a
15 first end of the top holding member;
                          a bottom holding member coupled to the frame proximate a first
   end of the bottom holding member;
                          an operating lever connected to the bottom holding member to
   extend outwardly from the first end thereof so downward pulling of a free end of the
20 operating lever performs a closing stroke of the head holder that swings an opposing
   working end of the bottom holding member upwardly to brace against an underside of
   an animal's neck; and
                          an intermediate link having an upper end pivotally coupled to the
   top holding member and a lower end pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member
25 so as to swing a working end of the top holding member downwardly during the closing
   stroke;
                  a lock and release mechanism comprising a lock arranged to normally
   prevent a reverse opening stroke of the head holder that withdraws the working ends
   of the holding members away from one another to release the animal's neck;
30                wherein the operating lever is arranged to release the locking action

                                                  4
   during initial raising of the free end of the operating lever in order to enable completion
   of the opening stroke.
                    Preferably the lock and release mechanism comprises:
                   a shaft;
 5                 a lock carrier;
                   a locking member carried by the lock carrier, having an opening through
   which the shaft extends and being biased into a tilted locking position in which a
   perimeter edge of the opening is in biting engagement with the shaft;
                   a release member arranged to force the locking member out of the tilted
10 locking position during said initial raising of the free end of the operating lever and into
   a release position disengaged from the shaft.
                    Preferably the release member reaches downwardly from the locking
   member toward the bottom holding member to receive an upward force on the release
   member at a lower end thereof during said initial raising of the free end of the operating
15 lever.
                    Preferably the locking device further comprises a cam carried on the
   operating lever and arranged to act against the release member in a direction forcing
   the locking member out of the tilted locking position and into the release position during
   said initial raising of the free end of the operating lever.
20                  Preferably the cam comprises a concave curvature at a camming surface
   thereof over which the release member travels during the opening stroke to maintain
   the locking member in the release position throughout said opening stroke.
                    Preferably the shaft has a pivotal connection to the frame and hangs
   downwardly from said pivotal connection, the lock carrier is pivotally coupled to the
25 bottom holding member, and the titled locking position of the locking member blocks
   upward sliding of the lock carrier along the shaft.
                    Preferably the operating lever is arranged for limited upward tilting of the
   free end thereof relative to the bottom holding member to a predetermined limit at which
   the bottom holding member starts moving with the operating lever to initiate the opening
30 stroke, said limited upward tilting acting to release the locking action and allow the

                                                 5
   opening stroke, preferably by driving the release member to a raised position forcing
   the locking member out of the tilted locking position and into the release position.
                  Preferably the operating lever is pivotally pinned to the bottom holding
   member to enable the limited upward tilting of the operating lever relative thereto.
 5                Preferably a protruding stop and a cooperating opening are defined on
   opposing ones of said bottom holding member and said operating lever, the protruding
   stop reaching into the opening and being sized and shaped relative thereto to allow but
   limit the upward tilting of the operating lever relative to the bottom holding member.
                  Preferably the opening is defined by the end of a hollow tubular member
10 affixed to a respective one of either the bottom holding member or the operating lever.
                  Preferably the protruding stop is an L-shaped stop having a first leg
   protruding outwardly from the respective one of either the bottom holding member or
   the operating lever, and a second leg reaching therealong.
                  Preferably the protruding stop is defined on the bottom holding member
15 and the cooperating opening is defined on the operating lever.
                  According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a
   livestock head holder comprising:
                  a frame;
                  a top holding member pivotally coupled to the frame proximate a first end
20 of the top holding member;
                  a bottom holding member coupled to the frame proximate a first end of
   the bottom holding member
                  an operating lever connected to the bottom holding member to extend
   outwardly from the first end thereof so that downward pulling of a free end of the
25 operating lever performs a closing stroke of the head holder that swings an opposing
   working end of the holding member upwardly to brace against an underside of an
   animal's neck; and
                  an intermediate link having an upper end pivotally coupled to the top
   holding member and a lower end pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member so as
30 to swing a working end of the top holding member downwardly during the closing stroke

                                                  6
   actuated by the operating lever; and
                  a lock and release mechanism comprising:
                         a shaft having a pivotal connection to the frame and hanging
   downwardly from said pivotal connection;
 5                       a lock carrier pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member;
                         a locking member carried by the lock carrier, said locking member
   having an opening through which the shaft extends and being biased into a tilted locking
   position in which a perimeter edge of the opening bites onto the shaft to prevent upward
   sliding of the lock carrier along the shaft and thereby prevent movement of the linkage
10 in a reverse opening stroke;
                         a release member engaged with the locking member and reaching
   downwardly from the locking member toward the bottom holding member; and
                         a cam carried by the operating lever and having a camming surface
   facing the release member for contact with a lower end thereof to act upwardly
15 thereagainst during initial raising of the free end of the operating lever to thereby lift the
   release member into a raised position forcing the locking member out of the tilted
   locking position and into a release position allowing initiation of the opening stroke, said
   camming surface being shaped to maintain the raised position of the release member
   and the release position of the locking member throughout continued raising of the free
20 end of the operating lever to complete the opening stroke.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                  One embodiment of the invention will now be described in conjunction
   with the accompanying drawings in which:
                  Figure 1 is a perspective view of a prior art livestock head holder for
25 mounting on the head gate of a livestock squeeze chute.
                  Figure 2 is a perspective view of a livestock head holder of the present
   invention featuring a unique lock and release mechanism by which unlocking and
   opening of the head holder out of the closed state shown in the figure requires only a
   single action on the same operating lever that is used to close the head holder.
30                Figure 2A is a close-up view of the encircled area of the livestock head

                                                  7
   holder of Figure 2, showing details of the lock and release mechanism thereof.
                    Figure 3 is a partially exploded view of the lock and release mechanism
   of Figure 2A.
                    Figure 4 is an elevational view of the livestock head holder of Figure 2.
 5                  Figure 5A is a partial cross-sectional view of the lock and release
   mechanism in a locked state preventing opening of the head holder.
                    Figure 5B is a partial cross-sectional view of the lock and release
   mechanism in an unlocked state allowing opening of the head holder.
                    Figure 6 is an elevational view of the livestock head holder of Figure 2,
10 but in its fully opened state.
                    In the drawings like characters of reference indicate corresponding parts
   in the different figures.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                    Figure 2 illustrates a livestock head holder apparatus of the present
15 invention, which features the same frame 10, bottom holding member 12, top holding
   member 14 and intermediate link 16 as the prior art apparatus of Figure 1. The top
   holding member 14 has a first end 14a and an opposing second working end 14b. Near
   its first end 14a, the top holding member 14 is pivotally coupled to the frame 10 near an
   upper end thereof by a respective pivot pin 14c. The bottom holding member 12 also
20 has a first end 12a and an opposing second working end 12b. Near its first end 12a,
   the bottom holding member 12 is pivotally coupled to the frame 10 near a lower end
   thereof by a respective pivot pin 12c. The U-shaped neck cradle 20 is affixed to the
   bottom holding member 12 near the working end thereof. Both holding members are
   pivotally pinned to the frame 10 at a front side thereof by their respective pivot pins, and
25 in the closed state of Figure 2, both holding members span laterally outward from the
   frame in a common direction so that the neck cradle 20 of the bottom holding member
   resides below the top holding member 14 near the working end 14b thereof in an
   orientation opening upwardly theretoward. Accordingly, in the closed state, the top
   holding member and the neck cradle 20 of the bottom holding member 12 brace against
30 the topside and underside of the animals neck to restrain and stabilize the animal's

                                                   8
   head in the same manner as the prior art apparatus.
                  The intermediate link 16 has its lower end pivotally coupled to the bottom
   holding member 12 by pivot pin 16a at a location between the bottom holding member's
   pivot pin 12c and first end 12a. The upper end of the intermediate link 16 is pivotally
 5 coupled to the top holding member 14 by pivot pin 16b at a location between the top
   holding member's pivot pin 14c and working end 14b, but closer to the pivot pin 14c
   and the first end 14a than to the working end 14b. Since the intermediate link 16 is
   thus connected to the top and bottom holding members on opposite sides of their
   respective pivot pins, it will cause the top holding member 14 to automatically swing in
10 an opposite direction to the bottom holding member 12 when the bottom holding
   member 12 is swung about its respective pivot pin 12c. So far, the described installation
   of the top and bottom holding members and the intermediate link within the linkage is
   the same as in the prior art.
                  As in the prior art, and as shown in the drawings, each holding member
15 may be made up of a linear length of square metal tubing 12d, 14d and a respective
   metal bracket 12e, 14e welded or otherwise rigidly affixed to the tubing to define the
   first end 12a, 14a of the respective holding member. The bracket 12e, 14e of each
   holding member also defines the respective mounting point at which the holding
   member is coupled to the frame 10 by the respective pivot pin 12c, 14c, and also the
20 respective connection point at which the intermediate link 16 is connected to the holding
   member by its pivot pin 16a, 16b. The pivot pins 12c, 14c, 16a, 16b coupling the holding
   members to the frame and coupling the intermediate link to the holding members are
   all oriented horizontally, and lie parallel to one another and perpendicular to the vertical
   plane of the frame 10, whereby these pins enable movement of the linkage within a
25 vertical working plane parallel and adjacent to the frame 10.
                  Like in the prior art of Figure 1, the operating lever 18' is once again
   connected to the bottom holding member 12 in a manner reaching outwardly beyond
   the first end 12a thereof, whereby the free end 18a of the lever forms a handle for
   manual actuation of the linkage movement via the lever 18'. However, the operating
30 lever 18' is not rigidly attached to the bottom lever, unlike Figure 1 where the lever 18

                                                   9
   is bolted to the metal tubing 12d of the bottom holding member to remain rigidly fixed
   thereto.   Instead, the operating lever 18' of the present embodiment is pivotally
   connected to the bottom holding member 12 to allow a small degree of pivotal
   movement relative thereto. The manner and purpose of this movable pivot connection
 5 between the operating lever and the bottom holding member is described in detail
   further below. The operating lever 18' of the illustrated embodiment also differs from
   the prior art of Figure 1 by having a perpendicular bend 18b near the free end 18a to
   enable comfortable gripping of the lever from different operator stances.
                  Like that of the prior art, the lock and release mechanism 22' once again
10 features a shaft 24, a lock housing 26 carried on a mounting plate 28, a release pin 30',
   and a tiltable locking plate 32 biased into a tilted locking position by a spring 34 coiled
   around the release pin 30'. The locking plate 32 and spring 34 are shown in the cross
   sectional views of Figures 5A and 5B.              However, the manner in which these
   components are installed and in which they cooperate with other components is
15 distinguished over the prior art, and affords a new convenient unlock functionality
   lacking in the prior art design.
                  Firstly, with reference to Figure 2 or 4, the shaft 24 is not connected to
   the bottom holding member 12 like in the prior art, but instead is pivotally connected to
   the frame 10 at an upper corner thereof by a respective pivot pin 24a lying parallel to
20 the other pivot pins. The shaft 24 hangs downwardly from its pivotal connection at a
   side of the frame opposite that to which the holding members laterally extend in the
   closed state of the head holder. Secondly, the mounting plate 28 and attached lock
   housing 26 are pivotally connected to the bottom holding member 12 adjacent the first
   end 12a thereof by another pivot pin 28a lying parallel to the other pivot pins. The lock
25 housing 26 and mounting plate 28 thus cooperatively form a lock carrier by which the
   locking components in the housing are pivotally carried on the bottom holding members.
   However, it will be appreciated that this carrier need not necessarily employ a fully
   enclosed housing.
                  The release pin 30' of the present embodiment is linear over its entire
30 span, unlike the L-shaped release pin 30 in the prior art of Figure 1 where the

                                                10
   perpendicularly bent portion of the release pin outside the lock housing 26 at the top
   end thereof was needed to form a manual actuation handle for upward pulling of the
   release pin to unlock the linkage. In the present embodiment, an actuation end 30a of
   the release pin 30' instead resides outside the lock housing 26 at the lower end thereof.
 5 Accordingly, the lock and release mechanism is inverted relative to that of the prior art,
   as the shaft has a pivotal connection from which it hangs at its top end instead of
   standing upright from a pivotal connection at its bottom end, the lock housing is carried
   on the bottom holding member instead of at the top of the frame, and the actuating end
   of the release pin is below the lock housing, not above it. In the present embodiment,
10 movement of the bottom holding member displaces the lock housing along the shaft,
   whereas in the prior art, movement of the bottom holding member displaced the shaft
   through the lock housing.
                   Figures 5A and 5B show cutaway views of the lock housing to illustrate
   the placement and operation of the lock components therein. From the drawings and
15 description, it will be appreciated that the position of other lock components relative to
   the shaft 24 are mirrored from that of the prior art due to the inverted nature of the
   present lock and release mechanism relative to that of the prior art.
                  The shaft 24 passes fully through the lock housing via suitably sized
   openings in the top wall 26a, and opposing bottom all 26b thereof. At an intermediate
20 location between the top and bottom walls 26, 26b of the lock housing 26, a pair of
   locating pins 36 span horizontally through the mounting plate 28 and an opposing front
   wall 26c of the lock housing in a direction perpendicular to the shaft 24 and parallel to
   all the pivot pins of the linkage. One end of the locking plate 32 is received between
   these locating pins 36. The locating pins and respective end of the lock plate reside on
25 an outer side of the shaft opposite the holding members and intermediate link. On the
   opposing inner side of the shaft 24, a second end of the locking plate 32 features a
   notch through which the release pin 30' passes as it extends through the housing via
   openings in the the top and bottom walls 26a, 26b thereof.
                  The release pin 30' has a reduced-diameter portion 30b defining a
30 circumferential recess therearound, where the notched out end of the locking plate 32

                                                11
   engages with the    release  pin 30'. The width of the notch in the locking plate is equal
   to, or slightly exceeds, the reduced diameter of the recessed portion 30b of the release
   pin, but is less than the full-diameter portions of the release pin 30' that remain intact
   above and below the locking plate 32.             Accordingly, upward and downward
 5 displacement of the pin 30' forces the notched end of the locking plate upward and
   downward relative to the first end of the locking plate 32 that is constrained between
   the locating pins 36, as the shouldered transitions between the reduced-diameter and
   full diameter portions of the release pin abut against the lock plate at the intact areas
   on either side of the notch to force the notched end up and down during axial
10 displacement of the release pin in opposing directions.
                   Between the pin-constrained first end 32a of the locking plate and the
   notched-out pin-engaging end 32b thereof, an opening               in the locking     plate
   accommodates passage of the shaft 24 therethrough.          The opening has a diameter
   slightly greater than the shaft, so that when the locking plate lies perpendicular to the
15 shaft, the shaft is freely slidable through the locking plate. This unlocked release
   condition is shown in Figure 5B, where the lock plate is perpendicular to the shaft 24.
   However, a compression spring 34 is coiled around the release pin 30' between the
   locking plate 32 and the top wall 26a of the lock housing 26, and therefore normally
   forces the notched-out pin-engaging end 32b of the locking plate 32 downwardly,
20 thereby tilting the locking plate 32 into a non-perpendicular orientation relative to the
   shaft 24. This is shown in Figure 5A, where angle a measured between the lock plate
   and the shaft at the bottom of the lock plate on the inner side of the shaft is an acute
   angle slightly lesser than the 90-degree value of the same angle a in Figure 5B. The
   degree of tilt and the size of the opening in the locking plate 32 are such that the
25 perimeter edge 32c around the opening at the topside of the locking plate 32 bites
   against the outer periphery of the shaft 24, thereby locking the shaft against upward
   axial displacement relative to the lock housing 26 and the locking plate carried thereby.
   The spring 34 thus normally tilts the locking plate into its locking position, but upward
   axial displacement of the release pin 30' into a raised position forces the notched end
30 32b of the locking plate upwardly, thus pivoting the locking plate 32 about its

                                                12
   constrained end      32a   out of its tilted locking position into the release position
   perpendicular to the shaft 24.
                   While the forgoing description refers to a singular locking plate, Figures
   5A and 5B demonstrate that there may be more than one such plate. The illustrated
 5 embodiment shows two locking plates 32, 33 residing in face-to-face adjacent relation
   to one another and both constrained between the same pair of locating pins 36.
   Accordingly, the illustrated embodiment increases the shaft-biting locking action by
   having two plates bite against the shaft periphery in the locking position. Accordingly,
   general reference is made herein to a locking member that operates in the manner
10 described above in relation to one locking plate 32, and it will be appreciated that the
   overall locking member may be constituted by a singular piece, or by multiple pieces
   each providing a respective biting action on the shaft in the locked state of the
   mechanism.
                   With reference to Figure 2A, to cause upward driving of the release pin
15 30' into its raised position overcoming the spring force to pivot the locking plate into its
   release position, a cam member 38 is carried on the operating lever 18' at or near its
   movable connection to the bottom holding member 12. A topside of the cam member
   38 features an upwardly convex camming surface 32a that resides beneath the lower
   actuation end 30a of release pin 30' at a distance below the bottom wall 26b of the lock
20 housing 26. This way, the lower actuation end 30a of the release pin can abut against
   this camming surface 32a and travel therealong.         The convex camming surface is
   defined atop an arc-shaped end portion 38b of the camming member whose concave
   underside bridges over the pivot pin 28a of the lock-carrying mounting plate 28. From
   the arc-shaped portion 38b, a linear-reaching leg portion 38c of the cam member
25 extends in one direction away from the shaft 24 alongside the bottom holding member
   12 toward the working end 12b thereof.
                   Turning to the exploded view in Figure 3, a tab-shaped mounting portion
   38d depends downwardly from the linear leg portion 38c of the camming member near
   the distal end thereof opposite the arc-shaped end portion. The tab-like mounting
30 portion 38d reaches downwardly through a slot 40a in the top wall of a hollow tubular

                                                13
   member 40 at one end thereof. The tubular member 40 is affixed to the operating lever
   18' at a working end 18c thereof opposite the manually operated free end thereof, and
   at the rear side of the lever 18' that faces toward the bottom holding member 12. The
   slotted end 40b of the tubular member 40 faces toward the free end 18a of the operating
 5 lever so that the slotted end faces toward the shaft 24.
                  The movable connection between the operating handle 18' and the
   bottom holding member 12 is provided by a respective pivot pin 18d that lies parallel to
   the other pivot pins and passes through the operating lever 18', the adjacent tubular
   member 40, the mounting tab portion 38d of the cam member 38, and the mounting
10 bracket 12e of the bottom holding member 12. An L-shaped stop tab 42 protruding
   from the bottom holding member has a first leg 42a jutting perpendicularly out from the
   front side of the bottom holding member, and a second leg 42b reaching along the
   bottom holding member 12 toward the first end 12a thereof. The stop tab 42 is located
   near the bottom holding member's pivot pin 12c so as to be on the side of the operating
15 lever pivot pint 18c opposite the first end 12a of the bottom holding member and
   opposite the shaft 24 and release pin 30'. The distance from the operating lever's pivot
   pin 18c to the nearest end of the second leg 42b of the stop tab is less the distance
   from the operating lever's pivot pin 18c to the unslotted distal end 40c of the tubular
   member 40. Accordingly, with the tubular member in its installed position pinned up
20 against the front side of the bottom holding member, the second leg 42b of the stop tab
   42 reaches into the opening at the distal end 40c of the hollow tubular member 40. The
   thickness of the stop tab 42 is less than the height of the tubular member 40, whereby
   the tubular member 40 and the operating lever 18' affixed thereto can pivot a limited
   degree relative to the bottom holding member 12 about the pivot pin 18d.
25                 In the closed state of the head holder, the weight of the operating lever
   18' will tend to lower the free end 18a thereof until the stop tab 42 abuts the underside
   of the tubular member's top wall, thus defining a default position of the operating lever
   relative to the bottom holding member in the closed state of the head holder. In this
   position, the cam member 38 carried on the operating lever 18' by the tubular member
30 40 has its cam surface 32a in non-forceful contact with, or closely spaced relation to,

                                                 14
   the lower actuation end 30a of the release pin 30'. However, with the apparatus in the
   closed state shown in Figures 2 and 4, initial lifting of the operating lever 18' will tilt the
   free end 18a upwardly relative to the bottom holding member 12, and the allowed
   degree of tilting between the operating lever and the bottom holding member before the
 5 bottom wall of the tubular member 40 abuts against the stop tab 42 is sufficient to force
   the camming surface 32a upwardly against the lower actuation end 30a of the release
   pin 30' and lift the release pin into a raised position forcing the locking plate 32 into its
   untilted release position perpendicular to the shaft. Until this release of the locking
   action takes place, upward lifting of the first end 12a of the bottom holding member 12
10 (as required to lower the opposing working end thereof about pivot pin 12c) is not
   possible, as the lock housing 26 carried on the bottom working member by mounting
   plate 28a cannot move upwardly because the tilted locking position of the locking plate
   in the lock housing prevents relative sliding of the lock housing 26 along the shaft 24.
                   However, once the operating handle 18' reaches its predetermined limit
15 of upward tilting relative to the bottom holding member and thereby releases the locking
   action, the first end 12a of the bottom holding member 12 can now rise under continued
   lifting of the operating lever 18'. So as the bottom wall of the tubular member rises into
   contact with the stop tab 42, denoting the limit of its initial tilting movement, the first end
   12a of the bottom holding member will be lifted upwardly about the pivot pin 12c with
20 the operating lever 18'. So continued lifting of the operating lever 18' lifts the first end
   12a of the bottom holding member 12 along with it, which lowers the working end 12b
   of the bottom holding member downwardly about pivot pin 12c and thereby performs
   the opening stroke of the linkage to withdraw the two holding members away from one
   another and release the animal.         During this opening stroke, the convexly curved
25 camming surface 38a of the cam member 38 maintains the release pin 30' in its raised
   position holding the locking plate 32 perpendicular to the shaft 24 to allow continued
   travel of the lock housing 26 along the shaft 24 due to the free sliding relationship
   between the shaft and the perpendicular lock plate. Accordingly, this allows continued
   lowering of the working end 12b of the bottom holding member, which in turn causes
30 the working end 14b of the top holding member to rise under the action of the

                                                 15
   intermediate link 16 connected between the two holding members.
                   While the illustrated embodiment places the stop tab and cooperating
   hollow tubular member on the bottom holding member and operating lever,
   respectively, this arrangement may be reversed in order embodiments, where a stop
 5 tab on the lever reaches into a hollow part on the bottom holding member. Various
   other stop arrangements capable of forming predetermined limits of relative movement
   between the operating handle and the bottom holding member may alternatively be
   employed.
                   Figure 6 shows the holding apparatus in its fully opened state, where the
10 top holding member 14 stands generally upright in a near vertical orientation, and the
   bottom holding member 12 hangs downward in a near vertical orientation, and the
   bottom actuating end 30a of the release pin has reached the terminal end of the
   camming surface 38a at the tip of the arc-shaped cam end 38b of the cam member.
   From this, it will be appreciated that the cam member 38, through continuous contact
15 with the lower actuation end 30a of the release pin 30', maintains the unlocked state of
   the lock/release mechanism throughout the full opening stroke of the linkage.
                   From the fully opened state of Figure 6, re-closing of the apparatus simply
   requires manual grasping of the free end 18a of the operating lever and pulling thereof
   away from the top holding member 14 and downwardly toward the ground.                  With
20 reference to the close-up inset of Figure 5A, the tilted locking position of the lock plate
   places the top perimeter 32c edge of the lock plate's opening into biting engagement
   with the shaft 24, where attempted upward displacement of the lock housing 26 along
   the shaft only increases the biting action of the lock plate on the shaft, thereby
   increasing the locking force to prevent any movement. On the other hand, during the
25 closing stroke, where the lock housing 26 is forced downwardly along the shaft 24,
   relative sliding between the shaft and the biting edge 32c of the locking plate is allowed
   to occur. Accordingly, no user-performed lock-release action is required to enable the
   closing stroke.
                   From the forgoing, it will be appreciated that the disclosed head holder
30 relies solely on lifting of the operating lever 18' to both unlock and open the apparatus

                                                16
   using a singular motion or action, thereby providing notable improvement over the prior
   art that requires two-handed operation to release the locking action via the release pin
   with one hand while simultaneously lifting of the operating lever with the other hand.
                   Since various modifications can be made in my invention as herein above
 5 described, and many apparently widely different embodiments of same made within the
   scope of the claims without departure from such scope, it is intended that all matter
   contained in the accompanying specification shall be interpreted as illustrative only and
   not in a limiting sense.
10         In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
   more or less specific to structural or methodical features. The term "comprises" and its
   variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of' is used throughout in an inclusive
   sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features.
15       Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to be
   taken as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form part of the
   common general knowledge.
20

                                                17
   CLAIMS:
                   1.     A livestock head holder comprising:
                   a frame;
                   a linkage comprising:
 5                        a top holding member pivotally coupled to the frame proximate a
   first end of the top holding member;
                          a bottom holding member coupled to the frame proximate a first
   end of the bottom holding member;
                          an operating lever connected to the bottom holding member to
10 extend outwardly from the first end thereof so that downward pulling of a free end of
   the operating lever performs a closing stroke of the head holder that swings an
   opposing working end of the bottom holding member upwardly to brace against an
   underside of an animal's neck; and
                          an intermediate link having an upper end pivotally coupled to the
15 top holding member and a lower end pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member
   so as to swing a working end of the top holding member downwardly during the closing
   stroke;
                   a lock and release mechanism comprising a lock arranged to normally
   prevent a reverse opening stroke of the head holder that withdraws the working ends
20 of the holding members away from one another to release the animal's neck;
                   wherein the operating lever is arranged to release the lock during initial
   raising of the free end of the operating lever in order to enable completion of the opening
   stroke.
                   2.     The livestock head holder of claim 1 wherein the lock and release
25 mechanism comprises:
                   a shaft;
                   a lock carrier;
                   a locking member carried by the lock carrier, said locking member having
   an opening through which the shaft extends and being biased into a tilted locking
30 position in which a perimeter edge of the opening is in biting engagement with the shaft;

                                                 18
                  a release member arranged to force the locking member out of the tilted
   locking position during said initial raising of the free end of the operating lever and into
   a release position disengaged from the shaft.
                  3.      The livestock head holder of claim 1 or 2 wherein the release
 5 member reaches downwardly from the locking member toward the bottom holding
   member to receive an upward force on the release member at a lower end thereof
   during said initial raising of the free end of the operating lever.
                  4.      The livestock head holder of any one of claim 2 to 4 wherein the
   locking device further comprises a cam carried on the operating lever and arranged to
10 act against the release member in a direction forcing the locking member out of the
   tilted locking position and into the release position during said initial raising of the free
   end of the operating lever.
                  5.      The livestock head holder of claim 4 wherein the cam comprises a
   concave curvature at a camming surface thereof over which the release member travels
15 during the opening stroke to maintain the locking member in the release position
   throughout said opening stroke.
                  6.      The livestock head holder of any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein the
   shaft has a pivotal connection to the frame and hangs downwardly from said pivotal
   connection, the lock carrier is pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member, and the
20 titled locking position of the locking member blocks upward sliding of the lock carrier
   along the shaft.
                  7.      The livestock head holder of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the
   operating lever is arranged for limited upward tilting of the free end thereof relative to
   the bottom holding member to a predetermined limit at which the bottom holding
25 member starts moving with the operating lever to initiate the opening stroke, said limited
   upward tilting acting to release the lock and release mechanism and allow the opening
   stroke.
                  8.      The livestock head holder of any one of claims 2 to 6 wherein the
   operating lever is arranged for upward tilting of the free end thereof relative to the
30 bottom holding member to a predetermined limit at which the bottom holding member

                                                  19
   starts moving with the operating lever to initiate the opening stroke, said limited upward
   tilting acting to drive the release member to a raised position forcing the locking member
   out of the tilted locking position and into the release position.
                    9.     The livestock head holder of claim 7 or 8 wherein the operating
 5 lever is pivotally pinned to the bottom holding member to enable the limited upward
   tilting of the operating lever relative thereto.
                    10.    The livestock head holder of any one of claims 7 to 9 comprising a
   protruding stop and a cooperating opening defined on opposing ones of said bottom
   holding member and said operating lever, the protruding stop reaching into the opening
10 and being sized and shaped relative thereto to allow but limit the upward tilting of the
   operating lever relative to the bottom holding member.
                    11.     The livestock head holder of claim 10 wherein the opening is
   defined by the end of a hollow tubular member affixed to a respective one of either the
   bottom holding member or the operating lever.
15                  12.    The livestock head holder of claim 10 or 11 wherein the protruding
   stop is an L-shaped stop having a first leg protruding outwardly from the respective one
   of either the bottom holding member or the operating lever, and a second leg reaching
   therealong.
                    13.    The livestock head holder of any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein
20 the protruding stop is defined on the bottom holding member and the cooperating
   opening is defined on the operating lever.
                    14.    A livestock head holder comprising:
                    a frame;
                    a top holding member pivotally coupled to the frame proximate a first end
25 of the top holding member;
                    a bottom holding member coupled to the frame proximate a first end of
   the bottom holding member
                    an operating lever connected to the bottom holding member to extend
   outwardly from the first end thereof so that downward pulling of a free end of the
30 operating lever performs a closing stroke of the head holder that swings an opposing

                                                  20
   working end of the holding member upwardly to brace against an underside of an
   animal's neck; and
                  an intermediate link having an upper end pivotally coupled to the top
   holding member and a lower end pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member so as
 5 to swing a working end of the top holding member downwardly during the closing stroke
   actuated by the operating lever;
                  a lock and release mechanism comprising:
                         a shaft having a pivotal connection to the frame and hanging
   downwardly from said pivotal connection;
10                       a lock carrier pivotally coupled to the bottom holding member;
                         a locking member carried by the lock carrier, said locking member
   having an opening through which the shaft extends and being biased into a tilted locking
   position in which a perimeter edge of the opening bites onto the shaft to prevent upward
   sliding of the lock carrier along the shaft and thereby prevent movement of the linkage
15 in a reverse opening stroke;
                         a release member engaged with the locking member and reaching
   downwardly from the locking member toward the bottom holding member; and
                         a cam carried by the operating lever and having a camming surface
   facing the release member for contact with a lower end thereof to act upwardly
20 thereagainst during initial raising of the free end of the operating lever to thereby lift the
   release member into a raised position forcing the locking member out of the tilted
   locking position and into a release position allowing initiation of the opening stroke, said
   camming surface being shaped to maintain the raised position of the release member
   and the release position of the locking member throughout continued raising of the free
25 end of the operating lever to complete the opening stroke.
                  15.    The livestock head holder of claim 14 wherein the operating lever
   is arranged for limited upward tilting of the free end thereof relative to the bottom holding
   member to a predetermined limit at which the bottom holding member starts moving
   with the operating lever to initiate the opening stroke, said limited upward tilting acting
30 to force the cam against the release member and thereby release the locking member

                                               21
   from the locking position.
                   16.   The livestock head holder of claim 15 wherein the operating lever
   is pivotally pinned to the bottom holding member to enable the limited upward tilting of
   the operating lever relative thereto.
 5                 17.   The livestock head holder of any one of claims 14 to 16 comprising
   a protruding stop and a cooperating opening defined on opposing ones of said bottom
   holding member and said operating lever, the protruding stop reaching into the opening
   and being sized and shaped relative thereto to allow but limit the upward tilting of the
   operating lever.
10                 18.    The livestock head holder of claim 17 wherein the opening is
   defined by the end of a hollow tubular member affixed to a respective one of either the
   bottom holding member or the operating lever.
                   19.   The livestock head holder of claim 17 or 18 wherein the protruding
   stop is an L-shaped stop having a first leg protruding outwardly from the respective one
15 of either the bottom holding member or the operating lever and a second leg reaching
   therealong.
                   20.   The livestock head holder of any one of claims 17 to 19 wherein
   the protruding stop is defined on the bottom holding member and the cooperating
   opening is defined on the operating lever.
20







