                                     ABSTRACT
A workpiece abrading pad apparatus is provided.        In one aspect, a grinding pad
apparatus employs a flexible pad, a flexible metallic reinforcement layer or ring,
and multiple floor-grinding disks. In another aspect, a metallic reinforcement ring
includes a central hole through which a fiber or foam pad is accessible. Another
aspect employs a spring steel reinforcement ring to which multiple diamond-based
abrasive disks or dots are attached.       In yet another aspect, at least one floor
contacting disk attached to a reinforcement ring includes sintered powdered metal
with diamond particles mixed therein. A further aspect employs abrasive, floor
contacting disks or dots including posts extending from backsides thereof for
attachment to a reinforcing ring or layer.

              1/6
     35   51  0    33  37 51 21
  51
             FI-31
                                25
51                   -         51
       41
               39       5
             FIG-1

                           GRINDING PAD APPARATUS
                          BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
        [0001]      The disclosure relates generally to a pad assembly and more
particularly to a floor grinding pad apparatus.
        [0002]      It is known to use fibrous pads for polishing and grinding
floors within industrial or commercial buildings.      Such polishing or grinding
pads are ideally suited for use on concrete, terrazzo, and natural (e.g.,
marble), engineered and composite stone floors. Examples of such pads and
the powered machines used to rotate such can be found in the following U.S.
patents and patent publication numbers: 2011/0300784 entitled "Flexible and
Interchangeable Multi-Head        Floor Polishing Disk Assemby" which was
invented by Tchakarov et al. and published on December 8, 2011; 9,174,326
entitled "Arrangement For Floor Grinding" which issued to Ahonen on
November 3, 2015; 6,234,886 entitled "Multiple Abrasive Assembly and
Method" which issued to Rivard et al. on May 22, 2001; 5,605,493 entitled
"Stone Polishing Apparatus and Method" which issued to Donatelli et al. on
February 25, 1997; and 5,054,245 entitled "Combination of Cleaning Pads,
Cleaning Pad Mounting Members and a Base Member for a Rotary Cleaning
Machine" which issued to Coty on October 8, 1991. All of these patents and
the patent publication are incorporated by reference herein.
        [0003]      Notwithstanding, improved floor grinding performance is
desired. Furthermore, some of these prior constructions exhibit uneven wear
in use which prematurely destroy the pads or cause inconsistent polishing or
grinding.     Moreover, floor unevenness and cracks may create only partial
contact with abrasive grinding members, thereby adding extra grinding time
and causing uneven grinding with some prior rigid devices.
        [0004]      In accordance with the present invention, a workpiece
abrading pad apparatus is provided. In one aspect, a grinding pad apparatus
employs a flexible pad, a flexible metallic reinforcement layer or ring, and
multiple floor-grinding disks. In another aspect, a metallic reinforcement ring
includes a central hole through which a fiber or foam pad is accessible.
                                          1

Another aspect employs a spring steel reinforcement ring to which multiple
diamond-based abrasive disks or dots are attached. In yet another aspect, at
least one floor-contacting disk attached to a reinforcement ring includes
sintered powdered metal with diamond particles mixed therein.          A further
aspect employs abrasive, floor-contacting disks or dots including posts or
mechanical fasteners extending from backsides thereof for attachment to a
reinforcing ring or layer. A method of making a grinding pad apparatus is also
presented.
        [0005]    The present pad assembly is advantageous over traditional
devices. For example, the flexible metallic reinforcement layer or ring of the
present pad apparatus advantageously allows greater and more even floor
contact over worn areas and cracks due to disk-to-disk flexibility, which is
expected to improve grinding performance.        Furthermore, the disk post and
method of manufacturing the apparatus advantageously provide a more
secure attachment of components. The flexible metallic reinforcement ring, in
combination with sintered powdered metal and diamond disks, provide
enhanced durability during the grinding operation which is a much harsher,
jarring and vibration-prone operating condition than for polishing or honing.
Additional advantages and features of the present invention will be readily
understood from the following description, claims and appended drawings.
                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0006]    Figure 1 is a bottom perspective view showing a grinding pad
apparatus;
        [0007]    Figure   2   is  a    bottom   elevational view    showing   a
reinforcement ring and abrasive disks employed with the grinding pad
apparatus;
        [0008]    Figure 3 is an exploded bottom perspective view showing the
grinding pad apparatus;
        [0009]    Figure 4 is a partially exploded top perspective view showing
the grinding pad apparatus including a powered grinding machine;
                                          2

        [0010]    Figure 5 is a cross-sectional view, taken along line 5 - 5 of
Figure 2, showing the grinding pad apparatus in a partially assembled
condition;
        [0011]    Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view, taken along line 6 - 6 of
Figure 1, showing the grinding pad assembly in a fully assembled condition;
and
        [0012]    Figure 7 is a flow chart showing a method of manufacturing
the grinding pad apparatus.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0013]    A preferred embodiment of a grinding pad apparatus 21 is
shown in Figures 1 - 6.     Pad apparatus 21 is used for grinding composite
surfaces, such as concrete, stone or terrazzo floors 23.            Grinding pad
apparatus 21 includes a base pad 25, which is a flexible and deformable
material, including natural and/or artificial fibers mixed with a polymeric resin.
However, to save expense, base pad 25 preferably does not employ any
diamond particles.    Base pad 25 has a generally circular periphery, with a
diameter of at least 7 inches, more preferably 7 - 27 inches, and most
preferably 14 inches, and a thickness of at least 0.25 inches and more
preferably 0.5 - 2.0 inches. Of course, base pad 25 could be made in other
sizes.
        [0014]    A reinforcement ring or layer 31 is secured to a bottom face
or surface 32 of base pad 25, by a contact cement type of adhesive.
Reinforcement ring 31 is generally annular having a central opening 33 with
an inner diameter of approximately 9.5 inches and an outer diameter of
approximately 14 inches for one version of the pad apparatus. Reinforcement
ring 31 has a thickness greater than zero and up to 0.0304 inch (1 mm), and
more preferably 0.0197 inch (0.5 mm).           Reinforcement ring or layer 31 is
metallic and more preferably a high carbon 1095, hardened and tempered
spring steel material. Reinforcement ring 31 reinforces and adds some radial
stiffness and toughness to the outer portion of pad 25 to resist rotational
centrifugal forces when grinding, however, ring 31 advantageously allows a
                                         3

significant amount of torsional and longitudinal flexibility and resilience to pad
apparatus 21 so it can flex with and follow any floor imperfections thereby
producing uniform disk-to-disk floor contact for grinding.        This is especially
beneficial when worn areas of the floor or cracks in the floor are otherwise
encountered by only some disks but not others. Without the present flexible
ring, conventional more rigid pad assemblies may not remove enough floor
material during the very abrasive grinding operation, which is not as important
for the finer grit polishing or honing operations, by way of comparison.
        [0015]      A circular internal edge 33 of reinforcement ring 31 defines a
central opening or hole 35 which exposes a central surface 37 of base pad
25. This large diameter internal edge 33 allows for easier torsional flexure of
the ring during use. Base pad 25 and ring 31 preferably have concentrically
aligned circular peripheral surfaces 39 and 41, respectively.
        [0016]      A plurality of abrasive tools such as floor-contacting disks or
dots 51 are secured to a bottom surface 52 of reinforcement ring 31.          In the
example shown, disks 51 are made of a sintered powdered metal composition
of bronze, copper and iron, to which is added diamond particles.                The
diamond particles are very course for grinding, preferably having a grit size of
100 or less, and more preferably 24 - 50.          Each disk includes a generally
circular body 54 with an exemplary outer peripheral diameter of 2.123 inches
(54 mm), a total height below reinforcement ring 31 of 0.00787 inch (5.0 mm)
and a depth of groove 53 of 0.0131 inch (3.0 mm).
        [0017]      An optional and cylindrically shaped post 55 projects from a
backside of each disk body 54 in a longitudinal direction substantially parallel
to a rotational axis of the pad apparatus, and is intergrally formed therewith as
a single piece.      Post 55 is approximately 0.394 inch (10.0 mm) wide and
approximately 0.0591 inch (1.5 mm) long.            Furthermore, post 55 projects
through an aperture 57 pierced in ring 31.           Multiple of the apertures are
equally spaced apart in the ring.        A distal end of post 55 is deformed to
outwardly expand like a mushroom head thereby creating an enlarged head
59 which is laterally larger than aperture 57. Thus, ring 31 is sandwiched and
compressed between head 59 and the backside of each disk 51 to
mechanically attach and secure disks 51 to ring 31.                  Adhesive may
                                           4

additionally or instead be employed to attach and secure disks 51 to ring 31
with or without the posts, depending on the specific durability requirement and
coarseness of the grit for grinding.
        [0018]     It is alternately envisioned that multiple parallel and spaced
apart posts may project from each disk for insertion onto aligned apertures of
the reinforcement ring. Moreover, it is alternately envisioned that one or more
posts can have a generally polygonal shape, a flat side surface or a greater
width in one lateral direction than another (e.g., a rectangle or oval). These
alternate post configurations deter rotation of the disks relative to the attached
reinforcement ring and base pad during grinding.       In the example shown, six
such disks 51 are secured about the circumference of reinforcement ring 51 in
an equally spaced apart manner. The posts may be solid or at least partially
hollow. Different sizes, a different quantity, and/or differently grooved disks
may alternately be used.        Furthermore, the ring apertures 57 are preferably
circular but may alternately have one or more flat edges, or even be elongated
slots in the inner or outer edges 33 and 41, respectively, of ring 31.
        [0019]     Figure 4 shows one of multiple grinding pad apparatuses 21
secured to a rotatable flanged hub 71 of a larger counter-rotating rotor 73 of
an electric motor-powered floor grinding machine 75.           A hard rubber or
polymeric disk 77 includes a plurality of clips or bolt-receiving holes for
releasably securing disk 77 to hub 71.         A layer 81 of hook-and-loop-type
hooks (e.g. Velcro®) may be secured to the bottom of disk 77 and can be
removably secured to fibrous base pad 25, however, it is also envisioned that
pad 25 may be directly attached to hub 71 in some constructions. A plurality
of the grinding pad apparatuses are secured for rotation about a central axis
of rotor 73. Alternate powered machines and pad attachments may be used,
such as those disclosed in the Background section hereinabove. Also, the
present pad apparatus 21 may be attached to a walk-behind or riding power
trowel machine which may be propane fuel powered.
        [0020]     Grinding pad apparatus 21 is manufactured as illustrated in
Figure 7. First, the powdered bronze, copper and iron are blended or mixed
together in a vat along with the diamond particles. Second, the mixture is
compressed within press to form the circular disk shape having a groove
                                           5

pattern on a bottom and the optional post on a top thereof. Third, this mixture
is sintered or heated in an oven to about 7000 C.         Fourth, the spring steel
reinforcement ring is stamped, cut or pierced to have its outer and inner
circular edges, and its post-receiving apertures. Fifth, the adhesive is applied
to one or both mating surfaces of the ring and disks. Sixth, if there are disk
posts, then they are aligned with and inserted into their mating ring apertures.
Seventh, the disks are compressed against the ring, and if the posts are
present, then the heads are formed by cold forming or hammering.           Eighth,
the adhesive between the disks and ring cures in the compressed condition.
Ninth, the ring assembly is aligned with the base pad.         Tenth, adhesive is
applied between the ring assembly and the base pad.             Eleventh, the ring
assembly is compressed to the base pad. And, finally, the adhesive between
the ring assembly and the base pad is allowed to cure. It is preferred that the
preceding steps are sequentially, or in some situations simultaneously,
performed, however, the order of steps can be varied.
        [0021]     While various embodiments have been disclosed, it should
be appreciated that additional variations of the pad assembly are also
envisioned. For example, while preferred dimensions and metallic materials
have been disclosed hereinabove, it should alternately be appreciated that
other dimensions and metallic materials may be employed. Moreover, circular
peripheral shapes for the pad, reinforcement ring and disks are preferred,
however, other arcuate or even generally polygonal peripheral shapes may be
used although certain of the present advantages may not be fully realized.
Alternate base pads 25 may be used, such as foam-rubber, felt or other such
flexible materials. It is also noteworthy that any of the preceding features may
be interchanged and intermixed with any of the others.          Furthermore, it is
alternately feasible to have a differently shaped inner edge or even no central
hole in the reinforcement ring or layer, although the torsional flexure may be
inadequate for some uses, and there may be undesired extra material costs
and weight with such. Accordingly, any and/or all of the dependent claims
may depend from all of their preceding claims and may be combined together
in any combination. Variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the
                                         6

present disclosure, and all such modifications are entitled to be included
within the scope and sprit of the present invention.
        [0022]    Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
"comprising" are used in this specification , they are to be interpreted as
specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components
referred to, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
                                        7

The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.    A pad apparatus comprising:
       (a) a rotatable flexible pad including a top surface, a floor-facing
            bottom surface and a peripheral surface;
       (b) a reinforcement layer attached to the bottom surface of the pad,
            the reinforcement layer including a flexible metallic material; and
       (c) abrasive grinding tools attached to a floor-facing surface of the
            reinforcement layer.
2.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein each of the tools comprises at
       least one mechanical fastener projecting from a backside thereof.
3.     The apparatus of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the fastener includes a
       post, each of the posts extending through an associated aperture in
       the reinforcement layer, and a distal end of each of the posts is
       laterally expanded on an upper side of the reinforcement layer to
       mechanically attach the associated tool to the reinforcement layer.
4.     The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the reinforcement
       layer is an annular ring having circular inner and outer edges, and a
       central portion of the pad is exposed through a hole defined by the
       inner edge of the ring.
5.     The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the flexible
       metallic material is spring steel.
6.     The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the pad includes
       fibers but is free of diamond particles; and the metallic reinforcement
                                        8

      layer provides radial stiffness and torsional flexibility such that one of
      the tools may longitudinally move relative to another of the tools.
7.    The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the tools are floor
      contacting disks which include diamond particles with a grit size at or
      less than 100.
8.    The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the tools are floor
      contacting disks which       include diamond particles and sintered
      powdered metal.
9.    The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the pad
      comprises foam but is free of diamond particles.
10.   The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 9, further comprising:
    an electrically or fuel powered machine adapted to simultaneously
    rotate multiples of the pad to grind a concrete, stone or terrazzo floor;
    the reinforcement layer allowing flexure so that all of the tools can
    contact the floor even when uneven floor conditions are encountered;
    and
    the flexible metallic reinforcement layer having a thickness no greater
    than 1 mm.
11.   The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein:
      the peripheral surface of the pad is circular;
      a peripheral surface of the reinforcement layer is substantially circular
      and has substantially a same diameter as that of the pad which are at
      least 7 inches; and
                                       9

      a peripheral surface of all of the tools is substantially circular with a
      diameter of 1.5 - 2.5 inches.
12.   A pad apparatus comprising:
    (a) a flexible pad including a top surface, a floor facing bottom surface
         and a peripheral surface;
    (b) a reinforcement layer attached to the bottom surface of the pad, the
         reinforcement layer including multiple apertures; and
    (c) abrasive disks each comprising at least one post projecting from a
         backside thereof, each of the        posts extending through        an
         associated one of the apertures in the reinforcement layer.
13.   The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein the disks comprise diamond
      particles.
14.   The apparatus of Claim 12 or Claim 13, wherein the disks further
      comprise sintered powder metal.
15.   The apparatus of any one of Claims 12 to 14, wherein the disks are
      adapted to grind a concrete, stone or terrazzo floor.
16.   The apparatus of any one of Claims 12 to 15, wherein a distal end of
      each of the posts is laterally expanded on an upper side of the
      reinforcement layer to mechanically attach the associated disk to the
      reinforcement layer.
17.   The apparatus of any one of Claims 12 to 16, wherein a lateral width
      of each of the posts is at least twice that of a projecting longitudinal
      length of each of the posts.
                                     10

18. The apparatus of any one of Claims 12 to 17, wherein:
    the reinforcement layer is an annular ring having circular inner and
    outer edges, and a central portion of the pad is exposed through a
    hole defined by the inner edge of the ring; and
    the reinforcement layer is a flexible metallic material.
19. A pad apparatus comprising:
    (a) a flexible pad;
    (b) a reinforcement ring attached to the pad, the ring comprising
        spring steel;
    (c) abrasive grinding tools attached to the ring, the tools comprising
        sintered powdered metal and diamond particles;
    (d) an electrically powered machine adapted to rotate the pad to grind
        a concrete, stone or terrazzo floor; and
    (e) the ring being adapted to torsionally flex for allowing all of the
        tools to contact against the floor even when uneven floor
        conditions are encountered.
20. The pad apparatus of Claim 19, further comprising at least one post
    projecting from a backside of each of the tools.
21. The apparatus of Claim 20, wherein each of the posts is integrally
    connected as a single piece with the associated tool, and the posts
    assist in fastening the tool to the ring.
22. The apparatus of any one of Claims 19 to 21, wherein:
    the ring has a circular periphery concentric with a circular periphery of
    the pad; and
                                     11

      the ring has a central hole through which a portion of the pad is
      exposed.
23.   A method of manufacturing a pad apparatus, the method comprising:
    (a) attaching a spring steel reinforcement to a fibrous or foam-based
         pad; and
    (b) attaching multiple floor-abrading tools to the reinforcement.
24.   The method of Claim 23, wherein the attaching step (b) comprises
      deforming a distal end of a post to sandwich a portion of the
      reinforcement between the distal end and a backside of a tool body
      from which the post extends.
25.   The method of Claim 23 or Claim 24, wherein:
      the tools are disks which include sintered powdered metal and
      diamond particles; and
      there are at least six of the disks equally spaced apart on the
      reinforcement.
26.   The method of any one of Claims 23 to 25, further comprising creating
      multiple apertures in the reinforcement, each of the apertures being
      aligned with the tools.
27.   The method of any one of Claims 23 to 26, further comprising:
      attaching the pad to an electrically or fuel powered machine which
      rotates the pad to grind a concrete, stone or terrazzo floor; and
      the ring flexing to allow all of the tools to contact against the floor even
      when uneven floor conditions are encountered.
                                        12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
