Abstract
This invention discloses recombinant DNA constructs encoding phased small RNAs useful in
regulating expression of one or more genes of interest. Also disclosed by this invention are
transgenic plant cells, plants, and seeds containing a recombinant DNA construct of this
invention

                                        AUSTRALIA                                  Regulation 3.2
                                     Patents Act 1990
                        Complete Specification
                               Standard Patent
                                     Divisional
APPLICANT:          Monsanto Technology, LLC
Invention Title:    PHASED SMALL RNAS
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to me:

                                    PHASED SMALL RNAS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS AND INCORPORATION OF SEQUENCE
LISTINGS
          [0001]   This application claims the benefit of priority of U. S. Provisional Patent
Application 60/841,608, which was filed on 31 August 2006, and is a divisional of AU
<removed-apn>, which is a divisional of AU 2013203734, which is a divisional of AU,
2007290367, all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. The sequence
listing contained in the file "38-21(54702)A.ST25.txt" (file size of 21 KB in operating system
MS-Windows, recorded on 31 August 2006, and filed with U. S. Provisional Patent
Application 60/841,608 on 31 August 2006) is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
The sequence listing contained in the file named "38-21(55702)B.txt", which is 54 kilobytes
(measured in operating system MS-Windows), recorded on 29 August 2007, and located in
computer readable form on a compact disk (CD-R), is filed herewith and incorporated herein
by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         [0002]   This invention discloses recombinant DNA constructs and phased small RNAs
useful in regulating expression of one or more genes of interest. Also disclosed by this
invention are non-natural transgenic plant cells, plants, and seeds containing a recombinant
DNA construct of this invention. The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and
should not be taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art forms part
of the common general knowledge in Australia.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [0003]   Methods of gene suppression include use of anti-sense, co-suppression, and
RNA interference. Anti-sense gene suppression in plants is described by Shewmaker et al. in
United States Patents 5,107,065, 5453,566, and 5,759,829. Gene suppression in bacteria using
DNA which is complementary to mRNA encoding the gene to be suppressed is disclosed by
Inouye et al. in United States Patents 5,190,931, 5,208,149, and 5,272,065. RNA interference
or RNA-mediated gene suppression has been described by, e. g., Redenbaugh et al. in "Safety
Assessment of Genetically Engineered Fruits and Vegetables", CRC Press, 1992; Chuang et al.
(2000) PNAS, 97:4985-4990; and Wesley et al. (2001) PlantJ, 27:581-590.
         [0004]   Several cellular pathways involved in RNA-mediated gene suppression have
been described, each distinguished by a characteristic pathway and specific components. See,
for example, the reviews by Brodersen and Voinnet (2006), Trends Genetics, 22:268-280, and
Tomari and Zamore (2005) Genes & Dev., 19:517-529. The siRNA pathway involves the non
phased cleavage of a double-stranded RNA to small interfering RNAs ("siRNAs"). The
                                                 1

    WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
microRNA pathway involves microRNAs ("miRNAs"), non-protein coding RNAs generally of
between about 19 to about 25 nucleotides (commonly about 20 - 24 nucleotides in plants) that
guide cleavage in trans of target transcripts, negatively regulating the expression of genes
involved in various regulation and development pathways; see Ambros et al. (2003) RNA,
9:277-279. Plant miRNAs have been defined by a set of characteristics including a paired
stem-loop precursor that is processed by DCL1 to a single specific -21-nucleotide miRNA,
expression of a single pair of miRNA and miRNA* species from the double-stranded RNA
precursor with two-nucleotide 3' overhangs, and silencing of specific targets in trans. See
Bartel (2004) Cell, 116:281-297; Kim (2005) Nature Rev. Mo. Cell Biol, 6:376-385; Jones
Rhoades et al. (2006) Annu. Rev. Plant Biol., 57:19-53; Ambros et al. (2003) RNA, 9:277-279.
In the trans-acting siRNA ("ta-siRNA") pathway, miRNAs serve to guide in-phase processing
of siRNA primary transcripts in a process that requires an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
for production of a double-stranded RNA precursor; trans-acting siRNAs are defined by lack
of secondary structure, a miRNA target site that initiates production of double-stranded RNA,
requirements of DCL4 and an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR6), and production of
multiple perfectly phased -21-nt small RNAs with perfectly matched duplexes with 2
nucleotide 3' overhangs (see Allen et al. (2005) Cell, 121:207-221).
         [0005]   This invention discloses a novel pathway for RNA-mediated gene
suppression, based on an endogenous locus termed a "phased small RNA locus", which
transcribes to an RNA transcript forming a single foldback structure that is cleaved in phase in
vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs (termed "phased small RNAs") capable of
suppressing a target gene. In contrast to siRNAs, a phased small RNA transcript is cleaved in
phase. In contrast to miRNAs, a phased small RNA transcript is cleaved by DCIA or a DCL4
like orthologous ribonuclease (not DCL1) to multiple abundant small RNAs capable of
silencing a target gene. In contrast to the ta-siRNA pathway, the phased small RNA locus
transcribes to an RNA transcript that forms hybridized RNA independently of an RNA
dependent RNA polymerase and without a miRNA target site that initiates production of
double-stranded RNA. Novel recombinant DNA constructs that are designed based on a
phased small RNA locus are useful for suppression of one or multiple target genes, without the
use of miRNAs, ta-siRNAs, or expression vectors designed to form a hairpin structure for
processing to siRNAs. Furthermore, the recognition sites corresponding to a phased small
RNA are useful for suppression of a target sequence in a cell or tissue where the appropriate
phased small RNA is expressed endogenously or as a transgene.
                                               2

                                                                                 38-21(54702)B PCT
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0006]    In one aspect, this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct encoding
a transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small
double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") for gene suppression, preferably wherein the
hybridized RNA is produced independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and is
cleaved in phase in vivo by DCL4 or a DCL4-like ribonuclease (such as a DCL4 orthologue
from any monocot or dicot plant).
         [0007]    Another aspect of this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct
including DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first series of contiguous RNA segments, and (b) a
second series of contiguous RNA segments, wherein the first series of contiguous RNA
segments hybridize in vivo to the second series of RNA segments to form hybridized RNA that
is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs")
for gene suppression.
         [0008]    In a further aspect, this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct
including a promoter operably linked to DNA that transcribes to RNA including: (a) at least
one exogenous recognition site recognizable by a phased small RNA expressed in a specific
cell of a multicellular eukaryote, and (b) target RNA to be suppressed in the specific cell,
wherein the target RNA is to be expressed in cells of the multicellular eukaryote other than the
specific cell.
         [0009]    Other aspects of this invention are methods of use of the recombinant DNA
constructs of this invention for providing protection to plants from pests or pathogens, as well
as non-natural transgenic plant cells, plants, and seeds containing in their genome a
recombinant DNA construct of this invention. Other specific embodiments of the invention are
disclosed in the following detailed description. Throughout this specification and the claims,
unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" and its variations, such as
"comprises" and "comprising," will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or
step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0010]    Figure 1 depicts a non-limiting hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in
vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") of this invention, as
described in Example 1.
         [0011]    Figure 2 depicts a non-limiting example of a genomic DNA sequence (SEQ
ID NO. 9) including the cDNA sequence, intronic sequence, and foldback arms which
transcribe to hybridized RNA of this invention, as described in Example 1.

    WO 2008/027592                                                          PCT/US2007/019283
         [0012]   Figure 3 depicts results of gene silencing in maize embryos using a
recombinant DNA construct including DNA that transcribes to RNA containing a recognition
site corresponding to at least one phased small RNA of this invention, as described in Example
2.
         [0013]   Figure 4 depicts the results of northern blot analysis of tissue from developing
maize kernels using a single oligonucleotide probe with sequence complementary to an
endogenous phased small RNA, as described in Example 2.
         [0014]   Figure 5 depicts the predicted secondary structure of a phased small RNA
template sequence (SEQ ID NO. 17) based on an endogenous phased small RNA locus, and of
an engineered gene suppression construct (SEQ ID NO. 32) that is designed to suppress
multiple target genes, as described in Example 3.
         [0015]   Figure 6 depicts the RNA transcript (SEQ ID NO. 34) containing hybridized
RNA in a single foldback structure predicted from an endogenous phased small RNA locus
(LOCOs12g42380.1|11982.m08017) having the sequence of SEQ ID NO. 33, as described in
Example 4. This locus was identified from rice mature grain and seedling, and contained the
phased small RNAs listed in Table 4. The transcript (SEQ ID NO. 34) includes 5' flanking
sequence (SEQ ID NO. 66) and 3' flanking sequence (SEQ ID NO. 67), and a spacer
sequence (SEQ ID NO. 68), located between the 5' and 3' arms of the foldback structure. The
5' and 3' termini of the transcript are indicated at the top of the figure; at the bottom of the
figure, the transcript is shown to have a compact turn or loop of only 3 nucleotides.
         [0016]   Figure 7A depicts the small RNA abundance in transcripts per quarter million
sequences ("tpq") along about 2 kilobases of the phased small RNA locus having the sequence
of SEQ ID NO. 33, as described in Example 4. Figure 7B depicts an expanded view of this
small RNA region and the 21-nucleotide phasing of the small RNA abundance.
         [0017]   Figure 8 depicts results of studies further characterizing the Os06g21900
phased small RNA locus, as described in Example 5. Figure 8A depicts the transcript
corresponding to a precursor cloned from the 0s06g21900 phased sRNA locus. This precursor
contained the phased small RNAs distributed between two regions along the transcript. Figure
8B depicts the two exons (Exons 2 and 3, indicated by the shaded regions) contained within
this locus and that form a long, imperfect foldback structure containing eight 21-nucleotide
phased small RNAs, separated by an -1.2 kB intron. Figure 8C depicts results of Southern
blot analysis confirming that expression of the phased small RNA from the Os06g21900
phased sRNA locus is found in rice grain but not rice seedlings or in other plant species tested.
Figure 8D depicts results of Southern blot analysis of transformed Arabidopsis thaliana
Columbia (Col-0) ecotype and mutants dclJ-7 and dcl4-1; the blot was analyzed with probes
                                               4

   WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
corresponding to phased small RNAs "P7" (SEQ ID NO. 6), and "P5" (SEQ ID NO. 4), a
canonical miRNA (miR173) and a trans-actingsiRNA (ta-siR255). These results demonstrate
that the Os06g21900 phased small RNA locus was efficiently processed in a dicot plant and
required DCIA, not DCL1, to be cleaved in phase.
         [0018]   Figure 9 depicts the hybridized RNA structures predicted from transcripts of a
naturally occurring phased small RNA locus and a synthetic phased small RNA locus, as
described in Example 7. Figure 9A depicts the foldback structure of the transcript of the
endogenous Os06g21900 phased small RNA locus (SEQ ID NO. 69); Figure 9B depicts the
foldback structure of the synthetic phased small RNA precursor encoded by SEQ ID NO. 77.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         [0019]    Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. Generally, the nomenclature used and the manufacture or laboratory
procedures described below are well known and commonly employed in the art. Conventional
methods are used for these procedures, such as those provided in the art and various general
references. Unless otherwise stated, nucleic acid sequences in the. text of this specification are
given, when read from left to right, in the 5' to 3' direction. Nucleic acid sequences may be
provided as DNA or as RNA, as specified; disclosure of one necessarily defines the other, as is
known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Where a term is provided in the singular, the
inventors also contemplate aspects of the invention described by the plural of that term. The
nomenclature used and the laboratory procedures described below are those well known and
commonly employed in the art. Where there are discrepancies in terms and definitions used in
references that are incorporated by reference, the terms used in this application shall have the
definitions given. Other technical terms used have their ordinary meaning in the art that they
are used, as exemplified by a variety of technical dictionaries. The inventors do not intend to
be limited to a mechanism or mode of action. Reference thereto is provided for illustrative
purposes only.
RECOMBINANT DNA CONSTRUCT ENCODING A TRANSCRIPT THAT FOLDS INTO HYBRIDIZED
RNA THAT IS CLEAVED IN PHASE IN VIVO
        [0020]    This invention provides a recombinant DNA construct encoding a transcript
that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double
stranded RNAs for gene suppression. By "hybridized RNA" is meant RNA that has undergone
Watson-Crick base-pairing between strands of RNA that are substantially complementary, thus
                                               5

    WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
forming RNA that is substantially, but preferably not completely, base-paired or annealed
between strands; this is in contrast to conventional siRNA production from two perfectly or
near-perfectly base-paired strands that form fully double-stranded RNA. In one preferred
embodiment, "hybridized RNA" includes two single strands of RNA that are part of a single
molecule, where the two single strands are substantially complementary and arranged anti
parallel to each other, thus allowing the two single strands to base-pair to each other; formation
of the hybridized RNA occurs by intramolecular base-pairing. In an alternative embodiment,
"hybridized RNA" includes two single strands of RNA that each are part of a separate
molecule; formation of the hybridized RNA occurs by intermolecular base-pairing. In a
particularly preferred embodiment, the recombinant DNA encodes an RNA transcript that
forms a foldback structure including two anti-parallel single-stranded arms, wherein one arm is
substantially but not perfectly complementary with the other arm, and base-pairing between the
two arms of the foldback structure results in substantially but not perfectly double-stranded
RNA that includes mismatches; preferably the mismatches are distributed along the length of
the hybridized RNA (such as at least one mismatch within a given segment of 21 contiguous
nucleotides), such as is depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6, and Figure 8B. Thus, in one preferred
embodiment of this invention, the hybridized RNA includes a structure derived from a
transcript of a naturally occurring phased small RNA locus, such as a structure selected from
the structures depicted in Figure 1, Figure 5, Figure 6, and Figure 8B.
         [0021]    The hybridized RNA is produced independently of an RNA-dependent RNA
polymerase; this is in contrast to trans-siRNA production wherein double-stranded RNA is
formed through the action of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase that synthesizes a
complementary strand using the original RNA transcript as a template. Preferably, the
nucleotides that form the hybridized RNA are nucleotides of the original RNA transcript (the
"plus" strand) transcribed from the recombinant DNA construct, and not nucleotides on a
second RNA molecule such as one (the "minus" strand) formed by the action of an RNA
dependent RNA polymerase on the original RNA transcript.
         [0022]    By "cleaved in phase" in vivo is meant that the hybridized RNA is
enzymatically processed or "cut" in vivo into shorter segments wherein the site of cleavage is
not randomly distributed along the hybridized RNA. The hybridized RNA is processed in vivo
by a ribonuclease into multiple, shorter, substantially (but preferably not perfectly) double
stranded segments, that is to say, multiple small substantially double-stranded RNAs, which
are arranged in a contiguous fashion, such as is depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6, and Figure 8B;
this is in contrast to canonical microRNAs, wherein there is substantial accumulation of only a
single mature microRNA from the precursor transcript. The ribonucleotide cleaves the
                                               6

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
hybridized RNA non-randomly, resulting in a frequency distribution of the multiple small
double-stranded RNAs that is phased; this is in contrast to conventional siRNA production
wherein the site of cleavage does not result in a phased frequency distribution of siRNAs.
Preferably the phasing of this frequency distribution is about 21 nucleotides, such as is
depicted in Figure 7. Thus, the multiple small double-stranded RNAs produced from a
recombinant construct of this invention are termed "phased small RNAs". The term "phased
small RNAs" is also applied to a single strand of the pair of strands that forms a given small
double-stranded RNA produced from a recombinant construct of this invention; in a preferred
embodiment, one strand of the pair accumulates to a greater level than the other.
         [0023]    In a preferred embodiment, the hybridized RNA is cleaved in phase in vivo by
a ribonuclease other than a DCL1 ribonuclease. In a most preferred embodiment, the
hybridized RNA is cleaved in phase in vivo by DCL4 or a DCL4-like ribonuclease (such as a
DCL4 orthologue from any monocot or dicot plant, such as, but not limited to, plants of
commercial or agricultural interest, such as crop plants (especially crop plants used for human
food or animal feed), wood-, fiber-, pulp-, or cellulose-producing trees and plants, vegetable
plants, fruit plants, and ornamental plants, such as those listed below under the heading
"Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants") into multiple small double
stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") for gene suppression.
          [0024]    In a preferred embodiment hybridized RNA is cleaved in phase in vivo to at
least three small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNA"). Various embodiments
encompassed by this invention include recombinant DNA constructs that give rise to 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, or even more phased small RNAs, respectively.
         [0025]    Each phased small RNA is contiguous to the next; non-limiting examples of
this arrangement are depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6, and Figure 8B. Each phased small RNA
includes two anti-parallel RNA segments, each of which contains from about 20 to about 27
nucleotides (e. g., 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, or 27 nucleotides). The base-pairing between the
two anti-parallel RNA segments is sufficient for them to form a substantially double-stranded
RNA. In a preferred embodiment, each small double-stranded RNA or phased small RNA
includes at least one mismatch. A mismatch generally includes one or more non-base-paired
nucleotides (on either or on both segments), forming a "bump" or "bulge" or "loop" within the
otherwise base-paired double-stranded RNA. In a preferred embodiment, each phased small
RNA includes one or more unpaired bases forming an overhang at one or at both ends; most
preferably the overhang is a 2-nucleotide overhang such as is depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6,
and Figure 8B.
                                                7

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
        [0026]    Each phased small RNA preferably is capable of suppressing a target gene. In
one embodiment, the gene suppression by the phased small RNAs is of one target gene; for
example, each phased small RNA suppresses the same segment of a single target gene or
different segments of a single target gene. In another embodiment, the gene suppression by the
phased small RNAs is of multiple target genes. While the inventors do not limit themselves to
any single mechanism of action, it is most preferred that one of the two anti-parallel strands
that makes up each phased small RNA is substantially complementary, or near perfectly
complementary, or even perfectly complementary, to a target gene or sequence, as described
below under the heading "Target Genes", which also provides a detailed discussion of suitable
target genes.
        [0027]    In a preferred embodiment of this invention, the recombinant DNA construct
includes a nucleotide sequence derived from a phased small RNA template sequence selected
from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO. 8, SEQ ID NO. 9, SEQ ID NO. 17, SEQ ID NO.
33, the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 34, and SEQ ID NO. 69, wherein at least one
segment of 21 contiguous nucleotides in the phased small RNA template sequence is modified
to suppress a target gene (that is, modified to suppress a gene other than the native target of the
native phased small RNA). In a preferred embodiment of this invention, the recombinant DNA
construct includes a nucleotide sequence derived from a phased small RNA template sequence
selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO. 8, SEQ ID NO. 9, SEQ ID NO. 17, SEQ
ID NO. 33, the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 34, and SEQ ID NO. 69, wherein
multiple segments of about 20 to about 28 (e. g., 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, or 28)
contiguous nucleotides are modified such that the transcript is cleaved in phase in vivo to
multiple synthetic phased small RNAs that suppress a target gene.
        [0028]    In another preferred embodiment of this invention, the recombinant DNA
construct includes at least one nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ
ID NO. 18, SEQ ID NO. 23, SEQ ID NO. 27, the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 66,
the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 67, and the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO.
68.
A RECOMBINANT DNA CONSTRUCT TRANSCRIBING TO A FIRST AND SECOND SERIES OF
CONTIGUOUS     RNA SEGMENTS THAT FORM HYBRIDIZED RNA THAT IS CLEAVED IN PHASE
IN VIVO
        [0029]    Another aspect of this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct
including DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first series of contiguous RNA segments, and (b) a
second series of contiguous RNA segments, wherein the first series of contiguous RNA
                                               8

    WO 2008/027592                                                           PCT/US2007/019283
segments hybridize in vivo to the second series of RNA segments to form hybridized RNA that
is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs")
for gene suppression. This recombinant DNA construct can include a naturally occurring
phased small RNA locus, such as is described in this disclosure, or can include a non-naturally
occurring, synthetic sequence. Most preferably, the hybridized RNA is cleaved in phase by
DCL4 or a DCL4-like ribonuclease (such as a DCIA orthologue from any monocot or dicot
plant, such those listed below under the heading "Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells
and Transgenic Plants').
         [0030]    In preferred embodiments of the recombinant DNA construct, each of the
RNA segments consists of between 20 to 27 nucleotides. In a particularly preferred
embodirmnent, the first and second series include RNA segments of 21 nucleotides. Each pair of
small RNAs that make up a given small double-stranded RNA ("phased small RNA") can be
of the same length, or can be of different lengths, such as illustrated in Figure 8B and Table 4.
In a preferred embodiment, the pair of small RNAs that make up a given small double-stranded
RNA ("phased small RNA") is a pair of 21-nucleotide small RNAs. In one embodiment, the
contiguous RNA segments are all of the same size. In a preferred embodiment, the RNA
segments all consist of 21 nucleotides. In another embodiment, the RNA segments vary in
size; preferably they are sized such that when the first series and second series of contiguous
RNA segments hybridize, the individual segments are aligned in a manner permitting cleavage
in phase to the intended small double-stranded RNAs. In a preferred embodiment, the first and
second series of contiguous RNA segments contain an equal number of RNA segments which
are arranged such that when the first series and second series of contiguous RNA segments
hybridize and form an RNA duplex (hybridized RNA), a RNA segment of a given size in the
first series is hybridized to a corresponding RNA segment in the second series of equivalent
size.
         [00311    In a preferred embodiment of the recombinant DNA construct, strands of the
hybridized RNA are located on a single molecule and the construct further includes DNA that
transcribes to a spacer that links the first and second series of contiguous RNA segments. The
spacer generally includes DNA that does not correspond to the target gene (although in some
embodiments can include sense or anti-sense sequence of the target gene). The spacer includes
at least about 4 nucleotides; in various embodiments, the spacer contains at least about 4, at
least about 10, at least about 20, at least about 30, at least about 40, at least about 50, at least
about 60, at least about 80, at least about 100, at least about 120, or at least about 150
nucleotides. In one embodiment, the spacer is a contiguous nucleotide sequence derived from
the spacer of a transcript of a naturally occurring phased small RNA locus. Non-limiting
                                                9

   WO 2008/027592                                                           PCT/US2007/019283
examples of spacers are provided by SEQ ID NO. 23 and SEQ ID NO. 68 as well as spacers
having at least 90% sequence identity with either of SEQ ID NO. 23 and SEQ ID NO. 68.
        [0032]     In one embodiment, the spacer is designed to transcribed to single-stranded
RNA or to at least partially double-stranded RNA (such as in a "kissing stem-loop"
arrangement), or to an RNA that assumes a secondary structure or three-dimensional
configuration (e. g., a large loop of anti-sense sequence of the target gene or an aptamer) that
confers on the transcript an additional desired characteristic, such as increased stability,
increased half-life in vivo, or cell or tissue specificity. In one example, the spacer is
transcribed to a stabilizing loop that links the first and second series of contiguous RNA
segments (see, for example, Di Giusto and King (2004) J. Biol. Chem., 279:46483-46489). In
another example, the spacer transcribes to RNA including an RNA aptamer (e. g., an aptamer
that binds to a cell-specific ligand) that allows cell- or tissue-specific targetting of the phased
small RNAs.
        [0033]     In many embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct further includes DNA
encoding 5' flanking sequence (e. g., SEQ ED NO. 18 and SEQ ID NO. 66) and/or 3' flanking
sequence (e. g., SEQ ID NO. 27 and SEQ ID NO. 67) that are adjacent to the portion of the
transcript that is the hybridized RNA. In other embodiments of the recombinant DNA
construct, the strands of the hybridized RNA are located on separate molecules. Preferred
embodiments of the invention include a recombinant DNA construct including at least one
nucleotide sequence derived from a transcript of a naturally occurring phased small RNA locus
selected from the group consisting of 5' flanking sequence, 3' flanking sequence, and spacer
sequence. Non-limiting embodiments include a recombinant DNA construct including at least
one nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO. 18, SEQ ID NO.
23, SEQ ID NO. 27, the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 66, the DNA sequence
encoding SEQ ID NO. 67, and the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 68. Additional
embodiments of the invention include a recombinant DNA construct including at least one
nucleotide sequence having at least 90% sequence identity with any of SEQ ID NO. 18, SEQ
ID NO. 23, SEQ ID NO. 27, the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 66, the DNA
sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 67, and the DNA sequence encoding SEQ ID NO. 68.
        [0034]     Recombinant DNA constructs of this invention are designed to suppress one
or more target genes as described below under the heading "Target Genes". The construct is
designed so that each RNA segment of the first series hybridizes to an RNA segment of the
second series; the transcript transcribed from the construct is cleaved in phase in vivo, resulting
in multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") which correspond to the
paired hybridized RNA segments. Preferably, each of the phased small RNAs contains at least
                                                10

   WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
one mismatch. A mismatch generally includes one or more non-base-paired nucleotides (on
either or on both segments), forming a "bump" or "bulge" or "loop" within the otherwise base
paired double-stranded RNA. In a preferred embodiment, each phased small RNA includes
one or more unpaired bases forming an overhang at one or at both ends; most preferably the
overhang is a 2-nucleotide overhang such as is depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6, and Figure 8B.
In a preferred embodiment, at least one of the phased small RNAs is designed to suppress one
or more target genes; that is, one of the two anti-parallel strands that makes up the phased
small RNA is substantially complementary to a target gene.
        [0035]    The first and second series of contiguous RNA segments are designed so that
when the first series and second series of contiguous RNA segments hybridize and form an
RNA duplex (hybridized RNA), the small double-stranded RNAs resulting           from cleavage in
phase of the hybridized RNA silence the target gene or genes. Most preferably, the secondary
structure of the transcript is maintained so as to be substantially similar to that of a naturally
occurring phased small RNA locus (e. g., as depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6, and Figure 8B).
        [0036]    A general method for designing RNA segments corresponding to phased small
RNAs for silencing a target gene, useful in making a recombinant DNA construct of this
invention, includes the steps:
                (a) Selecting a unique target sequence of at least 18 nucleotides specific to the
        target gene, e. g. by using sequence alignment tools such as BLAST (see, for example,
        Altschul et al. (1990) J. MoL. Biol., 215:403-410; Altschul et al. (1997) Nucleic Acids
        Res., 25:3389-3402), for example, of both maize cDNA and genomic DNA databases,
        to identify target transcript orthologues and any potential matches to unrelated genes,
        thereby avoiding unintentional silencing of non-target sequences.
                (b) Analyzing the target gene for undesirable sequences (e. g., matches to
        sequences from non-target species, especially animals), and score each potential 19-mer
        segment for GC content, Reynolds score (see Reynolds et al. (2004) Nature
        Biotechnol., 22:326-330), and functional asymmetry characterized by a negative
        difference in free energy ("AAG'') (see Khvorova et al. (2003) Cell, 115:209-216).
        Preferably 19-mers are selected that have all or most of the following characteristics:
        (1) a Reynolds score >4, (2) a GC content between about 40% to about 60%, (3) a
        negative AAG, (4) a terminal adenosine, (5) lack of a consecutive run of 4 or more of
        the same nucleotide; (6) a location near the 3' terminus of the target gene; (7) minimal
        differences from the engineered phased siRNA precursor transcript. Preferably
        multiple (3 or more) 19-mers are selected for testing.
                                               11

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
                  (c) Determining the reverse complement of the selected 19-mers to use in
         making a synthetic 21-mer phased small RNAs\; the additional nucleotide at position
         20 is preferably matched to the selected target sequence, and the nucleotide at position
         21 is preferably chosen to be unpaired to prevent spreading of silencing on the target
         transcript;
                  (d) Testing the synthetic phased small RNAs, for example, in an
         Agrobacterium-mediatedtransient Nicotiana benthamianaassay for siRNA expression
         and target repression.
                  and (e) Cloning the most effective phased small RNAs into a construct for
         stable transformation of maize (see the sections under the headings "Making and Using
         Recombinant DNA      constructs"   and "Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells and
         Transgenic Plants").
         [0037]     The recombinant DNA construct is made by commonly used techniques, such
as those described under the heading "Making and Using Recombinant DNA Constructs" and
illustrated in the working Examples. The recombinant DNA construct is particularly useful for
making transgenic plant cells, transgenic plants, and transgenic seeds as discussed below under
"Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants".
A RECOMBINANT DNA CONSTRUCT INCLUDING AN EXOGENOUS PHASED SMALL RNA
RECOGNITION SITE
         [0038]     Another aspect of this invention includes a recombinant DNA construct
including a promoter operably linked to DNA that transcribes to RNA including: (a) at least
one exogenous recognition site recognizable by a phased small RNA expressed in a specific
cell of a multicellular eukaryote, and (b) target RNA to be suppressed in the specific cell,
wherein the target RNA is to be expressed in cells of the multicellular eukaryote other than the
specific cell. The exogenous recognition site includes an RNA sequence that is substantially
complementary, or near perfectly complementary, or even perfectly complementary, to a
phased small RNA; the exogenous recognition site hybridizes to the phased small RNA,
leading to suppression or silencing of the target RNA. The phased small RNA can be
transcribed from a native or endogenous phased small RNA locus, or from a synthetic phased
small RNA locus that is transgenically expressed. In various embodiments of the recombinant
DNA construct, the at least one exogenous recognition site is located within at least one of: (a)
the 5' untranslated region of the target RNA; (b) the 3' untranslated region of the target RNA;
and (c) the target RNA.
                                                12

    WO 2008/027592                                                           PCT/US2007/019283
         [0039]     In non-limiting embodiments, the exogenous recognition site is recognized by
and silenced by a phased small RNA having a nucleotide sequence selected from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NOS. 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6,7,35, 36, 37, 38, 39,40,41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46,47,
48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, and 65. In preferred
embodiments, the exogenous recognition site is recognized by and silenced by a phased small
RNA having a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS. 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 49, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64,
and 65. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the exogenous recognition site is recognized
by and silenced by a phased small RNA having a nucleotide sequence selected from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NOS. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 37, 38, 40,41, 46, 61, 62, 63, 64, and 65.
NON-NATURAL TRANSGENIC PLANT CELLS AND TRANSGENIC PLANTS
         [0040]     A further aspect of this invention provides a non-natural transgenic plant cell
having in its genome any of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention. Thus, the
inventors claim a non-natural transgenic plant cell having in its genome a recombinant DNA
construct encoding a transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo
into multiple small double-stranded RNAs for gene suppression. The inventors also claim a
non-natural transgenic plant cell having in its genome a recombinant DNA construct including
DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first series of contiguous RNA segments, and (b) a second series
of contiguous RNA segments, wherein the first series of contiguous RNA segments hybridize
in vivo to the second series of RNA segments to form hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase
in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") for gene
suppression. The inventors further claim a non-natural transgenic plant cell having in its
genome a recombinant DNA construct including a promoter operably linked to DNA that
transcribes to RNA including: (a) at least one exogenous recognition site recognizable by a
phased small RNA expressed in a specific cell of a multicellular eukaryote, and (b) target RNA
to be suppressed in the specific cell, wherein the target RNA is to be expressed in cells of the
multicellular eukaryote other than the specific cell.
         [0041]     Also provided are a non-natural transgenic plant containing the non-natural
transgenic plant cell of this invention, a non-natural transgenic plant grown from the non
natural transgenic plant cell of this invention, and non-natural transgenic seed produced by the
non-natural transgenic plants. The non-natural transgenic plant of this invention includes
plants of any developmental stage, and includes a non-natural transgenic regenerated plant
prepared from the non-natural transgenic plant cells disclosed herein, or a non-natural
transgenic progeny plant (which can be an inbred or hybrid progeny plant) of the regenerated
                                                 13

    WO 2008/027592                                                           PCT/US2007/019283
plant, or non-natural transgenic seed of such a non-natural transgenic plant. Also provided and
claimed is a non-natural transgenic seed having in its genome a recombinant DNA construct of
this invention. The non-natural transgenic plant cells, non-natural transgenic plants, and non
natural transgenic seeds of this invention are made by methods well-known in the art, as
described below under the heading "Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic
Plants".
         [0042]   The non-natural transgenic plant cell can include an isolated plant cell (e. g.,
individual plant cells or cells grown in or on an artificial culture medium), or can include a
plant cell in undifferentiated tissue (e. g., callus or any aggregation of plant cells). The non
natural transgenic plant cell can include a plant cell in at least one differentiated tissue selected
from the group consisting of leaf (e. g., petiole and blade), root, stem (e. g., tuber, rhizome,
stolon, bulb, and corm) stalk (e. g., xylem, phloem), wood, seed, fruit (e. g., nut, grain, fleshy
fruits), and flower (e. g., stamen, filament, anther, pollen, carpel, pistil, ovary, ovules).
         [0043]   The non-natural transgenic plant cell or non-natural transgenic plant of the
invention can be any suitable plant cell or plant of interest. Both transiently transformed and
stably transformed plant cells are encompassed by this invention. Stably transformed
transgenic plants are particularly preferred. In many preferred embodiments, the non-natural
transgenic plant is a fertile transgenic plant from which seed can be harvested, and the
invention further claims non-natural transgenic seed of such transgenic plants, wherein the
seed preferably also contains the recombinant cOnstruct of this invention.
         [0044]   In some embodiments of this invention, the non-natural plant is a non-natural
transgenic plant, and all cells (with the possible exception of haploid cells) and tissues of the
plant contain the recombinant DNA construct of this invention. In other embodiments, the
non-natural plant is not completely transgenic, but includes both non-natural transgenic cells or
tissues and non-transgenic cells or tissues (for example, transgenic tissue grafted onto non
transgenic tissue). In a non-limiting embodiment, the plant includes a non-transgenic scion
and a transgenic rootstock including the transgenic plant cell, wherein the non-transgenic scion
and transgenic rootstock are grafted together. Such embodiments are particularly useful where
the plant is one that is commonly vegetatively grown as a scion grafted onto a rootstock
(wherein scion and rootstock can be of the same species or variety or of different species or
variety);'non-limiting examples include grapes (e. g., wine grapes and table grapes), apples,
pears, quince, avocados, citrus, stone fruits (e. g., peaches, plums, nectarines, apricots,
cherries), kiwifruit, roses, and other plants of agricultural or ornamental importance.
         [0045]   Also encompassed by this invention are non-natural plants that are not
transgenic in the sense of having had recombinant DNA introduced into their genome, but are
                                                14

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
non-natural plants having a genome that has been artificially modified by means other than
recombinant DNA technology. Such artificial modifications of the native genomic sequence
include insertions, deletions, substitutions, frame shifts, transpositions, duplications, and
inversions. Artificial modification of a native genomic sequence is achieved by any means,
including mutagenesis by chemicals (such as methane sulfonate, methyl methane sulfonate,
diethylsulfate), nitrosoguanidine, and other alkylating agents, base analogues such as 5-bromo
deoxyuridine, interchelating agents such as ethidium bromide, crosslinking agents such as
platinum, and oxidating agents such as nitrous acid or reactive oxygen species) or mutagenesis
by physical treatments (such as exposure to ultraviolet light, radioactive isotopes, or ionizing
radiation). Such mutagenesis can be random or non-random (e. g., site-directed mutagenesis).
Mutagenesis can be carried out with intact plants, plant tissues, or plant cells. One non
limiting example of mutagenesis is treatment of maize pollen with an alkylating agent.
Mutagenesis is generally carried out on a population, following screening of that population to
allow selection of individuals having the desired property. These non-natural plants are useful
in ways similar to those described below for transgenic plants; for example, they can be grown
for production of seed or other harvestable parts, or used to grow progeny generations
(including hybrid generations).
Target Genes
         [0046]   Phased small RNAs of this invention and the recombinant DNA constructs
encoding such can be designed to suppress any target gene or genes. The target gene can be
translatable (coding) sequence, or can be non-coding sequence (such as non-coding regulatory
sequence), or both, and can include at least one gene selected from the group consisting of a
eukaryotic target gene, a non-eukaryotic target gene, a microRNA precursor DNA sequence,
and a microRNA promoter. The target gene can be native or endogenous to the cell (e. g., a
cell of a plant or animal) in which the recombinant DNA construct is transcribed, or can be
native to a pest or pathogen of the plant or animal in which the recombinant DNA construct is
transcribed. The target gene can be an exogenous gene, such as a transgene in a plant. A
target gene can be a native gene targetted for suppression, with or without concurrent
expression of an exogenous transgene, for example, by including a gene expression element in
the recombinant DNA construct from which the phased small RNAs are transcribed, or in a
separate recombinant DNA construct. For example, it can be desirable to replace a native gene
with an exogenous transgene homologue.
         [00471   The target gene can include a single gene or part of a single gene that is
targetted for suppression, or can include, for example, multiple consecutive segments of a
                                              '15

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
target gene, multiple non-consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple alleles of a target
gene, or multiple target genes from one or more species. A target gene can include any
sequence from any species (including, but not limited to, non-eukaryotes such as bacteria, and
viruses; fungi; plants, including monocots and dicots, such as crop plants, ornamental plants,
and non-domesticated or wild plants; invertebrates such as arthropods, annelids, nematodes,
and molluscs; and vertebrates such as amphibians, fish, birds, domestic or wild mammals, and
even humans.
         [0048]     In one embodiment, the target gene is exogenous to the plant in which the
recombinant DNA construct is to be transcribed, but endogenous to a pest or pathogen (e. g.,
viruses, bacteria, fungi, oomycetes, and invertebrates such as insects, nematodes, and
molluscs) of the plant. The target gene can include multiple target genes, or multiple segments
of one or more genes. In one preferred embodiment, the target gene or genes is a gene or
genes of an invertebrate pest or pathogen of the plant. These embodiments are particularly
useful in providing transgenic plants having resistance to one or more plant pests or pathogens,
for example, resistance to a nematode such as soybean cyst nematode or root knot nematode,
or to a pest insect, or to at least one pathogenic virus, bacterium, or fungus.
         [0049]     The target gene can be translatable (coding) sequence, or can be non-coding
sequence (such as non-coding regulatory sequence), or both. Non-limiting examples of a
target gene include non-translatable (non-coding) sequence, such as, but not limited to, 5'
untranslated regions, promoters, enhancers, or other non-coding transcriptional regions, 3'
untranslated regions, terminators, and introns. Target genes include genes encoding
microRNAs, small interfering RNAs, RNA components of ribosomes or ribozymes, small
nucleolar RNAs, and other non-coding RNAs (see, for example, non-coding RNA sequences
provided publicly at rfam.wustl.edu; Erdmann et al. (2001) Nucleic Acids Res., 29:189-193;
Gottesman (2005) Trends Genet., 21:399-404; Griffiths-Jones et al. (2005) Nucleic Acids Res.,
33:121-124).. One specific example of a target gene includes a microRNA recognition site
(that is, the site on an RNA strand to which a mature miRNA binds and induces cleavage).
Another specific example of a target gene includes a microRNA precursor sequence native to a
pest or pathogen of the transgenic plant, that is, the primary transcript encoding a microRNA,
or the RNA intermediates processed from this primary transcript (e. g., a nuclear-limited pri
miRNA or a pre-miRNA which can be exported from the nucleus into the cytoplasm). See, for
example, Lee et al. (2002) EMBO Journal,21:4663-4670; Reinhart et al. (2002) Genes &
Dev., 16:161611626; Lund et al. (2004) Science, 303:95-98; and Millar and Waterhouse (2005)
Funct. Integr Genomics, 5:129-135. Target genes can also include translatable (coding)
sequence for genes encoding transcription factors and genes encoding enzymes involved in the
                                               16

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
biosynthesis or catabolism of molecules of interest (such as, but not limited to, amino acids,
fatty acids and other lipids, sugars and other carbohydrates, biological polymers, and
secondary metabolites including alkaloids, terpenoids, polyketides, non-ribosomal peptides,
and secondary metabolites of mixed biosynthetic origin).
        [0050]    In many preferred embodiments, the target gene is an essential gene of a plant
pest or pathogen. Essential genes include genes that are required for development of the pest
or pathogen to a fertile reproductive adult. Essential genes include genes that, when silenced
or suppressed, result in the death of the organism (as an adult or at any developmental stage,
including gametes) or in the organism's inability to successfully reproduce (e. g., sterility in a
male or female parent or lethality to the zygote, embryo, or larva). A description of nematode
essential genes is found, e. g., in Kemphues, K. "Essential Genes" (December 24, 2005),
WormBook, ed. The C. elegans Research Community, WormBook,
doi/10.1895/wormbook.1.57.1, available on line at www.wormbook.org. Non-limiting
examples of nematode essential genes include major sperm protein, RNA polymerase II, and
chitin synthase (see, e. g., U. S. Patent Application Publication US20040098761 Al);
additional soybean cyst nematode essential genes are provided in U. S. Patent Application
11/360,355, filed 23 February 2006, incorporated by reference herein. A description of insect
genes is publicly available at the Drosophilagenome database (available on line at
flybase.bio.indiana.edu/). The majority of predicted Drosophilagenes have been analyzed for
function by a cell culture-based RNA interference screen, resulting in 438 essential genes
being identified; see Boutros et al. (2004) Science, 303:832-835, and supporting material
available on line at www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/303/5659/832/DC1.          A description of
bacterial and fungal essential genes is provided in the Database of Essential Genes ("DEG",
available on line at tubic.tju.edu.cn/deg/); see Zhang et al. (2004) Nucleic Acids Res., 32:D271
D272.
        [0051]    Plant pest invertebrates include, but are not limited to, pest nematodes, pest
molluscs (slugs and snails), and pest insects. Plant pathogens of interest include fungi,
oomycetes, bacteria (e. g., the bacteria that cause leaf spotting, fireblight, crown gall, and
bacterial wilt), mollicutes, and viruses (e. g., the viruses that cause mosaics, vein banding,
flecking, spotting, or abnormal growth). See also G. N. Agrios, "Plant Pathology" (Fourth
Edition), Academic Press, San Diego, 1997, 635 pp., for descriptions of fungi, bacteria,
mollicutes (including mycoplasmas and spiroplasmas), viruses, nematodes, parasitic higher
plants, and flagellate protozoans, all of which are plant pests or pathogens of interest. See also
the continually updated compilation of plant pests and pathogens and the diseases caused by
such on the American Phytopathological Society's "Common Names of Plant Diseases",
                                                17

    WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
compiled by the Committee on Standardization of Common Names for Plant Diseases of The
American Phytopathological Society, 1978-2005, available online at
www.apsnet.org/online/common/top.asp.
         [0052]    Non-limiting examples of fungal plant pathogens of particular interest include,
e. g., the fungi that cause powdery mildew, rust, leaf spot and blight, damping-off, root rot,
crown rot, cotton boll rot, stem canker, twig canker, vascular wilt, smut, or mold, including,
but not limited to, Fusariumspp., Phakosporaspp., Rhizoctonia spp., Aspergillus spp.,
Gibberellaspp., Pyriculariaspp., and Alternaria spp.. Specific examples of fungal plant
pathogens include Phakosporapachirhizi(Asian soy rust), Pucciniasorghi (corn common
rust), Pucciniapolysora (corn Southern rust), Fusariumoxysporum and other Fusariumspp.,
Alternariaspp., Penicilliumspp., Rhizoctonia solani, Exserohilurnturcicum (Northern corn
leaf blight), Bipolaris maydis (Southern corn leaf blight), Ustilagomaydis (corn smut),
Fusariumgraminearum(Gibberella zeae), Fusariumverticilliodes (Gibberellamonilformis),
F. proliferatum (G. fujikuroi var. intermedia),F. subglutinans (G. subglutinans), Diplodia
maydis, Sporisorium holci-sorghi,Colletotrichumgraminicola,Setosphaeriaturcica,
Aureobasidiumzeae, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum,and the numerous fungal species provided in
Tables 4 and 5 of U. S. Patent 6,194,636, which is incorporated in its entirety by reference
herein. Non-limiting examples of plant pathogens include pathogens previously classified as
fungi but more recently classified as oomycetes. Specific examples of oomycete plant
pathogens of particular interest include members of the genus Pythium (e. g., Pythium
aphanidennatum)and Phytophthora(e. g., Phytophthorainfestans, Phytophthorasojae,) and
organisms that cause downy mildew (e. g., Peronosporafarinosa).
         [0053]    Non-limiting examples of bacterial pathogens include the mycoplasmas that
cause yellows disease and spiroplasmas such as Spiroplasmakunkelii, which causes corn stunt,
eubacteria such as Pseudomonas avenae, Pseudomonas andropogonis,Erwinia stewartii,
Pseudomonassyringaepv. syringae, Xylella fastidiosa,and the numerous bacterial species
listed in Table 3 of U. S. Patent 6,194,636, which is incorporated in its entirety by reference
herein.
         [0054]    Non-limiting examples of viral plant pathogens of particular interest include
maize dwarf mosaic virus (MDMV), sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV, formerly MDMV strain
B), wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV), maize chlorotic dwarf virus (MCDV), barley yellow
dwarf virus (BYDV), banana bunchy top virus (BBTV), and the numerous viruses listed in
Example 7 below and in Table 2 of U. S. Patent 6,194,636, which is incorporated in its
entirety by reference herein.
                                              18

   WO 2008/027592                                                           PCT/US2007/019283
         [0055]   Non-limiting examples of invertebrate pests include cyst nematodes
Heteroderaspp. especially soybean cyst nematode Heteroderaglycines, root knot nematodes
Meloidogyne spp., lance nematodes Hoplolaimus spp., stunt nematodes Tylenchorhynchus
spp., spiral nematodes Helicotylenchus spp., lesion nematodes Pratylenchus spp., ring
nematodes Criconema spp., foliar nematodes Aphelenchus spp. or Aphelenchoides spp., corn
rootworms, Lygus spp., aphids and similar sap-sucking insects such as phylloxera
(Daktulosphairavitifoliae), corn borers, cutworms, armyworms, leafhoppers, Japanese beetles,
grasshoppers, and other pest coleopterans, dipterans, and lepidopterans. Specific examples of
invertebrate pests include pests capable of infesting the root systems of crop plants, e. g.,
northern corn rootworm (Diabroticabarberi),southem corn rootworm (Diabrotica
undecimpunctata),Western corn rootworm (Diabroticavirgifera), corn root aphid (Anuraphis
maidiradicis),black cutworm (Agrotis ipsilon), glassy cutworm (Crymodes devastator),dingy
cutworm (Feltiaducens), claybacked cutworm (Agrotisgladiaria),wireworm (Melanotus spp.,
Aeolus mellillus), wheat wireworm (Aeolus mancus), sand wireworm (Horistonotusuhlerii),
maize billbug (Sphenophorus maidis), timothy billbug (Sphenophorus zeae), bluegrass billbug
(Sphenophorusparvulus), southern corn billbug (Sphenophoruscallosus), white grubs
(Phyllophagaspp.), seedcorn maggot (Deliaplatura), grape colaspis (Colaspis brunnea),
seedcorn beetle (Stenolophus lecontei), and slender seedcorn beetle (Clivinia impressifrons), as
well as the parasitic nematodes listed in Table 6 of U. S. Patent 6,194,636, which is
incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.
         [0056]   Invertebrate pests of particular interest, especially in but not limited to
southern hemisphere regions (including South and Central America) include aphids, corn
rootworms, spodoptera, noctuideae, potato beetle, Lygus spp., any hemipteran, homopteran, or
heteropteran, any lepidopteran, any coleopteran, nematodes, cutworms, earworms,
armyworms, borers, leaf rollers, and others. Arthropod pests specifically encompassed by this
invention include various cutworm species including cutworm (Agrotis repleta), black
cutworm (Agrotis ipsilon), cutworm (Anicla ignicans),granulate cutworm (Feltia
subterranea),"gusano dspero" (Agrotis malefida); Mediterranean flour moth (Anagasta
kuehniella), square-necked grain beetle (Cathartusquadricollis),flea beetle (Chaetocnema
spp), rice moth (Corcyra cephalonica), corn rootworm or "vaquita de San Antonio" (Diabotica
speciosa), sugarcane borer (Diatraeasaccharalis),lesser cornstalk borer (Elasmopalpus
lignosellus), brown stink bug (Euschistusspp.), corn earworm (Helicoverpa zea), flat grain
beetle (Laemophloeus minutus), grass looper moth (Mocis latipes), sawtoothed grain beetle
(Oryzaephilus surinamensis),meal moth (Pyralisfarinalis),Indian meal moth (Plodia
interpunctella), corn leaf aphid (Rhopalosiphummaidis), brown burrowing bug or "chinche
                                               19

   WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
subterrdnea"(Scaptocoriscastanea), greenbug (Schizaphis graminum), grain weevil
(Sitophilus zeamais), Angoumois grain moth (Sitotroga cerealella), fall armyworm
(Spodopterafrugiperda),cadelle beetle (Tenebroides mauritanicus),two-spotted spider mite
(Tetranychus urticae), red flour beetle (Triboleum castaneum), cotton leafworm (Alabama
argillacea),boll weevil (Anthonomus grandis),cotton aphid (Aphis gossypii), sweet potato
whitefly (Bemisia tabaci), various thrips species (Frankliniellaspp.), cotton earworm
(Helicoverpazea), "oruga bolillera" (e. g., Helicoverpageletopoeon), tobacco budworm
(Heliothis virescens), stinkbug (Nezara viridula),pink bollworm (Pectinophoragossypiella),
beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua), spider mites (Tetranychus spp.), onion thrips (Thrips
tabaci), greenhouse whitefly (Trialeurodesvaporarium),velvetbean caterpillar (Anticarsia
gemmatalis), spotted maize beetle or "astilo moteado" (Astylus atromaculatus),"oruga de la
alfalfa" (Coliaslesbia), "chinche marr6n" or "chinche de los cuernos" (Dichelopsfurcatus),
"alquiche chico" (Edessa miditabunda), blister beetles (Epicautaspp.), "barrenadordel brote"
(Epinotiaaporema), "oruga verde del yuyo colorado" (Loxostege bifidalis), rootknot
nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.), "oruga cuarteadora"(Mocis repanda), southern green stink
bug (Nezara viridula), "chinche de la alfalfa" (Piezodorusguildinii), green cloverworm
(Plathypenascabra), soybean looper (Pseudoplusiaincludens), looper moth "isoca medidora
del girasol" (Rachiplusianu), yellow woolybear (Spilosoma virginica), yellowstriped
armyworm (Spodopteraornithogalli),various root weevils (family Curculionidae), various
wireworms (family Elateridae), and various white grubs (family Scarabaeidae). Nematode
pests specifically encompassed by this invention include nematode pests of maize
(Belonolaimus spp., Trichodorusspp., Longidorus spp., Dolichodorus spp., Anguina spp.,
Pratylenchusspp., Meloidogyne spp., Heteroderaspp.), soybean (Heteroderaglycines,
Meloidogyne spp., Belonolaimus spp.), bananas (Radopholus similis, Meloidogyne spp.,
Helicotylenchus spp.), sugarcane (Heteroderasacchari,Pratylenchus spp., Meloidogyne spp.),
oranges (Tylenchulus spp., Radopholus spp., Belonolaimus spp., Pratylenchusspp., Xiphinema
spp.), coffee (Meloidogyne spp., Pratylenchusspp.), coconut palm (Bursaphelenchusspp.),
tomatoes (Meloidogyne spp., Belonolaimus spp., Nacobbus spp.), grapes (Meloidogyne spp.,
Xiphinema spp., Tylenchulus spp., Criconemellaspp.), lemon and lime (Tylenchulus spp.,
Radopholus spp., Belonolaimus spp., Pratylenchusspp., Xiphinema spp.), cacao (Meloidogyne
spp., Rotylenchulus reniformis), pineapple (Meloidogyne spp., Pratylenchusspp.,
Rotylenchulus reniformis), papaya (Meloidogyne spp., Rotylenchulus reniformis), grapefruit
(Tylenchulus spp., Radopholus spp. Belonolaimus spp., Pratylenchusspp., Xiphinema spp., and
broad beans (Meloidogyne spp.).
                                             20

   WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
         [00571   Target genes from pests can include invertebrate genes for major sperm
protein, alpha tubulin, beta tubulin, vacuolar ATPase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate.
dehydrogenase, RNA polymerase II, chitin synthase, cytochromes, miRNAs, miRNA precursor
molecules, miRNA promoters, as well as other genes such as those disclosed in U. S. Patent
Application Publication 2006/0021i087 A1, PCT Patent Application PCT/JUS05/11816, and in
Table II of U. S. Patent Application Publication 2004/0098761 Al, which are incorporated by
reference herein. Target genes from pathogens can include genes for viral translation initiation
factors, viral replicases, miRNAs, miRNA precursor molecules, fungal tubulin, fungal vacuolar
ATPase, fungal chitin synthase, fungal MAP kinases, fungal Pac1 Tyr/Thr phosphatase,
enzymes involved in nutrient transport (e. g., amino acid transporters or sugar transporters),
enzymes involved in fungal celt wall biosynthesis, cutinases, melanin biosynthetic enzymes,
polygalacturonases, pectinases, pectin lyases, cellulases, proteases, genes that interact with
plant avirulence genes, and other genes involved in invasion and replication of the pathogen in
the infected plant. Thus, a target gene need
not be endogenous to the plant in which the recombinant DNA construct is transcribed. A
recombinant DNA construct encoding phased small RNAs of the invention can be transcribed
in a plant and used to suppress a gene of a pathogen or pest that may infest the plant.
        [0058]    Specific, non-limiting examples of suitable target genes also include amino
acid catabolic genes (such as, but not limited to, the maize LKRISDH gene encoding lysine
ketoglutarate reductase (LKR) and saccharopine dehydrogenase (SDH), and its homologues),
maize zein genes, genes involved in fatty acid synthesis (e. g., plant microsomal fatty acid
desaturases and plant acyl-ACP thioesterases, such as, but not limited to, those disclosed in U.
S. Patent Numbers 6,426,448, 6,372,965, and 6,872,872), genes involved in multi-step
biosynthesis pathways, where it may be of interest to regulate the level of one or more
intermediates, such as genes encoding enzymes for polyhydroxyalkanoate biosynthesis (see,
for example, U. S. Patent No. 5,750,848); and genes encoding cell-cycle control proteins, such
as proteins with cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor-like activity (see, for example, genes
disclosed in International Patent Application Publication Number WO 05007829A2). Target
genes can include genes encoding undesirable proteins (e. g., allergens or toxins) or the
enzymes for the biosynthesis of undesirable compounds (e. g., undesirable flavor or odor
components). Thus, one embodiment of the invention is a transgenic plant or tissue of such a
plant that is improved by the suppression of allergenic proteins or toxins, e. g., a peanut,
soybean, or wheat kernel with decreased allergenicity. Target genes can include genes
involved in fruit ripening, such as polygalacturonase. Target genes can include genes where
expression is preferably limited to a particular cell or tissue or developmental stage, or where
                                              21

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
expression is preferably transient, that is to say, where constitutive or general suppression, or
suppression that spreads through many tissues, is not necessarily desired. Thus, other
examples of suitable target genes include genes encoding proteins that, when expressed in
transgenic plants, make the transgenic plants resistant to pests or pathogens (see, for example,
genes for cholesterol oxidase as disclosed in U. S. Patent No. 5,763,245); genes where
expression is pest- or pathogen-induced; and genes which can induce or restore fertility (see,
for example, the barstar/barnase genes described in U. S. Patent No. 6,759,575); all the
publications and patents cited in this paragraph are incorporated by reference in their entirety
herein.
         [0059]   The phased small RNAs can be designed to be more specifically suppress the
target gene, by designing the phased small RNAs to include regions substantially non-identical
to a non-target gene sequence. Non-target genes can include any gene not intended to be
silenced or suppressed, either in a plant containing the recombinant DNA construct encoding
the phased small RNAs or in organisms that may come into contact with the phased small
RNAs. A non-target gene sequence can include any sequence from any species (including, but
not limited to, non-eukaryotes such as bacteria, and viruses; fungi; plants, including monocots
and dicots, such as crop plants, ornamental plants, and non-domesticated or wild plants;
invertebrates such as arthropods, annelids, nematodes, and molluscs; and vertebrates such as
amphibians, fish, birds, domestic or wild mammals, and even humans).
        [0060]    In one embodiment, the target gene is a gene endogenous to a given species,
such as a given plant (such as, but not limited to, agriculturally or commercially important
plants, including monocots and dicots), and the non-target gene can be, e. g., a gene of a non
target species, such as another plant species or a gene of a virus, fungus, bacterium,
invertebrate, or vertebrate, even a human. One non-limiting example is where the phased
small RNAs are designed to suppress a target gene that is a gene endogenous to a single
species (e. g., Western corn rootworm, Diabroticavirgifera virgiferaLeConte) but to not
suppress a non-target gene such as genes from related, even closely related, species (e. g.,
Northern corn rootworm, DiabroticabarberiSmith and Lawrence, or Southern corn rootworm,
Diabroticaundecimpunctata).
        [0061]    In other embodiments (e. g., where it is desirable to suppress a target gene
across multiple species), it may be desirable to design the phased small RNAs to suppress a
target gene sequence common to the multiple species in which the target gene is to be silenced.
Thus, a recombinant DNA construct encoding phased small RNAs can be designed to be
specific for one taxon (for example, specific to a genus, family, or even a larger taxon such as a
phylum, e. g., viruses or arthropoda) but not for other taxa (e. g., plants or vertebrates or
                                               22

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
mammals). In one non-limiting example of this embodiment, a recombinant DNA construct
encoding phased small RNAs can be selected so as to target pathogenic fungi (e. g., a
Fusariumspp.) but not target any gene sequence-from beneficial fungi.
         [0062]   In another non-limiting example of this embodiment, phased small RNAs for
gene silencing in corn rootworm can be selected to be specific to all members of the genus
Diabrotica. In a further example of this embodiment, such Diabrotica-targettedphased small
RNAs can be selected so as to not target any gene sequence from beneficial coleopterans (for
example, predatory coccinellid beetles, commonly known as ladybugs or ladybirds) or other
beneficial insect species.
         [0063]   The required degree of specificity of an RNA for silencing a target gene
depends on various factors. Factors can include the size of the phased small RNAs that are
expected to be produced by the action of a ribonuclease (preferably DCILA or a DCIA
orthologue) on the hybridized RNA, and the relative importance of decreasing the phased small
RNAs' potential to suppress non-target genes. In a non-limiting example, where the phased
small RNAs are expected to be 21 base pairs in size, one particularly preferred embodiment
includes RNA for silencing a target gene that encodes regions substantially non-identical to a
non-target gene sequence, such as regions within which every contiguous fragment including
at least 21 nucleotides matches fewer than 21 (e. g., fewer than 21, or fewer than 20, or fewer
than 19, or fewer than 18, or fewer than 17) out of 21 contiguous nucleotides of a non-target
gene sequence. In another embodiment, regions substantially non-identical to a non-target
gene sequence include regions within which every contiguous fragment including at least 19
nucleotides matches fewer than 19 (e. g., fewer than 19, or fewer than 18, or fewer than 17, or
fewer than 16) out of 19 contiguous nucleotides of a non-target gene sequence.
         [0064]   In some embodiments, it may be desirable to design phased small RNAs for
silencing a target gene to include regions predicted to not generate undesirable polypeptides,
for example, by screening the recombinant DNA construct encoding the phased small RNAs or
each component phased small RNA for sequences that may encode known undesirable
polypeptides or close homologues of these. Undesirable polypeptides include, but are not
limited to, polypeptides homologous to known allergenic polypeptides and polypeptides
homologous to known polypeptide toxins. Publicly available sequences encoding such
undesirable potentially allergenic peptides are available, for example, the Food Allergy
Research and Resource Program (FARRP) allergen database (available at allergenonline.com)
or the Biotechnology Information for Food Safety Databases (available at
www.iit.edu/-sgendel/fa.htm) (see also, for example, Gendel (1998) Adv. Food Nutr. Res.,
42:63-92). Undesirable sequences can also include, for example, those polypeptide sequences
                                              23

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
annotated as known toxins or as potential or known allergens and contained in publicly
available databases such as GenBank, EMBL, SwissProt, and others, which are searchable by
the Entrez system (www.ncbi.nih.gov/Entrez). Non-limiting examples of undesirable,
potentially allergenic peptide sequences include glycinin from soybean, oleosin and agglutinin
from peanut, glutenins from wheat, casein, lactalbumin, and lactoglobulin from bovine milk,
and tropomyosin from various shellfish (allergenonline.com). Non-limiting examples of
undesirable, potentially toxic peptides include tetanus toxin tetA from Clostridium tetani,
diarrhea] toxins from Staphylococcus aureus, and venoms such as conotoxins from Conus spp.
and neurotoxins from arthropods and reptiles (www.ncbi.nih.gov/Entrez).
         [0065]   In one non-limiting example, the recombinant DNA construct encoding the
phased small RNAs or each component phased sinall RNA is screened to eliminate those
transcribable sequences encoding polypeptides with perfect homology to a known allergen or
toxin over 8 contiguous amino acids, or with at least 35% identity over at least 80 amino acids;
such screens can be performed on any and all possible reading frames in both directions, on
potential open reading frames that begin with AUG (ATG in the corresponding DNA), or on
all possible reading frames, regardless of whether they start with an AUG (or ATG) or not.
When a "hit" or match is made, that is, when a sequence that encodes a potential polypeptide
with perfect homology to a known allergen or toxin over 8 contiguous amino acids (or at least
about 35% identity over at least about 80 amino acids), is identified, the nucleic acid sequences
corresponding to the hit can be avoided, eliminated, or modified when selecting sequences to
be used in an RNA for silencing a target gene. In one embodiment the recombinant DNA
construct encoding the phased small RNAs or each component phased small RNA is designed
so no potential open reading frames that begin with AUG (ATG in the corresponding DNA) is
included.
        [0066]    Avoiding, elimination of, or modification of, an undesired sequence can be
achieved by any of a number of methods known to those skilled in the art. In some cases, the
result can be novel sequences that are believed to not exist naturally. For example, avoiding
certain sequences can be accomplished by joining together "clean" sequences into novel
chimeric sequences to be used in the recombinant DNA construct encoding the phased small
RNAs.
        [0067]    Applicants recognize that in some dsRNA-mediated gene silencing, it is
possible for imperfectly matching dsRNA sequences to be effective at gene silencing. For
example, it has been shown that mismatches near the center of a miRNA complementary site
has stronger effects on the miRNA's gene silencing than do more distally located mismatches.
See, for example, Figure 4 in Mallory et al. (2004) EMBO J., 23:3356-3364. In another
                                             24

   WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
example, it has been reported that, both the position of a mismatched base pair and the identity
of the nucleotides forming the mismatch influence the ability of a given siRNA to silence a
target gene, and that adenine-cytosine mismatches, in addition to the G:U wobble base pair,
were well tolerated (see Du et al. (2005) Nucleic Acids Res., 33:1671-1677). Thus, each
phased small RNA need not always have 100% sequence complementarity with the intended
target gene, but generally would preferably have substantial complementarity with the intended
target gene, such as about 95%, about 90%, about 85%, or about 80% complementarity with
the intended target gene. One strand of the hybridized RNA (or each component phased small
RNA or RNA segment) is preferably designed to have substantial complementarity to the
intended target (e. g., a target messenger RNA or target non-coding RNA), such as about 95%,
about 90%, about 85%, or about 80% complementarity'to the intended target. In a non
limiting example, in the case of a component phased small RNA consisting of two 21
nucleotide strands, one of the two 21-nucleotide strands is substantially but not perfectly
complementary to 21 contiguous nucleotides of a target RNA; preferably the nucleotide at
position 21 is unpaired with the corresponding position in the target RNA to prevent
transitivity.
         [00681   One skilled in the art would be capable of judging the importance given to
screening for regions predicted to be more highly specific to the target gene or predicted to not
generate undesirable polypeptides, relative to the importance given to.other criteria, such as,
but not limited to, the percent sequence identity with the intended target gene or the predicted
gene silencing efficiency of a given sequence. For example, it may be desirable for the phased
small RNAs to be active across several species, and therefore one skilled in the art can
determine that it is more important to include in the recombinant DNA construct encoding the
phased small RNAs regions specific to the several species of interest, but less important to
screen for regions predicted to have higher gene silencing efficiency or for regions predicted to
generate undesirable polypeptides.
Combinations of Phased Small RNAs with Pesticidal Compositions
         [0069]   Phased small RNAs of this invention and the recombinant DNA constructs
encoding such phased small RNAs are useful in controlling pests and pathogens of plants, and
thus this invention further claims methods of controlling pests and pathogens of plant wherein
a phased small RNA of this invention is provided to at least one cell of the plant to be
protected from the pest or pathogen. The phased small RNA is generally provided by in vivo
transcription of a recombinant DNA construct of this invention in a cell of the plant.
                                             25

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
         [0070]    Methods of controlling pests and pathogens of plant with a phased small RNA
of this invention can be used in combination with other methods or compositions for
controlling pests and pathogens of plants. Thus, this invention also provides combinations of
methods and combinations of compositions for controlling pests and pathogens of plants. In a
preferred embodiment, the methods to be combined operate by different mechanisms to
provide protection to the plant from the pest or pathogen. For example, invertebrate pests can
be controlled by providing an alternative gene suppression element (such as an engineered
microRNA or an engineered siRNA produced by a conventional double-stranded RNA
transcript transgenically expressed in the plant) designed to silence a gene of the invertebrate
pest; see, for example, the various recombinant DNA constructs and methods for gene
suppression disclosed in U. S. Patent Application Publication 2006/0200878, which are
incorporated herein by reference.
         [0071]    One non-limiting example is a method for controlling insect pests of plants,
including providing at least one phased small RNA designed to silence an insect pest gene and
an insecticidal agent (e. g., a Bacillus thuringiensisor "Bt" insecticidal protein) to which the
insect pest is susceptible. When Bt proteins are provided in the diet of insect pests (e. g., via
topical application to the plant or by transgenic expression in the plant) a mode of action for
controlling the insect pest is exhibited that is dramatically different from the mode of action of
the methods and compositions using phased small RNAs. In preferred embodiments, the
combination results in synergies that were not known previously in the art for controlling
insect infestation. Transgenic plants that produce one or more phased small RNA molecules
that inhibit some essential biological function in a target pest along with one or more Bt
insecticidal proteins that are toxic to the target pest provide surprising synergies. One synergy
is the reduction in the level of expression required for either the phased small RNA(s) or the Bt
insecticidal protein(s). When combined together, a lower effective dose of each pest control
agent is required.
         [0072]   Another non-limiting example is a method for controlling viral pests of plants,
including providing at least one phased small RNA designed to silence an viral pathogen gene
and a composition to induce viral coat protein-mediated resistance to the plant (e. g., by
transgenic expression of the viral coat protein in a plant cell). In preferred embodiments, the
combination results in a synergy between the two protective components, so that a lower
effective dose of each pathogen control agent is achieved.
                                               26

   WO 2008/027592                                                          PCT/US2007/019283
Making and Using Recombinant DNA Constructs
        [0073]    The recombinant DNA constructs of this invention are made by any method
suitable to the intended application, taking into account, for example, the type of expression
desired and convenience of use in the plant in which the construct is to be transcribed. General
methods for making and using DNA constructs and vectors are well known in the art and
described in detail in, for example, handbooks and laboratory manuals including Sambrook and
Russell, "Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual" (third edition), Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press, NY, 2001. An example of useful technology for building DNA constructs
and vectors for transformation is disclosed in U. S. Patent Application Publication
2004/0115642 Al, incorporated herein by reference. DNA constructs can also be built using
the GATEWAYrM cloning technology (available from Invitrogen Life Technologies, Carlsbad,
CA), which uses the site-specific recombinase LR cloning reaction of the Integrase/attsystem
from bacteriophage- lambda vector construction, instead of restriction endonucleases and
ligases. The LR cloning reaction is disclosed in U. S. Patents 5,888,732 and 6,277,608, and in
U. S. Patent Application Publications 2001/283529, 2001/282319 and 2002/0007051, all of
which are incorporated herein by reference. The GATEWAYTM Cloning Technology
Instruction Manual, which is also supplied by Invitrogen, provides concise directions for
routine cloning of any desired DNA into a vector comprising operable plant expression
elements. Another alternative vector fabrication method employs ligation-independent cloning
as disclosed by Aslandis et al. (1990) Nucleic Acids Res., 18:6069-6074 and Rashtchian et al.
(1992) Biochem., 206:91-97, where a DNA fragment with single-stranded 5' and 3' ends is
annealed to complementary 5' and 3' single-stranded ends of at least one other DNA fragment
to produce a desired vector which can then be ligated and amplified in vivo.
        [0074]    In certain embodiments, the DNA sequence of the recombinant DNA
construct includes sequence that has been codon-optimized for the plant in which the
recombinant DNA construct is to be expressed. For example, a recombinant DNA construct to
be expressed in a plant can have all or parts of its sequence (e. g., the first gene suppression
element or the gene expression element) codon-optimized for expression in a plant by methods
known in the art. See, e. g., U. S. Patent 5,500,365, incorporated by reference, for a
description of codon-optimization for plants; see also De Anicis and Marchetti (2000) Nucleic
Acid Res., 28:3339-3346.
Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants
        [00751    Where a recombinant DNA construct of this invention is used to produce a
non-natural transgenic plant cell, non-natural transgenic plant, or non-natural transgenic seed
                                              27

    WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
of this invention, transformation can include any of the well-known and demonstrated methods
and compositions. Suitable methods for plant transformation include virtually any method by
which DNA can be introduced into a cell, such as by direct delivery of DNA (e. g., by PEG
mediated transformation of protoplasts, by electroporation, by agitation with silicon carbide
fibers, and by acceleration of DNA coated particles), by Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation, by viral or other vectors, etc. One preferred method of plant transformation is
microprojectile bombardment, for example, as illustrated in U.S. Patents 5,015,580 (soy),
5,550,318 (maize), 5,538,880 (maize), 6,153,812 (wheat), 6,160,208 (maize), 6,288,312 (rice)
and 6,399,861 (maize), and 6,403,865 (maize) , all of which are incorporated by reference.
         [00761   Another preferred method of plant transformation is Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation. In one preferred embodiment, the non-natural transgenic plant cell of this
invention is obtained by transformation by means of Agrobacteriumcontaining a binary Ti
plasmid system, wherein the Agrobacteriumcarries a first Ti plasmid and a second, chimeric
plasmid containing at least one T-DNA border of a wild-type Ti plasmid, a promoter functional
in the transformed plant cell and operably linked to a gene suppression construct of the
invention. See, for example, the binary system described in U. S. Patent 5,159,135,
incorporated by reference. Also see De Framond (1983) Biotechnology, 1:262-269; and
Hoekema et al., (1983) Nature, 303:179. In such a binary system, the smaller plasmid,
containing the T-DNA border or borders, can be conveniently constructed and manipulated in a
suitable alternative host, such as E. coli, and then transferred into Agrobacterium.
         [0077]   Detailed procedures for Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation of plants,
especially crop plants, include, for example, procedures disclosed in U. S. Patents 5,004,863,
5,159,135, 5,518,908, 5,846,797, and 6,624,344 (cotton); 5,416,011, 5,569,834, 5,824,877,
5,914,451 6,384,301, and 7,002,058 (soy); 5,591,616 5,981,840, and 7,060,876 (maize);
5,463,174 and 5,750,871 (brassicas, including rapeseed and canola), and in U. S. Patent
Application Publications 2004/0244075 (maize), 2004/0087030 (cotton) and 2005/0005321
(soy), all of which are incorporated by reference. Additional procedures for Agrobacterium
mediated transformation are disclosed in W09506722 (maize). Similar methods have been
reported for many plant species, both dicots and monocots, including, among others, peanut
(Cheng et al. (1996) Plant Cell Rep., 15: 653); asparagus (Bytebier et al. (1987) Proc.Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 84:5345); barley (Wan and Lemaux (1994) PlantPhysiol., 104:37); rice
(Toriyama et al. (1988) Bio/Technology, 6:10; Zhang et al. (1988) Plant Cell Rep., 7:379;
wheat (Vasil et al. (1992) Bio/Technology, 10:667; Becker et al. (1994) PlantJ. , 5:299), alfalfa
(Masoud et al. (1996) Transgen. Res., 5:313); brassicas (Radke et al. (1992) Plant Cell Rep.,
11:499-505); and tomato (Sun et al. (2006) Plant Cell Physiol., 47:426-431). See also a
                                               28

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
description of vectors, transformation methods, and production of transformed Arabidopsis
thalianaplants where transcription factors are constitutively expressed by a CaMV35S
promoter, in U. S. Patent Application Publication 2003/0167537 A1, incorporated by
reference. Non-natural transgenic plant cells and transgenic plants can also be obtained by
transformation with other vectors, such as, but not limited to, viral vectors (e. g., tobacco etch
potyvirus (TEV), barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV), and the viruses referenced in Edwardson
and Christie, "The Potyvirus Group: Monograph No. 16, 1991, Agric. Exp. Station, Univ. of
Florida), plasmids, cosmids, YACs (yeast artificial chromosomes), BACs (bacterial artificial
chromosomes) or any other suitable cloning vector, when used with an appropriate
transformation protocol, e. g., bacterial infection (e.g., with Agrobacterium as described
above), binary bacterial artificial chromosome constructs, direct delivery of DNA (e. g., via
PEG-mediated transformation, desiccation/inhibition-mediated DNA uptake, electroporation,
agitation with silicon carbide fibers, and microprojectile bombardment). It would be clear to
one of ordinary skill in the art that various transformation methodologies can be used and
modified for production of stable transgenic plants from any number of plant species of
interest.
         [0078]    Transformation methods to provide non-natural transgenic plant cells and non
natural transgenic plants containing stably integrated recombinant DNA are preferably
practiced in tissue culture on media and in a controlled environment. "Media" refers to the
numerous nutrient mixtures that are used to grow cells in vitro, that is, outside of the intact
living organism. Recipient cell targets include, but are not limited to, meristem cells, callus,
immature embryos or parts of embryos, and gametic cells such as microspores, pollen, sperm,
and egg cells. Any cell from which a fertile plant can be regenerated is contemplated as a
useful recipient cell for practice of the invention. Callus can be initiated from various tissue
sources, including, but not limited to, immature embryos or parts of embryos, seedling apical
meristems, microspores, and the like. Those cells which are capable of proliferating as callus
can serve as recipient cells for genetic transformation. Practical transformation methods and
materials for making transgenic plants of this invention (e. g., various media and recipient
target cells, transformation of immature embryos, and subsequent regeneration of fertile
transgenic plants) are disclosed, for example, in U. S. Patents 6,194,636 and 6,232,526 and U.
S. Patent Application Publication 2004/0216189, which are incorporated by reference.
         [0079]    In general transformation practice, DNA is introduced into only a small
percentage of target cells in any one transformation experiment. Marker genes are generally
used to provide an efficient system for identification of those cells that are stably transformed
by receiving and integrating a transgenic DNA construct into their genomes. Preferred marker
                                                29

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
genes provide selective markers which confer resistance to a selective agent, such as an
antibiotic or herbicide. Any of the antibiotics or herbicides to which a plant cell may be
resistant can be a useful agent for selection. Potentially transformed cells are exposed to the
selective agent. In the population of surviving cells will be those cells where, generally, the
resistance-conferring gene is integrated and expressed at sufficient levels to permit cell
survival. Cells can be tested further to confirm stable integration of the recombinant DNA.
Commonly used selective marker genes include those conferring resistance to antibiotics such
as kanamycin or paromomycin (nptIl), hygromycin B (aph IV) and gentamycin (aac3and
aacC4) or resistance to herbicides such as glufosinate (baror pat), glyphosate (EPSPS), and
dicamba. Examples of useful selective marker genes and selection agents are illustrated in U.
S. Patents 5,550,318, 5,633,435, 5,780,708, and 6,118,047, all of which are incorporated by
reference. A particularly preferred herbicide resistance gene is a glyphosate acetyl transferase,
disclosed as SEQ ID NO. 68 in U. S. Patent Application Publication 2007/0079393 Al, which
is specifically incorporated by reference. Screenable markers or reporters, such as markers that
provide an ability to visually identify transformants can also be employed. Non-limiting
examples of useful screenable markers include, for example, a gene expressing a protein that
produces a detectable color by acting on a chromogenic substrate (e. g., beta-glucuronidase
(GUS) (uidA) or luciferase (luc)) or that itself is detectable, such as green fluorescent protein
(GFP) (gfp) or an immunogenic molecule. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many.
other useful markers or reporters are available for use.
        [0080]    Detecting or measuring transcription of the recombinant DNA construct in the
non-natural transgenic plant cell of the invention can be achieved by any suitable method,
including protein detection methods (e. g., western blots, ELISAs, and other immunochemical
methods), measurements of enzymatic activity, or nucleic acid detection methods (e. g.,
Southern blots, northern blots, PCR, RT-PCR, fluorescent in situ hybridization). Such
methods are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art as evidenced by. the numerous
handbooks available; see, for example, Joseph Sambrook and David W. Russell, "Molecular
Cloning: A Laboratory Manual" (third edition), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, NY,
2001; Frederick M. Ausubel et al. (editors) "Short Protocols in Molecular Biology" (fifth
edition), John Wiley and Sons, 2002; John M. Walker (editor) "Protein Protocols Handbook"
(second edition), Humana Press, 2002; and Leandro Pena (editor) "Transgenic Plants:
Methods and Protocols", Humana Press, 2004.
        [0081]    Other suitable methods for detecting or measuring transcription of the
recombinant DNA construct in the non-natural transgenic plant cell of the invention include
measurement of any other trait that is a direct or proxy indication of suppression of the target
                                              30

    WO 2008/027592                                                          PCT/US2007/019283
gene in the transgenic plant cell in which the recombinant DNA construct is transcribed,
relative to one in which the recombinant DNA is not transcribed, e. g., gross or microscopic
morphological traits, growth rates, yield, reproductive or recruitment rates, resistance to pests
or pathogens, or resistance to biotic or abiotic stress (e. g., water deficit stress, salt stress,
nutrient stress, heat or cold stress). Such methods can use direct measurements of a phenotypic
trait or proxy assays (e. g., in plants, these assays include plant part assays such as leaf or root
assays to determine tolerance of abiotic stress). Non-limiting methods include direct
measurements of resistance to the invertebrate pest (e. g., damage to plant tissues) or proxy
assays (e. g., plant yield assays, or bioassays such as the Western corn rootworm (Diabrotica
virgifera virgifera LeConte) larval bioassay described in International Patent Application
Publication W02005/110068 A2 and U. S. Patent Application Publication US 2006/0021087
Al, incorporated by reference, or the soybean cyst nematode bioassay described by Steeves et
al. (2006) Funct. PlantBiol., 33:991-999, wherein cysts per plant, cysts per gram root, eggs
per plant, eggs per gram root, and eggs per cyst are measured.
         [0082]   The recombinant DNA constructs of the invention can be stacked with other
recombinant DNA for imparting additional traits (e. g., in the case of transformed plants, traits
including herbicide resistance, pest resistance, cold germination tolerance, water deficit
tolerance, and the like) for example, by expressing or suppressing other genes. Constructs for
coordinated decrease and increase of gene expression are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application
Publication 2004/0126845 Al, incorporated by reference.
         [0083]   Seeds of transgenic, fertile plants can be harvested and used to grow progeny
generations, including hybrid generations, of non-natural transgenic plants of this invention
that include the recombinant DNA construct in their genome. Thus, in addition to direct
transformation of a plant with a recombinant DNA construct of this invention, non-natural
transgenic plants of the invention can be prepared by crossing a first plant having the
recombinant DNA with a second plant lacking the construct. For example, the recombinant
DNA can be introduced into a plant line that is amenable to transformation to produce a
transgenic plant, which can be crossed with a second plant line to introgress the recombinant
DNA into the resulting progeny. A transgenic plant of the invention can be crossed with a
plant line having other recombinant DNA that confers one or more additional trait(s) (such as,
but not limited to, herbicide resistance, pest or disease resistance, environmental stress
resistance, modified nutrient content, and yield improvement) to produce progeny plants
having recombinant DNA that confers both the desired target sequence expression behavior
and the additional trait(s).
                                                31

    WO 2008/027592                                                           PCT/US2007/019283
         [0084]    Typically, in such breeding for combining traits the transgenic plant donating
the additional trait is a male line and the transgenic plant carrying the base traits is the female
line. The progeny of this cross segregate such that some of the plant will carry the DNA for
both parental traits and some will carry DNA for one parental trait; such plants can be
identified by markers associated with parental recombinant DNA           Progeny plants carrying
DNA for both parental traits can be crossed back into the female parent line multiple times, e.
g., usually 6 to 8 generations, to produce a progeny plant with substantially the same genotype
as one original transgenic parental line but for the recombinant DNA of the other transgenic
parental line.
         [0085]    Yet another aspect of the invention is a non-natural transgenic plant grown
from the non-natural transgenic seed of the invention. This invention contemplates transgenic
plants grown directly from transgenic seed containing the recombinant DNA as well as
progeny generations of plants, including inbred or hybrid plant lines, made by crossing a
transgenic plant grown directly from transgenic seed to a second plant not grown from the
same transgenic seed.
         [0086]    Crossing can include, for example, the following steps:
     (a) plant seeds of the first parent plant (e. g., non-transgenic or a transgenic) and a second
         parent plant that is transgenic according to the invention;
     (b) grow the seeds of the first and second parent plants into plants that bear flowers;
     (c) pollinate a flower from the first parent with pollen from the second parent; and
     (d) harvest seeds produced on the parent plant bearing the fertilized flower.
         [0087]   It is often desirable to introgress recombinant DNA into elite varieties, e. g.,
by backcrossing, to transfer a specific desirable trait from one source to an inbred or other
plant that lacks that trait. This can be accomplished, for example, by first crossing a superior
inbred ("A") (recurrent parent) to a donor inbred ("B") (non-recurrent parent), which carries
the appropriate gene(s) for the trait in question, for example, a construct prepared in
accordance with the current invention. The progeny of this cross first are selected in the
resultant progeny for the desired trait to be transferred from the non-recurrent parent "B", and
then the selected progeny are mated back to the superior recurrent parent "A". After five or
more backcross generations with selection for the desired trait, the progeny are hemizygous for
loci controlling the characteristic being transferred, but are like the superior parent for most or
almost all other genes. The last backcross generation would be selfed to give progeny which
are pure breeding for the gene(s) being transferred, i. e., one or more transformation events.
         [0088]   Through a series of breeding manipulations, a selected DNA construct can be
moved from one line into an entirely different line without the need for-further recombinant
                                                32

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
manipulation. One can thus produce inbred plants which are true breeding for one or more
DNA constructs. By crossing different inbred plants, one can produce a large number of
different hybrids with different combinations of DNA constructs. In this way, plants can be
produced which have the desirable agronomic properties frequently associated with hybrids
("hybrid vigor"), as well as the desirable characteristics imparted by one or more DNA
constructs.
         [0089]    Genetic markers can be used to assist in the introgression of one or more DNA
constructs of the invention from one genetic background into another. Marker assisted
selection offers advantages relative to conventional breeding in that it can be used to avoid
errors caused by phenotypic variations. Further, genetic markers can provide data regarding
the relative degree of elite germplasm in the individual progeny of a particular cross. For
example, when a plant with a desired trait which otherwise has a non-agronomically desirable
genetic background is crossed to an elite parent, genetic markers can be used to select progeny
which not only possess the trait of interest, but also have a relatively large proportion of the
desired germplasm. In this way, the number of generations required to introgress one or more
traits into a particular genetic background is minimized. The usefulness of marker assisted
selection in breeding non-natural transgenic plants of the current invention, as well as types of
useful molecular markers, such as but not limited to SSRs and SNPs, are discussed in PCT
Application Publication WO 02/062129 and U. S. Patent Application Publications Numbers
2002/0133852, 2003/0049612, and 2003/0005491, each of which is incorporated by reference
in their entirety.
         [0090]    In certain non-natural transgenic plant cells and non-natural transgenic plants
of the invention, it may be desirable to concurrently express (or suppress) a gene of interest
while also regulating expression of a target gene. Thus, in some embodiments, the transgenic
plant contains recombinant DNA including both a transgene transcription unit for expressing at
least one gene of interest and a gene suppression element for suppressing a target gene.
         [0091]    Thus, as described herein, the non-natural transgenic plant cells or non-natural
transgenic plants of the invention can be obtained by use of any appropriate transient or stable,
integrative or non-integrative transformation method known in the art or presently disclosed.
The recombinant DNA constructs can be transcribed in any plant cell or tissue or in a whole
plant of any developmental stage. Transgenic plants can be derived from any monocot or dicot
plant, such as, but not limited to, plants of commercial or agricultural interest, such as crop
plants (especially crop plants used for human food or animal feed), wood-, fiber-, pulp-, or
cellulose-producing trees and plants, vegetable plants, fruit plants, and ornamental plants.
Non-limiting examples of plants of interest include grain crop plants (such as wheat, oat,
                                               33

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
 barley, maize, rye, triticale, rice, millet, sorghum, quinoa, amaranth, and buckwheat); forage
 crop plants (such as forage grasses and forage dicots including alfalfa, vetch, clover, and the
 like); oilseed crop plants (such as cotton, safflower, sunflower, soybean, canola, rapeseed, flax,
 peanuts, and oil palm); tree nuts (such as walnut, cashew, hazelnut, pecan, almond,
 macadamia, and the like); sugarcane, coconut, date palm, olive, sugarbeet, tea, and coffee;
 wood-, fiber-, pulp-, or cellulose-producing trees and plants (for example, cotton, flax, jute,
ramie, sisal, kenaf, switchgrass, and bamboo); vegetable crop plants such as legumes (for
example, beans, peas, lentils, alfalfa, peanut), lettuce, asparagus, artichoke, celery, carrot,
radish, cassava, sweet potato, yam, cocoa, coffee, tea, the brassicas (for example, cabbages,
kales, mustards, and other leafy brassicas, broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, turnip,
ko'hlrabi), edible cucurbits (for example, cucumbers, melons, summer squashes, winter
squashes), edible alliums (for example, onions, garlic, leeks, shallots, chives), edible members
of the Solanaceae (for example, tomatoes, eggplants, potatoes, peppers, groundcherries), and
edible members of the Chenopodiaceae (for example, beet, chard, spinach, quinoa, amaranth);
fruit crop plants such as apple, pear, citrus fruits (for example, orange, lime, lemon, grapefruit,
and others), stone fruits (for example, apricot, peach, plum, nectarine), banana, pineapple,
grape, kiwifruit, papaya, avocado, fig, mango, and berries; and ornamental plants including
ornamental flowering plants, ornamental trees and shrubs, ornamental groundcovers, and
ornamental grasses. Preferred dicot plants include, but are not limited to, canola, broccoli,
cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, Chinese cabbage, cucumber, dry beans, eggplant, fennel, garden
beans, gourds, lettuces, melons, okra, peas, peppers, pumpkin, radishes, spinach, squash,
watermelon, cotton, potato, quinoa, amaranth, buckwheat, safflower, soybean, sugarbeet, and
sunflower. Preferred monocots include, but are not limited to, wheat, oat, barley, maize
(including sweet corn and other varieties), rye, triticale, rice, ornamental and forage grasses,
sorghum, millet, onions, leeks, and sugarcane, more preferably maize, wheat, and rice.
         [0092]    The ultimate goal in plant transformation is to produce plants which are useful
to man. In this respect, non-natural transgenic plants of the invention can be used for virtually
any purpose deemed of value to the grower or to the consumer. For example, one may wish to
harvest the transgenic plant itself, or harvest transgenic seed of the transgenic plant for planting
purposes, or products can be made from the transgenic plant or its seed such as oil, starch,
ethanol or other fermentation products, animal feed or human food, pharmaceuticals, and
various industrial products. For example, maize is used extensively in the food and feed
industries, as well as in industrial applications. Further discussion of the uses of maize can be
found, for example, in U. S. Patent Numbers 6,194,636, 6,207,879, 6,232,526, 6,426,446,
6,429,357, 6,433,252, 6,437,217, and 6,583,338, incorporated by reference, and PCT
                                                 34

   WO 2008/027592                                                          PCT/US2007/019283
Publications WO 95/06128 and WO 02/057471. Thus, this invention also provides commodity
products produced from a non-natural transgenic plant cell, plant, or seed of this invention,
including, but not limited to, harvested leaves, roots, shoots, tubers, stems, fruits, seeds, or
other parts of a plant, meals, oils, extracts, fermentation or digestion products, crushed or
whole grains or seeds of a plant, or any food or non-food product including such commodity
products produced from a transgenic plant cell, plant, or seed of this invention. The detection
of one or more of nucleic acid sequences of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention
in one or more commodity or commodity products contemplated herein is defacto evidence
that the commodity or commodity product contains or is derived from a transgenic plant cell,
plant, or seed of this invention.
         [0093]    In preferred embodiments, the non-natural transgenic plant prepared from the
non-natural transgenic plant cell of this invention, i. e., a transgenic plant having in its genome
a recombinant DNA construct of this invention has at least one additional altered trait, relative
to a plant lacking the recombinant DNA construct, selected from the group of traits consisting
of:
         (a)      improved abiotic stress tolerance;
         (b)      improved biotic stress tolerance;
         (c)     modified primary metabolite composition;
         (d)     modified secondary metabolite composition;
         (e)     modified trace element, carotenoid, or vitamin composition;
         (f)     improved yield;
         (g)     improved ability to use nitrogen or other nutrients;
         (h)     modified agronomic characteristics;
         (i)     modified growth or reproductive characteristics; and
         (j)     improved harvest, storage, or processing quality.
         [0094]    In particularly preferred embodiments, the non-natural transgenic plant is
characterized by: improved tolerance of abiotic stress (e. g., tolerance of water deficit or
drought, heat, cold, non-optimal nutrient or salt levels, non-optimal light levels) or of biotic
stress (e. g., crowding, allelopathy, or wounding); by a modified primary metabolite (e. g., fatty
acid, oil, amino acid, protein, sugar, or carbohydrate) composition; a modified secondary
metabolite (e. g., alkaloids, terpenoids, polyketides, non-ribosomal peptides, and secondary
metabolites of mixed biosynthetic origin) composition; a modified trace element (e. g., iron,
zinc), carotenoid (e. g., beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein, zeaxanthin, or other carotenoids and
xanthophylls), or vitamin (e. g., tocopherols) composition; improved yield (e. g., improved
yield under non-stress conditions or improved yield under biotic or abiotic stress); improved
                                                35

    WO 2008/027592                                                          PCT/US2007/019283
ability to use nitrogen or other nutrients; modified agronomic characteristics (e. g., delayed
ripening; delayed senescence; earlier or later maturity; improved shade tolerance; improved
resistance to root or stalk lodging; improved resistance to "green snap" of stems; modified
photoperiod response); modified growth or reproductive characteristics (e. g., intentional
dwarfing; intentional male sterility, useful, e. g., in improved hybridization procedures;
improved vegetative growth rate; improved germination; improved male or female fertility);
improved harvest, storage, or processing quality (e. g., improved resistance to pests during
storage, improved resistance to breakage, improved appeal to consumers); or any combination
of these traits.
         [0095]    In one preferred embodiment, non-natural transgenic seed, or seed produced
by the non-natural transgenic plant, has modified primary metabolite (e. g., fatty acid, oil,
amino acid, protein, sugar, or carbohydrate) composition, a modified secondary metabolite (e.
g., alkaloids, terpenoids, polyketides, non-ribosomal peptides, and secondary metabolites of
mixed biosynthetic origin) composition, a modified trace element (e. g., iron, zinc, sulfur),
organic phosphate (e. g, phytic acid), carotenoid (e. g., beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein,
zeaxanthin, or other carotenoids and xanthophylls), or vitamin (e. g., tocopherols,)
composition, an improved harvest, storage, or processing quality, or a combination of these.
For example, it can be desirable to modify the amino acid (e. g., lysine, methionine,
tryptophan, or total protein), oil (e. g., fatty acid composition or total oil), carbohydrate (e. g.,
simple sugars or starches), trace element, carotenoid, or vitamin content of seeds of crop plants
(e. g., canola, cotton, safflower, soybean, sugarbeet, sunflower, wheat, maize, or rice),
preferably in combination with improved seed harvest, storage, or processing quality, and thus
provide improved seed for use in animal feeds or human foods. In another example, it can be
desirable to modify the quantity or quality of polysaccharides (e. g., starch, cellulose, or
hemicellulose) in plant tissues for use in animal feeds or human foods or for fermentation or
biofuel production. In another instance, it can be desirable to change levels of native
components of the transgenic plant or seed of a transgenic plant, for example, to decrease
levels of proteins with low levels of lysine, methionine, or tryptophan, or to increase the levels
of a desired amino acid or fatty acid, or to decrease levels of an allergenic protein or
glycoprotein (e. g., peanut allergens including ara h 1, wheat allergens including gliadins and
glutenins, soy allergens including P34 allergen, globulins, glycinins, and conglycinins) or of a
toxic metabolite (e. g., cyanogenic glycosides in cassava, solanum alkaloids in members of the
Solanaceae).
                                                 36

    WO 2008/027592                                                      PCT/US2007/019283
                                           EXAMPLES
Example I
        [0096]    This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of DNA encoding a
transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small
double-stranded RNAs for gene suppression. More specifically, this example provides nucleic
acid sequences, obtained from monocot crop plants, that are useful in making a single
recombinant DNA molecule encoding a transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is
cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs for gene suppression,
independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
        [0097]    Several RNA libraries were cloned from mature rice (Oryza sativa) grain and
from various maize (Zea mays) tissues by high-throughput sequencing (Margulies et al. (2005)
Nature, 437:376-380). Among theremost abundant sequences cloned from mature rice grain
and maize root, 32 DAP (days after pollinations) and 39 DAP kernels were seven 21-mer
RNAs (SEQ ID NO. 1, SEQ ID NO. 2, SEQ ID NO. 3, SEQ ID NO. 4, SEQ ID NO. 5, SEQ
ID NO. 6, and SEQ ID NO. 7), listed in Table 1.
                                             Table 1
SEQ ID NO.        Clone number                 DNA sequence                   Species/Tissue*
      1                141121        ATGCAAGTGATGTAGCGCCCC                 rice grain, maize
                                                                           root, maize 32DAP
                                                                           and 39DAP kernel
      2               297263         ATATAGGAGTCACTCAGGAAA                 rice grain, maize 32
                                                                           DAP kernel
      3               1196700         TCTTTGCCCTCTITAGTGCTT                rice grain, maize
                                                                           32DAP kernel
      4               880479         TATGGATGGGCACCATCTICA                 rice grain, maize 32
                                                                           DAP kernel
      5               1275002        TGGCCACCAACAACATCAGCA                 rice grain, maize
                                                                           32DAP kernel
      6               1379342        TGCCCCACCAAGAGAACGCCG                 rice grain, maize
                                                                           root, maize leaf,
                                                                           maize 32DAP and
                                                                           39DAP kernel
      7               544819         TGCCTGAGGAACACCACCAGG                 rice grain, maize
                                                                           root, maize 32DAP
                                                                           and 39DAP kernel
*DAP, days after pollination
        [0098]    These seven 21-mer RNAs, when aligned to the rice genome at locus
Os6g21900, were located in two adjacent regions containing seven and six 21-nt siRNAs
aligned end to end, respectively, and forming a single foldback structure depicted in Figure 1.
                                             37

   WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
No siRNAs from this gene were present in other libraries, and only a very small number were
sequenced from the putative loop region between arms of the foldback structure. Additional
sequencing results indicated that this foldback structure contained at least three other potential
21-mer RNAs (in phase with and distal to the first seven 21-mers and loop), although small
RNAs predicted to result from in vivo cleavage of these additional phased small double
stranded RNAs were cloned only at low abundances.
        [0991      Although many variants of small RNAs were identified, only a single unique
21-nucleotide (21-nt) phase from the plus strand was supported by sequence information
(Table 2). "Phase fullness" indicates how many 21-nt phases are occupied by sequenced small
RNAs in both strands; for example, a fullness of 0.5 for frame 7.0 with a phase length of 8
indicates that all eight 21-nt frames are occupied in the plus strand, but none are occupied in
the hypothetical minus strand. "Phase uniqueness" represents a probability score for phased
small RNAs, which takes into account phase occupancy and abundance of small RNAs in each
phase. Frame 16.1 and Frame 7.0 represent each side of the foldback structure (depicted in
Figure 1, with the first seven phased small RNAs shown) and its abundant phased small
RNAs; phasing is highly supported (uniqueness >0.97) for this structure, whereas all other
potential small RNA phases were poorly supported by sequence data (uniqueness <0.005).
                                              38

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
                                              Table 2
 Frame            Start (phase        Phase      Phase        Phase         Small RNA      Average
                    number)           length   fullness    uniqueness       abundance       copies
   16.1          5099(1), 5120(2),        8       0.43        0.9963      344, 89484,          15271
                 5141(3), 5162(4),                                        3393, 3121,
            5183(5), 5204(6), 5246(8)                                     10455, 71, 31
    7.0          3620(1), 3641(2),        8        0.5        0.9717     67, 6875, 1289,        2510
                 3662(3), 3683(4),                                        3, 151, 7, 67,
                 3704(5), 3725(6),                                        11619
                 3746(7), 3767(8)
   19.0        3611(1), -3630(2),-       8        0.62        0.0049     27,1,1,59,1,3,            10
                3651(3), 3653(3), -                                      6,2,1,1
               3693(5), -3714(6),
                3735(7), 3737(7),
                 3756(8), 3758(8)
   16.0          3629(1),3650(2),        5         0.5        0.0013      1,5,2,2,2                 2
                3671(3), -3711(5),
                     3713(5)
    4.0          3638(1), 3680(3),       7        0.35        0.0011      17, 1, 2,2, 1             5
                3722(5), -3741(6),
                     3764(7)
   18.0        -5120(1),5122(1),-        4        0.62         0.001      1,15,1,73,17             21
            5141(2), 5164(3), 5185(4)
    6.0          3640(1), 3661(2),       7        0.42        0.0008     9, 3, 1, 1, 2, 2           3
                 3682(3), 3724(5),
                 3745(6), 3766(7)
   15.0          5140(1), 5161(2),       4         0.5        0.0007     1,71,4,4                 20
                 5182(3), 5203(4)
   14.0     3669(1), 3711(3), 3753(5)    5         0.3        0.0006     1,6, 1                     3
   11.0     5199(1),5220(2), 5262(4)     4        0.37        0.0004     1,3,1                      2
   20.0         3654(1), 3675(2), -      7        0.28        0.0003     2, 2, 1, 2                 2
                 3736(5), 3780(7)
    3.0          3637(1), 3658(2),       6        0.41        0.0003     2, 1.2, 1, 1               1
                3700(4), 3721(5),
                     3740(6)
         [00100]     The genomic sequence and putative precursors for the Oryza sativa foldback
structure are given in SEQ ID NO. 8, SEQ ID NO. 9, SEQ ID NO. 10, and SEQ ID NO. 11.
One genomic DNA sequence (SEQ ID NO. 9) was predicted to include the cDNA sequence,
intronic sequence, and foldback arms as shown in Figure 2, and several alternatively spliced
versions of this transcript were found in cDNA databases. One abundant alternatively spliced
transcript (SEQ ID NO. 10) indicates removal of one half of the foldback structure, probably
preventing small RNA production. An expressed sequence tag (SEQ ID NO. 11) was
identified as representing the complementary sequence to SEQ ID NO. 10. A canonical
TATA box (indicated by the boxed nucleotides in Figure 2) is located 34 bases upstream of
the predicted transcription start site in SEQ ID NO. 8, evidence that this is the bonafide 5' end
of the transcript. A single foldback structure is thus transcribed from one promoter and forms,
independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, the hybridized RNA that is cleaved in
                                              39

    WO 2008/027592                                                      PCT/US2007/019283
phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs for gene suppression. Alternatively,
two (or more) splicing variants transcribed from the same promoter each contains one of each
of the arms of the foldback structure, and come together in trans,independently of an RNA
dependent RNA polymerase, to form the hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into
multiple small double-stranded RNAs.
         [00101]   The evidence collected supports this locus as a novel type of RNA-mediated
regulatory (suppression) element. Unlike trans-actingsiRNAs, all of the multiple small
double-stranded RNAs derive from the original RNA transcript or plus strand of the precursor,
independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and without a miRNA target site that
initiates production of double-stranded RNA. Unlike microRNAs, the locus is cleaved in vivo
to multiple abundant phased small RNAs, and (as described below in Example 5), this process
requires DCL4 (or a DCL4 orthologue) and not DCL1. The inventors therefore term this novel
locus a "phased small RNA" locus.
         [00102]   Expression of this particular phased small RNA locus appears to be restricted
primarily to mature grain in both maize and rice, indicating an endogenous function related to
repression of genes involved in maturation or maintenance of the embryogenic state in mature
grain. Putative targets were predicted for each of the seven phased small RNAs (SEQ ID NO.
1, SEQ ID NO. 2, SEQ ID NO. 3, SEQ ID NO. 4, SEQ ID NO. 5, SEQ ID NO. 6, and SEQ
ID NO. 7), following target prediction guidelines described in Allen et al. (2005) Cell,
121:207-221. Non-limiting examples of these targets, which include members of the HAK2
high affinity potassium transporter family, are given in Table 3; the corresponding maize loci
from the public database, Maize Assembled Genomic Island (available on line at
magi.plantgenomics.iastate.edu, see Fu et al. (2005) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 102:12282
12287) are also provided.
                                              40

    WO 2008/027592                                                              PCT/US2007/019283
                                                      Table 3
SEQ       Clone                DNA sequence                    Target gene       Maize locus*     E value
 ID      number                                                     (rice)
 NO.
  3       1196700       TCTTTGCCCTCTTTAGTGCTT               OsO1g12300         MAGI4_89402        3.00E-24
                                                            Protein kinase     MAGI4 122217       7.00E-19
                                                            domain             MAGI4 104144       1.OOE-17
                                                                               MAGI4_99444        1.00E-14
                                                                               MAGI4 39748        2.00E-14
                                                                               MAGI4_22926        3.OOE-14
                                                            Os12g17310         MAGI4 70672        0
                                                            myosin heavy       MAGI4_141564       0
                                                            chain
  5       1275002      TGGCCACCAACAACATCAGCA                Os09g29660 ABC-    MAGI4_27534        2.OOE-22
                                                            2 type transporter
                                                            Os01g70940         MAGI4_99444        0
                                                            Potassium
                                                            transporter 7
                                                            Os09g27580         MAGI4_99444        3.00E-68
                                                            potassium uptake
                                                            protein
                                                            Os08g38980         MAGI4_25450        e-127
                                                            Chloride channel
                                                            protein                                   _
*publicly available at magi.plantgenomics.iastate.edu
Example 2
         [00103]      This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of a recombinant DNA
construct including a promoter operably linked to DNA that transcribes to RNA including: (a)
at least one exogenous recognition site recognizable by a phased small RNA expressed in a
specific cell of a multicellular eukaryote, and (b) target RNA to be suppressed in the specific
cell, wherein the target RNA is to be expressed in cells of the multicellular eukaryote other
than the specific cell. More specifically, this example describes a recombinant DNA construct
including DNA that transcribes to RNA containing an exogenous recognition site
corresponding to at least one phased small RNA derived from an endogenous phased small
RNA locus.
         [00104]      Recombinant DNA constructs were designed to include a gene expression
element for expression of a gene of interest (in this non-limiting example, the reporter gene,
beta-glucoronidase, "GUS"), and a recognition site (target site) corresponding to at least one
phased small RNA of this invention (e. g., any one or more of SEQ ID NO. 1, SEQ ID NO. 2,
SEQ ID NO. 3, SEQ ID NO. 4, SEQ ID NO. 5, SEQ ID NO. 6, and SEQ ID NO. 7 as
described in Example 1). Similar recombinant DNA constructs can be designed, wherein a
recognition site (target site) corresponding to at least one phased small RNA of this invention
is included to regulate the expression of a gene expression element for the expression of a gene
                                                     41

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
 of interest (which can be translatable or coding sequence or non-coding sequence, including
 regulatory sequence), e. g., those described under the heading "Target Genes", or alternatively
 to regulate the expression of a gene suppression element (e. g., sense, anti-sense, combinations
 of sense and anti-sense, tandem repeats of sense or of anti-sense, microRNAs, siRNAs, and
 any other construct designed to reduce the expression of a target gene).
          [00105]    A control construct (pMON94320) with a 35S promoter driving expression
 of GUS and an Hsp17 terminator included the partial sequence SEQ ID NO. 12, with an
 insertion site (indicated in bold font in Figure 3B) located between the GUS coding sequence
 and the Hsp17 terminator. Three additional constructs based on this control construct were
designed, each containing at least one recognition site corresponding to a phased small RNA of
this invention. The first construct (pMON100574) included the partial sequence SEQ ID NO.
 13, which contained one of the 21-mer phased small RNAs (SEQ ID NO. 6) described in
Example 1, incorporated in the sense orientation at the insertion site (Figure 3C). The second
construct (pMON100575) included the partial sequence SEQ ID NO. 14, which contained one
of the 21-mer phased small RNAs (SEQ ID NO. 6) described in Example 1, incorporated in
the anti-sense orientation (i. e., as a recognition site corresponding to SEQ ID NO. 6 in the
sense orientation) at the insertion site (Figure 3D). The third construct (pMON100576)
included the partial sequence SEQ ID NO. 15, which contained two of the 21-mer phased
small RNAs (SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 6) described in Example 1, both incorporated
in the anti-sense orientation (i. e., as recognition sites corresponding to SEQ ID NO. 5 and
SEQ ID NO. 6 in the sense orientation) at the insertion site (Figure 3E).
         [00106]    Maize tissue from developing kernels was analyzed by northern blot using a
single probe with the sequence CGGCGTTCTCTTGGTGGGGCA (SEQ ID NO. 16, i. e., the
anti-sense sequence of SEQ ID NO. 6). The results, depicted in Figure 4, indicated
transcription of the endogenous maize phased small RNA locus, especially in developing
embryo and to a lower extent in developing endosperm, further corroborating the cloning
results given in Table 1.
         [00107]    Maize zygotic embryos (21 -22 days after pollination) were transformed
with the recombinant DNA constructs by particle bombardment, using about 0.5 micrograms
DNA delivered with one shot of a helium particle gun. Bombarded tissue was incubated for 24
or 48 hours in a dark reach-in growth chamber at 26 degrees Celsius. The embryos were
stained in 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-glucuronic acid solution (24 hours at 37 degrees
Celsius) followed by clearing of the stained tissue in 70% ethanol. Expression of the gene of
interest (GUS) encoded by the gene expression element was indicated by the level of staining
in the embryos; GUS expression was predicted to be silenced by the endogenous maize phased
                                                42

   WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
small RNA locus. As predicted, GUS expression was silenced in the embryos transformed
with the constructs (pMON100575 and pMON100576) containing at least one recognition site
corresponding to a phased small RNA of this invention (Figure 3A). The silencing observed
in the embryos transformed with pMON100574 was presumably due to endogenous anti-sense
transcript present in low abundance as was observed in the cloned rice RNA libraries (see
Table 2 for abundances of cloned small RNAs).
          [00108]    Recognition sites corresponding to phased small RNAs of this invention are
useful for regulating expression of a transgene in a construct including at least one such
recognition site. Thus, this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct including a
promoter operably linked to DNA that transcribes to RNA including: (a) at least one
exogenous recognition site recognizable by a phased small RNA expressed in a specific cell of
a multicellular eukaryote, and (b) target RNA to be suppressed in the specific cell, wherein the
target RNA is to be expressed in cells of the multicellular eukaryote other than the specific
cell. The invention includes a recombinant DNA construct including a transgene and at least
one recognition site that corresponds to one or more phased small RNAs of this invention,
useful for expression of that transgene in tissues other than those in which the phased small
RNAs are expressed, and suppression of the transgene in tissues where the phased small RNAs
are expressed. For example, SEQ ID NO. 6 has been shown to be expressed in rice kernel
(Example 1) and in corn kernel (this example); a construct containing a transgene (e. g., an
herbicide tolerance gene such as 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) and at least
one recognition site corresponding to SEQ ID NO. 6 is useful for suppression of the transgene
in at least rice or corn kernel.
Example 3
         [00109]     This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of a recombinant DNA
construct including DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first series of contiguous RNA segments,
and (b) a second series of contiguous RNA segments, wherein the first series of contiguous
RNA segments hybridize in vivo to the second series of RNA segments to form hybridized
RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small
RNAs") for gene suppression. Preferably the hybridized RNA is produced independently of an
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The recombinant DNA construct of this invention can
include a synthetic phased small RNA locus (which can transcribe to a longer or shorter
transcript than that transcribed from a naturally occurring phased small RNA locus), designed
to be cleaved in vivo and in phase into any number of phased small RNAs for suppression of
one or more target genes.
                                              43

   WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
         [00110]    This example provides an embodiment of a recombinant DNA construct
including nucleic acid sequences derived from monocot crop plants, that transcribes to an RNA
containing a single foldback structure cleavable in vivo and in phase to multiple small double
stranded RNAs for gene suppression, independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
A phased small RNA locus from monocot crops was found to have the single foldback
structure depicted in Figure 1 (see Example 1). This locus includes at least seven 21-mer
RNAs (SEQ ID NO. 1, SEQ ID NO. 2, SEQ ID NO. 3, SEQ ID NO. 4, SEQ ID NO. 5, SEQ
ID NO. 6, and SEQ ID NO. 7), each and any of which can be engineered to suppress
expression of one target gene or of multiple target genes in trans. In this non-limiting
example, a recombinant DNA construct based on this locus was designed to transcribe to a
single transcript including an imperfect foldback structure for suppressing multiple endogenous
genes in maize: (1) the messenger RNA encoding the LKR region of the lysine ketoglutarate
reductase/saccharopine dehydrogenase gene, LKRISDH, and (2) the messenger RNA encoding
the dominant Waxy gene, which encodes an enzyme for starch synthesis; a "waxy" (non
starchy) mutant phenotype characterized by decreased amylose and increased amylopectin
(branched starch) is typically seen in plants homozygous for the naturally occurring, recessive
allele (wx/wx) and is useful as a visual marker of inheritance in maize breeding.
         [00111]    The recombinant DNA sequence was designed based on a 939-nucleotide
starting sequence (SEQ ID NO. 17), which included, in order:
        (1) a 5' leader sequence (SEQ ID NO. 18);
        (2) the 5' arm of the foldback structure, including a first series of contiguous RNA
            segments, i. e., seven contiguous 21-mers (SEQ ID NO. 1, SEQ ID NO. 2, SEQ
            ID NO. 19, SEQ ID NO. 20, SEQ ID NO. 21, SEQ ID NO. 22, and SEQ ID NO.
            7) in the order listed (5' to 3');
        (3) spacer sequence (SEQ ID NO. 23) forming a loop joining the 5' and 3' arms of the
            foldback structure;
        (4) the 3' arm of the foldback structure, including a second series of contiguous RNA
            segments, i. e., seven contiguous 21-mers (SEQ ID NO. 24, SEQ ID NO. 6, SEQ
            ID NO. 5, SEQ ID NO. 4, SEQ ID NO. 3, SEQ ID NO. 25, and SEQ ID NO. 26)
            in the order listed (5' to 3'); and
        (5) a 3' untranslated region and terminator (SEQ ID NO. 27)
         [00112]   This starting sequence (SEQ ID NO. 17) is useful as a phased small RNA
template on which a gene suppression construct is based; any one or more of the contiguous
21-mers (or the contiguous RNA segments in the corresponding RNA transcript) that form the
foldback structure can be modified or engineered to silence a target gene, as described above
                                                44

   WO 2008/027592                                                          PCT/US2007/019283
under the heading "A Recombinant DNA Construct Transcribing to a First and Second Series
of Contiguous RNA Segments that Form Hybridized RNA that is Cleaved in Phase in vivo".
In this non-limiting embodiment, the 21-mers engineered to silence one or more target genes
are preferably selected from SEQ ID NO. 1, SEQ ID NO. 2, SEQ ID NO. 3, SEQ ID NO. 4,
SEQ ID NO. 5, SEQ ID NO. 6, and SEQ ID NO. 7. Preferably, a spacer sequence (such as
SEQ ID NO. 23) forming a loop joining the 5' and 3' arms of the foldback structure is
maintained in the engineered gene suppression construct.
         [00113]    In one specific example, selected 21-mer sequences (synthetic phased small
RNAs) were designed to target LKR (SEQ ID NO. 28, and SEQ ID NO. 29) or Waxy (SEQ
ID NO. 30, and SEQ ID NO. 31), respectively. These are cloned into expressed phase
locations of the template sequence to yield the gene suppression construct'having the sequence
aatcttattctacatatttctatcttatatagaacaactagcatagctctcgttgcccagccaggttgcccagccaggttgcctggtgcacaat
gagagctggctagggcggactcattctgctgttggtgcccaacgatgctagctgctactcatactagtgaagcctgccatggttctgagaa
atttttggatactccgctgcgtagatatgcactaaaagcttgtatgtttcgctgactacatactatggatatcacctgtttgacaagagaaggat
tacataccacgatgaagatgaattggaacatgATGCAAGTGATGTAGCGCCCCATATAGGAGTCACTC
AGGAAAGCGCaGCTCGCCAccGAGATGcGCCcAAGATGCAGGTGcATGCTGAcgctaT
GGcGGCCtCGCATAGATCcCTTGATaTCACTTTGTgGATGCAGAaAGCGGTGcccacgg
cgacgccaaaaaatgcaaagttggccaacacatagctcactgcatcgtcaagtagagctgcttaatcactgagggtatatacatttagttc
gccttcttcagcgttgccatggacaCCGCTcTCTGCATCaACAAAGTGAcATCAAGtGATCTATGC
GtGGCCaCCAAcaacaTCAGCATaCACCTGCATCTTtGGCaCATCTCctTGGCGAGCg
GCGCttTCCGTAGTGATTCCTATACGGGGTGCTACTICACTIGGATCAtttacaatttatcttc
atcgtgatatatgctccttctgttctcacataggtgatatcttaaaatgtatgaggcatatatactttctacctaatattataaagtatatgcctctat
atagatcaaataaagcagaaaagtcattgttattaccaatcgtgtacttttgttctaaacatctcaactagtttaaagtatttgtctctcttga
(SEQ ID NO. 32); the 5' and 3' arms of the foldback structure are indicated by underlined
text, engineered 21-mers are shown in bold font, and intentionally mismatched nucleotides are
indicated by lower case font. Additional sequence on each foldback arm was also modified in
order to preserve the original secondary structure (including the location of mismatched bases)
of the template sequence (SEQ ID NO. 17). Figure 5 depicts the predicted secondary
structure of the RNA transcribed respectively from the template sequence (SEQ ID NO. 17)
and from the engineered gene suppression construct (SEQ ID NO. 32). Expression of the
engineered gene suppression construct is driven by an appropriate endosperm specific
promoter, such as a maize zein or B32 promoter (nucleotides 848 through 1259 of GenBank
accession number X70153, see also Hartings et al. (1990) PlantMol. Biol., 14:1031-1040,
which is incorporated herein by reference). Additional synthetic phased small RNA constructs
are designed in a similar manner to silence multiple target genes, such as combinations of
                                               45

    WO 2008/027592                                                      PCT/US2007/019283
endogenous genes (e. g., LKR/SDH, GLABRA1, DWARF4, and CLAVATA) or transgenes (e.
g., reporter genes such as GUS or GFP, or selectable markers such as a gene imparting
antibiotic or herbicide tolerance).
Example 4
         [00114]   This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of an RNA transcript that
folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded
RNAs for gene suppression, wherein the hybridized RNA is produced independently of an
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. More specifically, this example provides nucleic acid
sequences, obtained from monocot crop plants, that are useful in making a recombinant DNA
construct encoding a transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo
into multiple small double-stranded RNAs for gene suppression, independently of an RNA
dependent RNA polymerase.
         [00115]   Following the methods described in detail in Example 1, a second "phased
small RNA" locus was identified from rice (Oryza sativa) mature grain and seedling RNA
libraries. This locus, LOC_Os12g42380.1|11982.m08017, had the DNA sequence
GATTCTCCCCTGCGCCGCCGCCGCCGCCGCCGCCTCAATCGGGCGAAGCCGCCCTCGCCGC
CGTCGCGGCGGCGGCGGCGAGGGCGAGCTCCTGCGAGAGATCCTCCGCCGCCTCATGCCT
CGCGCGCGCGCTCCCGCTCCCGCTCrCGCCTGCAGTATTTGTTCCATTGCCGCGCACCACTT
TCCGGTGGGCGGCGGGCAATGCTAGGGGTTAAGAGACCTTCTCTCCCCGAGATGGAGGCG
CCGGGCGGCGCGGCGGGGGACGCGGAGGAGGAAGTTGATGCCCGOATCCGCTGGGTTCCA
TGGTGGCTGCrATGGAATGGTGGAATTGCTTGGATGGCCACGAAGGGGATCGACGCCAAT
TGTTTGGCGACCTCTACGATAGAATCGCGTCGAGTCGGGGTGTTCTTTCCTGTTATTACTAG
AAGTAGTTGAATTCGTGATTGAACACACAAGGAAGCTTGATATCGCGTCGGGGGTGYCT
TTCCTGTrATTACrAGATGTAGTTGGGTTTCGTGATTGAACACCTAAGGAAAGGAAGCTTG
ATAAATGGAAGATAGTCCAGCAAGTTTTGAAGATGATAGAAAATTTGAGCGCGTCGTAGT
AACTGTCGTCCACGATCACGTCCAGTGTTGTrCATGGCATGGGGGATGGAGTCAGGATCCT
TGAGGCGTCTGCTCCTGTTGCACTGCTTCATGCCTTTCCTGCcTCTAGGATGCTTAAGATG
GTTGCGAAGTCAGGTGCTTGGGAGTTCATGAAGCGGTCATAATCAATTTCGCTCTCTGTAG
TACTTCTCTGGTGTCTTCCCCGTTGCTTCCTTTGGAAGAAAAGCGTCCTTAGAATCTCT
TGAGAGAGTGCACTTCTCCCTCTCCTGCCATCAGTAGTGCCTATTICGCTTGGTTTCC
GCATCATCAGGTGGCACTTATAGAAATTATITTATGGAGGAAAAAGCATTGTATGGCATGA
TAGAAATATCCTTATGGATAAAACTAGGACACTTGCAAGTGTTCAATGGGAGTCACCTTAC
CTrTTTGCCTACCTGTCrGCATTTCATGAATGGGATTCCTTCTCCTGCGCCGGTGCTGTCTT
CTCAAATGGGAAATGGAGGCAAGCATCTGCCCTGTTCCATGGTGGCAGCCATGGAATGAT
GGGATTTCTTTGATGGTCATAAAGGAGATCAAAACCAACGGTTGGCAATCTCTGCAGGGA
                                              46

   WO 2008/027592                                                      PCT/US2007/019283
TGATGAACCAGGCTTGTAATATCTGTTGCrGATTrCTTTGGAAGACATAACGGCAAGCTTC
ATGGGGCACGATGGATTTCAGATGGTrGCTTCAGCCATGTCTCAAGATCAGTTGATGGAC
CTCAAGTTTCTGGGTGCAGTGCCACGAGTCTTGGTCAGCCCAAGAGTAAGCGCAGGACTG
GTGACAAGGCAAGAGGGGAGAAGAAGGCACTCAAAGTTAAGATTAACCTTGCCAGCCCG
GCCAAAAAAATTAAGAAAAGTAGCAAAAAGAAGGGCAAAAAGGGCACTGTTGCTGGCAG
GATAGGGAGAAAATGCACTCTCrCAAGAGATTCTAAAGGGCGCTTTCTTCCAAGAGAGAG
TAAGGGGGGAGACATCGGAGGAAATGCTACAGAGAGTGAAGTTGATTATGACCGCTTCAT
GAACTTTCAGGCACCTGACTTCGCACCATCTTAAGTATTTTGAAAGGCTGGAAAGGCATG
AAGCAATGTAACAAGATCAGGCGCCTCAAGGATCCTGACTTCGTCCCTCTCATGAACGTCA
TGAGCAACACTGGATATGTGACCGAGGATGATGGTCACTATGATGTGCGAAAGTCTrGAT
GCATGCAGATGGCTGGTCTGCATAGTGATTCAAGCTCTCAAATCAAAACATTCAGGCCTAT
GGCCTTGTTGCTAGAACAGTGTTTCTCCACCTTTAAAACTTGATGGACTTTOTTCCA
TTTATCTAGAAATTTTGTTGCCCTTGAGTCCGGTGGATATGTACTGGAGTATGCTATACTG
GGTGATTrAATGGTGATAATGTTAAATCTTGATACTAGTrCAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
AAAA (SEQ ID NO. 33), and a phase uniqueness score of 0.959, highly supportive of the
predicted RNA transcript having the sequence
AGUCCAGCAAGUUUUGAAGAUGAUAGAAAAUUUGAGCGCGUCGUAGUAACUGUCGUCC
ACGAUCACGUCCAGUGUUGUUCAUGGCAUGGGGGAUGGAGUCAGGAUCCUUGAGGCGU
CUGCUCCUGUUGCACUGCUUCAUGCCUUUCCUGCCUUCUAGGAUGCUUAAGAUGGUUGC
GAAGUCAGGUGCUUGGGAGUUCAUGAAGCGGUCAUAAUCAAUUUCGCUCUCUGUAGUA
CUUUCUCUGGUGUCUUCCCCGUUGCUUCCUUUUGGAAGAAAAGCGUCCUTUAGAAUCU
CUUGAGAGAGUGCACUUUCUCCCUCUCCUGCCAUCAGUAGUGCCUUUAUUUUCGCUUGG
UUUCCGGCAAAAAGGGCACUGUUGCUGGCAGGAUAGGGAGAAAAUGCACUCUCUCAAG
AGAUUCUAAAGGGCGCUUUCUUCCAAGAGAGAGUAAGGGGGGAGACAUCGGAGGAAAU
GCUACAGAGAGUGAAGUUGAUUAUGACCGCUUCAUGAACUUUCAGGCACCUGACUUCG
CUACCAUCUUAAGUAUUUUGAAAGGCUGGAAAGGCAUGAAGCAAUGUAACAGAUCAGG
CGCCUCAAGGAUCCUGACUUCGUCCCUCUCAUGAACGUCAUGAGCAACACUGGAUAUGU
GACCGAGGAUGAUGGUCACUAUGAUGUGCUGAAA                      (SEQ ID NO. 34) and containing the
sequence and single foldback structure as shown in Figure 6. Figure 7A depicts the siRNA
abundance in transcripts per quarter million sequences ("tpq") along the entire sequence (about
2 kilobases), and Figure 7B depicts an expanded view of the siRNA region and the 21
nucleotide phasing of the small RNA abundance from this locus.
        [00116]    As with the phased small RNA locus described in Example 1, the locus
having SEQ ID NO. 33 was predicted to transcribe to RNA (SEQ ID NO. 34) forming
hybridized RNA independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and to be cleavable in
vivo in phase into multiple small double-stranded RNAs. Unlike trans-acting siRNAs, all of
the multiple small double-stranded RNAs derive from the original RNA transcript or plus
                                             47

   WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
strand of the precursor, independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and without a
miRNA target site that initiates production of double-stranded RNA. Unlike microRNAs, the
locus is cleaved in vivo to multiple abundant phased small RNAs, and (as described below in
Example 5), this process requires DCL4 or a DCL4 orthologue and not DCL1.
         [00117]    Data on the phased small RNAs from this locus (SEQ ID NO. 33) are
provided in Table 4. The majority of these phased small RNAs were cloned from the rice
small RNA libraries, and several were also identified in maize (Zea mays) RNA libraries
prepared from kernels (32 days after pollination and 39 days after pollination) and root (V9
stage), indicating that a similar phased small RNA locus exists in maize. The transcript (SEQ
ID NO. 34) predicted from this locus (SEQ ID NO. 33) also includes 5' flanking sequence
AGUCCAGCAAGUUUUGAAGAUdAUAGAAAAUUUGAGCGCGUCGUAGUAACUGiJ
CGUCCACGA (SEQ ID NO. 66) and 3' flanking sequence
GAGGAUGAUGGUCACUAUGAUGUGCUGAAA                            (SEQ ID NO. 67) as well as a spacer
sequence UUUAUUUUCGCUUGGUUUCCGGCAAAAAGGG                           (SEQ ID NO. 68) located
between the 5' and 3' arms of the foldback structure, that includes a 3-nucleotide turn. Figure
6 depicts the relative position of each small RNA along the 5' and 3' arms of the hybridized
RNA (foldback) structure (SEQ ID NO. 34) predicted from the rice locus (SEQ ID NO. 33).
Most, but not all, of these small RNAs are 21-mers. The small RNA predicted to be encoded
by SEQ ID NO. 59 contains 27 nucleotides, including a large bulge of 8 unpaired nucleotides;
modification of this sequence so that this small RNA is closer to two helical turns (about 21
nucleotides) is predicted to result in processing of this small RNA.
                                              48

WO 2008/027592                                                                              PCT/US2007/019283
                              400
                  in      0                                                                  en
                              1f                   0                    C>~    I  t       4
               *      ~
                     UO
                    0 0       ,*I%    8       DCu~           s0D<UOI);
                     HOO
                 5'~.-~%                                            o   dSe'H=oe
                                                                                                u            2
                                                                                                              0
                     B~            u     u -s          ;.:,)     .8   1         -                            f%
         o:                        <.    So                  B         gD                                V   e
                         uO         r  r  AC)C)C)e)~)C)C)C)C)
                                                        ur    0r            !A                           ?    0
                                                                            I       u-0           u
                     ---    ---           ---                ---           ---        ---          __  *   *
                         u                             ::)U           OUOOL)                      B-49

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
 Example 5
         [00118]     This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of DNA encoding a
 transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small
 double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") for gene suppression, wherein the hybridized
 RNA is produced independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The 0s06g21900
 phased sRNA locus (described in Example 1 and with the partial structure depicted in Figure
 1) is processed in vivo to multiple phased small RNAs; all of the multiple small double
 stranded RNAs derive from the plus strand of the precursor, which distinguishes them from
 trans-actingsiRNAs. And, unlike microRNAs, the locus contains multiple abundant phased
 small RNAs. This example provides further characterization of a phased small RNA locus as
clearly distinct from canonical microRNAs and trans-acting siRNAs.
         [00119]    The 0s06g21900 phased sRNA locus, located on rice Chromosome 6, was
further characterized. A 898-nucleotide precursor that mapped to this locus was sequenced
from library clone LIB4833-001-Rl-N1-G1O and found to have the DNA sequence
AATCTrATTCTACATATTTCTATCTTATATAGAACAACTAGCATAGCTCTCGTTGCCCAGCC
AGGTTGCCCAGCCAGGTTGCCTGGTGCACAATGAGAGCTGGCTAGGGCGGACTCATTCTG
CTGTTGGTGCCCAACGATGCTAGCTGCTACTCATACTAGTGAAGCCTGCCATGGTTCTGAG
AAATTTTTGGATACTCCGCTGCGTAGATATGCACTAAAAGCTTGTATGTTTCGcTGACTAC
ATACTATGGATATCACCTGTTTGACAAGAGAAGGATTACATACCACGATGAAGATGAATT
GGAACATGATGCAAGTGATGTAGCGCCCCATATAGGAGTCACTCAGGAAAGCACAGAAGA
GGGAGAAGATGTAGACGGTGCCCATCCACATGCTGACGCTATTGGCGGCCTCGGCGTTCTC
CTGGTGGAGCACCTGCCTGAGGAACACCACCAGGCCCACGGCGACGCCAAAAAATGCAAA
GTTGGCCAACACATAGCTCACTGCATCGTCAAGTAGAGCTGCTrAATCACTGAGGTATATA
CATAGTTCGCCTTCTrCAGCGTTGCCATGGACCTGGTGATGTT                               CCGGCGGGTGCCCC
ACCAAGAGAACGCCGTGGCCACCAACAACATCAGCATATGGATGGGCACCATCTTCATCT
TTGCCCTCTIAGTGCTTTCCGTAGTGATTCCTATACGGGGTGCTACTTCACTTGGATCATG
TTACAATTTATCTTCATCGTGATATATGCTCCrCTGTTCCACATAGGTGATATCTTAAAA
TGTATGAGGCATATATACTTCTACCTAATATTATAAAGTATATGCCTCTATATAGATCAA
ATAAAGCAGAAAAGTCATTGTTATTACAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA                              (SEQ ID NO. 69); the
corresponding transcript contained the phased small RNAs (see Example 1) distributed
between two regions along the transcript (Figure 8A). This locus contains two exons (Exons 2
and 3, indicated by the shaded regions) that form a long, imperfect foldback structure
containing eight 21-nucleotide phased small double-stranded RNAs, separated by an -1.2 kB
intron (Figure 8B). No small RNAs were found that match Exon 1, nor was any miRNA
target sequence that could initiate a trans-actingsiRNA phasing identified (see Allen et al.
(2005) Cell, 121:207-221; Vaucheret (2005) Sci. STKE, 2005, e43; and Yoshikawa et al.
                                              50

    WO 2008/027592                                                      PCT/US2007/019283
 (2005) Genes Dev., 19:2164-2175). RNA gel blot analysis of the most abundant phased small
 RNA confirmed that expression was specific to rice grain (Figure 8C). Neither of the two
 most abundant phased small RNAs ("P7", SEQ ID NO. 6, and "P4", SEQ ID NO. 3) was
detected in rice seedlings or in other plant species tested.
         [001201   The phased small RNAs form a novel class of regulatory small RNAs that
differ from both canonical microRNAs (miRNAs) and trans-actingsiRNAs. The phased small
RNAs disclosed herein are to some extent reminiscent of miR163 in Arabidopsisin which two
phases of siRNAs were sequenced with a single small RNA (miR163 itself) significantly
accumulating; see Allen et al. (2004) Nat. Genet, 36:1282-1290; and Kurihara and Watanabe
(2004) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., 101:12753-12758. However, the phased small RNAs
clearly differ from miR163 in that multiple abundant phased small RNAs are processed and
can be isolated from a single transcript. The phased small RNAs locus is a single, extended,
imperfect foldback structure (for example, the loci depicted in Figure 1, Figure 6, or Figure
8B), and therefore is also clearly different from the trans-acting siRNA loci identified in
Arabidopsis, which require an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR6) to generate the
double-stranded RNA from which the phased siRNAs are processed.
         [00121]   The extended foldback structure of the Os06g21900 phased small RNA locus
suggests that this precursor is not processed via the canonical miRNA pathway. The phased
nature of the phased small RNAs further indicates that they are the result of processing by
DCIA or a DCL4 orthologue rather than by DCLI. To further confirm that the phased small
RNAs disclosed herein are unique and distinct from both canonical microRNAs (miRNAs) and
trans-actingsiRNAs, the full length cDNA from the 0s06g21900 phased small RNA locus was
transformed into ArabidopsisthalianaColumbia (Col-0) ecotype and mutants dclJ-7 (a DCL1
knock-out) and dcl4-1 (a DCL4 knock-out). RNA was extracted and blots analyzed using
probes corresponding to phased small RNAs "P7" (SEQ ID NO. 6), and "P5" (SEQ ID NO.
4), a canonical miRNA (miR173) and a trans-acting siRNA (ta-siR255) (Figure SD).
        [00122]    Phased 21-nucleotide small RNAs were highly expressed in transformation
events from Col-0 and dcl1-7, but in the dcl4-1 mutant, 21-nucleotide phased sRNAs were
absent, with only faint 24-nucleotide small RNAs observed (similar to what was observed for
ta-siR255). These data are consistent with the function of DCL4 in processing small RNAs in
phase, but, unlike trans-acting siRNAs, no miRNA initiation site was required in the case of
the phased small RNA loci disclosed herein. These data also demonstrated that the phased
small RNA locus from a monocot crop plant was efficiently processed in a dicot plant. Thus,
phased sRNAs are processed through pathways distinct from those of both canonical
microRNAs (miRNAs) and trans-acting siRNAs. As described in other Examples disclosed
                                               51

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
 herein, the phased small RNA locus is useful as a template for designing a recombinant DNA
construct encoding a transcript that folds into hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo
into multiple small double-stranded RNAs for gene suppression, or alternatively as a template
for designing a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first
 series of contiguous RNA segments, and (b) a second series of contiguous RNA segments,
wherein the first series of contiguous RNA segments hybridize in vivo to the second series of
RNA segments to form hybridized RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small
double-stranded RNAs ("phased small RNAs") for gene suppression.
Example 6
         [00123]   This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of a recombinant DNA
construct including DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first series of contiguous RNA segments,
and (b) a second series of contiguous RNA segments, wherein the first series of contiguous
RNA segments hybridize in vivo to the second series of RNA segments to form hybridized
RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small
RNAs") for gene suppression.
         [00124]   This example provides an embodiment of a recombinant DNA construct
including nucleic acid sequences derived from monocot crop plants, that transcribes to an RNA
containing a single foldback structure cleavable in vivo and in phase to multiple small double
stranded RNAs for gene suppression, independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
This example is a recombinant DNA construct designed to suppress multiple target genes. The
Os06g21900 phased small RNA locus (see Example 1) was modified to suppress three target
genes as follows: nucleotides of the phased small RNAs with the identifiers 1196700 (SEQ ID
NO. 3), 1379342 (SEQ ID NO. 6), and 544819 (SEQ ID NO. 7) were replaced, respectively,
with nucleotides corresponding to a segment of the GLI, IDA, and LFY genes from
Arabidopsis thaliana. The resulting sequence was
GGTACCAATCTTATTCTACATATTTCTATCTTATATAGAACAACTAGCATAGCTCCGTTGC
CCAGCCAGGTTGCCCAGCCAGGTTGCCTGGTGCACAATGAGAGCTGGCTAGGGCGGACTC
ATTCrGCTGTTGGTGCCCAACGATGCTAGCTGCTACTCATACTAGTGAAGCCTGCCATGGT
TCTGAGAAATTTTTGGATACTCCGCTGCGTAGATATGCACTAAAAGCTTGTATGTTTCGCT
GACTACATACTATGGATATCACCTGTTTGACAAGAGAAGGATrACATACCACGATGAAGA
TGAATTGGAACATGATGCAAGTGATGTAGCGCCCCATATAGGAGTCACTCAGGACTCCAC
GGTCATTGTGTATCATGTAGACGGTGCCCATCCACATGCTGACGCTATTGGCGGCCTTGGT
CCTTCATAGAGACCCAACCTAACAGTGAACGTACTGTCGCCCCACGGCGACGCCAAAAAA
TGCAAAGTTGGCCAACACATAGCTCACTGCATCGTCAAGTAGAGCTGCTTAATCACTGAGG
TATATACATTTAGTTCGCCTTCTTCAGCGTTGCCATGGAGCGACAGAACGTTCACGGTTAG
                                             52

    WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
GTTGTGTCTCTTTGAAGGACCATGGCCACCAACAACATCAGCATATGGATGGGCACCATCT
TCATGATGAACAATGACGGTGGAGTCCGTAGTGATTCCTATACGGGGTGCTACTTCACTrG
GATCATGTTACAATTTATCTTCATCGTGATATATGCTCCTTCTGTTCTCACATAGGTGATAT
CTTAAAATGTATGAGGCATATATACTTTCTACCTAATATTATAAAGTATATGCCTCTATATA
GATCAAATAAAGCAGAAAAGTCATTGTTATTACGTTAAC                         (SEQ ID NO. 70). This
sequence was synthesized, subcloned into a dicot binary vector (pMON97890) including a
glyphosate resistance selectable marker, and transformed into Arabidopsis thalianausing a
floral dip technique as described by Clough and Bent (1998), PlantJ., 16:735-743. The
resulting events are selected using glyphosate, and selected plants are screened for the expected
phenotypes, i. e., loss of trichomes by GLI suppression (Marks and Feldmann (1989) Plant
Cell, 1:1043-1050), prevention of petal abscission by IDA suppression (Butenko et al. (2003)
Plant Cell, 15:2296-2307), and flower to leaf conversion by LFY suppression (Schwab et al.
(2006) Plant Cell, 18:1121-1133).
Example 7
         [00125]   This example describes a non-limiting embodiment of a recombinant DNA
construct including DNA that transcribes to: (a) a first series of contiguous RNA segments,
and (b) a second series of contiguous RNA segments, wherein the first series of contiguous
RNA segments hybridize in vivo to the second series of RNA segments to form hybridized
RNA that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs ("phased small
RNAs") for gene suppression. More specifically, this example describes a recombinant DNA
construct that transcribes to RNA that is cleaved in vivo in phase into phased small RNAs for
gene suppression of multiple viruses in plants.
        [00126]    Phased small RNAs were designed to target highly homologous regions of
economically important geminiviruses, tospoviruses, and a potexvirus that infect tomato.
These viruses include Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (Dominican Republic isolate), Tomato
leaf curl New Delhi virus, Tomato severe leaf curl virus, Pepper huasteco yellow vein virus,
Pepper golden mosaic virus, Pepino mosaic virus, Tomato spotted wilt virus, Groundnut bud
necrosis virus, and Capsicum chlorosis virus. Homologous regions allow a limited set of
phased small RNAs to control many viruses; additionally, these conserved regions are
predicted to be less likely to evolve resistance due to base changes that would impede or
prevent suppression by phased small RNAs. Reynolds score, functional asymmetry, and
miRNA properties were considered when selecting target sequences for suppression. Multiple
phased small RNAs are utilized to improve silencing and prevent resistance.
                                               53

    WO 2008/027592                                                        PCT/US2007/019283
          [00127]   In this non-limiting example, nucleotide sequences for suppressing multiple
 viral targets were used to replace native sequences (i. e., segments each of 21 contiguous
 nucleotides) of the abundant phased small RNAs derived from a scaffold sequence (the
 0s06g21900 cDNA, SEQ ID NO. 69), with additional nucleotides changed where necessary in
 order to preserve secondary structure as found in the native precursor transcript. The
 replacement 21-nucleotide segments included two sequences for suppressing geminiviruses,
TGGTACAACGTCATTGATGAC (SEQ ID NO. 71) and TGGACCTTACATGGCCCTTCA
 (SEQ ID NO. 72), one sequence for suppressing potexviruses,
TAATTGTGCAGCTCATCACCC (SEQ ID NO. 73), and three sequences for suppressing
 tospoviruses (one for each segment of these tripartite viruses),
TAGATGGGAAATATAGATATC (SEQ ID NO. 74, targetting the tospovirus M segment),
TGCTTATATGTATGTTCTGTA (SEQ ID NO. 75, targetting the tospovirus L segment), and
TCAAGAGTCTTTGAAAGAAAG (SEQ ID NO. 76, targetting the tospovirus S segment).
The replacement segments were incorporated into a DNA sequence encoding a synthetic
phased small RNA precursor (i. e., an RNA transcript that is cleaved in vivo in phase into
phased small RNAs for gene suppression of multiple viruses in plants),
AATCTTATTCTACATATCTATCTTATATAGAACAACTAGCATAGCTCTCGTTGCC
CAGCCAGGTTGCCCAGCCAGGTTGCCTGGTGCACAATGAGAGCTGGCTAGGGCGG
ACTCATTCTGCTGTTGGTGCCCAACGATGCTAGCTGCTACTCATACTAGTGAAGCC
TGCCATGGTTCTGAGAAATITITGGATACTCCGCTGCGTAGATATGCACTAAAAGC
TTGTATGTTTCGCTGACTACATACTATGGATATCACCTGTTGACAAGAGAAGGAT
TACATACCACGATGAAGATGAATTGGAACATGTGGACCTTACATGGCCCTTCAA
TATAGGAGTCACTCAGGAgtcatCcGtgacGttAtAccAgacAtcCatatttCecatcCActtTctCtt
agagacCcttgTgGGtGaTgagtTGcacaGttaCCTGCTTATATGTATGTTCTGTACCCACG
GCGACGCCAAAAAATGCAAAGTTGGCCAACACATAGCTCACTGCATCGTCAAGTA
GAGCTGCTrAATCACTGAGGTATATACATTTAGTTCGCCTTCCAGCGTTGCCATG
GAtacaGaaAatacaTatCaGCGGGTAATTGTGCAGCTCATCACCCTCAAGAGTCTTT
GAAAGAAAGTAGATGGGAAATATAGATATCTGGTACAACGTCATTGATGACT
CCGTAGTGATTCCTATACtGaagGgccacgtAaggtGcaCATGTrACAATTTATCTrcATc
GTGATATATGCTCCTTCTGTTCTCACATAGGTGATATCTTAAAATGTATGAGGCAT
ATATACTTTCTACCTAATATTATAAAGTATATGCCTCTATATAGATCAAATAAAGC
AGAAAAGTCATTGTTATTAC (SEQ ID NO. 77), where underlined text indicates the
location of the replacement 21-nucleotide segments (phased small RNAs) for suppressing
viruses, bold text indicates nucleotides in the foldback structure, and lower-case font indicates
nucleotides changed to preserve secondary structure as found in the native precursor transcript.
                                              54

    WO 2008/027592                                                       PCT/US2007/019283
 Figure 9A depicts the foldback structure of the transcript of the endogenous 0s06g21900
 phased small RNA locus (SEQ ID NO. 69); Figure 9B depicts the foldback structure of the
 synthetic phased small RNA precursor encoded by SEQ ID NO. 77.
Example 8
         [00128]   This example describes identification of targets of an RNA that is cleaved in
vivo in phase into phased small RNAs for gene suppression. More specifically, this example
describes identification of targets of phased small RNAs produced from a native phased small
RNA locus.
         [00129]   Putative target genes regulated by the phased small RNAs (see Table 4)
produced from the locus haviAg SEQ ID NO. 33 were predicted from plant cDNA databases
using the miRSite algorithm. miRSite predicts miRNA targets by comparison of sequence
similarity between the input miRNA and the target cDNA dataset. The miRNA:target pairs (or
analogously, the phased small RNA:target pairs) were scored based on rules established from
experimentally validated miRNA targets (Allen et al. (2005) Cell, 121:207-221). Briefly,
mispairs and single nucleotide gaps were scored as 1, G:U pairs as 0.5, scores for mispairs
from bases 2 to 13 doubled, and summed along the length of the target. The predicted targets
were ranked according to their penalty scores, with scores less than 4.5 considered as putative
targets. In the case of conserved miRNAs or phased small RNA, targets-present in orthologous
genes and locations were given preference. Table 5 provides non-limiting examples of target
genes (and the recognition site identified in the target gene's RNA transcript) predicted to be
regulated by regulated by phased small RNAs from the locus having SEQ ID NO. 33; the
alignment of the phased small RNA and the recognition site is also depicted.
                                              55

WO 2008/027592                                                                                                   PCT/US2007/019283
                       C1                                 C-                   S.          en        in            It           in       ~    tn
                                                WA             In                                                               'R            .nj
                Ln            Ln            IO           LA                               LA        LA           LA            Ln            tn
                     CU       CD-U                   0     U-         I-n                             C-C-d-n.
            ci         -U                            0 -CD.D -u               U-C          CD-u:               n           tu             t U         n
                        u U             d -inJ-inU-                    0          -u1U-i            U-C              0-~c       C -uCD
                  U)-t" U-tu                         a 0- -o                   1n                   01c           co-0               -0
      CA        4-:5          <-o           4-:           u-         I                                                                                     U u0
                                =       ~~~~-U                      UMutyc-x-                                                              u
                                                                              Uc              SU-   u-           u         0                            f
               U-a           0       o      o-         0               U-0    U           U-cr          UD-tnD-0-UCD
                        0-i    u         rU          MU                               : U_-i       b-in    -i  - CD-U3C--         .          u       ED -u
       .     l       -tm        U-            U                   (dn                 coin                       (d            I.Ut -          U
      Q.        U-tI            U -           UrC)-        ___                U                   a-c                        in*o        ~
                                                          0.       C~                                              0
                4s                         2                                0                                                                 I..
                                                          4.)      0       u-   o                                                             coo
          oo                 kn            (ON
                                       t_                                                         D0 n        D0       00 e  0      C>
                             c)                                                          cn cn       -C4
                         cn                p.                 e                    04                                               Ic            i
                                           --            (-en  tk                                   c    z       I                              )
                        w)   r                                                    V-     V,     U           e       -          en           (AC
                                                   in~~~LcC)4                                   4   tn
                                                                                                                 Ur             n;
                                                                                                                               Un C
                                                                                                                                            t      o
                                                      -      ~~           ~    ~          ~         F oo        ~j
                                                                                                                 [-4o-           0      ~   0
            D    fL      z       o         o             0                    C                       A           ON            0           Ch
                                  Go                                                                                      IA g         I       z '
                     Z~     ;C5          n inH                                              -       4                          _nP
         CA
                                                                      56

    WO 2008/027592                                                         PCT/US2007/019283
         [00130]    The technique known as RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA
5' ends ("5' RLM-RACE") is used to experimentally validate predicted targets in plants (e. g.,
rice and maize); see, for example, Kasschau et al. (2003) Dev. Cell, 4:205-217, and Llave et al.
(2002) Science, 297:2053-2056. This approach relies on ligation of an RNA adapter molecule
to the 5' end of the cleavage site and is dependent on the 5' phosphate left by RNAase III
enzymes including Agol. The resulting PCR products are sequenced and the relative number
of clones which align to the predicted miRNA (or phased small RNA) cleavage site between
nucleotides 10 and 11 relative to the miRNA (or phased small RNA) 5' end provide an
estimate of miRNA (or phased small RNA) activity. Results from 5' RLM-RACE assays are
used to confirm cleavage of a predicted target by any of the phased small RNAs.
         [00131]   Identification and validation of endogenous genes regulated by phased small
RNAs from a natively expressed phased small RNA locus is useful, e. g., to eliminate or
modify a phased small RNA recognition site in an endogenous gene in order to decouple
expression of that gene from regulation by the phased small RNA that natively regulates
expression of the gene. For example, the number of mispairs involving bases at positions 2 to
 13 (in a phased small RNA recognition site having contiguous 21 nucleotides) can be increased
to prevent recognition and cleavage by the phased small RNA.
         [00132]   All of the materials and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made
and used without undue experimentation as instructed by the above disclosure. Although the
materials and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred
embodiments and illustrative examples, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that
variations can be applied to the materials and methods described herein without departing from
the concept, spirit and scope of the invention. All such similar substitutes and modifications
apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope and concept of the
invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                              57

  The claims defining the invention are as follows.
   1.      A recombinant DNA construct comprising a promoter operably linked to DNA that
           transcribes to RNA comprising:
         (a)        at least one exogenous recognition site complementary to a nucleotide
                    sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
                    7,35,36,37,38,39,49,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,
                    55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, and 65 and recognizable by a phased
                    small RNA expressed in a specific cell of a multicellular eukaryote, and
         (b)        target RNA to be suppressed in said specific cell,
         wherein said at least one exogenous recognition site comprises an RNA sequence that
         hybridizes to said phased small RNA,
         wherein said target RNA is to be suppressed by said phased small RNA in said
                    specific cell, thereby said target RNA is expressed in cells of said
                    multicellular eukaryote other than said specific cell,
         wherein said phased small RNA has a nucleotide sequence that maps to the plus
                    strand of a phased small RNA locus, and
         wherein said phased small RNA locus contains at least three contiguous phased small
                    RNAs.
  2.       The recombinant DNA construct of claim 1, wherein said at least one exogenous
           recognition site is located within at least one of:
           (a)    the 5' untranslated region of said target RNA;
           (b)    the 3' untranslated region of said target RNA; and
           (c)    said target RNA.
3.       A non-natural transgenic plant cell having in its genome the recombinant DNA
         construct of claim 1 or 2.
                                               58

4. A non-natural transgenic plant comprising the non-natural transgenic plant cell of
   claim 3.
                                    59

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              <110>     Allen, Edwards
<removed-date>
                        Guo, Liang
                        Heisel, Sara E.
                        Ivashuta, Sergey I.
                        Zhang, Yuanji I.
              <120>     Phased Small RNAs
              <130>     38-21(54702)B
              <150>     60/841,608
<removed-apn>
              <151>     2006-08-31
              <160>     97
              <210>     1
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     1
              augcaaguga uguagcgccc c             21
              <210>     2
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     2
              auauaggagu cacucaggaa a             21
              <210>     3
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     3
              ucuuugcccu cuuuagugcu u             21
              <210>     4
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     4
              uauggauggg caccaucuuc a             21
                                              1

              <210>     5
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     5
              uggccaccaa caacaucagc a                                             21
              <210>     6
              <211>     21
<removed-apn>
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     6
              ugccccacca agagaacgcc g                                             21
              <210>     7
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     7
              ugccugagga acaccaccca g                                             21
              <210>     8
              <211>     5521
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     8
              aaaatttcta ccatctcact tttgtaataa taccataaat gctttgccat atgtaaaacc   60
              gttcgagtag cgacaacacc ggttctataa aagttgttcc ctttccacgt acttataagc   120
              ttatctagtg tgcacgcatt ccctttccac gtatttccac gtatttccat taaccttatc   180
              ttgtgtgcac gcataaggta catgggtaat aacatgttct tggaagtggt ccttacctac   240
              accgctatat aaagcgacgc ctctcattgc gacaccacca atcttattct acatatttct   300
              atcttatata gaacaactag catagctctc gttgcccagc caggttgccc agccaggttg   360
              cctggtgcac aatgagagct ggctagggcg gactcattct gctgttggtg cccaacgatg   420
              ctagctgcta ctcatactag tgaagcctgc catggttctg agaaattttt ggatactccg   480
              ctgcgtagat atgcactaaa agcttgtatg tttcgctgac tacatactat ggtgagatcc   540
              taaagtatta cctatttatt taccttttta tagtttctat atattacttc agatgacgag   600
              atcatttagc acgcataaac aagtcacaaa ttattaagta aaattctttc aagtttttgc   660
              agacctttgg gtatctttct cactttttat gtctttttta acctcaaaag tcacatgtac   720
                                                2

              attcaactgc attcatgtcc aaatctttct agaatgattg cttggtcttt gtttcgttac   780
<removed-date>
              tacggtgatt tttcagcatg catataagtt cctcttcgtt cttcgtttct cctttcaagg   840
              attgatctat ctaggggaga taggaatcaa gcaaattgtt caccgtccca tgcactatat   900
              gctagatccc attgtttttt ctttttaaat aatgccattt cacgaggtac cattgcttta   960
              gaaaaaaaat ggtcagtaac gagattttaa tatctagcct gtcttttata agatatacca 1020
              ggtgtcttct ataagatata ccaggtaaat atagtaccat agaattttct aacggttcaa 1080
<removed-apn>
              ccagggacaa tttgttttca cctagctgcg tacacaccca ttttatccac gcgcttctta 1140
              aataggttaa aaaatataaa acaaattggt agcatagatt ttctttaaag agacgtaaaa 1200
              tatattatga tgacaaatac ctcttgtcca accaggctca aattattact ctaaactgtt 1260
              ttacaccaaa acttcagcct aaacagaaac atgcctggtt atacatgcca ggagattgct 1320
              tgttcggttt ggagaggatt gagggattcc gcaccactaa aggtgtgtaa taaatcccct 1380
              ccaatctcac ttcttgagga tcaatcgaac atcacattaa aagaaaaaac atgtttggtg 1440
              cacgttctta aataaaggcg gagtacaaac gtctgtcgaa cagcaccaat gcaaacaact 1500
              gaatttaaca gccatttcat gataattata tatatatata tatatatata aaagatgtat 1560
              ctagctagac tatatatatg tggtcatcct gtggactgga gctgatcccc tccacctccg 1620
              gctcgatgcc cttgaacaac cgcgcgaaca cgatgaacac gacgaggtcc acggcggaca 1680
              gcacggcgag ggtgatgaag gagcggtcga ggtggccgcg gtcgagctcg gccaggatcc 1740
              accccgccgt ccctccgccg gtccgccgcc gcgaggcgac gccgctgatg gcgctcacca 1800
              tcaccatgct ggcgtagttc cccagcgaga tggacgccat gcacagcgag ctccccaggc 1860
              tcttcacccc ctccggcgac tgcacgttga agaactccag ctgccccacg tacacgaaca 1920
              cctccgacgc gcccatcacc gcgtactgcg gcgcctgcca cagcacgctc atggcgcggc 1980
              cgccggcgcc ggatcggcgg cggcggtgga cctcgacgac cgccgcggcg accatgccga 2040
              gcagcgcgat cacgaggccc gcgcccatgc gcttgagctc gccgacgccg cgcgggttct 2100
              tggtcagcct cgccgccgcg ggcaccagga cgtagtggga gaaggcgagc gtggcgagca 2160
              cgccggcgac gtcgaacacc gacatggacg cggccggcgc gttgaacagg cccaggatgt 2220
              cggtgtccat ggccgcgcct tgctccacga acaaggacga catctgggtg aactccacgg 2280
              agtagacgat gctgcagatc cagatgggca ccatgctcac cacgcacttg gcctcctcca 2340
              cctgcgtcac cgtgcacagt ctccacgggt tcttggcgtt cccgtcgtgg tagtcctcct 2400
              cggtcgccgt cgccgccttg tcaagaaacc tgagctggtc gctgtgggcg agcttgccga 2460
              cgccacggat cgccgagccc tcgccatcga cctcgtggag gtggtcgccg ggcggcggca 2520
              cgatgtgccg cttgcggtac gcggcgacga acacctgggc gatgcgggtg agcgggttgc 2580
                                                3

<removed-date>
              cggcaggtcg gacccggcgg tagcgcggcg tgccgaggag aaagagcgcg agcgcgagcg 2640
              cggcggcggc ggtggagacc cagaagccgg cgacccaccg gcccctgtcc tcgaagaaca 2700
              ccaggacgga gttgtagaag agggagccga cgttgagcga gaggtagaag aggcagaaga 2760
              aggcctgctt gcgccgccgc tcgccggggt cggcgtcgtc gaactggtcg gcgccgaacg 2820
              tcgccaccga cggctggtac ccgccgttcc cgaacgccgc catgtagatg gacaggtaga 2880
              acaccgcgac gccacgccgg gacggcgccg cgcactgcct gagcccgccg ccgtcgccgc 2940
<removed-apn>
              accccggcgg ctccaccagc aagaaccacg acaacagcga caggagcatc aacccctgca 3000
              tgccaaaaca cacaagaaat taaacttgtc tcatgcatca actgctgaca ctcttaacct 3060
              tataataact ttaaacttat aattcagttt tgctattttc agtcgtctga aatcaaaatt 3120
              gcacatatgc tctgtttttt acataattaa gattgtttaa aatgttgaca cagtatttat 3180
              gttgttatat tttatactac tgctgagttt atcctgatat ctgactgcat atttttcagg 3240
              atatcacctg tttgacaaga gaaggattac ataccacgat gaagatgaat tggaacatga 3300
              tgcaagtgat gtagcgcccc atataggagt cactcaggaa agcacagaag agggagaaga 3360
              tgtagacggt gcccatccac atgctgacgc tattggcggc ctcggcgttc tcctggtgga 3420
              gcacctgcct gaggaacacc accaggccca cggcgacgcc aaaaaatgca aagttggcca 3480
              acacatagct cactgcatcg tcaagtagag ctgcttaatc actgaggtaa aataaatatt 3540
              ttaatttctt ttggatcaaa ccactatata tgcccccatt ttgcattgca gtgttgttca 3600
              acactggtta gtttatctct actatatatc ttaaaagcac agtcatcctt attcccattc 3660
              tatccataag aaacactaga aaaaactaac caattgagag aaaaatatgg gagaagagaa 3720
              aaaaaaatta aaccacattc accatatcac atccgtttgc aaggcacggt cctatgacta 3780
              gtattgtata aaatgataga ttgttctcca cattatattg gtataaatac tggactatta 3840
              gtaaatcaaa cactattaac cacgaaaaaa aagagagagt tgggatgaga ttgtggggat 3900
              taaattttta ccaagaagta gtgccattgt catctttcct cttgaagtct tcagttctgg 3960
              gcttccctgg aaatgttggg tctgatcttc agtgtgcaca aatgactcat tgtatatcat 4020
              ggaattgcat ggagagcatg atcccacaga ttcaacatct tccattggct tttaaaaaaa 4080
              agtagttgag gaaaaaggtg tcacaactca cttaccactc tactagaaag taataaggat 4140
              agactaaaaa ttttagagtt tttattcttg gtttgattaa ttcgccgaca aataataagt 4200
              acaaacagaa caaatgattc tgaagtgtta cctatcatat tcaattataa tattcaacgt 4260
              aacaagtagc aatctaaagg acatcatctt ggggaggtac ttaattggta cttcctccat 4320
              tccaaaatgt ttgacgccgt tgacttttta aaatatgttt gaccgtttgt cttattcaaa 4380
                                                4

              aaatttaagt aattattaat tcttttccta tcatttgatt tattgttaaa tatactttta 4440
<removed-date>
              tgtatatata tagttttata tatttcataa aagtttttga ataagacgaa cggtcaaaca 4500
              tatttaaaaa agccaacggc gtcaaacatt taaggaagga gggagtataa tataaaaaga 4560
              atatgatgtt tttaggtttt gtcctcttct tgaagaggta tatgccttct taccatttta 4620
              gaaatacctc gccataccgg agatatcaaa ctaattgcat aatttcacaa atcatattta 4680
              taaatgtttt ttattttatt tttaaacttt gctaggtata tacatttagt tcgccttctt 4740
<removed-apn>
              cagcgttgcc atggacctgg tgatgttctt ccggcgggtg ccccaccaag agaacgccgt 4800
              ggccaccaac aacatcagca tatggatggg caccatcttc atctttgccc tctttagtgc 4860
              tttccgtagt gattcctata cggggtgcta cttcacttgg atcatgttac aatttatctt 4920
              catcgtgata tatgctcctt ctgttctcac ataggtgata tcttaaaatg tatgaggcat 4980
              atatactttc tacctaatat tataaagtat atgcctctat atagaatcaa ataaagcaga 5040
              aaagtcattg ttattaccaa tcgtgtactt ttgttctaaa catctcaact agtttaaagt 5100
              atttgtctct cttgagcaat gggtttaaac ctctccacgg atgggagaga acctctacta 5160
              tttgattgtt ccaacttttg acacaataga aacacagatg atactgaagg tatgaaaggt 5220
              aaatagttag ttaaggttcc aatcattcaa atgctggaaa gtacatttac ttctatttta 5280
              aactattaag gggtaaaaaa aaacagatat acgctcttac tctgatctca aatgccatga 5340
              tctctgcaga tcccacggtg tcgggaacct tcaatacgaa tatatatata aaaaagaaaa 5400
              gatcagtaag gaaatgtttg atctgctagc cttagttttc atattattaa attttagaaa 5460
              atacaagtaa gattataaaa ttataagttt gctacaatat ttatgtctga acatagtata 5520
              a                                                                   5521
              <210>     9
              <211>     2454
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <220>
              <221>     misc_feature
              <222>     (1)..(2454)
              <223>     N is A, T, G, or C
              <220>
              <221>     unsure
              <222>     (1)..(2454)
              <223>     unsure at all n locations
              <400>     9
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag    60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
                                                5

<removed-date>
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tgctagacta tatatatgtg gtcatcctgt ggactggagc tgatcccctc   300
              cacctccggc tcgatgccct tgaacaaccg cgcgaacacg atgaacacga cgaggtccac   360
              ggcggacagc acggcgaggg tgatgaagga gcggtcgagg tggccgcggt cgagctcggc   420
              caggatccac cccgccgtcc ctccgccggt ccgccgccgc gaggcgacgc cgctgatggc   480
<removed-apn>
              gctcaccatc accatgctgg cgtagttccc cagcgagatg gacgccatgc acagcgagct   540
              ccccaggctc ttcaccccct ccggcgactg cacgttgaag aactccagct gccccacgta   600
              cacgaacacc tccgacgcgc ccatcaccgc gtactgcggc gcctgccaca gcacgctcat   660
              ggcgcggccg ccggcgccgg atcggcggcg gcggtggacc tcgacgaccg ccgcggcgac   720
              catgccgagc agcgcgatca cgaggcccgc gcccatgcgc ttgagctcgc cgacgccgcg   780
              cgggttcttg gtcagcctcg ccgccgcggg caccaggacg tagtgggaga aggcgagcgt   840
              ggcgagcacg ccggcgacgt cgaacaccga catggacgcg gccggcgcgt tgaacaggcc   900
              caggatgtcg gtgtccatgg ccgcgccttg ctccacgaac aaggacgaca tctgggtgaa   960
              ctccacggag tagacgatgc tgcagatcca gatgggcacc atgctcacca cgcacttggc 1020
              ctcctccacc tgcgtcaccg tgcacagtct ccacgggttc ttggcgttcc cgtcgtggta 1080
              gtcctcctcg gtcgccgtcg ccgccttgtc aagaaacctg agctggtcgc tgtgggcgag 1140
              cttgccgacg ccacggatcg ccgagccctc gccatcgacc tcgtggaggt ggtcgccggg 1200
              cggcggcacg atgtgccgct ggggttagtc ngggacgaac acctgggcga tgcgggtgag 1260
              cgggttgccg gcaggtcgga cccggcggta gcgcggcgtg ccgaggagaa agagcgcgag 1320
              cgcgagcgcg gcggcggcgg tggagaccca gaagccggcg acccaccggc ccctgtcctc 1380
              gaagaacacc aggacggagt tgtagaagag ggagccgacg ttgagcgaga ggtagaagag 1440
              gcagaagaag gcctgcttgc gccgccgctc gccggggtcg gcgtcgtcga actggtcggc 1500
              gccgaacgtc gccaccgacg gctggtaccc gccgttcccg aacgccgcca tgtagatgga 1560
              caggtagaac accgcgacgc cacgccggga cggcgccgcg cactgcctga gcccgccgcc 1620
              gtcgccgcac cccggcggct ccaccaccca caaccacgac aacagcgaca ggagcatcaa 1680
              ccccacgatg aagatgaatt ggaacatgat gcaagtgatg tagcgcccca tataggagtc 1740
              actcaggaaa gcacagaaga gggagaagat gtagacggtg cccatccaca tgctgacgct 1800
              attggcggcc tcggcgttct cctggtggag cacctgcctg aggaacacca ccaggcccac 1860
              ggcgacgcca aaaaatgcaa agttggccaa cacatagctc acaagaagta gtgccattgt 1920
                                                6

              catctttcct cttgaagtct tcagttctgg gcttccctgg aaatgttggg tctgatcttc 1980
<removed-date>
              agtgtgcaca aatgactcat tgtatatcat ggaattgcat ggagagcatg atcccacaga 2040
              ttcaacatct tccattggca ttttagaaat acctcgccat accggagata tcaaactggt 2100
              gatgttcttc cggcgggtgc cccaccaaga gaacgccgtg gccaccaaca acatcagcat 2160
              atggatgggc accatcttca tctttgccct ctttagtgct ttccgtagtg attcctatac 2220
              ggggtgctac ttcacttgga tcatgttaca atttatcttc atcgtgatat atgctccttc 2280
<removed-apn>
              tgttctcaca taggtgatat cttaaaatgt atgaggcata tatactttct acctaatatt 2340
              ataaagtata tgcctctata tagaatcaaa taaagcagaa aagtcattgt tattaccaat 2400
              cgtgtacttt tgttctaaac atctcaacta gtttaaagta tttgtctctc ttga         2454
              <210>     10
              <211>     684
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     10
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag    60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
              aattggaaca tgatgttctt ccggcgggtg ccccaccaag agaacgccgt ggccaccaac   360
              aacatcagca tatggatggg caccatcttc atctttgccc tctttagtgc tttccgtagt   420
              gattcctata cggggtgcta cttcacttgg atcatgttac aatttatctt catcgtgata   480
              tatgctcctt ctgttctcac ataggtgata tcttaaaatg tatgaggcat atatactttc   540
              tacctaatat tataaagtat atgcctctat atagatcaaa taaagcagaa aagtcattgt   600
              tattaccaat cgtgtacttt tgttctaaac atctcaacta gtttaaagta tttgtctctc   660
              ttgaacaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa                                          684
              <210>     11
              <211>     564
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <220>
              <221>     misc_feature
              <222>     (1)..(564)
              <223>     N is A, T, G, or C
                                                7

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>     unsure
              <222>     (1)..(564)
              <223>     unsure at all n locations
              <400>     11
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag   60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
<removed-apn>
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
              aattggaaca tgatgcaagt gatgtagcgc cccatatagg agtcactcag gaaagcacag   360
              aagagggaga agatgtagac ggtgcccatc cacatgctga cgctattggc ggcctcggcg   420
              ttctcctggt ggagcacctg cctgaggaac accaccaggc ccacggcgac gccaaaaaat   480
              gcaaagntgg ccaacacata gctcactgca tcgncaagna gagctgcnta atcactgagg   540
              gatatccatt tannntggnc ttct                                          564
              <210>     12
              <211>     57
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     12
              atcgtcggct acagcctcgg gaattctctg catgcgtttg gacgtatgct cattcag      57
                                                8

              <210>     13
<removed-date>
              <211>     78
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     13
              atcgtcggct acagcctcgg gaattctgcc ccaccaagag aacgccgtct gcatgcgttt   60
<removed-apn>
              ggacgtatgc tcattcag                                                 78
              <210>     14
              <211>     78
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     14
              atcgtcggct acagcctcgg gaattccggc gttctcttgg tggggcatct gcatgcgttt   60
              ggacgtatgc tcattcag                                                 78
              <210>     15
              <211>     99
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     15
              atcgtcggct acagcctcgg gaattctgct gatgttgttg gtggccacgg cgttctcttg   60
              gtggggcatc tgcatgcgtt tggacgtatg ctcattcag                          99
              <210>     16
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     16
              cggcgttctc ttggtggggc a                                             21
                                                9

              <210>     17
<removed-date>
              <211>     939
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     17
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag   60
<removed-apn>
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
              aattggaaca tgatgcaagt gatgtagcgc cccatatagg agtcactcag gaaagcacag   360
              aagagggaga agatgtagac ggtgcccatc cacatgctga cgctattggc ggcctcggcg   420
              ttctcctggt ggagcacctg cctgaggaac accaccaggc ccacggcgac gccaaaaaat   480
              gcaaagttgg ccaacacata gctcactgca tcgtcaagta gagctgctta atcactgagg   540
              gtatatacat ttagttcgcc ttcttcagcg ttgccatgga cctggtgatg ttcttccggc   600
              gggtgcccca ccaagagaac gccgtggcca ccaacaacat cagcatatgg atgggcacca   660
              tcttcatctt tgccctcttt agtgctttcc gtagtgattc ctatacgggg tgctacttca   720
              cttggatcat gttacaattt atcttcatcg tgatatatgc tccttctgtt ctcacatagg   780
              tgatatctta aaatgtatga ggcatatata ctttctacct aatattataa agtatatgcc   840
              tctatataga tcaaataaag cagaaaagtc attgttatta ccaatcgtgt acttttgttc   900
              taaacatctc aactagttta aagtatttgt ctctcttga                          939
              <210>     18
              <211>     312
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     18
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag   60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
                                               10

              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
<removed-date>
              aattggaaca tg                                                       312
<removed-apn>
                                               11

              <210>     19
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     19
              gcacagaaga gggagaagat g              21
<removed-apn>
              <210>     20
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     20
              tagacggtgc ccatccacat g              21
              <210>     21
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     21
              ctgacgctat tggcggcctc g              21
              <210>     22
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     22
              gcgttctcct ggtggagcac c              21
              <210>     23
              <211>     123
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     23
                                              12

<removed-date>
              cccacggcga cgccaaaaaa tgcaaagttg gccaacacat agctcactgc atcgtcaagt   60
              agagctgctt aatcactgag ggtatataca tttagttcgc cttcttcagc gttgccatgg   120
              acc                                                                 123
              <210>     24
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     24
              tggtgatgtt cttccggcgg g                                             21
              <210>     25
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     25
              tccgtagtga ttcctatacg g                                             21
              <210>     26
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     26
              ggtgctactt cacttggatc a                                             21
              <210>     27
              <211>     210
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     27
              tgttacaatt tatcttcatc gtgatatatg ctccttctgt tctcacatag gtgatatctt   60
              aaaatgtatg aggcatatat actttctacc taatattata aagtatatgc ctctatatag   120
                                               13

              atcaaataaa gcagaaaagt cattgttatt accaatcgtg tacttttgtt ctaaacatct   180
<removed-date>
              caactagttt aaagtatttg tctctcttga                                    210
              <210>     28
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
<removed-apn>
              <400>     28
              tgacatcaag tgatctatgc g                                             21
              <210>     29
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     29
              tacacctgca tctttggcac a                                             21
              <210>     30
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     30
              tctccttggc gagcggcgca t                                             21
              <210>     31
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     31
              ttgtggatgc agaaagcggt g                                             21
              <210>     32
              <211>     939
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
                                                 14

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     32
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag   60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
<removed-apn>
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
              aattggaaca tgatgcaagt gatgtagcgc cccatatagg agtcactcag gaaagcgcag   360
              ctcgccaccg agatgcgccc aagatgcagg tgcatgctga cgctattggc ggcctcgcat   420
              agatcccttg atatcacttt gtggatgcag aaagcggtgc ccacggcgac gccaaaaaat   480
              gcaaagttgg ccaacacata gctcactgca tcgtcaagta gagctgctta atcactgagg   540
              gtatatacat ttagttcgcc ttcttcagcg ttgccatgga caccgctctc tgcatcaaca   600
              aagtgacatc aagtgatcta tgcgtggcca ccaacaacat cagcatacac ctgcatcttt   660
              ggcacatctc cttggcgagc ggcgctttcc gtagtgattc ctatacgggg tgctacttca   720
              cttggatcat gttacaattt atcttcatcg tgatatatgc tccttctgtt ctcacatagg   780
              tgatatctta aaatgtatga ggcatatata ctttctacct aatattataa agtatatgcc   840
              tctatataga tcaaataaag cagaaaagtc attgttatta ccaatcgtgt acttttgttc   900
              taaacatctc aactagttta aagtatttgt ctctcttga                          939
              <210>     33
              <211>     2072
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     33
              gattctcccc tgcgccgccg ccgccgccgc cgcctcaatc gggcgaagcc gccctcgccg   60
              ccgtcgcggc ggcggcggcg agggcgagct cctgcgagag atcctccgcc gcctcatgcc   120
              tcgcgcgcgc gctcccgctc ccgctctcgc ctgcagtatt tgttccattg ccgcgcacca   180
              ctttccggtg ggcggcgggc aatgctaggg gttaagagac cttctctccc cgagatggag   240
              gcgccgggcg gcgcggcggg ggacgcggag gaggaagttg atgcccggat ccgctgggtt   300
              ccatggtggc tgctatggaa tggtggaatt gcttggatgg ccacgaaggg gatcgacgcc   360
              aattgtttgg cgacctctac gatagaatcg cgtcgagtcg gggtgttctt tcctgttatt   420
              actagaagta gttgaatttc gtgattgaac acacaaggaa gcttgatatc gcgtcggggg   480
                                               15

<removed-date>
              tgttctttcc tgttattact agatgtagtt gggtttcgtg attgaacacc taaggaaagg   540
              aagcttgata aatggaagat agtccagcaa gttttgaaga tgatagaaaa tttgagcgcg   600
              tcgtagtaac tgtcgtccac gatcacgtcc agtgttgttc atggcatggg ggatggagtc   660
              aggatccttg aggcgtctgc tcctgttgca ctgcttcatg cctttcctgc cttctaggat   720
              gcttaagatg gttgcgaagt caggtgcttg ggagttcatg aagcggtcat aatcaatttc   780
              gctctctgta gtactttctc tggtgtcttc cccgttgctt ccttttggaa gaaaagcgtc   840
<removed-apn>
              ctttagaatc tcttgagaga gtgcactttc tccctctcct gccatcagta gtgcctttat   900
              tttcgcttgg tttccgcatc atcaggtggc acttatagaa attattttat ggaggaaaaa   960
              gcattgtatg gcatgataga aatatcctta tggataaaac taggacactt gcaagtgttc 1020
              aatgggagtc accttacctt ttttgcctac ctgtctgcat ttcatgaatg ggattccttc 1080
              tcctgcgccg gtgctgtctt ctcaaatggg aaatggaggc aagcatctgc cctgttccat 1140
              ggtggcagcc atggaatgat gggatttctt tgatggtcat aaaggagatc aaaaccaacg 1200
              gttggcaatc tctgcaggga tgatgaacca ggcttgtaat atctgttgct gatttctttg 1260
              gaagacataa cggcaagctt catggggcac gatggatttc agatggttgc ttcagccatg 1320
              tctcaagatt cagttgatgg acctcaagtt tctgggtgca gtgccacgag tcttggtcag 1380
              cccaagagta agcgcaggac tggtgacaag gcaagagggg agaagaaggc actcaaagtt 1440
              aagattaacc ttgccagccc ggccaaaaaa attaagaaaa gtagcaaaaa gaagggcaaa 1500
              aagggcactg ttgctggcag gatagggaga aaatgcactc tctcaagaga ttctaaaggg 1560
              cgctttcttc caagagagag taagggggga gacatcggag gaaatgctac agagagtgaa 1620
              gttgattatg accgcttcat gaactttcag gcacctgact tcgctaccat cttaagtatt 1680
              ttgaaaggct ggaaaggcat gaagcaatgt aacaagatca ggcgcctcaa ggatcctgac 1740
              ttcgtccctc tcatgaacgt catgagcaac actggatatg tgaccgagga tgatggtcac 1800
              tatgatgtgc tgaaagtctt gatgcatgca gatggctggt ctgcatagtg attcaagctc 1860
              tcaaatcaaa acattcaggc ctatggcctt gttgctagaa cagtggtttc ttctttcacc 1920
              tttaaaactt gatggacttt gttccattta tcttagaaat tttgttgccc ttgagtccgg 1980
              tggatatgta ctggagtatg ctatactggg tgatttaatg gtgataatgt taaatcttga 2040
              tactagttca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aa                                 2072
              <210>     34
              <211>     675
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
                                               16

              <400>     34
<removed-date>
              aguccagcaa guuuugaaga ugauagaaaa uuugagcgcg ucguaguaac ugucguccac   60
              gaucacgucc aguguuguuc auggcauggg ggauggaguc aggauccuug aggcgucugc   120
              uccuguugca cugcuucaug ccuuuccugc cuucuaggau gcuuaagaug guugcgaagu   180
              caggugcuug ggaguucaug aagcggucau aaucaauuuc gcucucugua guacuuucuc   240
              uggugucuuc cccguugcuu ccuuuuggaa gaaaagcguc cuuuagaauc ucuugagaga   300
<removed-apn>
              gugcacuuuc ucccucuccu gccaucagua gugccuuuau uuucgcuugg uuuccggcaa   360
              aaagggcacu guugcuggca ggauagggag aaaaugcacu cucucaagag auucuaaagg   420
              gcgcuuucuu ccaagagaga guaagggggg agacaucgga ggaaaugcua cagagaguga   480
              aguugauuau gaccgcuuca ugaacuuuca ggcaccugac uucgcuacca ucuuaaguau   540
              uuugaaaggc uggaaaggca ugaagcaaug uaacagauca ggcgccucaa ggauccugac   600
              uucgucccuc ucaugaacgu caugagcaac acuggauaug ugaccgagga ugauggucac   660
              uaugaugugc ugaaa                                                    675
              <210>     35
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     35
              ucacguccag uguuguucau g                                             21
                                               17

              <210>     36
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     36
              gcauggggga uggagucagg a        21
              <210>     37
              <211>     21
<removed-apn>
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     37
              uccuugaggc gucugcuccu g        21
              <210>     38
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     38
              uugcacugcu ucaugccuuu c        21
              <210>     39
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     39
              cugccuucua ggaugcuuaa g        21
              <210>     40
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     40
              augguugcga agucaggugc u        21
              <210>     41
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     41
              ugggaguuca ugaagcgguc a        21
                                        18

              <210>     42
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     42
              uaaucaauuu cgcucucugu a        21
              <210>     43
              <211>     21
<removed-apn>
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     43
              guacuuucuc uggugucuuc c        21
              <210>     44
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     44
              ccguugcuuc cuuuuggaag a        21
              <210>     45
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     45
              aaagcguccu uuagaaucuc u        21
              <210>     46
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     46
              ugagagagug cacuuucucc c        21
              <210>     47
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     47
              ucuccugcca ucaguagugc c        21
                                        19

              <210>     48
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     48
              cacuguugcu ggcaggauag g        21
              <210>     49
              <211>     21
<removed-apn>
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     49
              gagaaaaugc acucucucaa g        21
              <210>     50
              <211>     20
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     50
              agauucuaaa gggcgcuuuc          20
              <210>     51
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     51
              uuccaagaga gaguaagggg g        21
              <210>     52
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     52
              gagacaucgg aggaaaugcu a        21
              <210>     53
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     53
              cagagaguga aguugauuau g        21
                                        20

              <210>     54
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     54
              accgcuucau gaacuuucag g              21
              <210>     55
              <211>     21
<removed-apn>
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     55
              caccugacuu cgcuaccauc u              21
              <210>     56
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     56
              uaaguauuuu gaaaggcugg a              21
              <210>     57
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     57
              aaggcaugaa gcaauguaac a              21
              <210>     58
              <211>     20
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     58
              gaucaggcgc cucaaggauc                20
              <210>     59
              <211>     27
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     59
              cugacuucgu cccucucaug aacguca        27
                                              21

              <210>     60
<removed-date>
              <211>     23
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     60
              ugagcaacac uggauaugug acc        23
              <210>     61
              <211>     21
<removed-apn>
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400>     61
              uccuugaggc gucugcuccu g          21
              <210>     62
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400>     62
              uugcacugcu ucaugccuuu c          21
              <210>     63
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400>     63
              ugggaguuca ugaagcgguc a          21
              <210>     64
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400>     64
              ugagagagug cacuuucucc c          21
              <210>     65
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400>     65
              caccugacuu cgcuaccauc u          21
                                          22

              <210>     66
<removed-date>
              <211>     62
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     66
              aguccagcaa guuuugaaga ugauagaaaa uuugagcgcg ucguaguaac ugucguccac   60
              ga                                                                  62
<removed-apn>
              <210>     67
              <211>     30
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     67
              gaggaugaug gucacuauga ugugcugaaa                                    30
              <210>     68
              <211>     31
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     68
              uuuauuuucg cuugguuucc ggcaaaaagg g                                  31
              <210>     69
              <211>     898
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     69
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag   60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
              aattggaaca tgatgcaagt gatgtagcgc cccatatagg agtcactcag gaaagcacag   360
              aagagggaga agatgtagac ggtgcccatc cacatgctga cgctattggc ggcctcggcg   420
              ttctcctggt ggagcacctg cctgaggaac accaccaggc ccacggcgac gccaaaaaat   480
              gcaaagttgg ccaacacata gctcactgca tcgtcaagta gagctgctta atcactgagg   540
              tatatacatt tagttcgcct tcttcagcgt tgccatggac ctggtgatgt tcttccggcg   600
              ggtgccccac caagagaacg ccgtggccac caacaacatc agcatatgga tgggcaccat   660
                                                 23

              cttcatcttt gccctcttta gtgctttccg tagtgattcc tatacggggt gctacttcac   720
<removed-date>
              ttggatcatg ttacaattta tcttcatcgt gatatatgct ccttctgttc tcacataggt   780
              gatatcttaa aatgtatgag gcatatatac tttctaccta atattataaa gtatatgcct   840
              ctatatagat caaataaagc agaaaagtca ttgttattac aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa     898
              <210>     70
              <211>     892
              <212>     DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     70
              ggtaccaatc ttattctaca tatttctatc ttatatagaa caactagcat agctctcgtt   60
              gcccagccag gttgcccagc caggttgcct ggtgcacaat gagagctggc tagggcggac   120
              tcattctgct gttggtgccc aacgatgcta gctgctactc atactagtga agcctgccat   180
              ggttctgaga aatttttgga tactccgctg cgtagatatg cactaaaagc ttgtatgttt   240
              cgctgactac atactatgga tatcacctgt ttgacaagag aaggattaca taccacgatg   300
              aagatgaatt ggaacatgat gcaagtgatg tagcgcccca tataggagtc actcaggact   360
              ccacggtcat tgtgtatcat gtagacggtg cccatccaca tgctgacgct attggcggcc   420
              ttggtccttc atagagaccc aacctaacag tgaacgtact gtcgccccac ggcgacgcca   480
              aaaaatgcaa agttggccaa cacatagctc actgcatcgt caagtagagc tgcttaatca   540
              ctgaggtata tacatttagt tcgccttctt cagcgttgcc atggagcgac agaacgttca   600
              cggttaggtt gtgtctcttt gaaggaccat ggccaccaac aacatcagca tatggatggg   660
              caccatcttc atgatgaaca atgacggtgg agtccgtagt gattcctata cggggtgcta   720
              cttcacttgg atcatgttac aatttatctt catcgtgata tatgctcctt ctgttctcac   780
              ataggtgata tcttaaaatg tatgaggcat atatactttc tacctaatat tataaagtat   840
              atgcctctat atagatcaaa taaagcagaa aagtcattgt tattacgtta ac           892
              <210>     71
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     71
              tggtacaacg tcattgatga c                                             21
                                               24

<removed-date>
              <210>     72
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     72
<removed-apn>
              tggaccttac atggcccttc a              21
                                              25

              <210>     73
<removed-date>
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     73
              taattgtgca gctcatcacc c              21
<removed-apn>
              <210>     74
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     74
              tagatgggaa atatagatat c              21
              <210>     75
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     75
              tgcttatatg tatgttctgt a              21
              <210>     76
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     76
              tcaagagtct ttgaaagaaa g              21
              <210>     77
              <211>     880
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>     synthetic construct
              <400>     77
                                              26

<removed-date>
              aatcttattc tacatatttc tatcttatat agaacaacta gcatagctct cgttgcccag   60
              ccaggttgcc cagccaggtt gcctggtgca caatgagagc tggctagggc ggactcattc   120
              tgctgttggt gcccaacgat gctagctgct actcatacta gtgaagcctg ccatggttct   180
              gagaaatttt tggatactcc gctgcgtaga tatgcactaa aagcttgtat gtttcgctga   240
              ctacatacta tggatatcac ctgtttgaca agagaaggat tacataccac gatgaagatg   300
              aattggaaca tgtggacctt acatggccct tcaatatagg agtcactcag gagtcatccg   360
<removed-apn>
              tgacgttata ccagacatcc atatttccca tccactttct cttagagacc cttgtgggtg   420
              atgagttgca cagttacctg cttatatgta tgttctgtac ccacggcgac gccaaaaaat   480
              gcaaagttgg ccaacacata gctcactgca tcgtcaagta gagctgctta atcactgagg   540
              tatatacatt tagttcgcct tcttcagcgt tgccatggat acagaaaata catatcagcg   600
              ggtaattgtg cagctcatca ccctcaagag tctttgaaag aaagtagatg ggaaatatag   660
              atatctggta caacgtcatt gatgactccg tagtgattcc tatactgaag ggccacgtaa   720
              ggtgcacatg ttacaattta tcttcatcgt gatatatgct ccttctgttc tcacataggt   780
              gatatcttaa aatgtatgag gcatatatac tttctaccta atattataaa gtatatgcct   840
              ctatatagat caaataaagc agaaaagtca ttgttattac                         880
              <210>     78
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     78
              gugagaaagu gcccucucuc a                                             21
              <210>     79
              <211>     2040
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     79
              ccacgcgtcc gccaaaagtg aactgtgaac cggacgatcc aggcatccag ctaaccgctt   60
              ccccctcgtc gcgctcgcgc cgcgccgcgc ctcgcctcca ccagctacgc cgtcacgcga   120
              gctcacggcc cgggggcctc ggaagcacaa ccaccacgcg tccacgccga agccacgagg   180
              agagcctgtc tctcctccgg ggattctatc gccggctggt ctcagcggcg ccacttggag   240
              caggcggcac ccgctccgta ctgctgctga tttggtgagc gcgggcagcc gcgggatggg   300
              agatctggtg gcgtgatggt gagcccgggc agtaaccggg gcggcctgtc gcgcgtatcg   360
                                               27

              acgcggggcg gcgtcgccgg gccggggagc ccgcgcgcct ctcctgccgc gaccgctttc   420
<removed-date>
              gcggcgctac ggcgcaggtg gcggtgggcg cccccgggct cgtcgacgct ggagcgcgcg   480
              gcccgcgcgt tcctgctggc ctccgcagcg ctcgtgctct cctgcgcgct ctacctctac   540
              gtgctgcgct acgtcggccg gggaggtcgc gccttcgccg ccgcgggctt cgtcggggac   600
              gccgtcctgg gcctcggcgg cgagccgtgc gacgtgttcg acggcgcctg ggtgcccgac   660
              gacaccggcc tccgcccgct ctacaatagc tccgggtgcc cgttcgctga gcgcgggttt   720
<removed-apn>
              gactgcctcg ccaacgggcg gaacgacact gggtacctca agtggcggtg gaagccgcgc   780
              cggtgcggcg tgccgcggtt tgcggcccgc accgcgctgg agcggctgcg cgggaagcgg   840
              gtggtgttcg tgggggattc catgagccgc tcgcagtggg agtccttcat atgcatgctc   900
              atggccggcg tggatgaccc caggacggtc ttcgaggtga acgggaacga gatcaccaag   960
              acgatacgcc acctggcggt caggttcgcg tctcacggcc tcaccgtgga attcttccgg 1020
              tccgtgttcc tcgtgcagga gcatcctgcc ccgcggcatg cccccaagag ggtcaaatcc 1080
              actttgaggc ttgacaggat ggataatttc agccggaaat gggtcaattc ggacgtactg 1140
              attttcaaca ctgggcattg gtggacaccg accaaattgt ttgatacggg ttgctatttt 1200
              caggctggac gttctcttaa attaggtaca tccattgatg ctggtttcag gatggcactg 1260
              gagacctggg cctcatgggt acaaaaaaga gttgatttaa accgaacaca tgtattcttt 1320
              cgcacatatg agccatcgca ttggggggat acaagccaaa aggtgtgtga ggtaacagag 1380
              cagccttcat cagaggccaa aggaaatgat aagagtgaat ttggggctat acttgctgat 1440
              gttgtaacca acatgaaagt tcctatcaca gtactaaatg taactttaat gggatcgttt 1500
              cgaagtgatg cacatgttgg cacttggagt tatcctccca ctatacttga ttgcagccac 1560
              tggtgtcttc ctggagtccc tgatgcttgg aacgaactcg tgttttcgta ccttttgaca 1620
              aatggttggc gaaacatggc gggctgaatt ttttggcagc acaatctacc cgcacctatt 1680
              gcattgtgat atttgacatt accaggtata ctagagaatt aacatacgtc cgggacaagg 1740
              cagctgcagc tgctaggtgg ttcactggac ttctacattc ttttcttctt tttgattttt 1800
              gactcgtata cacggtgaag catgctacat gcaactagag ttgtatgtag ttggtaaggg 1860
              attagaaggc cttggcattc gttctatttg ctcaatttac taacggttca ttttattatg 1920
              ttgttaaaaa tcgagtttgt attgtaacct gtatgtacaa acatttactt gatacattgt 1980
              gagaaagtgc cctctctcaa ttggattgat aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 2040
              <210>     80
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
                                               28

<removed-date>
              <400>     80
              gggcgaaggu gaacucucuc a                                             21
              <210>     81
              <211>     2523
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     81
<removed-apn>
              cggacgcgtg gggcgtgcgt ggtctccttc ctctcgtggc gacgaccgag cggccgtcgc   60
              tgcttacgtg cccagtcctg ttcgtccctt cgccggcgac ggccacgacc tggttatagg   120
              caaagtttgt cctgaactgt tcatcatggt ggaaggctgg gtattctctg ctttgttagt   180
              ggtgtttcta gcgttcacaa caccttgcga gtcattctac ttgccaggta gttatatgca   240
              cacatatcag caaggtgaag taataagggc gaaggtgaac tctctcactt ccattgagac   300
              agaactaccc ttcagttact acagccttcc atactgtcgt cccagagatg gggttaagaa   360
              gagtgctgaa aacttaggcg agcttctgat gggtgatcaa atagataatt ctccgtaccg   420
              tttccgtgta aatgtcaacg aatctctgta tctgtgtact acaaccccac ttgacgaggc   480
              taatgtgaag ctcctcaagc agcgtagcca tgatctatac caggtgaaca tgattcttga   540
              caatcttcct gtgaggaggt tcacagagca gaatggaata accatccagt ggacaggcta   600
              tccagttggt tatattccag aaggcacttc tgatgtctac atcatcaatc acctgaaatt   660
              taaggtcttg gtccataagt atgaaggagg cgaagtaaag gtagttggga ctggggaagg   720
              aatggaagtg atctcagaga ctgacaaaga tgccaattct ggatatgaga ttgtgggatt   780
              tgaagttgtc ccatgcagcg tgaagcgtga tcctgaatcc atattgaagc ttaatatgta   840
              tgataaagtc gatcctgtga actgccctgt ggagttggaa aaatctcaat tggttaggga   900
              gaaagagaag attactttta cttatgaggt tgaatttgta aacagtgata tcaggtggcc   960
              atcacggtgg gatgcatacc tgaagatgga gggttcgaag attcactggt tttcaattat 1020
              gaactctttg atggtaattc tatttttggc tggcattgta tttgtcatat tcttgcgtac 1080
              agtgaggagg gacttgactc ggtatgagga gttggataag gaggcccaag ctcagatgaa 1140
              tgaggagctc tctggttgga agcttgttgt tggagatgtc ttcagagaac caacctcacc 1200
              gaagctgctc tgtgtcatga ttggcgatgg ggttcagatt ttgggtatgg caattgttac 1260
              cattttcttt gccgcatttg gcttcatgtc tcctgcatcg agaggaatgt tgttgacagg 1320
              gatgatagtc ttttatatgt tacttggaat tgtgtctggg tatgctgctg tcaggctctg 1380
              gaggacttta aaaggaacgt ccgagggatg gaggtctgtc tcctggtcaa ctgcttgttt 1440
                                               29

              cttccctggc attgtcttca ttgtcctcac tgtgttaaac ttcatgctgt ggacaagaaa 1500
<removed-date>
              tagtactgga gcccttccca tctcactttt ctttggcctt ttgtccttgt ggttctgtgt 1560
              ctccgtgcca cttacccttt taggtggttt ctttggcaca agggctgagc caatagaatt 1620
              ccctgttcga accaatcaga taccaagaga aatccctacg aagaagtact cattgctctt 1680
              catacttggt gctggaactc taccttttgg aacactcttc atcgagctct tcttcattct 1740
              ttctagtatt tggcttggaa ggttctatta cgtgtttggc ttcctccttg tcgtgcttct 1800
<removed-apn>
              tttgctgatt gtggtgtgtg ctgaggtatc agttgttctt acctacatgc atctctgcgc 1860
              ggaggactgg aggtggtggt ggaaagcttt ctttgcttct ggaacagtgg ccctttatgt 1920
              gttcctttac tctatcaact acttggtgtt tgatctcaga agcttgagtg ggccagtttc 1980
              tgctattctc tacattggat actctttcgt tgtctccctt gccattatgc tagcgactgg 2040
              taccgttggc ttcctgacgt cgttctcttt tgtccactac cttttctcat cagtcaagat 2100
              tgattgaaga tccagggttg tctttacaca aaatcacctg tgagctcaaa tgatatgacc 2160
              attgcatctt gaaggccttt cacagagcag tgctgtttgt aatgtagctt attaccgaga 2220
              gtctgagact gctgtacctt gtaatgaata gtatatttca gcagatgtgt tttgaagttt 2280
              gtcacacttt gctacagcat tttgttgacc tgccaatact gtaggaaaag tcttgcgttt 2340
              attatcccat ggtgccattt tgttgtctgt ttctttctgc aagattggct tgcagctgga 2400
              gaactatacg ttcttatggt ataatctaca tgtgcaaaat gtttcccatc caaaaaaaaa 2460
              aaaaaaatca gttcagaagt caccttcttt cgtgaatgtt ttgattccct gaggctactt 2520
              tat                                                                 2523
              <210>     82
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     82
              gccagaaggu gcacugucuc a                                              21
              <210>     83
              <211>     530
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     83
              gcagatgata gacacgacta aagattacat tcaagcgctg agcattgtgc cgacaagaga    60
              gttggccttg cagacgtctc agattttcat cgaagtttca aagcacttga aagcccgcgt   120
              gatggtgacc accggaggca cgaatttgaa ggacgacata atgcgtatat acgaaaacgt   180
                                               30

<removed-date>
              tcacgttatc attgcgactc ccggtcgcat actcgatctg atggagaaga aggttgccaa   240
              gatgaacaac tgtcaaatgc ttgttctcga cgaagccgac aaacttctgt ctcgggattt   300
              ccaggggctc ctcgatcgag tcatctcgtt cttgccgcaa gaaagacaaa tccttctcta   360
              ttcagctacg ttcccgatga ccgttgaaga attcatgcgc cgtcacctca agaacgccta   420
              cgagatcaac cttatggagg agctcacact caagggagtg acacagtact acgctttcgt   480
              acaggaacgc cagaaggtgc actgtctcaa cacgcttttc tcgaaacttc              530
<removed-apn>
              <210>     84
              <211>     20
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     84
              ggaaggccua agcagugcaa                                               20
              <210>     85
              <211>     2229
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     85
              atggcttcaa gggcggtcat cagaagaagg aagtatcttt tggatcatgt taacgcacct   60
              accctctcat tgtccccctt ctctaccttc caacatggaa gatctggttc tgaggatgaa   120
              tcaagaatcg gacagcgatt tcttgagcaa agctctgggg attccaaatg ggagcaaggg   180
              cagtatggtg tgaaattgat aaagggagat ctactagccc ttggtaatgg gcttctgcgg   240
              cgcccagccc atgggatttc tctacctgct tatggaattg gaaggaagga atttgggttg   300
              cctatgggtg ctagacattt gctgcagtca gtccgcacag cctcaactgc aacagctggg   360
              caacctaagt tggatattga agatgaacag agtgaggatc agaaacagaa caaaaggaaa   420
              aaggaggcat ccccagaaga atgtgatcag gctgtggaag gcctaagcag tgcaaaagct   480
              aaagccaaag ctaagcaggt acaagaatct gtaaaggctg gccaatcaat tgtacgaaaa   540
              ttctgggcga ggcttctggg tattggtcct gctctccgag ctgttgcttc gatgagcaga   600
              gctgattggg ctgcaaagct gaagcactgg aaggatgaat ttgtgtcaac gctgcagcat   660
              tactggttag ggacaaagct actctgggca gatgtgagga tttcgtcaag attactggtg   720
              aaacttgctg gtggaaagaa cctttcaaga agagagagac aacaactgac ccgtacaaca   780
              gcagatatct tcaggctggt accttttgct gtgttcatca ttgttccatt catggagttc   840
              ttacttccag tgttcctcaa gttatttcca aatatgcttc cctcaacttt ccaagacaag   900
                                               31

              atgaaagaag aggaagcgtt gaaaaggaaa ctgaaagcaa gaatggagta tgccaagttt   960
<removed-date>
              ttgcaagata ctgcaaaaga aatggcaaag gaagttcaaa catcacgtag tggagaaata 1020
              aaacaaacag ccgaagatct tgatgaattt ttgaacaagg ttaggagagg tgaacatgtc 1080
              tcaaatgatg aaatcttgaa cttcgcgaag ctgtttaatg atgagctgac tttggataac 1140
              atgagcagac cacgcttggt aaacatgtgc aaatatatgg gtattcgacc tttcggtact 1200
              gaccactact tgaggttcat gcttcgcaaa aaactgcaag acattaagaa tgacgataag 1260
<removed-apn>
              atgattcaag ctgagggtgt tgagtctctc tctgaagagg aacttcggca agcctgtcgt 1320
              gaacgtggtc acctaggttt gctgtcaaca gaagaaatgc gccaacagct ccgagattgg 1380
              ttggatctct cacttaatca tgctgtgcca tcctctcttc tcatactttc aagagctttt 1440
              accgtatctg ggaaaatgaa gcctgaggag gctgttgtag caaccttatc ttctctacca 1500
              gatgaagttg tggatacagt tgggaccgta ttgccatctg aagattcggt ttctgagagg 1560
              aggagaaaac tggaattcct tgagatgcag gaagaactta tcaaggagga agagaagaag 1620
              aaagagaaag aagaaaaagc gaaacaagag aaagaagaaa aggccaaact caaagaacca 1680
              aaggctgctg aagaagattt ggctttgaag gaaatgactg gtcctactgc tagggaagaa 1740
              gaagaactga gagaagcaaa acagcacgat aaggaaaagc tctgtaattt tagtcgagca 1800
              ctggctgtac tggcatccgc atcgtctgtt agcaaggagc gtcaagagtt cctcagcctt 1860
              gtcaacaaag agattgaact gtataactct atgcttgaaa aggagggtac agaaggtgaa 1920
              gaggaagcta agaaagctta catggctgct agagaagagt cggacaaggc tgctgaggtt 1980
              gatgaagaag aaaaggtctc atcggcgctg attgagaagg ttgatgctat gctccagaaa 2040
              ttagaaaagg agattgatga cgtggatgca caaattggaa accgatggca aattcttgat 2100
              agggatcttg atggcaaggt gactcctgag gaggtagcgt cagcagcagc ttatctgaag 2160
              gatacaatag gaaaggaagg cgtccaagag cttgtcagca acctctctaa agacaaaggt 2220
              cctccctga                                                           2229
                                               32

              <210>     86
<removed-date>
              <211>     22
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     86
              gaaauucaug gaagcagugc ag                                            22
              <210>     87
              <211>     1521
<removed-apn>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     87
              atggccgcct cctcttcctt cctcgccgcc ggccgccgcc tgatccgcct cggctgcggc   60
              aggctcctcc ccgccggcca cgcgcgatcc catggctcca cccctgccct cattcgagcc   120
              gccgccgccg cctcctcccc cgcctctcct cgcggccaca gcggggggag gaagccggcg   180
              cggcccccga gcctgcagtc cacgctgtgg ccgctgggcc acccgggcac gctcctggtg   240
              ccggagatcg agcggtgggc ggccaagcca ggcaaccgcc tccgccacgt cgagctcgag   300
              cgcatcgtca aggagctccg caagcgacgc cgccaccgcc aggccctcga ggtctctgaa   360
              tggatgaatg ccaagggaca tgtaaaattt ctgccaaagg atcacgctgt tcacctggat   420
              ttgattggtg aaattcatgg aagcagtgca gccgagactt acttcaacaa cctgccagat   480
              aaagataaga cagaaaaacc ctatggtgca cttcttaact gctacacacg ggaactcctg   540
              gttgaaaaat cgttggctca ttttcagaag atgaaagagt tgggttttgt gttttccaca   600
              ctcccctaca acaacatcat gggtctgtat acgaacctag ggcagcatga aaaggttcct   660
              tcagtaattg cagagatgaa aagcaatggt atcgttcctg acaatttcag ctacagaata   720
              tgcattaact cttatggcac aagggctgat tttttcggga tggaaaacac ccttgaagag   780
              atggagtgtg aacctaaaat cgttgttgat tggaacacgt atgctgtcgt ggcaagcaac   840
              tacattaagg gcaacataag ggagaaagca ttctctgcct taaagaaagc agaagcaaaa   900
              ataaatataa aagattcaga ttcctataac cacctgattt ccttgtatgg acatctgggg   960
              gacaaatcag aggtcaatag gctgtgggcg ctccaaatgt cgaactgcaa taggcatatt 1020
              aataaggatt acactacaat gcttgcagtg ctcgtgaaac ttaatgagat tgaagaagct 1080
              gaagtgttgc tgaaagagtg ggagtcgagc ggaaatgcat ttgacttcca agttccaaat 1140
              gtcctgctca ctggataccg ccagaaggac ttgctggaca aggctgaggc acttctggat 1200
              gatttcttga agaagggaaa gatgcctcct tcaaccagct gggcaattgt ggcagctggc 1260
              tatgcggaga aaggtgatgc tgcgaaagca tatgagctga caaagaatgc cctatgtgta 1320
                                               33

              tatgctccaa atactggttg gatccctagg cctgggatga ttgagatgat acttaagtat 1380
<removed-date>
              cttggagatg aaggtgatgt cgaggaggtt gaaattttcg ttgatctgct gaaagttgct 1440
              gtgccactga actcagatat gactgacgct ttgtcaaggg ctcgaatgag agaagaaaag 1500
              aaggttaaag atgcagtgta a                                             1521
              <210>     88
              <211>     20
              <212>     RNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     88
              ggaaggccug aagcaugcaa                                                20
              <210>     89
              <211>     1980
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     89
              cgtgcctttt ccgtcgtccc attcgccagg ggggaacggc aaagggcatc gtcgcaaaca    60
              atcaagttcc acaaactcgc atctcatctg cttcgactcc accgaggact cccttctttc   120
              ctcccactcc catctgctct cctcgccgcc acctgcgccg tcagagcacg gagcagtccg   180
              cgaccacgct ttcgctgccg ctctccgaca ggcgacggag ccgcagctcc agtcgcagtc   240
              ggctcccctg aattcgggct cgccaaatac cctccaatcg tctgcgtccg tcgtccggga   300
              cttccggtgc aactgaatcc ggcaccacct gtgcggcctg tcatggcact tggaagagga   360
              gggaggaagg actcaagagg ttaaggtacg gtatttatag atttggctga agaaactggt   420
              tgttgctatt atgaagacta agacgagtag gagcttacag aagtctggga gaggtaacca   480
              tgtccaagga gaagggccaa actgggttct tgttgctggc ggggttttgc ttagcacgct   540
              ttcagtcaag gttgtgtgca aactaaagca gttgttagac gggaagcagc aaaataatac   600
              tttcgaagct aaaggaaggc ctgaagcatg caagctgcat tcagatctct accggctcag   660
              tgaccaaact ggctgctact actgtatgtc agggcttgca aatggtggag tggaagtcaa   720
              gcaagcacca gcaagtcctg tacccaaatc agttgaatcc tcacttccac ttgtcaagat    780
              acccacacca gaatcaagca aagagaacag cggtgttatg tggatatcct cacctgatcg   840
              gctgaaagat cctcgaaggc catttcagta ctctaacagt tctggctctc cctgtgtttc   900
              agaatcagga tctgacattt atggcaaaag agaggtcata cagaagctaa gacagcacct   960
              caagaaacgt gatgagatga tcatggagat gcaaactcag attgctgatc ttaagaactc 1020
              tcttaacatt caggtgacac agtccagcaa tctgcagtct caattggatg ctgccaatcg 1080
                                               34

<removed-date>
              tgatctgttt gaatctgaac gagagattca gcatctaagg aagattattg cagatcattg 1140
              tgtcacagaa gcactctctc atgataaacc tttgcaagct gcgcattggc agccagatgc 1200
              cgcaaatggg cattctaatg gctatggtga tggttgtgtt gatgatgctg acctgcattg 1260
              tattagcatc gagaagagga aggtagaagt agagagggtg gagatgctca agaaagaggt 1320
              ggttgaactg aaggaagtca ttgagggaaa ggactttgtg cttcagagct acaaggaaca 1380
              gaaggtggaa ctcttctcaa agatcaggga gttgcaggaa aagctctcag cacaagtgcc 1440
<removed-apn>
              aatcatcttg taggatctat ctgtgatact ttttagaaga ttgaatctaa gcataatgtt 1500
              gccatgtccc atgagcagca gagggggtcc cgcttcagtg aagattgcag aaggtcttgg 1560
              catttggcaa tcgtcacgca tgccaaacac catgctagga tctttgtgga atgcttctct 1620
              tttcctttga ggggagcttt gcataatgtt aggttgattt gtttctttct tggttgtcat 1680
              aatgttaggt tggtttgctt tcttccttct tcaatatcta gcccttggtt gctcaaagtt 1740
              tacaaaggga ttcttttttt cagttgctag gcctcaggta actcaattga acttcatact 1800
              caagttgctg tacaggttct cagatttcag gagacacaga agtctgtact gtgcctctgc 1860
              ctcctgtttc atgctttttt tttgttaagt gatctttgga atgttaggtc catgacattt 1920
              ctactatgag atttgaagac tatggcattg cccttttttg tgaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 1980
              <210>     90
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     90
              uggcugcuac auggacuccc g                                             21
              <210>     91
              <211>     1125
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     91
              atggccggag acacgacgaa gcccacggag tcagccatcg tcgggagcac ggtgaccggg   60
              caccacctgc tccacatcga cggctactcc cacaccaagg accgcctccc caatggctgc   120
              tacatggact cccgcccttt caccgtggga ggccatctat ggcgcatcgg atactacccc   180
              aacggcgacg tcgccgacgc ctccgcgtac atggccgtct acccttccat cgacgagaac   240
              gtcatcgtcg ccgtcaaggc ttttgccaag ttcagcttgt tcttcaacgg cgagcccacg   300
              ccgccggcgt ttgtgcatac cacagagcca ttcgtgttca gcaggaaggg gatcgggtat   360
                                               35

              ggttttagca agtatgccga gagggagttg atggagggct cgatcgtgga cgacaagttc   420
<removed-date>
              accatcaggt gcgacgtcgg cgtctccacg gagctccgcg cggaggacag gccgccgtcg   480
              gacttcgcgg cggtggtgcc gccgtccgac ctgcaccggc acctcggcga ccttctggac   540
              tccaagcacg gcgccgacgt cacgttccag gtcggcggcg aggcgttccg cgcgcaccgg   600
              tacgtcctcg cggcgcggtc gccggtcttc agggcggagc tgttcggcgc catgagggag   660
              gccaccgccg cggccgccgc gtcgtcgtcg gactcggagg cgatccgcgt ggacgacatg   720
<removed-apn>
              gaggcgccgg tgttctccgc tctgctccgc ttcgtgtaca ccgacgcgtt gccggcgccc   780
              ggcggagcgg acgacggaca agcggcagga ggaggatcgt attcggagga ggccgccatg   840
              gctcagcacc tgctcgtcgc ggcggacagg tacgacctga agaggctgaa gctgctctac   900
              gaagacaagc tacgcaggca catcgaagcc gcctccgccg cctccatgct cgcgttggtt   960
              gagcagcacc attgccgagg cctcaaggag gcgtgcttgg tgttcctcag ctcgccggcc 1020
              aaccttcacg ccgccatggg aagcgatgga tttgagcatt tatccaggag ctgccccggt 1080
              gtgatcaagg agctaatatc caaacttgtt ccacgttgtg attag                   1125
              <210>     92
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     92
              aggccuuuuc augaacuccc a                                              21
              <210>     93
              <211>     578
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     93
              tggcgcggac tcatggggaa cggtgacgcg cctcctgtct tgttttcctt tcatggcgcc    60
              gaccctcgcc gacgggtgat cgacgtcgcc cctattcatc tgcttgatgg tcccgcccca   120
              tacgccgatg ctcacgcacc tcctccttct atctccttac agacgcgggg acgctcgccc   180
              acggcggcgg cgggagctga gtcttctgtc agcacgctcc tcgaggtgcg cggactcacc   240
              gaatacgtga aggagactgg gcagctgaat cctagccggc gatcacctta ccatccgcga   300
              gggcgagatt catgctatta tggggaagaa cggctgcggc aagagcaacc ctcacaaaag   360
              gtctcactgg gcagtctcat tatgaggtga cgggtggcac cattctcgtg gagggggggg   420
              acctggttga catggagcca tatgacagac ctctagcagg ccttttcatg aactcccaag   480
              cacctatgtg agattcctga atcaacaatt tcgattttgt gctatggctg cgaatgctcg   540
                                               36

<removed-date>
              ctaagaaagg aatggtctac cagcattggg ggcccttg                           578
              <210>     94
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     94
              ggcgcucgcc uucgcaacca u                                              21
<removed-apn>
              <210>     95
              <211>     1188
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     95
              atgaggcaca agcagaagac ccctccctgc acagtgcaca cgatactagc tagcccgatg    60
              gccccaacct ccagcgttca ccgcgaaggc ggcagcgccg ccatggacat ggccgagctc   120
              atccccacgc tgccgctgga gacggggagc ccgccgttcc cgctccggca atacggcggc   180
              tactggctgc cggagtgggt cctccctggg ctcgaggccg tgcacacgcg cttcgagccg   240
              aggccatccg acgtcttcct cgccagcttc cccaagtccg gcaccacctg gctcaaggcg   300
              ctcgccttcg caaccatcaa ccggaccacc tacccgccgt ccggcgacgc ccacccgctc   360
              cgccatcgcg gcccgcacga ctgcgtcaag ttcttcgagt ccaccttcgc catctccggc   420
              gagggcggcg gcggagacgt ggacgtgttc gccgccctcc cgtcgccgcg cgcggttgct   480
              cgcccgggga cgtgttcgcc gccctcccgt cgccgcgcgc ggttgctcgc cactcacatc   540
              ccctactccc tcctgccgga gcgcatcacg tcggcggcgg cggacgacgg cgactccggt   600
              tgccggatcg tgtacgtctg ccgggacccc aaggacgcgt tcgtctccat gtggctgttc   660
              accatgagca acatggtgaa gggtgtcaca acgaccacgg acgaacacca cccggcggcg   720
              gcggcggcgg cgccatcgat cgagcaggtg ttcgacctgt tctgcgacgg gcggagcatc   780
              gctgggccgc agtggcacca cgtccgcgag tactgggagg agagccggag gcggccggag   840
              aaggtcctct tcctccggta cgaggagatg ctgcgcgagc cggcgcgcaa cgtggagagg   900
              ctcgccgagt tcctgcggtg cccgttcacc gccggcgagg tggcggccgg ggtggtggac   960
              gccatcgtcg acctatgcag catcgaccga ctcaggaacg tgcaggcgaa caagaccggg 1020
              gtgaccgacc tggcggtgaa gaaggagagc ttcttccgga gaggggtggc cggcgactgg 1080
              agcaaccaca tgtcgccgga gatggcgtcg cggctggaca gggtcgtcga ggacgcgctg 1140
              cgaggctccg ggttcacctt tgccgccgct gccggcgact ccgaatga                1188
                                               37

<removed-date>
              <210>     96
              <211>     21
              <212>     RNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     96
              ggcccaugac uuugcaacca c                                              21
              <210>     97
<removed-apn>
              <211>     1197
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400>     97
              atggccgcgg ccgtcgtcct cctccgccgc ctgcgcggcg tcacggcggc gccccggcgc    60
              gcggcggcgg cgctgcccct gaccacgagc gtccggggtg tctccgattc gacggagccg   120
              ctcaccatcg agacctcggt cccctacaag tcccacatcg tggacccgcc cccgcgcgag   180
              gtggccacca cggcgcgcga gctcgccacc ttcttccgcg acatgtccgc catgcgccgc   240
              gcggagatcg cggcggactc gctgtacaag gcgaagctga tccgcggctt ctgccacctc   300
              tacgacggac aggaggccgt cgcggtgggc atggaggcgg ccaccacccg cgccgacgcc   360
              atcatcacgg cctaccgcga ccactgcgcc tacctcgccc gcggcggcga cctcgccgcc   420
              ctcttcgccg agctcatggg ccgccgcggc gggtgctcca gggggaaagg cgggtcgatg   480
              cacctgtaca agaaggacgc caacttctat ggcggccatg gcatcgtggg cgcgcaggtg   540
              ccgctcggat gcggcctcgc gttcgcgcag aggtacagga aggaggccgc cgtcacgttc   600
              gacctctacg gcgacggcgc cgccaaccag gggcagctgt tcgaggcgct caacatggcg   660
              gcgctctgga agctgcccgt cgtgctcgtc tgcgagaaca accactatgg gatggggacg   720
              gcggaatgga gggcatcgaa aagccccgca tactacaaac gcggcgacta tgtgccagga   780
              ttgaaggtcg atggtatgga tgttcttgca gtcaaacaag cttgtaaatt tgccaagcaa   840
              catgctcttg aaaatggacc gattattctt gagatggaca cctacagata ccacggacac   900
              tctatgtcag atccagggag cacttaccgc accagagatg aaattgcagg cataagacag   960
              gagcgcgatc caattgaaag ggttaggaag ctactactgg cccatgactt tgcaaccaca 1020
              caagaactca aggacatgga gaaagaaata aggaagcaag tcgacactgc catcgcgaaa 1080
              gcaaaggaaa gtccaatgcc cgatccatct gagctcttta caaatgtata tgttaatgac 1140
              tgcggtttgg agtcatttgg tgtggacagg aaggtggtga gaactgtact tccctag      1197
                                               38

