CARD SHUFFLING DEVICE AND METHOD
ABSTRACT
A device (1) for shuffling cards, comprising a compartment (70) sized and dimensioned to
receive a plurality of cards (15); a card of the plurality of cards (15) having a face surface and a
thickness, and edges around the periphery of the face, such that a plane coinciding with the face
and a first edge of the edges is oriented along a gravity vector (g) and a second edge of the edges
has a rest position in contact with a bottom surface (120) of the compartment (70); and a forcer
(27) to apply an impulsive force to cards of the plurality of cards (15) so as to eject a group of
cards of the plurality of cards (15) in an upwards direction along the gravity vector (g). The cards
are ejected to a distance of at least twice a dimension of the face along the gravity vector (g)
above the bottom surface (120) of the compartment (70) and the ejected cards are returned to the
rest position by the force of gravity.

                                                   1
CARD SHUFFLING DEVICE AND METHOD
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
The following are also incorporated by reference in their entirety:
          *        Australian Patent Application No. 2013242785;
          *        Australian Patent Application No. 2008256800; and
          *        US Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 60/931,646 filed 24 May 2007.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] This application relates to an apparatus and method for preparing playing cards for use in
a game of cards.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Various games are played using playing cards, where a typical game uses one or more
decks, which may have 52 cards of various values and suits. Examples of such games that are
popular in the United States are poker, blackjack, bridge, and canasta. In other countries,
different games of cards are similarly popular, and may use decks of cards having more or less
than 52 cards, and having different markings. Players of games of cards have an interest in
ensuring that the playing cards are dispensed for the game in a random manner, giving no one
player an unfair advantage. Preparing a deck of cards for play of the game may be accomplished
either manually or automatically. In the case of manual preparation, the cards may be cut, riffled
and stripped. The process is performed multiple times. It is believed that performing a cut-riffle
process approximately 7 times will result in a sufficiently random distribution of cards within a
deck. However this is time consuming and it is common to perform the process only 3-4 times.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0003a] It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least ameliorate the above
disadvantage.

                                                  2
SUMMARY
[0004] In a first aspect, there is provided a device for shuffling cards, comprising:
        a compartment sized and dimensioned to receive a plurality of cards; a card of the
plurality of cards having a face surface and a thickness, and edges around the periphery of the
face, such that a plane coinciding with the face and a first edge of the edges is oriented along a
gravity vector and a second edge of the edges has a rest position in contact with a bottom
surface of the compartment;
        a forcer to apply an impulsive force to cards of the plurality of cards so as to eject a
group of cards of the plurality of cards in an upwards direction along the gravity vector,
        wherein the cards are ejected to a distance of at least twice a dimension of the face along
the gravity vector above the bottom surface of the compartment and the ejected cards are
returned to the rest position by the force of gravity.
[0005] In a second aspect, there is provided a method of shuffling cards, the method comprising:
        providing a container sized and dimensioned to receive a deck of cards oriented so that a
plane coincident with a face of a card of the deck of cards, and an edge of the card, are parallel
to a gravity vector, the container having a dimension along the gravity vector of at least twice a
dimension of the face of the card along the gravity vector;
        determining that a deck of cards is present in a rest position against a bottom surface of
the container;
        using a forcer to propel groups of cards of the deck of cards in a direction along the
gravity vector for a time period sufficient to effectively randomize an order of location of the
cards of the deck of cards,
        wherein cards of the groups of cards are returned to a rest position by a force of gravity.
[0006] In a third aspect, there is provided a method of shuffling cards, the method comprising:
        providing a container sized and dimensioned to receive a deck of cards oriented so that a
plane coincident with a face of a card of the deck of cards, and an edge of the card, are parallel
to a gravity vector, the container having a dimension along the gravity vector of at least twice a
dimension of the face of the card along the gravity vector;
        providing a forcer to propel groups of cards of the deck of cards in a direction along the
gravity vector;

                                                  2a
        providing a sensor to determine that a deck of cards is present in a rest position against a
bottom surface of the container and a timer to control the duration of operation of the forcer for
a time period sufficient to effectively randomize an order of location of the cards of the deck of
cards.
[0006a] There is also disclosed herein a device for shuffling cards, comprising:
          a compartment sized and dimensioned to receive a plurality of cards, a card of the
plurality of cards having a height dimension and a width dimension parallel to a face thereof, a
thickness dimension orthogonal to the face thereof; and, edges around the periphery thereof
wherein the face of the card is oriented parallel to the gravity vector; and
          a forcer facing an edge of a card of the plurality of cards received in the compartment,
through which an intermittent force is applied to a group of cards of the plurality of cards, to
eject cards of the plurality of cards in an upward direction;
          wherein the ejected cards are returned to contact with the forcer by a force of gravity.
[0006b] There is also disclosed herein a device for shuffling a deck of cards, the comprising:
          a compartment having the shape of a rectangular parallelepiped, sized and dimensioned
to receive a deck of cards, and having first and second dimensions larger than a first dimension
of a face of a card of the deck of cards, and a thickness of the deck of cards, respectively; and
          a forcer applying an impulsive force to the deck of cards so as to eject a group of cards
of the deck of cards into a third dimension, the third dimension being greater than twice a
second dimension of the face of the card;
          wherein the ejected cards are returned to a rest position by a force of gravity.
[0006c] There is also disclosed herein a method of shuffling cards, the method comprising:
          providing a container having interior dimensions of a rectangular parallelepiped, sized
and dimensioned to accept a deck of cards;
          receiving the deck of cards in the container;
          the container oriented so that a plane coincident with a face of a card, and an edge of
the card, is parallel to a gravity vector; and
          propelling groups of cards of the deck of cards in a direction parallel to the face of the
card;
          wherein the groups of cards are returned to a rest position by a force of gravity.

                                                 2b
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006d] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0007] FIG. 1 shows front and side views of cross sections of the shuffling device, positioned
vertically;
[0008] FIG. 2 is a side cross-sectional view of the device of FIG. 1, positioned horizontally, and
with an access door partially opened;
[0009] FIG. 3 is a side cross sectional view of the device of FIG. 1, positioned vertically, and
with the cards being shuffled;
[0010] FIG. 4 shows the view of FIG.3, with the device positioned horizontally after the
completion of a shuffling operation;
[0011] FIG. 5 is an exterior view of the device of FIG. 1, having (A) an access door, and (B)
having a sliding drawer;
[0012] FIG. 6 is a simplified functional schematic of a pneumatic pressure source for a forcer;
and
[0013] FIG. 7 shows partial cross section views of a pneumatic forcer.

                                            3
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0014]     Exemplary embodiments may be better understood with reference to the
     drawings, but these embodiments are not intended to be of a limiting nature. Like
    numbered elements in the same or different drawings perform equivalent
    functions.
    [0015]     When a specific feature, structure, or characteristic is described in
    connection with an example, it will be understood that one skilled in the art may
    effect such feature, structure, or characteristic in connection with other examples,
    whether or not explicitly stated herein. Embodiments of this invention may be
   implemented in hardware, firmware, software, or any combination thereof, and
   may include instructions stored on a machine-readable medium.
   [00161      The act of randomizing a deck of cards prior to use in a game of cards
   is intended to make the order of the cards in the deck of cards unknown to a
  person playing the game of cards, even with the state of the deck of cards being
  known prior to the randomization. This is considered to place all of the players of
  the game in a state of equal knowledge of the situation which obtains at any stage
  of the play of the game. In common parlance, this process is called "shuffling the
  deck," and may include the steps of cutting, striping and riffling as described, for
  example, in US patent application 11/706,707, filed on February 15, 2007, which
 is incorporated herein by reference.
 [0017]       Herein, the term "shuffling" the deck is used to describe an apparatus
 and method which distributes the cards of a deck of cards so as to achieve an
 effectively random distribution of the order of the cards. The details of the
 operation of the shuffling device and method may not correspond to the traditional
 steps of cutting, stripping or riffling; however, the result may be that the deck of
cards has been placed in an effectively random order state. An "effectively
random" ordered deck of cards would be understood by a person of skill in the art
to, for example, defeat a strategy of card counting as a betting strategy in a card
game. Such a shuffle would be accepted by players of the game as to be fair to all
of the participants, so that the game may be played according to an accepted

                                           4
     strategy where each card distributed is not known a priori. Of course, in games of
     cards where the cards are exposed during the play of the game, a player may use
     knowledge of the exposed cards, and cards held by the player, to deduce the
    remaining cards in the deck, but not the explicit order of the cards.
    [00181      A card shuffling device I is shown in side and front cross section views
    in FIG. 1. The device 1 illustrated may be intended for, and dimensioned for use
    with, a single deck of cards, two decks of cards, or less than a deck of cards. It
    will be appreciated that a device capable of shuffling multiple decks of cards may
    also be capable of shuffling a single deck of cards or less than a standard deck of
    cards. The subsequent discussion will be in terms of a single deck of cards for
   clarity, however unless otherwise excluded, the operations are equally possible for
   a stack of cards comprising more or less than one standard deck.
   [00191      Playing cards may be rectangular sheets of material, having a durable
   surface and the values and suits of a deck suitable for playing a game of cards
   displayed thereon. Often, the playing cards have a plastic surface, or are made
   wholly of plastic, although paper playing cards are known. Although the deck of
  cards may have more or less than 52 cards, for convenience in discussion a deck of
  cards is considered to be comprised of 52 cards. The dimensions of a single
  playing card may vary depending on the game of cards for which the deck is
  intended. For example, bridge and poker cards typically have different linear
  dimensions, however, a particular deck of cards may be used to play a game of
 cards for which the dimensions are not optimal.
 [00201       Generally, playing cards are rectangles of flat material having
 dimensions less than about 3.5" by 2.5" (about 62mm x 88mm) in the plane or
 face of the cards, so as to be held comfortably in the hand. Each card of the deck
of cards is marked with a suit and value on one face thereof. For the purpose of
discussion, the dimensions of the face are termed are the height H and the width
W, respectively, so as to encompass decks of cards having other than the nominal
dimensions. Each card of the deck of cards has a thickness, and the plurality of
cards making up a deck of cards has a thickness T, the thickness being a
dimension orthogonal to the height H and the width W of the cards. The periphery

                                             5
     of the face is comprised of four edges, and the corners of the faces, where the
     edges meet, may be rounded.
     [0021]      The shuffling device may have a rectangular-parallelepiped-shaped
     interior compartment 70 having a first dimension 30 slightly greater than the card
     height H, a second dimension 35 at least twice the width W of the card, and a third
     dimension 40 greater than the thickness T of a deck of cards 15. The first
    dimension may be approximately 4 inches; and, the second dimension is not less
    than approximately 5 inches. In an alternative, the deck of cards 15 may be
    rotated by 90*.
    [00221      A deck of cards may introduced into the interior of the device 1, for
    example through a lid 20 (shown closed), and the device 1 may be stood on an end
    10 or base thereof. The second dimension of the interior compartment 70 may be
    oriented in a vertical position so that edges of the cards of the deck of cards 15 are
   parallel to a gravity vectorg. The cards in the deck are acted on by a forcer so as
   to eject a contiguous group of cards 15a from the deck of cards 15 so as to be
   introduced into a space above the remainder of the deck of cards 15 in the second
  dimension. For this purpose, the thickness of the deck T may be considered to be
  divided into a plurality of volumes 15a, each volume 15a including a portion of
  the deck 15. The volumes 15a may not each contain the same number of cards.
  When the deck is in a static position of repose, and the device 1 is oriented as
  shown in FIG. 1, the cards are urged against a bottom surface 120 of the interior
  compartment 70 by the force of gravity.
 [0023]        A forcer or launching device, for example, a piston 27 and a kicker 25,
 which may be a cam, a piston, an electrical solenoid, a pneumatic cylinder, or the
 like, acts on a card volume 15a, at the lower surface thereof, so as to eject the card
 volume 15a upwards. Card volumes 15a may ejected upwards in a sequential
manner, until substantially all of the cards in a deck of cards have been so ejected.
The volumes sequentially ejected may be arranged a physically contiguous
sequence, or may be ejected in another order. The ejection sequence may repeated
rapidly for a plurality of such sequences. It may be imagined that the cards are in
a somewhat chaotic state, with some cards being in contact with the bottom

                                            6
    surface 120 or the piston 27, and some cards in varying dynamic positions,
    displaced with respect to the bottom surface, depending approximately on the time
    since the last ejection of the particular card or groups of cards. The pistons 27
    may project above a surface 120 when actuated, which may be the surface that the
   cards rest upon when the device is not ejecting cards.
   [0024]      The ejection of a volume of cards 15a may be characterized as having a
   number of states: for example, repose, ejection, upward free flight, and free fall. In
   repose, the cards of the volume may be at rest with respect to the bottom surface
   120, and in contact with either the bottom surface 120, or a piston 27 projecting
   through the bottom surface, or both of the structures. When the piston 27 is
  actuated, so as to eject the volume of cards 15a, the piston 27 moves rapidly in the
  second dimension of the interior compartment 70, and the volume of cards 15a
  being in contact with the piston 27 is accelerated in the second dimension until the
  piston 27 reaches the end of a travel distance. The piston 27 is constrained so the
  overall linear motion is limited, however, the volume of cards 15a may continue to
  move in the second dimension, with an initial velocity equal to the terminal
  velocity of the piston 27. The motion of the piston 27 is arrested by a stop or other
 mechanism, and the piston 27 may return to the repose position by action of the
 force of gravity. The return may be assisted by a spring, a double acting solenoid
 or pneumatic de-vice, or other mechanism having a similar effect. The volume of
 cards 15a, however, continues in an upward direction, and may be said to be
 ejected from the remainder of the deck 15. The initial velocity of the volume of
 cards 15a when the piston 15a reaches the end of the stroke is sufficient that the
 minimum height reached by a lower card edge of the volume of cards 15a is
greater than the dimension of a card in the direction of motion.
[0025]       As the volume of ejected cards move in upward in free flight, the cards
experience deceleration due to the force of gravity, and the velocity decreases such
that, after a period of time, the vertical velocity of the cards is zero, at the
maximum height of the cards above the surface 120. The cards then begin free
fall, accelerated by the force of gravity, such that the motion of the cards is
towards the repose surface 120, and the velocity of the cards increases with time,

                                            7
     until the cards return to contact with the surface 120. The cards of the volume of
     cards 15a that was ejected now remains in repose-and contact with the surface 120
     until again ejected.
     [0026]      Due to the cross sectional dimensions of the base of the interior
    compartment 70 of the device 1, the individual cards have a limited ability to
    rotate about an axis perpendicular to the face thereof. The cards may rotate
    slightly so that the edges or portions of the face contacts a wall, and the motion of
    the card is affected by such interactions, by face-to-face contact with cards of the
   ejected volume, and with cards of previously or subsequently ejected volumes.
   Hence, while the cards may translate in the thickness direction, the cards are
   constrained to land on the bottom surface 120 or the piston 30 in the same
   rotational orientation as with which they were ejected. But, individual cards may
   be interchanged, or groups of cards urged to move in the thickness-direction T.
  Movement in the thickness direction T may also occur for cards in the repose
  state, when acted on by other cards being ejected.
  [0027]        The value of the second dimension should be sufficient for the bottom
  edge of the ejected card to rise above the top edge of a card in repose. The value
  may permit the ejected card to reach an apogee of the trajectory without contacting
  the far end surface 90 of the interior compartment 70, or the value may result in
 some or all of the cards contacting the far end surface 90 during the ejection
 sequence.
 [0028]        In the example, providing that the second dimension 30 is less than the
 diagonal dimension of the face of a card of the deck of cards 15, the card may not
be capable of rotating so as to change the rest or repose orientation of the height
dimension H of the card with respect to the bottom surface. That is, the height and
width dimensions of a card are not interchanged during the shuffling process, even
if the card undergoes some rotational motion during the ejection process.
[0029]         Where the deck of cards 15 is disposed in the alternative configuration,
where the rest position of the deck of cards 15 has been rotated by 900, an
additional constraint on the second dimension 30 may be that the center of gravity
of the card may need to be disposed such that it lies above the projection of the

                                            8
    narrow dimension of the face of the card onto the bottom surface 120, in order to
    prevent rotation of the cards between the start and end of the process.
    [0030]      As may be seen in FIG. 3, when the sequence of ejections is being
    performed, various volumes 15a making up the deck of cards 15 may be in
    differing states with respect to the bottom surface 120.
    [0031]      The inventor has experimentally demonstrated this aspect of the
   operation of a shuffling device by using a cigarette carton as the rectangular
   parallelepiped compartment and a can of compressed air having a straw-type
   extension, such as is used to blow air into an electronics assembly for cleaning
   purposes. The end of the straw emitting the compressed air was directed at the
   base end of the carton through an aperture so that the pressurized air stream .
   impinged on the bottom edge of cards and the nozzle rapidly moved back and
  forth in the thickness direction of the deck. The cards were observed to be ejected
  upwards in groups or individually and to reorder themselves in the somewhat
  chaotic environment where the cards are in various stages of flight. As the air
  pressure was either diminished or removed, the cards settled back into a deck of
  cards, resting on the base.
  [00321       In the experiments, cards were placed in a deck so that the cards were
 ordered by suit and value; and the -resultof the operation above described was that
 the ordering of the cards in the deck of cards was observed to be effectively
 random after completion of the shuffling operation. A typical duration of the
 shuffling process was about 15 seconds.
 [00331       In this manner, the ordering of cards in a deck of cards may be arranged
in an effectively random manner. At the conclusion of the "shuffling" process,
when the forcer sequence is terminated, the cards will be in the form of a
randomized deck of cards. The shuffling device may then be rotated such that the
second dimension is horizontal. This places the cards in the shuffled deck on top
of each other, so that the lid or door of the shuffler can be opened, or a tray slid
out and the cards removed.
[0034]       The device 1, may further comprise a motor 42 turning a shaft 28,
connecting to a cylinder 45, which may be termed a kicker, having projections 25

                                           9
    disposed at intervals along a length thereof, the projections 25 being disposed so
    that each of-the projections 25 may come in contact with a piston 27 during a
    rotation of the cylinder 45. The projections 25 may have the shape of cams, or an
    equivalent projection may be present on a facing portion of the piston 27. The
    distribution of projections 25 may be such that adjacent pistons are actuated, or
   such that pistons 27 are actuated in some other sequence. Although the pistons 27
   are- shown as being contiguous across the thickness T of the deck of cards 15, the
   pistons 27 may have a spacing between them, and depend on the movement of
   cards in the T direction to move cards into position with respect to the pistons 27.
   [0035]      FIG. 2 shows the device 1 disposed in a horizontal position, such that a
   surface 5 thereof is in contact with a horizontal support. Typically this support
   may be a table where the game of cards is being played. An interior compartment
  is formed by a first surface 80, extending in the second dimension, a second
  surface 60 also extending in the second dimension and disposed parallel to the first
  surface 80, separated by a distance 40, where the distance 40 is greater than the
  thickness T of the deck of cards 15 to be shuffled. A top end surface 90 of the
  device 1 is disposed opposite the base end 10, and at a distance such that a space
 of at least one card face dimension is provided between an inserted deck of cards
  15 and the top end surface 90.
 [0036]       The interior surfaces 80, 60 of the compartment 70 are shown as being
 flat, however there may be projections (not shown) that extend towards the
 volume into which the cards are ejected, the projections disposed so as to convert
 some of the vertical motion into horizontal motion to further mix the cards. For
 convenience in discussion and description, the interior configuration of the
 compartment 70, while generally having the shape of a rectangular parallelepiped,
should not, by being so described, be interpreted to exclude such mixing aids.
[0037]        A compartment 100 may be provided so as to house batteries (not
shown), a controller (not shown) which may be a microprocessor or other
electronic or electromechanical device, and one or more motors, an air supply, or
the like. The interior compartment 70 may be closed when the lid 20 is rotated or

                                            10
    slid into a position to substantially fill an aperture through which the-deck of cards
     15 may be introduced into the interior compartment 70.
    [0038]      A compartment dividing bar 55 may rotatably project through an
    aperture 110 in the surface 80 so as to restrain cards of the deck 15 from
    inadvertently moving into the area to the right of the bar 55. The position of the
    bar may be changed by using. a motor 50 or similar mechanism. Alternatively, as
   the bar is intended to be rotated with respect to the device I when the device 1 is
   moved between the vertical position of FIG. 1 and the horizontal position of FIG.
   2, the motor may be replaced by an eccentric weight 50 on a shaft, and configured
   to maintain the bar 55 in a vertical position regardless of the operational
   orientation of the remainder of the device 1. Other mechanisms for positioning the
   divider 55 may be used.
   [0039]      The deck of cards 15 may be inserted into the device 1, with the.device
   1 in the horizontal position of FIG. 2, and the lid 20 is closed. The user rotates the
  device 1 to the vertical position shown in FIG. 1. In the vertical position, the deck
  of cards 15 slides so as to rest on the pistons 27 due to the force of gravity, and the
  bar 55 may have rotated to remain. in a vertical position through slot 110, opening
  the remainder of the compartment 70 to the cards. In the front view, the
 compartment 70 is seen to have a first dimension 30, which is slightly greater than
 the height H of the cards.
 [0040]       The arrangement of the motor 45, the kicker 25 and the piston 27 is one
 of a variety of mechanical, electromechanical or pneumatic forcer mechanisms
 that may be used to transmit a substantially impulsive force to the edge of the
 cards now resting on the pistons 27. For example, the pistons may be electrically
 actuated by solenoids, or air pressure may be used. In an aspect, the piston may be
 an armature of the solenoid. A spring mechanism may be used to ensure adequate
contact between a cam and the piston, as is known in a cam follower arrangement,
or a spring may be provided to assist the force of gravity when the piston is
returning to a condition of repose when operated by a forcer mechanism.
[0041]        FIG. 1 shows a portion 15a of the deck 15 lifted with respect to the
remainder of the deck 15 by one of the plurality of pistons 27, indicating the

                                           11
     motion that may be imparted to portions of the deck 15 by a piston 27 when the
     motor 42 is rotating, and contact between a projection 25 and a piston 27 occurs.
     Alternatively the piston 27 may be coupled to, for example, a solenoid. As shown
    in FIG. 3, when the motor 42 is actuated to rotate the shaft 45, the kickers 25 may
    actuate the pistons 27 in rapid succession, so as to eject portions 15a of the deck
    15 towards the top surface 90 of the apparatus 1. The sequence of ejections may
    become substantially asynchronous with the motions of the groups of ejected
    cards, so that the cards tend to mix together and migrate to other positions in the
    thickness direction T of the deck 15. In this manner, the cards of the deck are
   effectively randomized with respect to the sequence of cards in the deck 15 which
   obtained when. the deck 15 was initially inserted into the compartment 70. The
   time duration of the mixing process may be based on.a timer, or the user may have
   the option of turning the device on and off at will. In another aspect, a pressure
   switch may be disposed on the base surface 10 so that the motor 42 is activated
  when the apparatus is in the upright position and resting on the base surface 10 as
  shown in FIG. 3. Other sensing means such as an accelerometer (not shown) or
  the rotation of bar 55 may be similarly used to determine the orientation of the
  device 1 with respect to the direction of the gravitational vector. The shuffling
  operation may proceed for a fixed period of time, or the user may terminate the
 shuffling with an on-off switch, or by beginning to return the apparatus to the
 horizontal position shown in FIG. 2.
 [0042]       Near the end of the shuffling process, the speed of the motor may be
 reduced, and the cards may begin to settle back into a substantially resting
 position, in contact with the surface 110. To the extent that one or more cards
 have not yet moved into a position that generally conforms to the full deck 15, as
 shown in FIG. 1, the slower motion should cause the remaining cards to slide into
position. A sensor (not shown, but positioned at S) may be used to confirm that
the cards are back in the form of a deck of cards 15. This sensor may be optical or
mechanical, or may he omitted.
[0043]        FIG. 4 shows a near-end-state of the shuffling process. In this example,
the bar 55 has been rotated into place by a motor 50, so as to enter the

                                            12
    compartment 70 through the slot 110 in the surface 80, and the device 1 may still
    be in an orientation where the surface 5 is vertical. The device 1 may now be
    rotated to a horizontal position: that is, with surface 5 in a horizontal plane; and,
    the lid 20-may be opened to remove the deck of cards 15. Where an eccentric
   weight has been used in place of a motor, the bar 55 will rotate into the position
   shown in FIG. 4 as the surface 5 rotates into a horizontal position.
   [00441       In yet another aspect, the lid 20 may be disposed that a hinge is
   positioned at the upper end of the aperture for insertion of the cards, and the lid 20
   may extend further towards the top surface 90, so that when the lid 20 is rotated to
  an open position, the lid extension is rotated into the compartment 70 so as to
  perform the function of the bar 55.
  [0045]       In still another aspect, a surface of the apparatus 1 may be wholly or
  partially transparent, or have an aperture therein, so as to permit observation of the
  mixing action.
  [0046]       In another example, the automatic card shuffling device may be
  segmented at a height above the base such that the cards may be.inserted or
 removed while the device 1 is in a vertical position (as in FIG. 1). In such a
 configuration, the interior compartment 70 may be formed by a lower portion and
 an upper portion: the lower portion being that extending from the base 10 to a
 location approximately that of the upper edge of a deck of cards inserted therein;
 that is, at or below the location of the compartment divider 55 in FIG. 1. The
compartment divider itself may not be present. A relief or slot may be provided in
the surface 60 so that the user may grip the cards in order to remove the cards
from the lower compartment. The upper portion of the compartment may be
attached to the lower portion of the compartment by a hinge, so that the upper
portion of the compartment may be swung away for insertion and removal of the
cards, and closed for the shuffling operation. The lid 20 and the compartment
divider 55 may not be needed, since the cards may be inserted along the long
dimension of the shuffler, and the device 1 may remain in a vertical position after
completion of shuffling process.

                                             13
      [00471      In an alternative, the upper portion of the compartment 70 may be a
      separate structure and be joined to the lower portion of the compartment by a
     sliding connection so as to form a complete interior compartment 70, as in FIG. 2.
     The upper portion may be detached from the lower portion for the purpose of
     inserting or removing a deck of cards 15. The shuffling action may be initiated by
     a sensor determining that the compartments have been assembled, a switch, or
    other-mechanism. The shuffling action may be dependent on the presence of cards
    in the compartment. The shuffling may be performed for a fixed period of time, or
    be controllable by the user.
    [0048]       In another aspect, the device 1 of FIG. 1 may be configured so that the
    lid 20 is replaced by a slidable drawer 140 in a side 150 of the device 1. The lid
   configuration 20 and a drawer configuration are shown in exterior views in FIG.
   5A-B, respectively.
   [0049]       In another example, shown in FIG .6, the ejection mechanism may be
   pneumatic. A pneumatic pump 200-is used to charge a cylinder 210 to a pressure
  P, the pressure being above that of the ambient environment. The cylinder 210,
  may be a simple volume, or may have a piston and spring arrangement so that the
  filling of the cylinder involves the air pump 200 acting to fill a variable volume
  against the resistance of the spring. In this manner, the volume of the pressurized
 region increases at approximately a constant pressure. Similarly, the pressure is.
 maintained substantially constant as the air in the cylinder 210 is discharged from
 the cylinder 210 so as to eject the cards 15a of the deck of cards. Near the end of
 the cycle, the piston in the cylinder 210 may reach an end of travel, so that the
 pressure decreases, having a similar effect as the slowing of the motor in the first
example.
[0050]         The cylinder 210 may be charged by the pump 200 for a fixed period of
time, and then a valve 220 opened so that the air at nominal pressure P may flow
from the air reservoir 210 to the forcer mechanism 240 to eject the cards. The air
pump 200 may be shut off at this time, or continue to operate for some or all of the
shuffling operation. Aftercompletion of the shuffling operation, the air pump 200
may be operated to charge the air reservoir 210 so as to be ready to perform

                                           14
    another shuffling operation. Alternatively, the air pump 200 may charge the air
    reservoir 210 at the beginning of a shuffling operation.
    [0051]      In an aspect, the air pump 200 may supply air to the air reservoir 210
    until a desired pressure is reached. This state may be sensed by a pressure sensor
    or a pressure actuated switch, and a valve 220 actuated to supply air to the forcer
    240 so as to shuffle the cards. Alternatively, the air may be supplied through tube
    220 so as to actuate one or more pistons 27.
   [0052]      FIG: 7A-C show side, front and top views, respectively, of a forcer
   using pneumatic actuation. The deck of is positioned as in the example of FIG. 1,
   however the bottom surface 250-of the compartment 70 is slightly.sloped toward
   the center of the deck 15 in the deck thickness direction, rather than being a flat
   bottom 120 as in FIG. 1. The central portion of the deck of cards 15, shown in
   FIG. 7B is positioned above an orifice -240having a larger linear dimension in the
  direction 30, than in the direction 40, so as-to apply the air pressure P delivered
  through the tube 220 to side edges of a group of cards of the deck of cards. The
  dimensions of the aperture 240 are sized such that the force applied to the edges of
  the group of cards is sufficient to eject the group of cards into the void above to
  the top of the deck of cards. The air flow may be intermittently interrupted or
 pulsed, and the remainder of the cards in the dek of cards 15 may tend to move
 towards the center-of-the-deck region, so as to be positioned above the aperture
 240 to be ejected by the next air pulse. The pulsing may be controlled by an
 actuated valve, a rotary valve or other method of interrupting the flow of the air.
 [00531       In another aspect, the bottom surface 250 may be flat such as the
 surface 120 in FIG. 1, and a plurality of apertures 240 spaced apart in the deck
thickness direction 40 so as to applied the ejection force at different times to
groups of cards at different distances from the center of the compartment 70 in the
thickness direction T of the deck of cards. A slight slope in the bottom surface
250.may be provided between the apertures 240 of the plurality of apertures, so as
to encourage the migration of cards in the thickness direction.
[0054]       Other methods of lifting the-cards may also be used. For example, a
continuous belt running between the base and the top of the interior compartment

                                          15
    and having a bar or shelf projecting therefrom, where the length of the projection
   is about half of the thickness of a deck of cards may lift the cards. The structure
   may have an arched path of the belt neat the top portion so that the cards will be
   encouraged to move from the side where they were lifted to the other side of the
   compartment, in the thickness direction.
   [0055]     It will be understood that this recitation of elements and functionalities
  is -intended to convey an appreciation -for the types of elements and functionalities
  which may be present, however not all of the elements and functionalities may be
  found in a specific exnbodinent.. and. other elements or functionalities may be used
  multiple times.
  [0056]     Ancillary.equipment such as a power supply, which may be batteries, a
  AC-DC converter (battery eliminator), an AC power supply, a controller, or the
 like, are not shown as they are well known to persons of ordinary skill in the art,
 as are the various types of motors, displays, solenoids, control interfaces and the
 like.
 [00571      Although the present invention has been explained by way of the
 examples described above, it should be understood to the ordinary skilled person
in the art that-the-invention is not limited to the examples, but rather that various
changes or modifications thereof are possible without departing from the spirit of
the invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention shall be determined only by
the appended claims and their equivalents.

                                                    16
CLAIMS
1.     A device for shuffling cards, comprising:
       a compartment sized and dimensioned to receive a plurality of cards; a card of the plurality
of cards having a face surface and a thickness, and edges around the periphery of the face, such
that a plane coinciding with the face and a first edge of the edges is oriented along a gravity
vector and a second edge of the edges has a rest position in contact with a bottom surface of the
compartment;
       a forcer to apply an impulsive force to cards of the plurality of cards so as to eject a group
of cards of the plurality of cards in an upwards direction along the gravity vector,
       wherein the cards are ejected to a distance of at least twice a dimension of the face along
the gravity vector above the bottom surface of the compartment and the ejected cards are
returned to the rest position by the force of gravity.
2.     The device of claim 1, wherein the impulsive force is applied for a time period sufficient to
effectively randomize the cards.
3.     The device of claim 2, wherein the time period is 15 seconds.
4.     The device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of cards is a deck of
cards for playing a game of cards.
5.     The device of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the period of time when the impulsive
force is applied commences when a sensor determines that the plurality of cards is the rest
position.
6.     The device of any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein a sensor determines that the cards have
returned to the rest position after the period of time.
7.     A method of shuffling cards, the method comprising:
       providing a container sized and dimensioned to receive a deck of cards oriented so that a
plane coincident with a face of a card of the deck of cards, and an edge of the card, are parallel to
a gravity vector, the container having a dimension along the gravity vector of at least twice a
dimension of the face of the card along the gravity vector;

                                                   17
       determining that a deck of cards is present in a rest position against a bottom surface of the
container;
       using a forcer to propel groups of cards of the deck of cards in a direction along the gravity
vector for a time period sufficient to effectively randomize an order of location of the cards of
the deck of cards,
       wherein cards of the groups of cards are returned to a rest position by a force of gravity.
8.     A method of shuffling cards, the method comprising:
       providing a container sized and dimensioned to receive a deck of cards oriented so that a
plane coincident with a face of a card of the deck of cards, and an edge of the card, are parallel to
a gravity vector, the container having a dimension along the gravity vector of at least twice a
dimension of the face of the card along the gravity vector;
       providing a forcer to propel groups of cards of the deck of cards in a direction along the
gravity vector;
       providing a sensor to determine that a deck of cards is present in a rest position against a
bottom surface of the container and a timer to control the duration of operation of the forcer for a
time period sufficient to effectively randomize an order of location of the cards of the deck of
cards.
9.     The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the deck of cards is suitable for playing a game of
cards.
                                  Shuffle Tech International LLC
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn>   06 Dec
             21     2016
                Sep 2017
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

