  I:\sxd\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SXD\ 6114527_docx-5 12/2017
                                                             ABSTRACT
                   Described herein are compounds and chemical entities of Formula I, methods of their
  synthesis, compositions comprising them, and their use in treating numerous diseases and
5 disorders, including cognitive deficits associated with CNS diseases and disorders.

WO 2013/192229                  PCT/US2013/046415
                     1/3
               60
               40
                  NT      Pdelb
                   FIG. 1

   I: \sxdInterwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SXD\1 6114527 ldocx-5 12/2017
         SUBSTITUTED PYRIDINE AZOLOPYRIMIDINE-5-(6H)-ONE COMPOUNDS
                                   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
                     This is a divisional of Australian patent application No. 2013277298, the entire
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 5                   This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61/661,091, filed
   on June 18, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                     The present invention relates to certain substituted pyridine-fused azolopyrimidin-5
   (6h)-one compounds and derivatives of such compounds; pharmaceutical compositions
10 containing them, methods of making them, and their use in various methods, including the
   inhibition of PDE1 enzymes; and the treatment of one or more disorders, including
   neurological disorders, cardiovascular disorders, renal disorders, and other conditions and
   diseases involving PDE1 or cyclic nucleotide signaling.
                                                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15                   The cyclic nucleotides 5'-3' cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and 5'-3' cyclic
   guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) are second messenger molecules, relaying signals from
   receptors on the cell surface to target molecules inside the cell.                          The cyclic nucleotide
   phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are a group of enzymes (which can be localized to different
   cellular compartments) that hydrolyze the phosphodiester bond of cyclic nucleotides and
20 thereby inactivate their function.                               PDEs can therefore play important roles in signal
   transduction by modulating the localization, amplitude, and duration of cyclic nucleotide
   signaling within the cell.
                     PDEs comprise at least eleven families: PDEl-PDE 11, each categorized by distinct
   molecular, kinetic, regulatory, and inhibitory properties.                              PDE family members are
25 differentially expressed in various tissues and can localize to distinct sub-cellular domains.
   This diversity enables PDEs to modulate local intracellular cAMP and cGMP gradients in
   response to discrete external stimuli (Conti and Beavo, Annu. Rev. Biochem. 2007, 76, 481
   511).
                                                                         - 1-

II \sxd\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SXD\1 6114527 Idocx-5 12/2017
                 Among the PDE families, PDE1 is unique in its requirement for full activation by
calcium (Ca2+) and calmodulin (CaM). Calcium enters the cell and forms a complex with
CaM. Binding of the Ca2+/CaM complexes to multiple domains near the N-terminus of
                                                              - 1A-

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   PDE1 can result in full phosphodiesterase activity. PDE1 is therefore a point of convergence
   and integration for multiple signaling pathways that regulate numerous downstream targets
   and cellular events (Sharma et al., Int. J. Mol. Med. 2006, 18, 95-105).
            The PDEl family comprises three genes (pdela, pdelb, and pdelc), and each encodes
 5 multiple isoforms via alternative splicing and differential transcription. All PDEl enzymes
   appear to hydrolyze both cAMP and cGMP, although they can differ in their relative
   affinities for each (Bender and Beavo, Pharmacol.Rev. 2006, 58, 488-520).
            PDEl is expressed in many tissues, underscoring a role in many physiological
   processes. Regions of PDE expression include, but are not limited to, the heart, lungs, veins
10 and arteries, smooth muscle, skeletal muscle, skin, adrenal gland, thyroid, pancreas,
   esophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon, liver, leukocytes, testis, ovary, bladder, kidney,
   and the nervous system. In the brain, PDEl isoforms are expressed in the cerebral cortex,
   frontal lobe, hippocampus, cerebellum, and amygdala, regions involved in memory formation
   and other cognitive processes. PDElb expression, in particular, correlates closely with brain
15 regions showing high levels of dopaminergic innervation.          In the cardiovascular system,
   PDE1 appears to play a central role in organizing cAMP microdomains and mediating
   hormonal specificity in cardiac cells (Maurice et al., Mol. Pharm. 2003, 64, 533-546).
   Indeed, human PDElb is highly expressed in numerous cardiovascular regions, including the
   pericardium, heart atrium (left), heart apex, Purkinje fibers, and pulmonic valve.
20          More generally, cyclic nucleotide signaling pathways, including those involving
   PDEl, are implicated in numerous pathological processes (Keravis and Lugnier, Br. J.
   Pharmacol. 2012, 165, 1288-1305). For example, alterations in these pathways have been
   implicated in various disorders of the brain, including depression, schizophrenia and
   cognitive disorders.    Inhibiting PDEl activity in the nervous system, for example, can
25 increase cAMP or cGMP levels and consequently induce expression of neuronal plasticity
   related genes, neurotrophic      factors,  and neuroprotective molecules.      Based on such
   properties, PDEl inhibitors are promising therapeutic candidates in treating many CNS
   disorders and associated cognitive impairments.         Similarly, PDEl enzymes and cyclic
   nucleotides are emerging as key mediators of pathological processes that underlie many
30 vascular disorders, including hypertension, myocardial infarction, and heart failure (Miller et
   al., Basic Res. Cardiol. 2011, 106, 1023-1039 and Miller et al, Circ. Res. 2009, 105, 956
   964). In addition, PDEl is implicated in the development and progression of renal disease,
                                                   2

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   where cAMP and cGMP regulate a variety of signaling pathways, including those that
   modulate mitogenesis, inflammation, and extracellular matrix synthesis (Wang et al., Kidney
   Int. 2010, 77. 129-140; Cheng et al., Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 2007, 232, 38-51 and Dousa,
   Kidney Int. 1999, 55, 29-62).
 5         Accordingly, there is a need to develop treatments for CNS and other disorders, as
   well as disorders that are due, at least in part, to an aberration or dysregulation of an
   intracellular signaling pathway regulated by PDEl.
           Various    small-molecule    PDEl    enzyme    inhibitors have   been   reported e.g.,
   imidazopyrazolopyrimidinones (Intra-Cellular Therapeutics Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ.           WO
10 2012171016, Dec. 13, 2012), pyrrolopyrimidinones (Intra-Cellular Therapeutics Intl. Pat.
   Appl. Publ. WO 2011153138, Dec 8, 2011; Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2011153136, Dec 8,
   2011; Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ.    WO 2011153135, Dec 8, 2011; Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO
   2011153129, Dec 8, 2011), imidazopurinone (Intra-Cellular Therapeutics Intl. Pat. Appl.
   Publ.      WO 2010132127,       Nov.    18,  2010), pyrazolopyrimidinedione     (Intra-Cellular
15 Therapeutics Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2010098839, Sept. 2, 2010), pyrazolopyrimidinone
   (Intra-Cellular Therapeutics Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2010065153, June 10, 2010; WO
   2010065149, June 10, 2010; Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2009075784, June 18, 2009).
           However, there remains a need for potent PDE1               inhibitors with desirable
   pharmaceutical properties.    It is therefore desirable to develop improved PDEl inhibitors
20 showing higher potency, greater specificity, and better side effect profiles.     The present
   invention meets these and other needs in the art by disclosing substituted pyridine-fused and
   azolopyrimidin-5-(6h)-one compounds as potent and well-tolerated PDEl inhibitors.
                                                  3

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
              The invention provides a chemical entity of Formula (I):
                                        0
               (R1)m        0             NN
                                 y _y.
                              R3        Z
                                    R4
                                          (I)     wherein
   R 1, R 3 , R4 , Y, Z and M have any of the values described herein.
 5            In one aspect the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of
   compounds of Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula
   (I), pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and
   pharmaceutically acceptable metabolites of compounds of Formula (I). In a specific
   aspect, the chemical entity is a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
10 acceptable salt thereof.
              Chemical entities and compounds of Formula (I) are useful in wide range of methods.
   Isotopically-labeled compounds and prodrugs can be used in metabolic and reaction kinetic
   studies, detection and imaging techniques, and radioactive treatments.              The chemical
   embodiments of the present invention can be used to inhibit PDEl, and PDElb, in particular;
15 to treat a disorder mediated by PDEl, and PDElb, in particular; to enhance neuronal
   plasticity; to treat neurological disorders, including neurodegenerative disorders, cognitive
   disorders, and cognitive deficits associated with CNS disorders; to confer neuroprotection;
   and to treat peripheral disorders, including obesity, diabetes, cardiometabolic disorders, and
   their associated co-morbidities. The chemical embodiments of the present invention are also
20 useful as augmenting agents to enhance the efficiency of cognitive and motor training, to
   facilitate neurorecovery and neurorehabilitation, and to increase the efficiency of non-human
   animal training protocols.          The invention is further directed to the general and specific
   embodiments defined, respectively, by the independent and dependent claims appended
   hereto, which are incorporated by reference herein.
25            The invention further relates to the use of a compound, chemical entity, or
   composition of the instant invention in a method of treating disorders that include an aberrant
                                                      4

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   or dysregulated signaling pathway mediated by PDEl, and more specifically, PDElb. Such
   PDEl-related signaling pathways, preferably in the nervous system, include, but are not
   limited to, those involving nitric oxide, natriuretic peptides, dopamine, noradrenalin,
   neurotensin, cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, serotonin, glutamate, GABA,
 5 acetylcholine, adenosine, cannabinoids, natriuretic peptides, and endorphins. In a specific
   aspect, the compounds and compositions are useful in treating disorders characterized by
   alterations in dopamine signaling.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   FIG. 1 is bar graph showing the effect of siRNA-mediated knockdown of PDElb in mouse
10 hippocampal tissue on one-day memory in a contextual fear-conditioning assay.
   FIG. 2 is a bar graph showing the effect of siRNA-mediated knockdown of PDElb in mouse
   hippocampal tissue on one-day memory in a trace-conditioning assay.
   FIG. 3 is a bar graph showing the effect on neurite outgrowth of (A) rolipram-mediated
   inhibition of PDE4, and (B) siRNA-mediated inhibition of Pde4d or Pdelb. Bars represent
15 the mean + SEM of neurite length and branching of at least 100 NS1 cells; n = 8 wells/bar.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            The invention may be more fully appreciated by reference to the following
   description, including the examples. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific
   terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill
20 in the art. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein
   can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and materials
   are described herein. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only
   and not intended to be limiting.
            For the sake of brevity, all publications, including patent applications, patents, and
25 other citations mentioned herein, are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Citation of
   any such publication, however, shall not be construed as an admission that it is prior art to the
   present invention.
                                            Abbreviations
            The specification includes numerous abbreviations, whose meanings are listed in the
30 following Table:
                                                   5

WO 2013/192229                                                     PCT/US2013/046415
Abbreviation   Definition
ACN            Acetonitrile
BINAP          2,2'-Bis(diphenylphosphino)- 1,1 '-binaphthyl
BOC            tert-butoxycarbonyl
BOC anhydride  Di-tert-butyl dicarbonate
CELITE@        Diatomaceous earth
m-CPBA         meta-Chloroperoxybenzoic acid
DAST           Diethylaminosulfur trifluoride
DBU            1,8-Diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene
DCE            Dichloroethane
DCM            Dichloromethane
Diglyme        (2-Methoxyethyl) ether
DIPEA          NN-ethyl-diisopropylamine or N,N-Diisopropyl-ethyl amine
DMA            N, N-Dimethylacetamide
DMAP           4-Dimethylamino pyridine
DME            Dimethoxyethane
DMF            NN-Dimethylformamide
DMSO           Dimethylsulfoxide
dppf           1,1 '-Bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene
EDCI           N-(3-Dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride
EtOAc, or EA   Ethyl Acetate
EtOH           Ethanol
IPA            Isopropyl alcohol
HOAc or AcOH Acetic Acid
HOAT           1-Hydroxy-7-azabenzotriazole
HPLC           High-performance liquid chromatography
KHMDS          Potassium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide
LAH            Lithium aluminum hydride
LiHMDS,        Lithium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide
LCMS, LC/MS    Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
MeOH           Methanol
MsCI           Methanesulfonyl chloride
                                           6

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   MTBE                Methyl tert-butyl ether
   NMP                 1-Methyl-2-pyrrolidinone
   Pd/C                Palladium on activated carbon
   Pd 2(dba) 3         Tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium (0)
   PdCl 2 (dppf)-dcm [1'1'-Bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]palladium(ll) dichloride
   Pd(OAc) 2           Palladium(II)acetate
   Pd(PPh 3)4          Palladium-tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)
   TEA, Et 3N          Triethylamine
   TFA                 Trifluoroacetic acid
   THF                 Tetrahydrofuran
                                        TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
            The   use  of subheadings      such   as  "General,"    "Chemistry,"    "Compositions,"
   Formulations," etc., in this section, as well as in other sections of this application, are solely
 5 for convenience of reference and not intended to be limiting.
                                                General
           As used herein, the term "about" or "approximately" means within an acceptable
   range for a particular value as determined by one skilled in the art, and may depend in part on
   how the value is measured or determined, e.g., the limitations of the measurement system or
10 technique. For example, "about" can mean a range of up to 20%, up to 10%, up to 5%, or up
   to 1% or less on either side of a given value. Alternatively, with respect to biological systems
   or processes, the term "about" can mean within an order of magnitude, within 5-fold, or
   within 2-fold on either side of a value. Numerical quantities given herein are approximate
   unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately" can be inferred
15 when not expressly stated
            To provide a more concise description, some of the quantitative expressions given
   herein are not qualified with the term "about". It is understood that, whether the term "about"
   is used explicitly or not, every quantity given herein is meant to refer to the actual given
   value, and it is also meant to refer to the approximation of such given value that would
20 reasonably be inferred based on the ordinary skill in the art, including equivalents and
   approximations due to the experimental and/or measurement conditions for such given value.
                                                   7

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   Whenever a yield is given as a percentage, such yield refers to a mass of the entity for which
   the yield is given with respect to the maximum amount of the same entity for which that
   could be obtained under the particular stoichiometric conditions.        Concentrations that are
   given as percentages refer to mass ratios, unless indicated differently.
 5         As used herein, the terms "a," "an," and "the" are to be understood as meaning both
   singular and plural, unless explicitly stated otherwise.      Thus, "a," "an," and "the" (and
   grammatical variations thereof where appropriate) refer to one or more.
           A group of items linked with the conjunction "and" should not be read as requiring
   that each and every one of those items be present in the grouping, but rather should be read as
10 "and/or" unless expressly stated otherwise.      Similarly, a group of items linked with the
   conjunction "or" should not be read as requiring mutual exclusivity among that group, but
   rather should also be read as "and/or" unless expressly stated otherwise.           Furthermore,
   although items, elements or components of the invention may be described or claimed in the
   singular, the plural is contemplated to be within the scope thereof, unless limitation to the
15 singular is explicitly stated.
            The terms "comprising" and "including" are used herein in their open, non-limiting
   sense.    Other terms and phrases used in this document, and variations thereof, unless
   otherwise expressly stated, should be construed as open ended, as opposed to limiting. As
   examples of the foregoing: the term "example" is used to provide exemplary instances of the
20 item in discussion, not an exhaustive or limiting list thereof;             adjectives  such as
   "conventional," "traditional," "normal," "criterion," "known" and terms of similar meaning
   should not be construed as limiting the item described to a given time period or to an item
   available as of a given time, but instead should be read to encompass conventional,
   traditional, normal, or criterion technologies that may be available or known now or at any
25 time in the future.     Likewise, where this document refers to technologies that would be
   apparent or known to one of ordinary skill in the art, such technologies encompass those
   apparent or known to the skilled artisan now or at any time in the future.
            The presence of broadening words and phrases such as "one or more," "at least," "but
   not limited to" or other like phrases in some instances shall not be read to mean that the
30 narrower case is intended or required in instances where such broadening phrases may be
   absent.   As will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this
                                                  8

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
   document, the illustrated embodiments and their various alternatives may be implemented
   without confinement to the illustrated examples.
                                               Chemistry
           The term "alkyl" refers to a fully saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group. The alkyl
 5 moiety may be a straight- or branched-chain alkyl group having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms in
   the chain. Examples of alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, methyl (Me, which also
   may be structurally depicted by the symbol, "-"),          ethyl (Et), n-propyl, isopropyl, butyl,
   isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl (tBu), pentyl, isopentyl, tert-pentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, and groups
   that in light of the ordinary skill in the art and the teachings provided herein would be
10 considered equivalent to any one of the foregoing examples. Alkyl groups may be optionally
   substituted with one or more substituents including, but not limited to, hydroxyl, alkoxy,
   thioalkoxy, amino, and aminoalkyl.
           The term "alkenyl" refers to optionally substituted unsaturated aliphatic moieties
   having at least one carbon-carbon double bond and including E and Z isomers of said alkenyl
15 moiety.     Examples of alkenyl radicals include ethenyl, propenyl, butenyl, 1,4-butadienyl,
   cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl and the like.
           The term "alkynyl" refers to an optionally substituted unsaturated aliphatic moieties
   having at least one carbon-carbon triple bond and includes straight and branched chain
   alkynyl groups. Examples of alkynyl radicals include ethynyl, propynyl, butynyl and the
20 like.
           The term "haloalkyl" refers to a straight- or branched-chain alkyl group having from 1
   to 12 carbon atoms in the chain optionally substituting hydrogens with halogens. Examples
   of haloalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, -CF 3, -CHF 2 , -CH 2 F, -CH 2 CF 3 ,
   CH 2CHF 2, -CH 2 CH 2 F, -CH 2 CH 2 Cl, -CH 2 CF 2 CF 3 and other groups that in light of the
25 ordinary skill in the art and the teachings provided herein, would be considered equivalent to
   any one of the foregoing examples.
           The term "alkoxy" includes a straight chain or branched alkyl group with an oxygen
   atom linking the alkyl group to the rest of the molecule. Alkoxy includes methoxy, ethoxy,
   propoxy, isopropoxy, butoxy, t-butoxy, pentoxy and so on. "Aminoalkyl", "thioalkyl", and
30 "sulfonylalkyl" are analogous to alkoxy, replacing the terminal oxygen atom of alkoxy with,
   respectively, NH (or NR), S, and SO 2.
                                                    9

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
           The term "haloalkoxy" refer to alkoxy groups optionally substituting hydrogens with
   halogens. Examples of haloalkoxy groups include, but are not limited to, -OCF 3, -OCH 2 CF 3 ,
   -OCH 2CHF 2, -OCH 2CH 2Cl, -OCH 2CF 2 CF 3 and other groups that in light of the ordinary skill
   in the art and the teachings provided herein, would be considered equivalent to any one of the
 5 foregoing examples.
           The term "amino" refers to the -NH 2 group.
           The term "alkylamino" refers to the -NRR' group, where R and R' are independently
   selected from hydrogen (however, R and R' cannot both be hydrogen), alkyl, and aryl groups;
   or R and R', taken together, can form a cyclic ring system.        Examples of amino groups
10 include, but are not limited to, -NH(CH 3), -N(CH 3) 2, -NPhenyl(CH 3), -NHPhenyl,
   N(CH 2CH 3)(CH 3), and the like.
           The term "cyano" refers to the group -CN.
           The term "aryl" refers to a monocyclic, or fused or spiro polycyclic, aromatic
   carbocycle (ring structure having ring atoms that are all carbon), having from 3 to 12 ring
15 atoms per ring. (Carbon atoms in aryl groups are sp2 hybridized.)      Illustrative examples of
   aryl groups include the following moieties:
                                                                                 and the like.
           The term "aryloxy" refers to a group having the formula, -O-R, wherein R is an aryl
   group.
20         The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially saturated carbocycle, such as
   monocyclic, fused polycyclic, bridged monocyclic, bridged polycyclic, spirocyclic, or spiro
   polycyclic carbocycle having from 3 to 12 ring atoms per carbocycle.            Where the term
   cycloalkyl is qualified by a specific characterization, such as monocyclic, fused polycyclic,
   bridged polycyclic, spirocyclic, and spiro polycyclic, then such term cycloalkyl refers only to
25 the carbocycle so characterized.      Illustrative examples of cycloalkyl groups include the
   following entities, in the form of properly bonded moieties:
                                                    10

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
            >, E          0, C,                     ,0,         0,    0, O0, 0 ,
                  CO CC, c                              , CO                  0C
                                                                                  and
                       ,c    ',
           A "heterocycloalkyl" refers to a monocyclic, or fused, bridged, or spiro polycyclic
   ring structure that is saturated or partially saturated and has from 3 to 12 ring atoms per ring
   structure selected from carbon atoms and up to three heteroatoms selected from nitrogen,
 5 oxygen, and sulfur. The ring structure may optionally contain up to two oxo groups on
   carbon or sulfur ring members. Illustrative entities, in the form of properly bonded moieties,
   include:
                                  H             H             H    HN
                                  N     0       NN                               N
             o   O   H           GOHO     SHS
               \3                  N ,    NH     , NH ,         ,    NH   ,  O ,
                                      H                  0     00       0     09
                                        O  il(S            NS       N     N
                  N                                                                   N~s%
                  HO            HO      HO        NNH                                     NH
           The term "heteroaryl" refers to a monocyclic, fused bicyclic, or fused polycyclic
10 aromatic heterocycle (ring structure having ring atoms selected from carbon atoms and up to
   four heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur) having from 3 to 12 ring atoms
   per heterocycle. Illustrative examples of heteroaryl groups include the following entities, in
   the form of properly bonded moieties:
                                                     11

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                                               N    H                                   H
                                                                                       N
                                              N   N
                                           N         N            N
                                                  N    N    and
           Those skilled in the art will recognize that the species of cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl,
   and heteroaryl groups listed or illustrated above are not exhaustive, and that additional
   species within the scope of these defined terms may also be selected.
 5         The term "halogen" represents chlorine, fluorine, bromine or iodine. The term "halo"
   represents chloro, fluoro, bromo or iodo.
           The term "heteroatom" used herein refers to, for example, 0 (oxygen), S (sulfur), or
   N (nitrogen).
           The term "substituted" means that the specified group or moiety bears one or more
10 substituents.  Where the term "substituted" is used to describe a structural system, unless
   specified otherwise, the substitution is meant to occur at any valency-allowed position on the
   system. The term "unsubstituted" means that the specified group bears no substituents. The
   term "optionally substituted" means that the specified group is unsubstituted or substituted
   with one or more additional substitutents individually and independently selected from the
15 group comprising: cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocycloalkyl, -CN, -OH, -NO2 , -SO 2 NH2 ,
   -CONH 2 , -CO 2 H, -COH, amino, -(C 1 _6 alkyl)amino, di(Csialkyl)amino,            -N3, cyanate,
   isocyanate, thiocyanate, isothiocyanate, aryloxy, and arylthio.       In cases where a specified
   moiety or group is not expressly noted as being optionally substituted or substituted with any
   specified substituent, it is understood that such a moiety or group is intended to be
20 unsubstituted.
                                               Formulas
           Any formula given herein is intended to represent compounds having structures
   depicted by the structural formula as well as certain variations or forms.           In particular,
                                                   12

    WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   compounds of any formula given herein may have asymmetric centers and therefore exist in
   different enantiomeric forms. All optical isomers and stereoisomers of the compounds of the
   general formula, and mixtures thereof, are considered within the scope of the formula. Thus,
   any formula given herein is intended to represent a racemate, one or more enantiomeric
 5 forms, one or more diastereomeric forms, one or more atropisomeric forms, and mixtures
   thereof. Furthermore, certain structures may exist as geometric isomers (i.e., cis and trans
   isomers), as tautomers, or as atropisomers.
           The symbols -       and -      are used as meaning the same spacial arrangement in
   chemical structures shown herein. Analogously, the symbols '''''' and "'I11 are used as
10 meaning the same spatial arrangement in chemical structures shown herein.
                                            Compounds
           As used herein, a "compound" refers to any one of: (a) the actually recited form of
   such compound; and (b) any of the forms of such compound in the medium in which the
   compound is being considered when named. For example, reference herein to a compound
15 such as R-COOH, encompasses reference to any one of, for example, R-COOH(s), R
   COOH(sol), and R-COO-(sol). In this example, R-COOH(s) refers to the solid compound, as
   it could be for example in a tablet or some other solid pharmaceutical composition or
   preparation; R-COOH(sol) refers to the undissociated form of the compound in a solvent; and
   R-COO-(sol) refers to the dissociated form of the compound in a solvent, such as the
20 dissociated form of the compound in an aqueous environment, whether such dissociated form
   derives from R-COOH, from a salt thereof, or from any other entity that yields R-COO- upon
   dissociation in the medium being considered.
           As used herein, the term "chemical entity" collectively refers to a compound, along
   with the derivatives of the compound, including salts, chelates, solvates, conformers, non
25 covalent complexes, metabolites, and prodrugs.
           In one aspect the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of
   compounds of Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula
   (I),  pharmaceutically    acceptable   prodrugs   of compounds       of Formula     (I), and
   pharmaceutically acceptable metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).            In a specific
30 aspect, the chemical entity is a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt.
                                                13

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
            In another example, an expression such as "exposing an entity to a compound of
   formula R-COOH" refers to the exposure of such entity to the form, or forms, of the
   compound R-COOH that exists, or exist, in the medium in which such exposure takes place.
   In still another example, an expression such as "reacting an entity with a compound of
 5 formula R-COOH" refers to the reacting of (a) such entity in the chemically relevant form, or
   forms, of such entity that exists, or exist, in the medium in which such reacting takes place,
   with (b) the chemically relevant form, or forms, of the compound R-COOH that exists, or
   exist, in the medium in which such reacting takes place. In this regard, if such entity is for
   example in an aqueous environment, it is understood that the compound R-COOH is in such
10 same medium, and therefore the entity is being exposed to species such as R-COOH(aq)
   and/or R-COO-(aq), where the subscript "(aq)" stands for "aqueous" according to its
   conventional meaning in chemistry and biochemistry. A carboxylic acid functional group has
   been chosen in these nomenclature examples; this choice is not intended, however, as a
   limitation but it is merely an illustration. It is understood that analogous examples can be
15 provided in terms of other functional groups, including but not limited to hydroxyl, basic
   nitrogen members, such as those in amines, and any other group that interacts or transforms
   according to known manners in the medium that contains the compound. Such interactions
   and transformations include, but are not limited to, dissociation, association, tautomerism,
   solvolysis,    including  hydrolysis,    solvation,  including  hydration,   protonation   and
20 deprotonation.     No further examples in this regard are provided herein because these
   interactions and transformations in a given medium are known by any one of ordinary skill in
   the art.
            In another example, a "zwitterionic" compound is encompassed herein by referring to
   a compound that is known to form a zwitterion, even if it is not explicitly named in its
25 zwitterionic form. Terms such as zwitterion, zwitterions, and their synonyms zwitterionic
   compound(s) are standard IUPAC-endorsed names that are well known and part of standard
   sets of defined scientific names. In this regard, the name zwitterion is assigned the name
   identification CHEBI:27369 by the Chemical Entities of Biological Interest (ChEBI)
   dictionary of molecular entities. As is generally well known, a zwitterion or zwitterionic
30 compound is a neutral compound that has formal unit charges of opposite sign. Sometimes
   these compounds are referred to by the term "inner salts".        Other sources refer to these
   compounds as "dipolar ions", although the latter term is regarded by still other sources as a
   misnomer.     As a specific example, aminoethanoic acid (the amino acid glycine) has the
                                                   14

    WO 2013/192229                                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   formula H2NCH 2COOH, and it exists in some media (in this case in neutral media) in the
   form of the zwitterion +H 3NCH 2 COO-. Zwitterions, zwitterionic compounds, inner salts, and
   dipolar ions in the known and well established meanings of these terms are within the scope
   of this invention, as would in any case be so appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.
 5 Because there is no need to name each and every embodiment that would be recognized by
   those of ordinary skill in the art, no structures of the zwitterionic compounds that are
   associated with the compounds of this invention are given explicitly herein.                              They are,
   however, part of the embodiments of this invention. No further examples in this regard are
   provided herein because the interactions and transformations in a given medium that lead to
10 the various forms of a given compound are known by any one of ordinary skill in the art.
             Isotopes may be present in the compounds described. Each chemical element present
   in a compound either specifically or generically described herein may include any isotope of
   said element.      Any formula given herein is also intended to represent isotopically labeled
   forms of the compounds.             Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the
15 formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a
   selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into
   compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen,
   phosphorus, sulfur, fluorine, chlorine, and iodine, such as             2H, 3H,    "C,  1C, 4C, 1N,         is0, "0,
   3P, 3P,      5S, "F, 36Cl, and 1I.
20           When referring to any formula given herein, the selection of a particular moiety from
   a list of possible species for a specified variable is not intended to define the same choice of
   the species for the variable appearing elsewhere.               In other words, where a variable appears
   more than once, the choice of the species from a specified list is independent of the choice of
   species for the same variable elsewhere in the formula, unless otherwise stated.
25           By way of a first example on substituent terminology, if substituent                 Slexampie    is one of
   Si and S2, and substituent S2example is one of S3 and S 4 , then these assignments refer to
   embodiments of this invention given according to the choices                Slexampie   is Si and   S 2 exampie is S3 ;
                                                                    2                                         2
   Slexampie  is S 1 and    2
                           S exampie is S4 ; Slexampie is S 2 and S exampie is S 3 ; Slexampie is S 2 and    S exampie is
   S 4 ; and equivalents of each one of such choices. The shorter terminology "Slexampie is one of
                        2
30 Si and S 2 and "S      exampie is one of S 3 and S 4 is accordingly used herein for the sake of brevity
   but not by way of limitation. The foregoing first example on substituent terminology, which
   is stated in generic terms, is meant to illustrate the various substituent assignments described
                                                            15

    WO 2013/192229                                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   herein. The foregoing convention given herein for substituents extends, when applicable, to
                                3      4    10     11    12   13
   members such as R 1, R , R4, R , R , R , R , M, Y and Z and any other generic substituent
   symbol used herein.
            Furthermore, when more than one assignment is given for any member or substituent,
 5 embodiments of this invention comprise the various groupings that can be made from the
   listed assignments, taken independently, and equivalents thereof.                        By way of a second
   example on substituent terminology, if it is herein described that substituent                  Sexampie  is one of
   Si, S2 and S 3 , the listing refers to embodiments of this invention for which                     Sexampie    is Si;
   Sexample is S 2 ; Sexample is S 3 ;  Sexample  is one of Si and S 2 ;   Sexample is one of Si and S 3 ;  Sexample  is
10 one of S 2 and S 3 ; Sexample is one of Si, S 2 and S 3 ; and        Sexample is any equivalent of each one of
   these choices. The shorter terminology                "Sexample is one of Si, S 2 and S 3 " is accordingly used
   herein for the sake of brevity, but not by way of limitation. The foregoing second example
   on substituent terminology, which is stated in generic terms, is meant to illustrate the various
   substituent assignments described herein.                     The foregoing convention given herein for
15 substituents extends, when applicable, to members such as R1, R 3, R4, R , R", R                      ,  R   , M, Y
   and Z and any other generic substituent symbol used herein.
            The nomenclature "Ci-j" with              j > i, when applied     herein to a class of substituents, is
   meant to refer to embodiments of this invention for which each and every one of the number
   of carbon members, from i to               j  including i and     j, is independently realized. By way of
20 example, the term C1 _3 refers independently to embodiments that have one carbon member
   (CI), embodiments that have two carbon members (C2 ), and embodiments that have three
   carbon members (C 3 ).
            The term Cn-malkyl refers to an aliphatic chain, whether straight or branched, with the
   total number N of carbon members in the chain that satisfies n< N< m, with m > n.
25          Any disubstituent referred to herein is meant to encompass the various attachment
   possibilities when more than one of such possibilities are allowed. For example, reference to
   disubstituent -A-B-, where A # B, refers herein to such disubstituent with A attached to a first
   substituted member and B attached to a second substituted member, and it also refers to such
   disubstituent with A attached to the second member and B attached to the first substituted
30 member.
            According to the foregoing interpretive considerations                          on assignments          and
   nomenclature, it is understood that explicit reference herein to a set implies, where
                                                              16

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   chemically     meaningful    and unless     indicated  otherwise,  independent    reference   to
   embodiments of such set, and reference to each and every one of the possible embodiments of
   subsets of the set referred to explicitly.
            The term "prodrug" means a precursor of a designated compound that, following
 5 administration to a subject, yields the compound in vivo via a chemical or physiological
   process such as solvolysis or enzymatic cleavage, or under physiological conditions (e.g., a
   prodrug on being brought to physiological pH is converted to the compound of Formula (I)).
            A "pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug" is a prodrug that is preferably non-toxic,
   biologically tolerable, and otherwise biologically suitable for administration to the subject.
10 Illustrative procedures for the selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are
   described, for example, in "Design of Prodrugs", ed. H. Bundgaard, Elsevier, 1985.
            A "metabolite" means a pharmacologically active product of metabolism in the body
   of a compound of Formula (I) or salt thereof. Preferably, the metabolite is in an isolated form
   outside the body.
15                                            Compositions
            The term "composition," as in pharmaceutical composition, is intended to encompass
   a product comprising the active ingredient(s), and the inert ingredient(s) (pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipients) that make up the carrier, as well as any product which results, directly
   or indirectly, from combination, complexation, or aggregation of any two or more of the
20 ingredients, or from dissociation of one or more of the ingredients, or from other types of
   reactions or interactions of one or more of the ingredients. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical
   compositions of the present invention encompass any composition made by admixing a
   compound of Formula (I) and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable," as used in connection with compositions of
25 the invention, refers to molecular entities and other ingredients of such compositions that are
   physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce untoward reactions when administered
   to an animal (e.g., human).        The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" may also mean
   approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S.
   Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals (e.g.
30 mammals), and more particularly in humans.
                                                   17

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
           A "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" refers to a substance that is non-toxic,
   biologically tolerable, and otherwise biologically suitable for administration to a subject, such
   as an inert substance, added to a pharmacological composition or otherwise used as a vehicle,
   carrier, or diluents to facilitate administration of an agent and that is compatible therewith.
 5 Examples of excipients include calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, various sugars and
   types of starch, cellulose derivatives, gelatin, vegetable oils, and polyethylene glycols.
   Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include those described in Remington: The Science and
   Practice of Pharmacy, 21st Ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (2005).
           A "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" is intended to mean a salt of a free acid or base
10 of a compound represented by Formula (I) that is non-toxic, biologically tolerable, or
   otherwise biologically suitable for administration to the subject.         See, generally, G.S.
   Paulekuhn et al., Trends in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Salt Selection based on
   Analysis of the Orange Book Database, J. Med. Chem. 2007, 50, 6665-6672; Berge et al.,
   Pharmaceutical     Salts, J. Pharm. Sci. 1977,        66, 1-19; Stahl     and Wermuth (eds),
15 Pharmaceutical Salts; Properties, Selection, and Use: 2nd Revised Edition, Wiley-VCS,
   Zurich, Switzerland (2011). Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are those that are
   pharmacologically effective and suitable for contact with the tissues of patients without
   undue toxicity, irritation, or allergic response. A compound of Formula (I) may possess a
   sufficiently acidic group, a sufficiently basic group, or both types of functional groups, and
20 accordingly react with a number of inorganic or organic bases, and inorganic and organic
   acids, to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt bases, and inorganic and organic acids, to
   form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
            The term "carrier" refers to an adjuvant, vehicle, or excipients, with which the
   compound is administered. In preferred embodiments of this invention, the carrier is a solid
25 carrier. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include those described in Remington: The Science
   and Practice of Pharmacy, 21st Ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (2005).
            The term "dosage form," as used herein, is the form in which the dose is to be
   administered to the subject or patient.      The drug is generally administered as part of a
   formulation that includes nonmedical agents.        The dosage form has unique physical and
30 pharmaceutical characteristics. Dosage forms, for example, may be solid, liquid or gaseous.
   "Dosage forms" may include for example, a capsule, tablet, caplet, gel caplet (gelcap), syrup,
   a liquid composition, a powder, a concentrated powder, a concentrated powder admixed with
                                                   18

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   a liquid, a chewable form, a swallowable form, a dissolvable form, an effervescent, a
   granulated form, and an oral liquid solution. In a specific embodiment, the dosage form is a
   solid dosage form, and more specifically, comprises a tablet or capsule.
           As used herein, the term "inert" refer to any inactive ingredient of a described
 5 composition. The definition of "inactive ingredient" as used herein follows that of the U.S.
   Food and Drug Administration, as defined in 21 C.F.R. 201.3(b)(8), which is any component
   of a drug product other than the active ingredient.
                                          Methods and Uses
          As used herein, the term "disorder" is used interchangeably with "disease" or
10 "condition". For example, a CNS disorder also means a CNS disease or a CNS condition.
          As used herein, the term "cognitive impairment" is used interchangeably with
   "cognitive dysfunction" or "cognitive deficit," all of which are deemed to cover the same
   therapeutic indications.
          The term "treat," as used herein, is interchangeable with "treatment" and "treating" and
15 includes:
          (i)    prevention of the disease, disorder, or condition, i.e., reducing the incidence of
                 and/or ameliorating the effect and/or duration of a disease, disorder, or
                 condition from occurring in subjects that may get, be exposed to and/or be
                 predisposed to the disease, disorder or condition, but may not yet have been
20               diagnosed as having it; or are diagnosed as having the disease, disease, or
                 condition; or are at risk of developing such disease, disorder, or condition;
          (ii)   inhibition of the disease, disorder, or condition, i.e., preventing or delaying the
                 onset of a disease, disorder, or condition; arresting further development or
                 progression of a disease, disorder, or condition in a subject already suffering
25               from or having one or more symptoms of the disease, disorder, or condition; or
                 reducing the risk of a disease, disorder, or condition worsening;
          (iii)  amelioration of the disease, disorder, or condition, i.e., attenuating, relieving,
                 reversing or eliminating the disease, disorder, or condition, or one or more of
                 symptoms thereof.
                                                   19

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
            As used in the present disclosure, the term "effective amount" is interchangeable with
   "therapeutically effective amount" and means an amount or dose of a compound or
   composition effective in treating the particular disease, condition, or disorder disclosed
   herein, and thus "treating" includes producing a desired preventative, inhibitory, relieving, or
 5 ameliorative effect.      In methods of treatment according to the invention, "an effective
   amount" of at least one compound according to the invention is administered to a subject
   (e.g., a mammal).
            The term "animal" is interchangeable with "subject" and may be a vertebrate, in
   particular, a mammal, and more particularly, a human, and includes a laboratory animal in the
10 context of a clinical trial or screening or activity experiment.        Thus, as can be readily
   understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, the compositions and methods of the present
   invention are particularly suited to administration to any vertebrate, particularly a mammal,
   and more particularly, a human.
            As used herein, a "control animal" or a "normal animal" is an animal that is of the
15 same species as, and otherwise comparable to (e.g., similar age, sex), the animal that is
   trained under conditions sufficient to induce transcription-dependent memory formation in
   that animal.
           By "enhance," "enhancing," or "enhancement" is meant the ability to potentiate,
   increase, improve or make greater or better, relative to normal, a biochemical or
20 physiological action or effect. For example, enhancing long term memory formation refers to
   the ability to potentiate or increase long term memory formation in an animal relative to the
   normal long term memory formation of the animal. As a result, long term memory acquisition
   is faster or better retained. Enhancing performance of a cognitive task refers to the ability to
   potentiate or improve performance of a specified cognitive task by an animal relative to the
25 normal performance of the cognitive task by the animal.
           As used herein, the term "training protocol," or "training," refers to either "cognitive
   training" or "motor training." The phrase "in conjunction" means that a compound or
   composition of the present invention enhances CREB pathway function during cognitive or
   motor training.
30         Reference will now be made to the embodiments of the present invention, examples of
   which are illustrated by and described in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and
   examples. While certain embodiments are described herein, it is understood that the
                                                  20

    WO 2013/192229                                                                      PCT/US2013/046415
   described embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. On the contrary,
   the present disclosure is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that
   can be included within the invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                                  COMPOUNDS
 5           In its many embodiments, the invention is directed to a chemical entity of Formula
   (I):
                                    0
         (R')M                              \
                                           N
                        R3          Z
                                 R4
                                      (1)
        wherein:
        Y and Z are each independently -CH- or -N-, with the proviso that at least one Y or Z
10           member is -N-;
        M is 0-5;
        R is each independently selected from H, halo, -CN, -C1_ 6 alkyl, -CI 6alkynyl -C1 _
             6haloalkyl,  -C1- 6thioalkyl, -C1- 6thiohaloalkyl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1- 6haloalkoxy, -SO 2C1 _
             6alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl; or
15      two R1 members are on adjacent carbons and taken together with the carbons to which
             they are attached form a 5-6 member saturated or unsaturated monocylic ring system
             comprising one or more oxygen or nitrogen atoms, wherein the ring system is
             optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo, -C1- 6 alkyl, -C1_
             6alkoxy,  and -C1-C 6haloalkoxy;
20      R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, halo, -CN,
             OH, -CI 6 alkyl, -CI 6haloalkyl, -CI-6 alkenyl, -CH 20-aryl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1_
                                                                              2 3
             6haloalkoxy,   -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)(CF 3), -(CR       4R") 0 _3NR R ,     aryl, heteroaryl,
             heterocycloalkyl, wherein each aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl is optionally
             unsubstituted or substituted with a member each independently selected from the
25           group consisting of -CH 3 and -OCH 3 ;
                                                        21

   WO 2013/192229                                                                    PCT/US2013/046415
       R10 and R" are each independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, halo, -C1_
            6 alkyl, -CI- 6haloalkyl, and -OH;
       R 12 and R13 are each independently selected from the group consisting of -H, -CI 6 alkyl,
            C0 2-benzyl, -CI-6 alkyl(aryl), -CI-6 alkyl(heterocycloalkyl), optionally unsubstituted or
 5          substituted aryl, -C3_6cycloalkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocycloalkyl;
       or R     and R13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an
            optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
            In some embodiments, the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of
   compounds of Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I),
10 pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I); and pharmaceutically
   active metabolites of compounds of Formula (I). In a particular aspect, the chemical entity is
   a compound, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, of Formula (I).
            In certain embodiments, of Formula (I), Y is -N-.
            In certain embodiments, of Formula (I), Z is -N-.
15          In certain embodiments, of Formula (I), Y and Z are -N-.
            Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where M is 1, 2, 3, 4,
   or 5.
            Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where M is 1, 2, 3 or 4.
            Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where M is 1, 2, or 3.
20          In certain embodiments, of Formula (I), M is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 and R 1 is each
                 independently H, -Br, -Cl, -F, -I, -CN, -C1_6 alkyl, -CI 6 alkynyl, -SCH 3, -OCF 3 ,
                 OCF2H, -CI 6 alkoxy, -SCF 3, -SO 2 CH 3 or 2-oxopyrrolidine or pyrazole.
            In certain embodiments of Formula (I), two R 1 members are on adjacent carbons and
                 taken together with the carbons to which they are attached form a fused 5-member
25               ring selected from 1-methyl- 1H-pyrazole or dioxolane.
            In some of these embodiments, M is 1, 2, 3, 4 and R1 is each independently H, -Cl, -F
            or -CI 6 alkoxy.
                                                     22

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
        Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where Y is -N-, R3 is
            selected from -H, -CH(OCH 3) 2, -CH 20-phenyl, or -(CR4R 1 ) 1_3NR R , where
            Ri4 and R" are each H, R      is H or -CI 6 alkyl, R13 is selected from phenyl, benzyl,
            (3-methyloxetan-3-yl)methyl, (tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)methyl or
 5          cyclopropyl(methyl).
        In some of these embodiments, R 4 is H or -CH 3 and R3 is -(CR4R 1 ) 1_3NR R.
        Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R3 is
            (CR 0 R")NR R , R         and R" are each independently H, -OH, or -CH 3 , and R12
            and R13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form a
10          heterocycloalkyl ring selected from morpholine, (2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholine,
            4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1-yl or isoindolin-2-yl.
                                                         1 11        12 13    10       1
        In some of these embodiments, R 3 is -(CR       4R    )1-2NR R , R and R" are each
            independently H, -OH, or -CH 3, and R and R are taken together with the
            nitrogen to which they are attached to form a heterocycloalkyl ring selected from
15          morpholine, (2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholine or 4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1
            yl.
        In certain embodiments, of Formula (I), R3 is H or -CH 3 and R4 is -(CRR")1_
                 12  13
            3NRR.
        In certain embodiments, of Formula (I), R 3 is -H, -CH 3, R 4 is H, -Br, -CI 6 alkyl, -C1 _
20          6alkenyl,   -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)CF 3, -CH 2 0CH2 0CH3 , optionally substituted
                                                                      11
                                                                     10        12  13   10    1
            phenyl, optionally substituted pyridyl, and -(CR       4R") 1_3NR     R , R and R" are
            each independently H, -CH 3, or -OH, and R and R             are each independently -H,
            C1-6 alkyl, -C0 2-benzyl, -CH(CH 3)phenyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, and
            optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
25      In some of these embodiments, R3 is -H, -CH 3, R4 is -(CR 0 R") 1_3NR 12 R 13 , R10 and
            R" are each independently -H, -F, -CH 3, -CF 3, or -OH, and R and R are taken
            together with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form a heterocycloalkyl
            ring selected from (2R,5R)-2,5-dimethylmorpholine, (2R,6S)-2,6
            dimethylmorpholine, (2S,5S)-2,5-dimethylmorpholine, (2S,6R)-2,6
30          dimethylmorpholine, (3S,5R)- 2-methoxyethyl)piperazine, (4-((tetrahydrofuran-3
                                                23

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                yl)methyl)piperazine), 1,4-oxazepane, 1-methyl-8-oxa-1,2-diazaspiro[4.5]decane,
                2,2-dimethylmorpholine, 2,5-dimethylmorpholine, 2-ethylmorpholine, 2
                methylmorpholine, 2-oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane, 3
                (dimethylamino)pyrrolidine, 3,3-dimethylmorpholine, 3,5-dimethylpiperazine, 3
 5              hydroxyazetidine, 3-methyl-6-oxopyridazin-1(6H)-yl, 3-methylmorpholine, 4
                (2,2,2-trifluoroacetyl)piperazine, 4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazine, 4-(propan-2
                yl)piperazine, 4-(tetrahydrofuran-3-carbonyl)piperazine, 4-acetyl-1,4-diazepane,
                4-cyclopropylpiperazine, 4-methoxypiperidine, 4-methyl-1,4-diazepane, 4
                methyl-piperazine, 8-oxa-3-azabicyclo[3.2.1 ]octane, isoindoline, morpholine,
10              N,N-dimethylpiperazine- 1-sulfonamide, piperazine, piperidine, tetrahydro- 1H
                oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazin-3(5H)-one, and thiomorpholine.
            In    some       of  these     embodiments,     R4     is     morpholinomethyl,       (3
                methylmorpholino)methyl,         (2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl,       ((2S,6R)-2,6
                dimethylmorpholino)methyl,       ((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholin-4-yl)methyl,      (4
15              (methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl,        1-hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl,        2
                ((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)-1-hydroxyethyl, and R3 is H or -CH 3.
            Further embodiments        are provided by pharmaceutically       acceptable    salts  of
   compounds of Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula
   (I), and pharmaceutically active metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
20          In certain embodiments, a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, of
   Formula (I), is selected from the group consisting of:
    Example #       Compound Name
    1               9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
                    5(6H)-one;
    2                8-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
                    5(6H)-one;
    3                8-(Dimethoxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
                    c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                    24

WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
4            9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pteridin-5 (6H)-one;
   5         9-(3 ,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
             el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)pyrido[3 ,2
   6        ~el[1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   7         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)pyrido[3 ,2
             el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   86-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(3 -methyl-6-oxopyridazin- 1(6H)-yl)pyrido[3 ,2
   8          ~el[1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9         9-(4-Cyclopropylpiperazin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
             el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   109-(((           1S,2 S)-2-Aminocyclohexyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   10        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   I I       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl( 1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)amino)
   11[         1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   12        9-((2-(Dimethylamino)ethyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)
   12[         1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   13        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin- 1-yl)pyrido [3,2
   13e]         [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   14        9-(3 -(Dimethylamino)pyrrolidin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   14e]         [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   15        9-(4-(Dimethylamino)piperidin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   15e]         [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
16           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4
             yl)amino)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 25

WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
   17        9-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   17        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
18           9-((3-(Dimethylamino)propyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   196-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)pyrido [3,2
   19        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   20        Benzyl (2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3 ,2
   20        e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethyl)carbamate;
   216-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5
   21        c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   226-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido [3,2
   22        e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   23        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido [3,2
   23        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   246-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   24        c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   256-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   25        c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   26        6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   26        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   279-(2-Aminoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   27        c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
28           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4
             yl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   296-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-(( 1-phenylethyl)amino)ethyl)pyrido [3,2
   29        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                26

WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
   306-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin
   30        5(6H)-one;
   31        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methoxymethoxy)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   31        e][l,2,4]triazolo[l,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   329-(          1-Ethoxyvinyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5
   32        c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   339-(Hydroxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5
             c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
34           9-(2-Oxa-5-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-5 -ylmethyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   35        9-((Dimethylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
36           9-(((2 S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   376-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   389-((3          ,3 -Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   38        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   39        9-((2,2-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   40        9-((2-Ethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   40        e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   41        9-((2,5 -Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   41        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   42        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2,2,6,6-tetrafluoromorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   42        e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
                                                27

WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
   439-(8-Oxa-3 -azabicyclo [3.2.1 ]octan-3 -ylmethyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   446-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(( 1-methyl-8-oxa- 1,2-diazaspiro [4.5 ]decan-2
             yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   45        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
             e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   46        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((3 -methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   46        e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   47        9-(((2 S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)
             [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pteridin-5 (6H)-one;
   486-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methyl- 1,4-diazepan- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   48        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   499-((          1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
             e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   509-((4-Acetyl- 1,4-diazepan- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   50        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   51        9-((Cyclohexyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   51        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   526-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   52        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
53           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4
             yl)amino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
54           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin- 1
             yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-el [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   55        9-((Isopropyl(2-methoxyethyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
                                                28

WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
   566-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-methylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[2,3
   56        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   576-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3 -e [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5
             c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   586-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido [2,3
   58        e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   59        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido [2,3
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
60           8-(((2 S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3 -e [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
             6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2
61           methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5
             c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   627-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5 ,6-dihydropyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   62        c]pyrimidin-9-yl)methyl)tetrahydro- 1H-oxazolo[3 ,4-a]pyrazin-3 (5H)-one;
   63        9-(((2S,5 S)-2,5 -Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
   63         ~methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
64           9-(((2R,5R)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   656-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperazin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido [3,2
   65        el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
66           9-(((3 S,5R)-3 ,5 -Dimethylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   67        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-((tetrahydrofuran-3 -yl)methyl)piperazin- 1
   67        yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
68           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1
             yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                29

WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
69           4-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
             c]pyrimidin-9-yl)methyl)-N,N-dimethylpiperazine- 1-sulfonamide;
70           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2,2,2-trifluoroacetyl)piperazin- 1
             yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                                                  1
71           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(tetrahydrofuran-3 -carbonyl)piperazin-
             yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
72           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5
             c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
73           8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
             6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((((3-methyloxetan-3
74           yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)
             one;
             6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((methyl((tetrahydrofuran-3
75           yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)
             one;
76           8-((Cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
77           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1
             yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
78           8-((Benzylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
79           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((phenylamino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
80           8-(Isoindolin-2-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
81           9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
                                              30

WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
82           9-(1-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)ethyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
83           9-(1-Hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
84           9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)- 1-hydroxyethyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
85           9-(1 -Fluoro-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
86           9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)- 1-fluoroethyl)-6-(4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
87           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-hydroxyethyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
88           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-morpholinoethyl)pyrido[3,2
             e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
89           (trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
90           9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3
             methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
91           9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
92           9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 -fluoro-4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
93           9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(3 -bromo-4-Fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
94           dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
                                             31

WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
95           4-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile;
             6-(4-(tert-Butyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
96           dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
97           3-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile;
             9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
98           (methylsulfonyl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
             one;
99           9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2
             methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
100          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3-iodobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
101          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2-Bromo-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
102          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2,6-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
103          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
104          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-((1-methyl-iH-indazol-6
             yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(4-(1H-Pyrazol-1-yl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
105          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
106          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,5-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
107          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
                                            32

WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
             6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
108          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2
109          ((trifluoromethyl)thio)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3-Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
110          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,4-Dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
111          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2-Chloro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
112          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
113          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(4-Chloro-3-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
114          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3-Chloro-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
115          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
116          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(2-oxopyrrolidin-1
             yl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
117          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             ethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
118          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
119          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             (methylthio)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(2-Chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
120          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
                                            33

WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
121          6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(phenoxymethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
             c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
122          6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-isopropylpiperazin-1
             yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
123          6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
124          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,4,5
             trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
125          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             isopropylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
126          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
127          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-3,5
             difluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
128          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
             ethynylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
129          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-iodobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
130          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3-Chloro-5-fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
131          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
132          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxy-3
             methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
133          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                            34

WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
             6-(2,5 -Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
134          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
135          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
136          (trifluoromethyl)benzyl)pyrido [3,2-el [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
             one;
137          9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3
             methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
138          9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4
             methylbenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(2-Chloro-4,5-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
139          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5 (6H)-one;
             6-(3 -Chloro-2,4-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
140          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin
             5 (6H)-one;
    1419-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 ,4,5
    141      trimethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(2,4-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
142          Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin
             5 (6H)-one;
             6-(2,4-Dichloro-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
143          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -cipyrimidin
             5 (6H)-one;
             6-(2-Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
144          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin
             5 (6H)-one;
             6-(4-Chloro-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
145          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin
             5 (6H)-one;
    1469-(((2 S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3 ,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
    146      methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
                                            35

WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
Example #    Compound Name
             6-(4-Chloro-2,6-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
147          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
148          9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3,5
             dimethylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
149          9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,4
             trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(2,3-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
150          Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
151          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(4-Chloro-3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
152          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,5-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
153          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(3-Chloro-4-ethoxy-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
154          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
155          9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-2,3
             difluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
156          9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3,4,5
             trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
157          6-Benzyl-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
             e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
             6-(3,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
158          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
             6-(2,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
159          dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
             5(6H)-one;
                                            36

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
   Example #      Compound Name
    160           9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
                  methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                  6-(Benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5-ylmethyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
    161           dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
                  5(6H)-one;
    162           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin
                  5(6H)-one;
    163           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
                  c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
    164           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin
                  5(6H)-one;
    165           6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)
                  [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
    166           9-((4-Acetylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)- [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5
                  c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
    167           9-((1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(2,3 -difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
                  e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                  6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3
    168           methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pyrimidin
                  5(6H)-one; and
                                                                                 1
    169           6-(2,3 -Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3 -hydroxyazetidin-
                  yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                                 Isotopically-Labeled Compounds
          The invention also includes isotopically-labeled compounds, which are identical to
  those recited in Formula I, but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom
5 having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number
  usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of
  the invention include isotopes of carbon, chlorine, fluorine, hydrogen, iodine, nitrogen,
                                                  37

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   oxygen, phosphorous, sulfur, and technetium, including "C,        13
                                                                        C, 1C, 36Cl, iF, 2H,   H, m,
     5, 1N, "N,      0,   0, is0, 3P, 3P, 3S, and 99mTc.
            Compounds of the present invention (and derivatives of such compounds, such as
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs) that contain the aforementioned isotopes or
 5 other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of the invention.          Isotopically-labeled
   compounds of the present invention are useful in drug and substrate tissue distribution and
   target occupancy assays. For example, isotopically labeled compounds are particularly useful
   in SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) and in PET (positron emission
   tomography), as discussed further herein.
10                                              Derivatives
            The present invention also provides derivatives of a chemical entity of Formula (I),
   which     include, but are not limited to,         a salt, solvate, conformer or crystalline
   form/polymorph.        In a specific aspect, the derivative of a chemical entity is a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of Formula (I).
15                                                 Salts
           Accordingly, in one embodiment the invention includes pharmaceutically acceptable
   salts of the compounds represented by Formula (I), and methods using such salts.
            Examples of pharmaceutically         acceptable  salts include sulfates, pyrosulfates,
   bisulfates, sulfites, bisulfites, phosphates, monohydrogen-phosphates, dihydrogenphosphates,
20 metaphosphates,       pyrophosphates, chlorides, bromides, iodides, acetates, borate, nitrate,
   propionates, decanoates, caprylates, acrylates, formates, isobutyrates, caproates, heptanoates,
   propiolates, oxalates, malonates, succinates, suberates, sebacates, fumarates, maleates,
   butyne-1,4-dioates,      hexyne-1,6-dioates,   benzoates,   chlorobenzoates,      methylbenzoates,
   dinitrobenzoates,       hydroxybenzoates,       methoxybenzoates,       phthalates,     sulfonates,
25 xylenesulfonates, phenylacetates, phenylpropionates, phenylbutyrates, citrates, lactates, y
   hydroxybutyrates, glycolates, tartrates, methane-sulfonates, propanesulfonates, naphthalene
    1-sulfonates, naphthalene-2-sulfonates, besylate, mesylate and mandelates.
            When the compound of Formula (I) contains a basic nitrogen, the desired
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art,
30 for example, treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid, such as hydrochloric acid,
   hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, sulfamic acid, nitric acid, boric acid, phosphoric acid, and
                                                   38

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   the like, or with an organic acid, such as acetic acid, phenylacetic acid, propionic acid, stearic
   acid, lactic acid, ascorbic acid, maleic acid, hydroxymaleic      acid, isethionic acid, succinic
   acid, valeric acid, fumaric acid, malonic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, glycolic acid,
   salicylic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, lauric acid, a pyranosidyl acid, such as glucuronic
 5 acid or galacturonic acid, an alpha-hydroxy acid, such as mandelic acid, citric acid, or tartaric
   acid, an amino acid, such as aspartic acid, glutaric acid or glutamic acid, an aromatic acid,
   such as benzoic acid, 2- acetoxybenzoic acid, naphthoic acid, or cinnamic acid, a sulfonic
   acid, such as laurylsulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic
   acid, any compatible mixture of acids such as those given as examples herein, and any other
10 acid and mixture thereof that are regarded as equivalents or acceptable substitutes in light of
   the ordinary level of skill in this technology.
            When the compound of Formula (I) is an acid, such as a carboxylic acid or sulfonic
   acid, the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method,
   for example, treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base, such as an amine
15 (primary, secondary or tertiary), an alkali metal hydroxide, alkaline earth metal hydroxide,
   any compatible mixture of bases such as those given as examples herein, and any other base
   and mixture thereof that are regarded as equivalents or acceptable substitutes in light of the
   ordinary level of skill in this technology.      Illustrative examples of suitable salts include
   organic salts derived from amino acids, such as N-methyl-O-glucamine, lysine, choline,
20 glycine and arginine, ammonia, carbonates, bicarbonates, primary, secondary, and tertiary
   amines, and cyclic amines, such as tromethamine, benzylamines, pyrrolidines, piperidine,
   morpholine, and piperazine, and inorganic salts derived from sodium, calcium, potassium,
   magnesium, manganese, iron, copper, zinc, aluminum, and lithium.
                                                Solvates
25          In other embodiments, the invention provides a solvate of a compound of Formula (I),
   and the use of such solvates in methods of present invention. Certain compounds of Formula
   (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I) may be obtained as
   solvates. In some embodiments, the solvent is water and the solvates are hydrates.
            More particularly, solvates include those formed from the interaction or complexes of
30 compounds of the invention with one or more solvents, either in solution or as a solid or
   crystalline form. Such solvent molecules are those commonly used in the pharmaceutical art,
   which are known to be innocuous to the recipient, e.g., water, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and
                                                   39

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   the like. Other solvents may be used as intermediate solvates in the preparation of more
   desirable solvates, such as MeOH, methyl t-butyl ether, EtOAc, (S)-propylene glycol, (R)
   propylene glycol, 1,4-butyne-diol, and the like. Hydrates include compounds formed by an
   incorporation of one or more water molecules.
 5                         Conformers and Crystalline Forms/Polymorphs
            In other embodiments, the invention provides conformer and crystalline forms of a
   compound of Formula (I), and the use of these derivatives in methods of present invention. A
   conformer is a structure that is a conformational isomer. Conformational isomerism is the
   phenomenon of molecules with the same structural formula but different conformations
10 (conformers) of atoms about a rotating bond.
           A polymorph is a composition having the same chemical formula, but a different solid
   state or crystal structure. In certain embodiments of the invention, compounds of Formula (I)
   were obtained in crystalline form. In addition, certain crystalline forms of compounds of
   Formula (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I) may be
15 obtained as co-crystals.     In still other embodiments, compounds of Formula (I) may be
   obtained in one of several polymorphic forms, as a mixture of crystalline forms, as a
   polymorphic form, or as an amorphous form.
                                                Prodrugs
            The invention also relates to prodrugs of the compounds of Formula (I), and the use of
20 such pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs in methods of the present invention, particularly
   therapeutic methods. Exemplary prodrugs include compounds having an amino acid residue,
   or a polypeptide chain of two or more (e.g., two, three or four) amino acid residues,
   covalently joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino, hydroxy, or carboxylic acid
   group of a compound of Formula (I). Examples of amino acid residues include the twenty
25 naturally occurring amino acids, commonly designated by three letter symbols, as well as 4
   hydroxyproline, hydroxylysine,       demosine, isodemosine, 3-methylhistidine, norvalin, beta
   alanine, gamma-aminobutyric          acid, citrulline homocysteine, homoserine, ornithine and
   methionine sulfone.
           Additional types of prodrugs may be produced, for instance, by derivatizing free
30 carboxyl groups of structures of Formula (I) as amides or alkyl esters. Examples of amides
   include those derived from ammonia, primary C1_6 alkyl amines and secondary di(CI 6 alkyl)
                                                    40

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   amines.    Secondary amines include 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl ring
   moieties.    Examples of amides include those that are derived from ammonia, Ci 3 alkyl
   primary amines, and di(CI 2 alkyl)amines. Examples of esters of the invention include C1_
   6alkyl,  CI-6CyCloalkyl, phenyl, and phenyl(C1- 6 alkyl) esters. Preferred esters include methyl
 5 esters. Prodrugs may also be prepared by derivatizing free hydroxy groups using groups
   including      hemisuccinates,        phosphate      esters,     dimethylaminoacetates,      and
   phosphoryloxymethyloxycarbonyls, following procedures such as those outlined in Fleisher
   et al., Adv. DrugDelivery Rev. 1996, 19, 115-130.
            Carbamate derivatives of hydroxy and amino groups may also yield prodrugs.
10 Carbonate derivatives, sulfonate esters, and sulfate esters of hydroxy groups may also provide
   prodrugs. Derivatization of hydroxy groups as (acyloxy)methyl and (acyloxy)ethyl ethers,
   wherein the acyl group may be an alkyl ester, optionally substituted with one or more ether,
   amine, or carboxylic acid functionalities, or where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as
   described above, is also useful to yield prodrugs. Prodrugs of this type may be prepared as
15 described in Robinson et al., J. Med. Chem. 1996, 39, 10-18.           Free amines can also be
   derivatized as amides, sulfonamides or phosphonamides. All of these prodrug moieties may
   incorporate groups including ether, amine, and carboxylic acid functionalities.
            Prodrugs may be determined using routine techniques known or available in the art
   (e.g., Bundgard (ed.), 1985, Design of prodrugs, Elsevier; Krogsgaard-Larsen et al., (eds.),
20 1991, Design and Application of Prodrugs, Harwood Academic Publishers).
                                              Metabolites
            The present invention also relates to a metabolite of a compound of Formula (I), as
   defined herein, and salts thereof. The present invention further relates to the use of such
   metabolites, and salts thereof, in methods of present invention, including therapeutic
25 methods.
            Metabolites of a compound may be determined using routine techniques known or
   available in the art. For example, isolated metabolites can be enzymatically and synthetically
   produced (e.g., Bertolini et al., J. Med. Chem. 1997, 40, 2011-2016; Shan et al., J. Pharm.
   Sci. 1997, 86, 765-767; Bagshawe, Drug Dev. Res. 1995, 34, 220-230; and Bodor, Adv Drug
30 Res. 1984, 13, 224-23 1).
                                                  41

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                                           COMPOSITIONS
            In some embodiments compounds of Formula (I) and pharmaceutically acceptable
   salts thereof are used, alone or in combination with one or more additional active ingredients,
   to formulate pharmaceutical compositions.        A pharmaceutical composition of the invention
 5 comprises: (a) an effective amount of at least one active agent in accordance with the
   invention; and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                   Formulations and Administration
           Numerous standard references are available that describe procedures for preparing
   various formulations suitable for administering the compounds according to the invention.
10 Examples of potential formulations and preparations are contained, for example, in the
   Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients, American Pharmaceutical Association (current
   edition); Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms: Tablets (Lieberman, Lachman and Schwartz,
   editors) current edition, published by Marcel Dekker, Inc., as well as Remington's
   Pharmaceutical Sciences (Osol, ed.),1980, 1553-1593.
15         Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing an animal,
   especially a human, with an effective dosage of a compound of the present invention. For
   example, oral, rectal, topical, parenteral, ocular, pulmonary, nasal, and the like may be
   employed.      Dosage forms include tablets, troches, dispersions, suspensions, solutions,
   capsules, creams, ointments, aerosols, and the like.
20          Suitable carriers, diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and
   include materials such as carbohydrates, waxes, water soluble and/or swellable polymers,
   hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials, gelatin, oils, solvents, water, and the like.            The
   particular carrier, diluent, or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for
   which the compound of the present invention is being applied.            Solvents are generally
25 selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe (GRAS) to be
   administered to an animal. In general, safe solvents are non-toxic aqueous solvents such as
   water and other non-toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water.       Suitable aqueous
   solvents include water, ethanol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycols (e.g., PEG400,
   PEG300), etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers,
30 stabilizing agents, surfactants, wetting agents, lubricating agents, emulsifiers, suspending
   agents, preservatives, antioxidants, opaquing agents, glidants, processing aids, colorants,
                                                   42

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   sweeteners, perfuming agents, flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an
   elegant presentation of the drug (i.e., a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical
   composition thereof) or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product (i.e.,
   medicament).
 5          The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing
   procedures. For example, the bulk drug substance (i.e., a compound of the present invention
   or stabilized form of the compound (e.g., complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other
   known complexation agent)) is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more
   of the excipients described above.       The compound of the present invention is typically
10 formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable and
   appropriate dosage of the drug.
            The pharmaceutical composition (or formulation) for application may be packaged in
   a variety of ways, depending upon the method used to administer the drug. Generally, an
   article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical
15 formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well-known to those skilled in
   the art and include materials such as bottles (plastic and glass), sachets, ampoules, plastic
   bags, metal cylinders, and the like.        The container may also include a tamper-proof
   assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package.         In addition, the
   container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label
20 may also include appropriate warnings.
            The present compounds        may be systemically administered, e.g.,         orally,   in
   combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle such as an inert diluent or an
   assimilable edible carrier. They may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules, may
   be compressed into tablets, or may be incorporated directly with the food of the patient's diet.
25 For oral therapeutic administration, the active compound may be combined with one or more
   excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs,
   suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like. Such compositions and preparations should contain
   at least 0.1% of active compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may,
   of course, be varied and may conveniently be between about 2 to about 60% of the weight of
30 a given unit dosage form. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful
   compositions is such that an effective dosage level will be obtained.
                                                 43

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
           The tablets, troches, pills, capsules, and the like may also contain the following:
   binders such as gum tragacanth, acacia, corn starch or gelatin; excipients such as dicalcium
   phosphate; a disintegrating agent such as corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid and the like;
   a lubricant such as magnesium stearate; and a sweetening agent such as sucrose, fructose,
 5 lactose or aspartame or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, oil of wintergreen, or cherry
   flavoring may be added. When the unit dosage form is a capsule, it may contain, in addition
   to materials of the above type, a liquid carrier, such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene
   glycol.   Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the
   physical form of the solid unit dosage form. For instance, tablets, pills, or capsules may be
10 coated with gelatin, wax, shellac or sugar and the like. A syrup or elixir may contain the
   active compound, sucrose or fructose as a sweetening agent, methyl and propylparabens as
   preservatives, a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course, any material
   used in preparing any unit dosage form should be pharmaceutically              acceptable and
   substantially non-toxic in the amounts employed. In addition, the active compound may be
15 incorporated into sustained-release preparations and devices.
           The active compound may also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by
   infusion or injection. Solutions of the active compound or its salts can be prepared in water,
   optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol,
   liquid polyethylene glycols, triacetin, and mixtures thereof and in oils.      Under ordinary
20 conditions of storage and use, these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth
   of microorganisms.
           The pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile
   aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising the active ingredient which
   are adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or
25 dispersions, optionally encapsulated in liposomes.     In all cases, the ultimate dosage form
   should be sterile, fluid, and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage.        The
   liquid carrier or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising, for
   example, water, ethanol, a polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene              glycol,  liquid
   polyethylene glycols, and the like), vegetable oils, nontoxic glyceryl esters, and suitable
30 mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the formation of
   liposomes, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions or by
   the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about
   by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol,
                                                 44

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic
   agents, for example, sugars, buffers or sodium chloride.          Prolonged absorption of the
   injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents
   delaying absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
 5          Sterile injectable solutions are typically prepared by incorporating the active
   compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with a variety of the other
   ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filter sterilization. In the case of
   sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, common methods of
   preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying techniques, which yield a powder of the
10 active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient present in the previously sterile
   filtered solutions.
            For topical administration, the present compounds may be applied in pure form, i.e.,
   when they are liquids. However, it will generally be desirable to administer them to the skin
   as compositions or formulations, in combination with a dermatologically acceptable carrier,
15 which may be a solid or a liquid.
           Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc, clay, microcrystalline
   cellulose, silica, alumina, and the like. Useful liquid carriers include water, alcohols or
   glycols or water-alcohol/glycol blends, in which the present compounds can be dissolved or
   dispersed at effective levels, optionally with the aid of non-toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such
20 as fragrances and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for
   a given use. The resultant liquid compositions can be applied from absorbent pads, used to
   impregnate bandages and other dressings, or sprayed onto the affected area using pump-type
   or aerosol sprayers.
            Thickeners such as synthetic polymers, fatty acids, fatty acid salts and esters, fatty
25 alcohols, modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid
   carriers to form spreadable pastes, gels, ointments, soaps, and the like, for application directly
   to the skin of the user.
                                                 Dosages
           Useful dosages of the compounds of Formula (I) can be determined by comparing
30 their in vitro activity and in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of
   effective dosages in mice, and other animals, to humans are known to the art. Useful dosages
                                                    45

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   of the compounds of formula I can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity, and in
   vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice,
   and other animals, to humans are known to the art (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,938,949).
           Optimal dosages to be administered in the therapeutic methods of the present
 5 invention may be determined by those skilled in the art and will depend on multiple factors,
   including the particular composition in use, the strength of the preparation, the mode and time
   of administration, and the advancement of the disease or condition. Additional factors may
   include characteristics on the subject being treated, such as age, weight, gender, and diet.
           In general, however, a suitable dose will be in the range of from about 0.01 to about
10  100 mg/kg, more specifically from about 0.1 to about 100 mg/kg, such as 10 to about 75
   mg/kg of body weight per day, 3 to about 50 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient
   per day, 0.5 to 90 mg/kg/day, or 1 to 60 mg/kg/day (or any other value or range of values
   therein). The compound is conveniently administered in a unit dosage form; for example,
   containing about 1 to 1000 mg, particularly about 10 to 750 mg, and more particularly, about
15 50 to 500 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form.
           Preferably, the active ingredient should be administered to achieve peak plasma
   concentrations of the active compound of from about 0.5 to about 75 pM, preferably, about 1
   to 50 pM, and more preferably, about 2 to about 30 pM. This may be achieved, for example,
   by the intravenous injection of a 0.05 to 5% solution of the active ingredient, optionally in
20 saline, or orally administered as a bolus containing about 1 to 100 mg of the active ingredient.
   Desirable blood levels may be maintained by continuous infusion to provide about 0.01 to 5.0
   mg/kg/hr or by intermittent infusions containing about 0.4 to 15 mg/kg of the active
   ingredient(s).
           The desired dose may conveniently be presented in a single dose or as divided doses
25 administered at appropriate intervals, for example, as two, three, four or more sub-doses per
   day. The sub-dose itself may be further divided, e.g., into a number of temporally-distinct
   administrations used according to the compositions and methods of the present invention.
           Effective amounts or doses of the active agents of the present invention may be
   ascertained by routine methods such as modeling, dose escalation studies or clinical trials,
30 and by taking into consideration routine factors, e.g., the mode or route of administration or
   drug delivery, the pharmacokinetics of the agent, the severity and course of the disease,
   disorder, or condition, the subject's previous or ongoing therapy, the subject's health status
                                                  46

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   and response to drugs, and the judgment of the treating physician. Such compositions and
   preparations should contain at least 0.1% of active compound.           The percentage of the
   compositions and preparations may, of course, be varied and may conveniently be between 2
   to about 60% of the weight of a given unit dosage form. The amount of active compound in
 5 such therapeutically useful composition is such that an effective dosage level will be
   obtained. An exemplary dose is in the range of from about 0.001 to about 200 mg of active
   agent per kg of subject's body weight per day, preferably about 0.05 to 100 mg/kg/day, or
   about 1 to 35 mg/kg/day, or about 0.1 to 10 mg/kg/daily in single or divided dosage units
   (e.g., BID, TID, QID). For a 70-kg human, an illustrative range for a suitable dosage amount
10 is from 1 to 200 mg/day, or about 5 to 50 mg/day.
                                           Methods and Uses
                              Uses of Isotopically-Labeled Compounds
            In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of using isotopically labeled
   compounds and prodrugs of the present invention in: (i) metabolic studies (preferably with
15 1C),   reaction kinetic studies (with, for example    2H    or 3H); (ii) detection or imaging
   techniques    [such as positron emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission
   computed tomography (SPECT)] including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays; or (iii)
   in radioactive treatment of patients.
            Isotopically labeled compounds and prodrugs of the invention thereof can generally
20 be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and
   preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent
   for a non-isotopically labeled reagent. An 1'F or "C labeled compound may be particularly
   preferred for PET, and an    1123 labeled compound may be particularly preferred for SPECT
   studies. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium (i.e., 2H) may afford
25 certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example
   increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements.
                                         Therapeutic Methods
                                              Generally
           The present invention provides methods of treating a disease, condition, or disorder in
30 an animal by inhibiting PDE1, and more specifically, PDElB. The methods generally
   comprise the step of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the
                                                  47

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   present invention, or a pharmaceutically salt thereof, to a patient in need thereof to treat the
   disorder or disease. In certain embodiments, the present invention provides a use of a
   compound as described herein in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease,
   condition, or disorder by inhibiting PDEl, and PDElB specifically.
 5        PDEl-related indications that can be treated by compounds and compositions of the
   present invention include, but are not limited to, nervous system disorders, cardiovascular
   disorders, metabolic diseases, gastrointestinal and liver diseases, cancer disorders,
   hematological disorders, pulmonary and vascular diseases, neurological disorders and
   urological disorders.
10         PDEl-related indications also encompass diseases (e.g., Parkinson's disease or
   cocaine addiction) that include aberrant or dysregulated signaling pathways mediated by
   PDEl (e.g., Parkinson's disease or cocaine addiction), and more specifically, PDElB. Such
   PDE 1-related signaling pathways, preferably in the nervous system, include, but are not
   limited to, those involving nitric oxide, natriuretic peptides (e.g., ANP, BNP, CNP),
15 dopamine, noradrenalin, neurotensin, cholecystokinin (CCK), vasoactive intestinal peptide
   (VIP), serotonin, glutamate (e.g., NMDA receptor, AMPA receptor), GABA, acetylcholine,
   adenosine (e.g., A2A receptor), cannabinoids, natriuretic peptides (e.g., ANP, BNP, CNP),
   and endorphins. Accordingly, compounds of the present invention are useful in treating
   disorders that include an aberrant or dysregulated signaling pathway mediated by PDE 1, and
20 specifically, PDElB. In a specific aspect, they are useful in treating disorders characterized
   by alterations in dopamine signaling. See, e.g., Nishi and Snyder, 2010, J Pharmacol. Sci.114,
   6-16.
                                            CNS Disorders
           The present invention includes the use of a compound or composition herein in a
25 method of treating a CNS disorder, comprising administration of an effective amount of the
   compound or composition to a patient in need thereof. More specifically, a compound or
   composition of the present invention can be used in a method to treat a cognitive impairment
   associated with a CNS disorder.
           CNS disorders within the scope of the present invention include, but are not limited
30 to, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, attention deficit disorder
   (ADD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), neurodegenerative disorders,
                                                   48

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   Tourette's syndrome, tic disorders, Lesch-Nyan disease, pain, dystonias, substance or drug
   abuse, fetal alcohol syndrome, schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, depression, affective
   disorder, manic-depressive disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, eating disorder, panic
   disorder, anxiety disorder, migraine, myoclonus, premenstrual syndrome, post-traumatic
 5 stress syndrome, carcinoid syndrome, stroke, epilepsy, sleep or circadian rhythm disorder,
   sexual disorder, stress disorder, hypertension, and nervous system cancers.
           In specific embodiments, the CNS disorder is Huntington's disease, schizophrenia,
   Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, mild-cognitive impairment, and
   ADHD.
10         In other embodiments, the CNS disorder is substance or drug abuse, or fetal alcohol
   syndrome.
           In one aspect, the compounds of the present invention are useful in improving
   neuronal plasticity - an essential property of the brain that is impaired in numerous CNS
   disorders. By inhibiting PDEl activity, compounds of the present invention can enhance
15 levels of Ca2 and cAMP/cGMP, triggering a signaling cascade that ultimately activates
   transcription factors, including the cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB).
   CREB activation can then increase expression of neuronal plasticity-related genes,
   neurotrophic factors, and neuroprotective molecules - which in turn can promote the
   functional and morphological changes necessary for neuronal plasticity to occur. (See e.g.,
20 Tully et al., 2003, Nat. Rev. Drug. Discov. 2, 267-277; Alberini, 2009, Physiol. Rev. 89, 121
    145.
           More generally, cyclic nucleotide signaling pathways, including those involving
   PDEl, are critical regulators of neural function and plasticity, and alterations in these
   pathways have been implicated in various disorders of the brain. For example, In Alzheimer's
25 disease, there is evidence that accumulation of amyloid-p protein decreases CREB
   phosphorylation, resulting in cognitive deficits. Vitolo et al., 2002, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
   USA. 99, 13217-13221. Indeed, pharmacological methods to increase cAMP levels can
   restore neuronal plasticity and LTP in Alzheimer's models. Vitolo et al., 2002, Proc. Natl.
   Acad. Sci. USA. 99, 13217-1322 1. Similarly, intra-cellular signaling of dopamine D1 and
30 various serotonin receptors, which signal through cyclic nucleotides, is known to be defective
   in various disorders, including depression, schizophrenia and cognitive disorders. In
   addition, altered cAMP/cGMP levels are associated with Parkinson's disease, and PDElB
                                                  49

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   activity is increased in a Parkinson's model. Sancesario et al., 2004, Eur. J. Neurosci. 20,
   989-1000). Moreover, chronic elevation in calcium levels (which has been linked to cell
   death) is implicated in Alzheimer's disease, as well as other neurodegenerative diseases, such
   as Parkinson's and Huntington's. Because calcium signaling can regulate PDEl function,
 5 inhibitors of the present invention are useful in treating such disorders.
                                        Cognitive Impairments
            In certain embodiments, compounds and compositions of the present invention are
   used in methods for treating a cognitive impairment associated with a neurological disorder.
   For the purposes of the present invention, the term "cognitive impairment" is used
10 interchangeably with "cognitive disorder," "cognitive dysfunction," "cognitive deficit," and
   "cognitive disability" throughout this application, and all are deemed to cover similar
   therapeutic indications.
            In specific embodiments, the invention provides various methods relying on the use of
   compounds and compositions of the present invention to treat a cognitive deficit associated
15 with a CNS disorder, such as a cognitive impairment affecting memory formation. In another
   aspect, a compound or composition of the present invention is administered with a cognitive
   training protocol to treat a cognitive disorder.   In a specific aspect, the cognitive deficit is
   associated with a CNS disorder selected from one or more of the group comprising dementias
   and neurodegenerative disorders, progressive CNS diseases, psychiatric disorders,
20 developmental and genetic conditions, age-associated memory impairments, and learning
   disabilities.
            Cognitive disorders can significantly impair social and occupational functioning,
   adversely impacting the autonomy and quality of life of the affected individual. An estimated
   four to five million Americans (about 2% of all ages and 15% of those older than 65) have
25 some form and degree of cognitive impairment. Abrams et al., Merck Manual of Geriatrics,
   Whitehouse Station (NJ), Medical Services (1995).
            Cognitive disorders reflect problems in cognition, i.e., the general processes by which
   knowledge is acquired, retained and used. Accordingly, cognitive disorders can encompass
   impairments in cognitive functions such as concentration, perception, attention, information
30 processing, learning, memory, and/or language. Cognitive disorders can also encompass
   impairments in psychomotor learning, which include physical skills, such as movement and
   coordination; disruptions in fine motor skills , such as the ability to use precision instruments
                                                  50

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
   or tools; and deficits in gross motor skills, such as those elicited in dance, musical, or athletic
   performance.
            Cognitive disorders can also encompass impairments in executive functions, which
   include abilities underlying the planning and execution of goal-oriented behaviors. Such
 5 abilities include flexibility, i.e., the capacity for quickly switching to the appropriate mental
   mode; anticipation and prediction based on pattern recognition; reasoning and problem
   solving; decision making; working memory, i.e., the capacity to hold and manipulate
   internally (or externally) derived information in real time; emotional self-regulation,
   including the ability to recognize and manage one's emotions for good performance;
10 sequencing, such as the ability to dissect complex actions into manageable units and prioritize
   them in the right order; and self-inhibition, i.e., the ability to withstand distraction and
   internal urges.
            Cognitive disorders commonly occur in association with CNS disorders (also referred
   to as CNS conditions or CNS diseases). Such CNS disorders include, but are not limited to,
15 the following categories (which are not mutually exclusive):
           (1) dementias, such as those associated with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease;
           Huntington's disease, Pick's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob, ALS, AIDS Dementia, and
           other neurodegenerative disorders; as well as cognitive disabilities associated with
           progressive diseases involving the nervous system, such as multiple sclerosis.
20         (2) psychiatric disorders, which include affective disorders (mood disorders), such as
           depression and bipolar disorder; psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia and
           delusional disorder; and neurotic and anxiety disorders, such as phobias, panic
           disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, eating
           disorders, and posttraumatic stress disorder;
25         (3) developmental and genetic conditions affecting cognitive function, such as autism
           spectrum disorders; fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD); Rubinstein-Taybi
           syndrome, down syndrome, and other forms of mental retardation; and progressive
           disorders involving the nervous system, such as multiple sclerosis;
           (4) trauma-dependent losses of cognitive functions, such as impairments in memory,
30         language, or motor skills resulting from brain trauma; head injury; cerebrovascular
           disorders, such as stroke, ischemia, hypoxia, and viral infection (e.g., encephalitis);
           excitotoxicity; seizures; and alcohol abuse;
                                                      51

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
          (5) age-associated memory impairments, including those affecting patients in early
          stages of cognitive decline, as in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI); and
          (6) learning disabilities, such as perceptual handicaps, dyslexia, and attention deficit
          disorders.
 5         In some cases, cognitive impairments can be a direct result of a CNS disorder. For
   example, impairments in speech and language may be a direct result of a stroke or head
   injury that damages the brain regions controlling speech and language, as in aphasia.
           In other cases, cognitive impairments may be associated with a complex
   developmental syndrome, CNS disorder, or genetic syndrome. For example, such
10 impairments include cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia or Parkinson's disease,
   or deficits in executive control that accompany autism or mental retardation.
           In still other cases, such impairments can result from progressive diseases that impact
   CNS function, such as multiple sclerosis (MS). About one-half of MS patients will
   experience problems with cognitive function, such as slowed thinking, decreased
15 concentration, and impaired memory. Such problems typically occur later in the course of
   MS, although in some cases they occur much earlier - if not at the onset of disease.
                                    Augmented Cognitive Training
           In some embodiments, the compounds and compositions of the instant invention are
   administered in conjunction with cognitive training to improve the efficiency of such
20 training. The phrase "in conjunction" means that a compound or composition of the present
   invention enhances CREB pathway function during cognitive training. As used herein, the
   term "cognitive training" is interchangeable with "training protocol," "training," and
   "cognitive training protocol."
                                          Training Protocols
25         Cognitive training protocols and the underlying principles are well known in the art.
   See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 7,868,015 (and references cited therein); Klingberg et al., 2005, J.
   Am. Acad. Child. Adolesc. Psychiatry 44, 177-186; Belleville et al., 2006, Dement. Geriatr.
   Cogn. Disord. 22, 486-499; Jaeggi et al., 2008, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 105, 6829-6833;
   Lustig et al., 2009, Neuropsychol. Rev. 19, 504-522; Park and Reuter-Lorenz, 2009, Ann.
30 Rev. Psych. 60, 173-196; Chein et al., 2010, Psychon. Bull. Rev. 17, 193-199; Klingberg,
                                                  52

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
    2010, Trends Cogn. Sci. 14, 317-324; Owen et al., 2010, Nature 465, 775-778; Jaeggi et al.,
    2011, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 108, 10081-10086.
             Cognitive training protocols are directed to numerous cognitive dimensions, including
    memory, concentration and attention, perception, learning, planning, sequencing, and
 5 judgment. One or more protocols (or modules) underling a cognitive training program can be
   provided to a subject.
             In some embodiments, the protocols can be used to treat, or rehabilitate, cognitive
    impairments in afflicted subjects. Such protocols may be restorative or remedial, intended to
    reestablish prior skills and cognitive functions, or they may be focused on delaying or
10  slowing cognitive decline due to neurological disease. Other protocols may be
    compensatory, providing a means to adapt to a cognitive deficit by enhancing function of
    related and uninvolved cognitive domains. In other embodiments, the protocols can be used
   to improve particular skills or cognitive functions in otherwise healthy individuals. For
    example, a cognitive training program might include modules focused on delaying or
15 preventing cognitive decline that normally accompanies aging; here the program is designed
   to maintain or improve cognitive health.
             In general, a cognitive training protocol (or module) comprises a set of distinct
    exercises that can be process-specific or skill-based:
             Process-specific training focuses on improving a particular cognitive domain such as
20  attention, memory, language, or executive functions. Here the goal of cognitive training is to
    obtain a general improvement that transfers from the trained activities to untrained activities
    associated with the same cognitive function or domain. For example, an auditory cognitive
   training protocol can be used to treat a student with impaired auditory attention. At the end
    of training, the student should show a generalized improvement in auditory attention,
25  manifested by an increased ability to attend to and concentrate on verbal information
   presented in class-and therefore to remember to write down and complete homework
    assignments. Similarly, a cognitive training protocol may be directed to impaired executive
    function in an autistic subject, preventing the subject from carrying out instructions to
    complete an activity, such as making a meal, cleaning one's room, or preparing for school in
30 the morning. Cognitive training allows the subject to focus his attention and concentration
    and as a result, complete the sequence of tasks required for such activities.
                                                    53

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
            Skill-based cognitive training is aimed at improving performance of a particular
   activity or ability. Here the goal of cognitive training is to obtain a general improvement in
   the skill or ability. For example, a training protocol may focus on learning a new language,
   performing a musical instrument, or improving memory. The different exercises within such
 5 a protocol will focus on core components underlying skill. Modules for increasing memory,
   for example, may include tasks directed to the recognition and use of fact, and the acquisition
   and comprehension of explicit knowledge rules.
            Some cognitive rehabilitation programs may rely on a single strategy (such as
   computer-assisted cognitive training) targeting either an isolated cognitive function or
10 multiple functions concurrently. For example, the CogState testing method comprises a
   customizable range of computerized cognitive tasks able to measure baseline and change in
   cognitive domains underlying attention, memory, executive function, as well as language and
   social-emotional cognition. See, e.g., Yoshida et al., 2011, PloS ONE 6, e20469;
   Frederickson et al., 2010, Neuroepidemiology 34, 65-75. Other cognitive rehabilitation
15 programs may use an integrated or interdisciplinary approach. Cognitive training programs
   may involve computer games, handheld game devices, interactive exercises, and may employ
   feedback and adaptive models.
                                          Augmenting Agents
            Cognitive training generally requires multiple training sessions to attain the desired
20 benefits. This can be costly and time-consuming, deterring subject compliance and the
   realization of real world benefits that endure over time.
            The efficiency of cognitive training can be improved by administering certain agents
   (known as augmenting agents) in conjunction with cognitive training. Such augmenting
   agents have the ability to enhance CREB pathway function. More particularly, this method
25 (known as augmented cognitive training or ACT) can decrease the number of training
   sessions required to improve performance of a cognitive function, relative to the
   improvement observed by cognitive training alone. See, e.g., U.S. 7,868,015; U.S. 7,947,731;
   U.S. 2008/0051437.
            In a particular embodiment, the method comprises the steps of: (a) providing
30 cognitive training to a subject in need of treatment of a cognitive deficit under conditions
   sufficient to produce an improvement in performance by said animal of a cognitive function
   whose impairment is associated with said cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or
                                                   54

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   composition of the present invention to the animal in conjunction with said cognitive
   training; repeating steps (a) and (b) one or more times; and (d) reducing the number of
   training sessions sufficient to produce the improvement in performance, relative to the
   improvement in performance produced by cognitive training alone.
 5          More generally, compounds and compositions of the present invention can be used in
   conjunction with any psychotherapeutic approach that is intended to modulate cognitive
   function in the brain, thereby enhancing the efficacy of the such therapy by reducing the
   number of sessions - and hence time - necessary to attain benefits.
            In a specific aspect, the cognitive deficit treated by these methods is or includes
10 memory impairment, and more particularly, a defect in long-term memory. Long-term
   memory (LTM) generally comprises two main biological properties. First, formation of long
   term memory requires synthesis of new proteins. Second, it involves cAMP-responsive
   transcription and is mediated through the cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB)
   family transcription factors. Accordingly, in some embodiments, compounds of the present
15 invention are useful in enhancing memory formation in an animal, and more particularly,
   transcription-dependent memory.
                                           Behavioral Assays
           Numerous behavioral assays are available to assess the ability of a candidate
   compound to enhance memory formation, including the contextual conditioning, temporal
20 conditioning, and object recognition assays. (See Biological Examples) Other, non-limiting
   examples of appropriate training protocols to assess memory include those that incorporate or
   relate to multiple training sessions, spaced training sessions, contextual fear training with
   single or multiple trials, trace fear conditioning with single or multiple trials, contextual
   memory generally, temporal memory, spatial memory, episodic memory, passive avoidance
25 memory, active avoidance memory, food preference memory, conditioned taste avoidance,
   and social recognition memory.
            The training protocols can also be used in accordance with the present invention as
   will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. These training protocols can be
   directed towards the evaluation of, without limitation, hippocampus-, cortex, and/or
30 amygdale-dependent memory formation or cognitive performance.
                                                    55

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                                        Cardiovascular Disorders
            PDEl enzymes and cyclic nucleotides are emerging as key mediators of pathological
   processes that underlie many vascular disorders, including hypertension and myocardial
   infarction. For example, PDEl appears to play a role in regulating cardiomyocyte
 5 hypertrophy via a mechanism involving cross-talk between Ca2+ and cyclic nucleotide
   signaling. See, e.g., Miller et al., 2011, Basic Res. Cardiol. 106, 1023-1039; Miller et al,
   2009, Circ. Res. 105, 956-964. Moreover, PDEl enzymes constitute the majority of cAMP
   and cGMP-hydrolytic activity in human myocardium, implicating them in regulating
   signaling pathways involved in heart failure
10         Accordingly, the present invention includes the use of a compound or composition
   herein in a method of treating a cardiovascular disorder, comprising administration of an
   effective amount of the compound or composition to a patient in need thereof.
            Cardiovascular diseases within the scope of the present invention encompass, but are
   not limited to, angina pectoris, coronary artery disease, hypertension, congestive heart failure,
15 myocardial infarction, ischemic diseases of the heart, atrial and ventricular arrhythmias,
   hypertensive vascular diseases, peripheral vascular diseases, and atherosclerosis.
            In some embodiments, methods of treating a cardiovascular disorder in accord with
   the present invention comprise increasing cGMP concentration, cAMP concentration, or
   both, in any part of the heart muscle of a subject, the method comprising administering to the
20 subject a compound or composition described herein.
            In other embodiments, compounds of the present invention may be useful in lowering
   the heart rate or blood pressure in an animal.
                                             Renal Disorders
            PDEl inhibitors are emerging therapeutic agents for progressive renal disease. See,
25 e.g., Cheng et al., 2007, Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 232, 38-5 1. Consistent with these findings,
   recent studies indicate that cAMP and cGMP regulate a variety of signaling pathways
   involved in the development and progression of renal disease, including pathways that
   modulate mitogenesis, inflammation, and extracellular matrix synthesis. See e.g., Wang et
   al., 2010, Kidney Int. 77. 129-140.
30         Accordingly, the present invention provides compound or compositions in methods
   for treating a renal disorder, comprising administering an effective amount of the compound
                                                    56

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   or composition to a patient in need thereof. In a particular aspect, the renal disorder is
   selected from one or more of the group comprising renal artery stenosis, pyelonephritis,
   glomerulonephritis, kidney tumors, polycystic kidney disease, injury to the kidney, and
   damage resulting from radiation of the kidney.
 5                                     Hematological Disorders
            PDElB is highly expressed in the hematological system, including leukocytes
   (peripheral blood), bone marrow stromal cells, bone marrow CD33+ cells, cord blood CD34+
   cells, neutrophils cord blood, neutrophils peripheral blood, spleen, spleen liver cirrhosis.
   Accordingly, the present invention includes methods to treat a hematological disorder,
10 comprising administering a compound or composition herein to a patient in need thereof.
   Hematological diseases within the scope of the present invention comprises disorders of the
   blood and all its constituents, including, but not limited to anemias, myeloproliferative
   disorders, hemorrhagic disorders, leukopenia, eosinophilic disorders, leukemias, lymphomas,
   plasma cell dyscrasias, and disorders of the spleen.
15                               Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases
            PDE1B shows differential expression between diseased (e.g., cancerous) and healthy
   stomach tissue, diseased (e.g., cancerous) versus healthy ileum tissue, diseased (cirrhotic)
   versus and healthy liver. Accordingly, the present invention includes methods to treat a
   gastrointestinal disorder, comprising administering a compound or composition herein to a
20 patient in need thereof. Gastrointestinal diseases within the scope of the present invention
   comprise, but are not limited to, disorders of the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, pancreas,
   bowel, and liver.
                                           Cancer Disorders
            PDElB shows high expression in numerous cancer tissues, including tumors of the
25 stomach, ileum, ovary, breast, and kidney, as well as differential expression between
   cancerous and healthy stomach, ileum, lung, ovary, breast, and kidney. Accordingly, the
   present invention includes methods to treat a cancer disorder, comprising administering a
   compound or composition herein to a patient in need thereof. Cancer disorders within the
   scope of the present invention comprise, but are not limited to, neoplasms, dysplasias,
30 hyperplasias, and neoplasms, including cancers of the stomach, ileum, ovary, breast, and
   kidney.
                                                   57

    WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                                     Neurodegenerative Disorders
            The present invention provides a method for treating the effects of injuries or diseases
   that result in neuronal degeneration or a method for promoting neurogenesis or neurite
   outgrowth These methods involve administering to a patient in need thereof an effective
 5 amount of a compound or composition of the present invention. It has been found that the
   PDE1 inhibitors of the present invention promote neurite outgrowth and neurogenesis.
           Alternatively, at least one compound of the present invention is used to treat stem
   cells or neuronal progenitor cells prior to the cells being administered to the patient by
   implantation at the site of neuronal degeneration. In some embodiments, methods described
10 herein involve modulating neurogenesis or neurite outgrowth ex vivo with a compound such
   that a composition containing neural stem cells, neural progenitor cells and/or differentiated
   neural cells can be subsequently administered to an individual to treat a disease or condition.
   In some embodiments, the method of treatment comprises the steps of contacting a neural
   stem cell or neural progenitor cell with one or more compounds of the invention to modulate
15 neurite outgrowth and transplanting the cells into a patient in need or treatment. Methods of
   transplanting stem and progenitor cells are known in the art. In some embodiments, methods
   described herein allow treatment of diseases or conditions by directly replacing or
   replenishing damaged or dysfunctional neurons.
            The method of the present invention which promotes neurogenesis is involved in cell
20 renewal in the central nervous system (CNS) and includes all types of CNS cells.
            In one embodiment, methods of the present invention are used to treat primary
   nervous system injury, e.g. closed head injuries and blunt trauma, such as those caused by
   participation in dangerous sports, penetrating trauma, such as gunshot wounds, hemorrhagic
   stroke, ischemic stroke, glaucoma, cerebral ischemia, or damages caused by surgery such as
25 tumor excision or may even promote nerve regeneration in order to enhance or accelerate the
   healing of such injuries or of neurodegenerative diseases such as those discussed below. In
   addition, the method may be used to treat a disease or disorder resulting in a degenerative
   process.
            In another embodiment, methods of the present invention are used to inhibit
30 secondary degeneration which may otherwise follow primary nervous system injury.
            The compounds of the invention may be used to treat various diseases or disorders of
   the central or peripheral nervous system, including diabetic neuropathy, amyotrophic lateral
                                                   58

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   sclerosis (ALS). Peripheral nerve injuries and peripheral or localized neuropathies including,
   but not limited to, porphyria, acute sensory neuropathy, chronic ataxic neuropathy,
   complications of various drugs and toxins, amyloid polyneuropathies,
   adrenomyeloneuropathy, giant axonal neuropathy may be treated by this method.
 5         In addition the compounds can be used for post-operative treatments such as for
   tumor removal from CNS and other forms of surgery on the CNS. The compounds can also
   be used for treatment of spinal cord trauma.
                                            EXAMPLES
           The present disclosure will be further illustrated by the following non-limiting
10 Examples. These Examples are understood to be exemplary only, and they are not to be
   construed as limiting the scope of the invention herein, and as defined by the appended
   claims.
                                   PREPARATIVE EXAMPLES
           Exemplary compounds useful in methods of the invention will now be described by
15 reference to the illustrative synthetic schemes for their general preparation below and the
   specific examples to follow.
                                          Synthetic Schemes
           One skilled in the art will recognize that, to obtain the various compounds herein,
   starting materials may be suitably selected so that the ultimately desired substituents will be
20 carried through the reaction scheme with or without protection as appropriate to yield the
   desired product. Alternatively, it may be necessary or desirable to employ, in the place of the
   ultimately desired substituent, a suitable group that may be carried through the reaction
   scheme and replaced as appropriate with the desired substituent. Unless otherwise specified,
   the variables are as defined above in reference to Formula (I). Reactions may be performed
25 between -78 'C and the reflux temperature of the solvent.           Reactions may be heated
   employing conventional heating or microwave heating. Reactions may also be conducted in
   sealed pressure vessels above the normal reflux temperature of the solvent.
                                                 59

    WO 2013/192229                                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
                                                      Scheme 1
        NH2                            'AO                               N   (M                LG           N     N
                                                                                                     1
             ON    R C(O)CI      X         0C HC(O)NHNH 2        H       N            (VII)        (R )
                         -ae               CN base              XA________IN
                               3                              3
                              R         Y                   R                    base                M  R
                                    R4                             R4
       (IV)                        (v                             (vi)                                      (I)
            According to Scheme                 1, commercially        available      or synthetically accessible
 5 compounds of formula (IV) are alkoxyformylated with a reagent such as chloroformates of
   formula R1 5 0C(O)CI, where R15 is -CH 3 or -CH 2 CH 3 , and the like, a base such as pyridine,
   disodium carbonate, lithium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide, and the like, in a solvent such as THF,
   DCM, DCE, or a mixture thereof, a temperatures ranging from -78 'C to room temperature,
   for a period of 12 to 24 h, provides carbamates of formula (V). Carbamates of formula (V),
10 when heated with formylhydrazine, a base such as tri-n-propylamine, in a solvent such as 2
   methoxyethanol, 1-methylpyrrolidinone, and the like, at temperatures ranging from room
   temperature to 130 'C, for a period of 12 to 30 h, afford the triazolopyrimidinone compounds
   of formula (VI).          Compounds of Formula (I) are prepared from triazolopyrimidinone
   compounds of formula (VI), by reaction with a suitable electrophile of formula (VII), where
15 LG is a leaving group such as -Cl, -Br, -O-SO 2 CH 3 , and the like, a base such as K 2 CO 3 , NaH,
   and the like, in a suitable solvent such as DMF, 1-methylpyrrolidinone, and the like, at
   temperatures ranging from room temperature to 60 'C, for a period of 12 to 30 h.
                                                                            1 11            12 13
            Compounds of formula (IV), where R4 is -(CRR" ) 1 3NR R , are prepared by the
   reaction of commercially               available 2-amino-5-bromonicotinonitrile                with synthetically
20 accessible aminomethyl(trifluoroborates).
                                                      Scheme 2
                                          R5-M
                       0                   (IX)                              0
                /N 1K       N       catalyst, heat              RN                 N
                                                             1                      I
                XN--        N              or             (R )
                                        13   12
                 i                     R R NH                M      R3
            Br                      catalyst, heat                        R4
                 (VIII)                   or
                                 R13 R1 2 NCH 2 BF3K,
                                  catalyst, heat
                                                          60

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
            According to Scheme 2, bromo compounds of formula (VIII), are reacted under
   palladium or copper catalyzed coupling conditions, for example, under Suzuki reaction
   conditions, by the reaction of bromo compounds of formula (VIII), with commercially
   available or synthetically accessible boronic acids or esters of formula (IX), where R5 is aryl
 5 or heteroaryl, and M is boron, in a solvent such as DME, ACN, toluene, EtOH, H2 0, or a
   mixture thereof, in the presence of a base such as, NaHCO 3, Na 2 CO 3 , K 2 C0 3 , K 3 PO 4 ,
   Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like, and on organotransition metal catalyst such as Pd 2(dba) 3, Pd(dppf) 2,
   Pd(PPh 3) 4, and the like, using conventional or microwave heating, at temperatures ranging
   from 80 to 120 'C provides compounds of Formula (I), where R3 or R 4 is aryl or heteroaryl.
10          Bromo compounds of formula (VIII), are reacted under Stille conditions, by reaction
   with an alkyl, or alkynyl organometallic reagents such as tributyl(vinyl)stannane, and the
   like, a palladium catalyst such as Pd(PPh 3)4, in a solvent such as toluene, dioxane and the
   like, at temperatures ranging from 80 to 120 'C for a period of 16 h provides vinyl
   compounds of Formula (I), where R3 or R4 is -CH=CH 2 , -CH 2 0CH2 0CH3 , and
15 C(CH 2 )(OCH 2 CH 3 ). Other examples of vinylorganometallic reagents that may be employed
   are potassium trifluoro(vinyl)borates, organozinc and organomagnesium reagents.
            In addition to Suzuki and Stille conditions, other coupling reactions known in the art
   may be employed, for example, reaction with organozinc, organomagnesium, reagents and
   the like.
20          Bromo compounds of formula (VIII), are reacted under copper coupling conditions,
   for example, by reaction a heteroaryl such as but not limited to 6-methylpyridazin-3(2H)-one,
   Cul, an additive such as trans-1,2-diaminocyclohexane, a base such as Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like,
   in a solvent such as dioxane, employing conventional or microwave heating, at temperatures
   ranging from 80 to 120 'C, for a period of 10-16 h, to provide compounds of Formula (I),
25 where R 3 or R 4 is heteroaryl.
            Alternately, bromo compounds of formula (VIII), are reacted under palladium
   coupling conditions, for example, by reaction with a amine of formula -NHR R , Pd(OAc) 2,
   a ligand such as BINAP, a base such as Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like, in a solvent such as toluene,
   employing conventional or microwave heating, at temperatures ranging from 80 to 120 C,
30 for a period of 10 to 18 h, to provide compounds of Formula (I).
                                                    61

    WO 2013/192229                                                                      PCT/US2013/046415
            Additional cross-coupling reactions of bromo compounds of formula (VIII), with
   aminomethyl(trifluoroborates) of formula RR       12
                                                        RNCH2 BF 3 K, a catalyst such as PdCl 2 (dppf)
   DCM, Pd(PPh3) 4, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2,4,6-triisopropylbiphenyl,Pd(OAc)2, and the
   like, a base such as Cs 2 CO 3 , K 2 CO 3 , t-BuOK, K 3 PO 4 , in a solvent such as toluene, 1,4
 5 dioxane, DMF, DMA, at temperatures ranging from 80 to 120 'C, for a period of 10-16 h,
   provide compounds of Formula (I).
             Similarly, the transformations depicted in Scheme 2 can be performed on
   intermediates (IV), (V) or (VI) of Scheme 1, when they are substituted with bromine, and the
   resulting products carried through the sequence as described.
10                                                  Scheme 3
                  0
             N      N'N        oxidative
                     Cleavage                                                    0
          x            N
                                                                         13 12
                            I                      N      N       NN   R R NN                     N    N-N
                                                                    N                    1N
                                                 1                                    (R)
           (XI)                               (R )                     redcin agent
                                                 M                     reducing
                                                   OHO                                            R
                 o                                        (XIII)(I
                  Y 'N 'Jaq.       HC I
          xx'         N
    MeO
           OMe
            (XII)
            According to Scheme 3, vinyl compounds of formula (XI) are oxidized to aldehydes
   of formula (XIII) using a suitable oxidative cleavage method, for example, osmium(VIII)
   oxide, sodium periodate in water-THF, at temperatures ranging from 40 to 60 'C, for a period
15 of 2 to 4 h. Aldehydes of formula (XIII) are also prepared from acetals of formula (XII), by
   heating with an appropriate acid such as, aq. HCl, at temperatures ranging from room
   temperature to 100 'C, for a period of 4 to 24 h. Direct heating of bromo compounds of
   formula (VIII), with carbon monoxide, a palladium catalyst, heating under pressure may
   provide aldehyde compounds of formula (XIII). Reductive amination of aldehyde
20 compounds of formula (XIII), employing methods known to one skilled in the art, for
                                                                                                    12  13
   example, reacting compounds of formula (XIII) with a suitable amine of formula HNR R
   in the presence of a reducing agent such as NaBH(OAc) 3, NaBH 4, or NaCNBH 3, in a solvent
                                                       62

   WO 2013/192229                                                                       PCT/US2013/046415
   such as DCE, DCM, methanol, or a mixture thereof, with optional additives such as acetic
   acid of an appropriate Lewis acid, provide compounds of Formula (I), where R3 or R4 is
             12  13
   CH 2NR R
                                                  Scheme 4
                               00                                                                     0
                                                                     13 12                        N      NN
                         N NN     MCPBA                  N NN      R R NH
                  x          N                    x                                  (R1)      X            N
                                                                                       M   R3
                                                                                            3
                         YY                                 0~                                      4
            Vinyl compounds of formula (XI) are reacted under epoxide forming conditions,
   known to one skilled in the art, for example, reaction with m-CPBA, in a solvent such as
   DCM, at temperatures ranging from 10 to 30 C, for a period of 12 to 18 h. Ring opening
   with nitrogen nucleophiles of formula R R NH, in a solvent such as MeOH, provides
                                                                                 103        12   13
10 amino-alcohols of compounds of Formula (I) where R 3 or R 4 is -(CR R") 2NR R , where
   either R 10 or R" is -OH or H. Treatment of alcohols of Formula (I) where R3 or R4 is
   (CR    4R") 2NR12 R 13 , where  either R14 or R" is -OH or H, with a fluorinating agent such as
   DAST gives rise to compounds of Formula (I) where R 3 or R 4 is -(CR 0 R 1 ) 2 NRR,                  where
   either R10 or R" is -F or H.
15                                                Scheme 5
                       /'NN       aq.HCI            /N       _~N    R13 R12 NH                      N
                                                                                                    N.     N
                X N     'N
                            x                          N N    N                                     N       N
                                  aq. HC(EEH
                                                                                       R)
                      Y                                   Y         reducing agent    (R     R
                                               0                                                  I3Y
              (     (XIV)                              (XV)
                                                                                                    (I)
            According to Scheme 5, vinyl ether compounds of formula (XIV) are hydrolyzed,
   with an acid such as aq. HCl, in a solvent such as dioxane, for a period of 2 to 8 h, to provide
   acetyl compounds of formula (XV). Reductive amination of acetyl compounds of formula
20 (XV), employing methods known to one skilled in the art, as previously described, provides
                                             3    4         10  11   12  1310                           1
   compounds of Formula (I), where R or R4 is -CR R NR R , where either R14 or R" is
   CH 3 .
                                                        63

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
           In the above Schemes, where the compounds of Formula (I) contain a protecting
   group, such as a tert-butoxycarbonyl (BOC), methoxymethyl (MOM) ethers, or benzyl group.
   The protecting group is removed by deprotection conditions known to one skilled in the art.
   For example, a tert-butoxycarbonyl group is removed using an organic acid such as TFA
 5 (neat or in a solvent such as CH 2 Cl 2 ) or an inorganic acid such as HCl (in a solvent such as
    1,4-dioxane, ether, methanol, isopropanol, or formic acid, or a mixture thereof) at
   temperatures ranging from room temperature to 60 'C.
           Compounds of Formula (I) may be converted to their corresponding salts using
   methods known to those skilled in the art. For example, compounds of Formula (I) may be
10 treated with TFA, HCl, maleic acid, or citric acid in a solvent such as Et 2 0, DCM, THF, or
   MeOH to provide the corresponding salt forms.
           Compounds prepared according to the schemes described above may be obtained as
   single enantiomers, diastereomers, or regioisomers, by enantio-, diastereo-, or regiospecific
   synthesis, or by resolution. Where compounds according to this invention have at least one
15 chiral center, they may accordingly exist as enantiomers. Where compounds possess two or
   more chiral centers, they may additionally exist as diastereomers. It is to be understood that
   all such isomers and mixtures thereof are encompassed within the scope of the present
   invention. Compounds prepared according to the schemes above may alternately be obtained
   as racemic (1:1)     or non-racemic (not 1:1) mixtures of mixtures as diastereomers or
20 regioisomers. Where racemic and non-racemic mixtures of enantiomers are obtained, single
   enantiomers may be isolated using conventional separation methods known to one skilled in
   the art, such as chiral chromatography, recrystallization, diastereomeric salt formation,
   derivatization into diastereomeric adducts, biotransformation, or enzymatic transformation.
   Where regioisomeric or diastereomeric mixtures are obtained, single isomers may be
25 separated using conventional methods such as chromatography or crystallization.
           The following examples are provided to further illustrate the invention and various
   preferred embodiments.
                                                     64

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                                             EXAMPLES
             Chemistry:
             In obtaining the compounds described in the examples below, and the corresponding
   analytical data, the following experimental and analytical protocols were followed unless
 5 otherwise indicated.
            Unless otherwise stated, reaction mixtures were magnetically stirred at room
   temperature (rt) under nitrogen atmosphere.        Where solutions were "dried", they were
   generally dried over a drying agent such as Na2 SO 4 or MgSO 4 . Where mixtures, solutions,
   and extracts were "concentrated", they were typically concentrated on a rotary evaporator
10 under reduced pressure.
             Reactions under microwave irradiation conditions were carried out in a CEM
   Discover-SP with Activent microwave reaction apparatus, model number 909150, or Biotage
   Initiator, model number 355302.
            Normal-phase flash column chromatography (FCC) was performed on silica gel
15 (Si0 2 ) using packed or prepackaged cartridges, eluting with the indicated solvents.
             LC/MS were obtained on a Waters 2695 Separations Unit, 2487 Dual Absorbance
   Detector, Micromass ZQ fitted with ESI Probe, or a Waters AcquityT M Ultra performance LC
   (UPLC) with PDA e          and SQ detectors.
            Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were obtained in a Varian 400 MHz or
20 Bruker 400 MHz NMR. Samples were ana
             Preparative HPLC was performed on a Shimadzu SIL-1OAP system using a Waters
   SunFire OBD 30 mm x 100 mm X 2.5 pm (particle size) C's column with a 15 minute
   gradient of 10-100% acetonitrile in water and 0.05% trifluoroacetic acid added as a modifier
   to both phases. Elution profiles were monitored by UV at 254 and 220 nm.
25          Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were obtained in a Varian 400 MHz or
   Bruker 400 MHz NMR. Samples were analyzed in either deuterated acetone ((CD 3 )2 CO)),
   chloroform (CDCl 3), methanol-d 4 (CD 30D), or dimethyl sulfoxide-d6 (DMSO-d 6 ).         For
   CDCl 3 samples, the residual central resonance peak at 7.26 for 1H was used for chemical shift
   assignment for 1H NMR spectra. For CD 30D the residual central resonance peak at 3.31 for
                                                 65

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
    H was used for chemical shift assignment and for DMSO-d 6 the residual central resonance
   peak at 2.50 ppm for 1H was used for chemical shift assignment. The format of the 1H NMR
   data below is: chemical shift in ppm downfield the tetramethylsilane reference (multiplicity,
   coupling constant J in Hz, integration).
 5         Chemical names were generated using ChemDraw Ultra 12.0 (CambridgeSoft Corp.,
   Cambridge, MA) or ChemAxon.
   Example 1. 9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  N    N
               N          N
10                Br
           Step       A.         Methyl      5-bromo-3-cyanopyridin-2-ylcarbamate.         Lithium
   bis(trimethylsilyl)amide in THF (1.0 N, 22 mL, 22 mmol) was added to a stirred solution of
   2-amino-5-bromopyridine-3-carbonitrile (2.0 g, 10 mmol) in THF (30 mL) at -78 'C.           The
   mixture was stirred at -78 'C for 30 minutes. Methyl chloroformate (1.06 g, 11.1 mmol) was
15 added and the mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The reaction
   mixture was cooled in ice bath and quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride (50
   mL). The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3 x 50 mL) and the combined organic
   layers were washed with brine (2 x 50 mL), dried (Na 2SO 4) and concentrated under reduced
   pressure. Purification (LC, 10% EtOAc in petroleum ether) afforded the title compound (1.43
20 g, 63%).   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.85 (s, 3H), 7.45 (br s, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 8.65 (s,
    1H). [M-H]   = 254.0.
           Step    B:    9-Bromopyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.    Formyl
   hydrazine (60 mg, 1.0 mmol) was added to a solution of methyl 5-bromo-3-cyanopyridin-2
   ylcarbamate (255 mg, 1.0 mmol) in 1-methylpyrrolidinone (5 mL). The resulting mixture
25 was stirred at 120 'C for 3 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured into
   ice-water (20 mL). The resulting solid was separated by filtration, washed with water and
                                                                                    1
   hexanes and dried under vacuum to afford the title compound (160 mg, 60%).         H NMR (400
   MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.70 (s, 1H), 8.80 (s, 1H), 13.00 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   = 266.3.
                                                  66

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
            Step C. 9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.       1-(Chloromethyl)-4-methoxybenzene (3.10 mL, 22.9 mmol) was added to a
   stirred solution of 9-bromopyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one          (3.02 g,
    11.35 mmol) and potassium carbonate (4.71 g, 34.1 mmol) in 1-methylpyrrolidinone (60
 5 mL). The mixture was heated at 40 'C for 14 h. The mixture was filtered, and the resulting
   solid was washed liberally with DCM. The combined organic layers were concentrated under
   vacuum and the residue was triturated with EtOAc (40 mL) to afford the title compound (3.07
   g, 70%) as a brown powder. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)              6 3.77 (s, 3H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 6.83
   (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.58 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.37 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J= 2.38 Hz, 1H), 8.82
10 (d, J= 2.38 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =  386.1.
   Example      2.      8-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.
                     0
                   N   N-N
    N0 '                  N
           Br    -   N
15 IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)         6 3.80 (br s, 3H), 5.52 (br s, 2H), 6.91 (d, J= 8.16 Hz, 2H),
   7.27-7.30 (m, 2H), 7.95 (br s, 1H), 8.50 (br s, 1H), 8.77 (br s, 1H). [M+H]     = 386.
   Example      3.      8-(Dimethoxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                N      N
   oON                  N
20       11
   IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)       6  3.46 (s, 6H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 5.50 (s, 1H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 6.78-6.88
   (m, 2H), 7.68 (d, J= 2.01 Hz, 3H), 8.35 (s, 1H), 8.66 (d, J= 8.03 Hz, 1H). [M+H]         = 382.2.
   Example 4. 9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one.
                                                   67

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                       0
                       N    N1
          0N     -J
                    -. N
                  Br
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.77 (s, 3H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.54 (d, J
   = 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.50 (s, 1H), 8.81 (s, 1H). [M+H]    =  387.
 5 Example 5. 9-(3,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                       0
                  N      N'N
     O         'N           N
                         0
   9-(3,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.             9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
10 5(6H)-one (Example 1, 75 mg, 0.19 mmol), 3,4-dimethoxyphenylboronic acid (75 mg, 0.41
   mmol), potassium phosphate (104 mg, 0.49 mmol) and DME (3 mL) were combined and
   nitrogen was bubbled through for 10 minutes. Pd 2(dba) 3 (13 mg, 0.01 mmol) was added and
   the mixture was heated for 2 h at 120 'C in the microwave. Purification (HPLC, 10-80%
   ACN-water) afforded the title compound (6 mg, 7%) as a white solid.          H NMR (400 MHz,
15 CDCl 3) 6 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.99 (s, 3H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 6.83-6.84 (m, 2H), 7.02 (d, J=
   6.7 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (d, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.24 (dd, J= 6.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.62-7.64 (m, 2H), 8.37
   (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 8.99 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 444.2.
           Examples 6 and 7 were made in a manner analogous to Example 5, with the
20 appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
                                                  68

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   Example 6. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                 N       N'N
                        N
               N       N
                       N
   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 3.70 (s, 3H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 5.63 (s, 2H), 6.86 (d, J= 7.0 Hz,
 5 2H), 6.98 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 1H), 7.38 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 8.26 (dd, J= 7.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.65 (s,
   1H), 8.70 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 8.87 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 9.14 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H). [M+H]        =
   415.1.
   Example 7. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
10 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                    INN
        O       N Ju N
                       N
          0    N
                  -..  N
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 3.71 (s, 3H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 6.86 (d, J= 7.0 Hz,
   2H), 7.18 (dd, J= 5.9, 4.0 Hz, 1H), 7.39 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 8.02 (dd, J= 5.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H),
   8.28 (dd, J= 4.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 8.62 (s, 1H), 8.82 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.99 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H).
15 [M+H] = 415.1.
   Example       8.          6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(3-methyl-6-oxopyridazin-1(6H)-yl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  69

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
                   0
                 N    N
                        N
            0   N
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(3-methyl-6-oxopyridazin- 1(6H)-yl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.          9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 1, 75 mg, 0.19 mmol), 6-methylpyridazin-3(2H)-one (43
 5 mg, 0.39 mmol), copper(I) iodide (44 mg, 0.23 mmol), dioxane (3 mL), trans-1,2
   diaminocyclohexane (0.030 mL, 0.25 mmol) and Cs 2 CO 3 (152 mg, 0.47 mmol) were
   combined and heated at 120 'C for 12 h in the microwave. The mixture was filtered, and
   purified (HPLC, 10-80% ACN-water) to afford the title compound (9 mg, 11%) as a white
   solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.44 (s, 3H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 5.77 (s, 2H), 6.81-6.83 (m,
10 2H), 7.03 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.60-7.61 (m, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.99 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 9.25
   (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H). [M+H] = 416.1.
   Example         9.            9-(4-cyclopropylpiperazin-1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N
15               X
   9-(4-Cyclopropylpiperazin-1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.          9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 1, 63 mg, 0.16 mmol) and 1-cyclopropylpiperazine (103
   mg, 0.82 mmol) were dissolved in toluene (2 mL) and nitrogen was bubbled through the
20 mixture while BINAP (41 mg, 0.07 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (159 mg, 0.49 mmol) and Pd(OAc) 2 (7
   mg, 0.03 mmol) were added. The mixture was heated at 100 'C for 16 h. The reaction
   mixture was concentrated under a stream of nitrogen and the residue was taken up in DMF
                                                70

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   and filtered.    Purification (preparative HPLC, 10-70% ACN in water) afforded the title
   compound (25 mg, 27%) as a yellow solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 0.84-1.00 (m,
   2H), 1.38 (d, J= 3.01 Hz, 2H), 2.01 (s, 2H), 2.35-2.51 (m, 1H), 3.50 (s, 4H), 3.61 (br s, 4H),
   3.76 (s, 3H), 5.70 (s, 2H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.57 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.07 (d, J=
 5 2.89 Hz, 1H), 8.33 (s, 1H), 8.47 (d, J= 2.89 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     = 432.2.
   Examples 10 thru 19 were made in a manner analogous to Example 9, with the
   appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
10 Example      10.        9-(((IS,2S)-2-Aminocyclohexyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
     0         NNH
                  NH
   IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.20-1.45 (m, 4H), 1.68-1.77 (m, 2H), 1.98-2.06 (m, 2H),
   2.93-2.97 (m, 2H), 3.70 (s, 3H), 5.53 (s, 2H), 6.15 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 6.83-6.86 (m, 2H),
15 7.31-7.34 (m, 2H), 7.82 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.88 (br s, 3H), 8.29 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.57 (s,
   1H)      . [M+H]    = 420.2.
   Example          11.             6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(1 -methylpiperidin-4-yl)amino)
   [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pteridin-5 (6H)-one.
                    0
                 N
                          N
                  -  N
20                        N,
                                                  71

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.92 (d, J= 13.30 Hz, 2H), 2.40-2.58 (m, 2H), 2.84 (s, 3H),
   3.03 (br s, 2H), 3.11 (s, 3H), 3.67 (d, J= 11.80 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 5.18 (tt, J= 12.25, 3.75
   Hz, 1H), 5.66 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 7.56 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.43
   (s, 1H). [M+H]        = 435.3.
 5
   Example          12.            9-((2-(Dimethylamino)ethyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)
   [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one.
                       0
                     N       >
       N0          N        N
              N -.
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.02 (s, 6H), 3.29 (s, 3H), 3.40 (t, J= 6.15 Hz, 2H), 3.76 (s,
10 3H), 4.18 (t, J= 6.15 Hz, 2H), 5.65 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.56 (d, J= 8.66 Hz,
   2H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.37 (s, 1H), 12.76 (br s, 1H). [M+H]     = 409.2.
   Example         13.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                         KN
                    N
15
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3-d) 6 3.29-3.35 (m, 2H), 3.40 (s, 3H), 3.64 (br s, 8H), 3.77 (s,
   3H), 3.81-3.87 (m, 2H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.57 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H),
   8.08 (d, J= 2.89 Hz, 1H), 8.34 (s, 1H), 8.49 (d, J= 2.76 Hz, 1H). [M+H]       = 450.3.
                                                    72

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   Example        14.        9-(3-(Dimethylamino)pyrrolidin-1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                       N
                     N
                      /N
 5  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3-d) 6 2.58 (d, J= 8.03 Hz, 2H), 2.91 (s, 6H), 3.45-3.59 (m, 3H),
   3.76 (s, 3H), 3.78-3.95 (m, 3H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.58 (d, J= 8.78 Hz,
   2H), 7.70 (d, J= 3.01 Hz, 1H), 8.22 (d, J= 2.63 Hz, 1H), 8.33 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 420.2.
   Example        15.         9-(4-(Dimethylamino)piperidin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                     0
                  N1    NN
                  N
                   N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.90-2.08 (m, 2H), 2.27 (d, J= 9.91 Hz, 2H), 2.85 (s, 6H),
   2.96 (t, J= 12.11 Hz, 2H), 3.25-3.38 (m, 1H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.94 (d, J= 11.92 Hz, 2H), 5.71
   (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.58 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.05 (d, J= 2.89 Hz, 1H), 8.34
15 (s, 1H), 8.51 (d, J= 2.89 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =  434.3.
   Example 16.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                   73

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                     0
                  NN
      O         N~        N
                          0
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.54 (d, J= 11.67 Hz, 2H), 1.64-1.81 (m, 2H), 2.80 (s,
   3H), 3.40-3.48 (m, 2H), 3.63 (s, 3H), 3.86 (dd, J= 11.04, 4.02 Hz, 2H), 4.03 (t, J= 11.42 Hz,
   1H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 6.78 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.27 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.78 (d, J= 3.01 Hz,
 5 1H), 8.47 (d, J= 3.14 Hz, 1H), 8.50 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 421.1.
   Example        17.         9-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                     0
                   N
10 1H   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.11 (d, J= 6.15 Hz, 6H), 2.33 (t, J= 10.98 Hz, 2H), 3.63
   (s, 3H), 3.64-3.69 (m, 2H), 3.73 (d, J= 11.80 Hz, 2H), 5.48 (s, 2H), 6.77 (d, J= 8.53 Hz,
   2H), 7.27 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.93 (d, J= 2.76 Hz, 1H), 8.51 (s, 1H), 8.54 (d, J= 2.76 Hz,
   1H). [M+H]      =  421.1.
15 Example 18. 9-((3-(Dimethylamino)propyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                    74

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
                       0
                    N,
                N NN        N
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.93 (dt, J= 15.12, 7.37 Hz, 2H), 2.79 (d, J= 4.14 Hz,
   6H), 3.05 (s, 3H), 3.10-3.19 (m, 2H), 3.51-3.56 (m, 2H), 3.71 (s, 3H), 5.56 (s, 2H), 6.86 (d, J
   = 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.78 (d, J= 2.89 Hz, 1H), 8.44 (d, J= 2.89 Hz,
 5 1H), 8.59 (s, 1H), 9.43 (br s, 1H). [M+H]       = 422.2.
   Example          19.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1-yl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                       0
                    N    N
                   N
10 1H   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) S 2.88 (s, 3H), 3.23 (d, J= 5.27 Hz, 4H), 3.34-3.43 (in, 4H),
   3.63 (s, 3H), 5.48 (s, 2H), 6.78 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.27 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.00 (d, J=
   2.89 Hz, 1H), 8.52 (s, 1H), 8.57 (d, J= 2.89 Hz, 1H). [M+H]       =  470.1.
   Example           20.           Benzyl      (2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5 ,6-dihydropyrido[3 ,2
15 e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethyl)carbamate.
                                                      75

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
                     0
                   N   'N
                   NN
            0    NH
               0
   Benzyl              2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5
   c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethylcarbamate.                    9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 1, 30 mg, 0.078 mol), potassium (2
 5 (benzyloxycarbonylamino)ethyl)trifluoroborate    (30 mg, 0.11 mol), Cs 2CO 3 (122 mg, 0.38
   mmol), PdCl 2(dppf)-DCM (5 mg, 0.01 mol), toluene (0.75 mL) and degassed water (0.25
   mL) were added in order. The mixture was heated at 80 'C for 16 h, concentrated under a
   stream of nitrogen. The crude residue was taken up in DMF (1.5 mL), filtered and purified
                                                                                                1
   (HPLC, 0-85% ACN in water) to afford the title compound (6 mg, 12%) as a white solid.         H
10 NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.92 (t, J= 5.4 Hz, 2H), 3.35-3.36 (m, 2H), 3.69 (s, 3H), 4.94
   (s, 2H), 5.58 (s, 2H), 6.83-6.85 (m, 2H), 7.24-7.26 (m, 2H), 7.35-7.37 (m, 2H), 7.40 (dd, J=
   4.4, 4.4 Hz, 1H), 8.51 (d, J= 1.5 Hz, 1H), 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.65 (d, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H). [M+H]        =
   485.2.
15 Examples 21 thru 26 were made in a manner analogous to Example 9, with the
   appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example 21.       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N'
                 N
20           0
                                                76

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ) 6 3.62-3.20 (m, 6H), 3.71 (s, 3H), 4.05-3.90 (m, 2H), 4.56 (s, 2H), 5.60
   (s, 2H), 6.87-6.84 (m, 2H), 7.38 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.86-8.40 (m, 2H), 10.15
   (br s, 1H). [M+H]     =  407.2.
 5 Example 22. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N
                     N
     O         N
             QN
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.98 (br s, 6H), 2.57-2.93 (m, 2H), 3.56-3.72 (m, 2H), 3.78 (s,
   3H), 4.38 (s, 2H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.37 (s,
10 1H), 8.73 (s, 1H), 8.97 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 405.3.
   Example           23.               6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N
                          N
               N
          S'
15 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.03 (br s, 4H), 3.47 (br s, 4H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 4.38 (s, 2H), 5.75
   (s, 2H), 6.84 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.59 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.37 (s, 1H), 8.74 (d, J= 2.01
   Hz, 1H), 8.93 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 423.2.
   Example     24.       6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
20 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  77

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
   ci          N~       N
                 NN
               N
         0)
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.54 (br s, 3H), 4.04 (t, J= 4.45 Hz, 4H), 4.41 (s, 2H), 5.78 (s,
   2H), 7.30 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 5H), 7.54-7.68 (m, 2H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.82 (s, 1H), 8.97 (s, 1H).
   [M+H]    = 411.1.
 5
   Example 25.        6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
              ~. N
   ci          N"       N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.96 (br s, 3H), 2.01-2.24 (m, 2H), 2.75 (t, J= 11.73 Hz, 2H),
10 3.55 (br s, 3H), 3.68 (d, J= 11.04 Hz, 3H), 4.38 (s, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 7.31 (d, J= 8.41 Hz,
   2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.42 (s, 1H), 8.82 (d, J= 1.88 Hz, 1H), 9.04 (d, J= 1.76 Hz,
   1H). [M+H]=409.1.
   Example 26.        6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
15 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  N N
   ci          N        N
               N
                                                  78

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.26 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.50 (t, J= 11.11 Hz, 2H), 3.48 (d,
   J= 11.29 Hz, 2H), 4.14 (dd, J= 10.16, 5.90 Hz, 2H), 4.36 (s, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 7.31 (d, J=
   8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.44 (s, 1H), 8.83 (d, J= 1.63 Hz, 1H), 9.04 (s, 1H).
   [M+H]    =  439.2.
 5
   Example        27.        9-(2-Aminoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                     NN
      O         N NN      N
                 NH2
            Step A. tert-Butyl 2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2
10 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethylcarbamate.   The title compound was made in a
   manner analogous to Example 20, with the appropriate starting material and reagent
   substitutions.
            Step B. 9-(2-Aminoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one. tert-Butyl 2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2
15 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethylcarbamate (6 mg, 0.011 mmol) was treated with
   DCM (2 mL) and 2,2,2-trifluoroacetic acid (2 mL), stirred for 1 h and concentrated under
   vacuum. The residue was suspended in chloroform (3 mL) and concentrated and dissolved in
   methanol (3 mL) and concentrated again to afford 4 mg (12%) of the TFA salt of the title
   compound as a white solid. H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 3.05 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.21
20 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 2H), 3.70 (s, 3H), 5.59 (s, 2H), 6.84-6.87 (m, 2H), 7.35-7.37 (m, 2H), 7.83
   7.86 (m, 3H), 8.62 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (s, 1H), 8.71 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =
   351.2.
   Example 28. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2
25 e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                                                    79

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                  N)N'N
                      N
      O0                 N
                NH
           o
         0
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-ylamino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.                          9-(2-Aminoethyl)-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one     (Example 27, 38 mg,
 5 0.11 mmol), DCM (1 mL), methanol (0.5 mL), tetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one (65 mg, 0.65
   mmol), and TEA (18 pl, 0.13 mmol) were combined and stirred for 20 minutes.            Sodium
   cyanoborohydride (24 mg, 0.38 mmol) was added and the mixture was stirred for 18 h.
   Water (0.1 mL) was added, the mixture was stirred for 1 h, and then concentrated under a
   stream of nitrogen. The residue was taken up in DMF, filtered and purified by HPLC to
10 afford the trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound (24 mg, 40%) as a white solid.    H
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.54 (qd, J= 9.8, 6.1 Hz, 2H), 1.97 (dd, J= 9.9, 3.5 Hz, 2H),
   3.13-3.10 (m, 2H), 3.39-3.29 (m, 5H), 3.70 (s, 3H), 3.92 (dd, J= 9.1, 3.2 Hz, 2H), 5.59 (s,
   2H), 6.85 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 7.36 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 8.64 (s, 1H), 8.67 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H),
   8.71 (br s, 2H), 8.73 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 435.3.
15
   Example 29 was made in a manner analogous to Example 28, with the appropriate
   starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example         29.          6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((1-phenylethyl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                   80

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                 NN
     O               N
               NH
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.58 (d, J= 5.5 Hz, 3H), 3.31-3.06 (m, 4H), 3.70 (s, 3H),
   4.43 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 5.57 (s, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 7.35 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H),
   7.51-7.40 (m, 5H), 8.59 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (s, 1H), 8.66 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.97 (br s,
 5  1H), 9.11 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   =  455.2.
   Example     30.       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.
                    0
                   ,I -9N
      o        N        N
           0
10          Method A. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.          9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one (Example 1, 500 mg, 1.29 mmol), tributyl(vinyl)stannane (0.45 mL, 1.6 mmol),
   toluene (5 mL) and tetrakis(triphenylphosphoranyl)-palladium (33 mg, 0.03 mmol) were
   combined and heated at 100 'C for 16 h. The mixture was filtered through CELITE@ with
15 DCM washing, concentrated           under reduced pressure.     Purification   (FCC, 10-100%
                                                                                     1
   EtOAC/hexanes) afforded the title compound (398 mg, 92%) as a white solid.          H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.76 (s, 3H), 5.52 (d, J= 11.04 Hz, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 5.98 (d, J= 17.69 Hz,
    1H), 6.77-6.86 (m, 3H), 7.56-7.67 (m, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.66 (d, J= 2.38 Hz, 1H), 8.79 (d, J
   -2.38 Hz, 1H). [M+H]       = 334.1.
20          Method B.       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one. 9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
                                                 81

   WO 2013/192229                                                                   PCT/US2013/046415
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 1, 2.00 g, 5.18 mmol), potassium trifluoro(vinyl)borate
   (1.51 g, 11.3 mmol), butan-1-ol (20 mL), TEA (1.05 mL, 7.53 mmol) and [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II)-DCM complex (0.31 g, 0.38 mmol)
   were combined and heated at 100 C for 20 h. The mixture was cooled, concentrated under
 5 reduced pressure. The crude product was dissolved in DCM (120 mL), washed with water
   (50 mL), and brine (50 mL), dried (MgSO 4 ) and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
   crude residue was triturated with EtOAc (15 mL), filtered, washed with cold EtOAc and
   suction dried to afford the title compound (1.09 g, 63%) as a yellow powder. H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3)     6  3.76 (s, 3H), 5.52 (d, J= 10.92 Hz, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 5.98 (d, J= 17.57 Hz,
10 1H), 6.75-6.88 (m, 3H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.66 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H),
   8.79 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]         = 334.1.
   Examples 31 and 32 were made in a manner analogous to Example 30, Method A, with
   the appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
15
   Example           31.              6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methoxymethoxy)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                  N     N-N
                          N
               0
            0~
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )        6  3.45 (s, 3H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 4.75 (s, 2H), 4.78 (s, 2H), 5.76 (s,
20 2H), 6.78-6.87 (in, 2H), 7.57 -7.67 (in, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.65 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.78 (d, J
   - 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H] = 382. 1.
   Example       32.        9-( 1-Ethoxyvinyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1 ,2,4]triazolo [1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                                                     82

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                  N   N'N
     O         N-        N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.48 (t, J= 6.96 Hz, 3H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.00 (q, J= 6.94 Hz,
   2H), 4.41 (d, J= 3.14 Hz, 1H), 4.84 (d, J= 3.14 Hz, 1H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.53 Hz,
   2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.83 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H), 9.04 (d, J= 2.01 Hz,
 5 1H). [M+H]     = 378.2.
   Example      33.      9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  N   'N
                         N
              HO
10 9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one. A suspension of 6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((methoxymethoxy)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 31, 40 mg, 0.10 mmol), methanol
   (0.80 mL) and 5 N hydrochloric acid (0.40 mL) was stirred at 50 C for 16 h. The mixture
   was extracted with DCM (1 mL), basified to pH 14 with 15% aqueous sodium hydroxide and
15 extracted with DCM (2 mL). The combined DCM extracts were concentrated under reduced
   pressure. Purification (HPLC, 10-90% ACN-water) afforded the title compound (21 mg,
   59%) as a white powder.     HNMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 3.69 (s, 3H), 4.69 (d, J= 4.6 Hz,
   2H), 5.54 (t, J= 4.6 Hz, 1H), 5.59 (s, 2H), 6.84 (d, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 7.36 (d, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H),
   8.58 (d, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H), 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.72 (d, J =1.6 Hz, 1H). [M+H]   = 338.1.
20
   Example             34.                 9-(2-Oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-5-ylmethyl)-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 83

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                   0
                 NN
           O   N
            Step A: 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidine-9-carbaldehyde. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 30, 3.96 g, 11.9 mmol) was suspended in THF (80 mL) and
 5 heated with a heat gun to effect dissolution. Similarly, sodium periodate (5.84 g, 27.3 mmol)
   was heated in water (40 mL) to effect dissolution. The above solutions were combined with
   vigorous stirring. While the stirred mixture was still at 40 'C, osmium(VIII) oxide in tert
   butanol (2.90 mL, 2.5%, 0.30 mmol) was added and the mixture was stirred vigorously for 4
   h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water (300 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 150
10 mL) and DCM (3 x 150 mL). The combined organic layers were dried (MgSO 4) and
   concentrated to afford the title compound (4.13 g, 99%) as a black solid which was used in
   the next step without further purification. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.77 (s, 3H), 5.80
   (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.61 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.41 (s, 1H), 9.10 (d, J= 2.13
   Hz, 1H), 9.26 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H), 10.21 (s, 1H). [M+H]      = 336.2.
15          Step B: 9-(2-oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-5-ylmethyl)-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.      6-(4
   Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine-9
   carbaldehyde (49 mg, 0.15 mmol), 2-oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane (49 mg, 0.36 mmol),
   ACN (1 mL), TEA (0.051 mL, 0.37 mmol) and acetic acid (0.040 mL, 0.69 mmol) were
20 combined and stirred for 10 minutes. Sodium cyanoborohydride (18 mg, 0.29 mmol) was
   added and the mixture was stirred for 18 h at room temperature. The mixture was diluted
   with methanol, filtered, and purified by preparative HPLC to afford the title compound (35
   mg, 45%) as the trifluoroacetic acid salt as a white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.25
   (d, J= 11.42 Hz, 1H), 2.43 (br s, 1H), 3.44-3.63 (m, 2H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.91 (d, J= 10.42 Hz,
25  1H), 4.37-4.53 (m, 3H), 4.56-4.65 (m, 1H), 4.73 (s, 1H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.76-6.91 (m, 2H), 7.60
   (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 8.83 (s, 1H), 9.08 (s, 1H). [M+H]   = 419.2.
                                                  84

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   Examples 35 thru 64 were made in a manner analogous to Example 34, with the
   appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example          35.              9-((Dimethylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N'N
                 N
       0                 N
   1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.80 (s, 6H), 3.70 (s, 3H), 4.50 (s, 2H), 5.60 (s, 2H), 6.86 (d, J= 7.0
   Hz, 2H), 7.38 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 8.66 (s, 1H), 8.84 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.89 (d, J= 1.8 Hz,
   1H), 9.89 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   =  365.2.
10
   Example 36. 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N'N
                 N
           ~             N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.23 (d, J       = 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.39-2.52 (m, 2H), 3.35 (d, J=
15 11.42 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.31 (br s, 2H), 4.34-4.45 (m, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.53
   Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 8.90 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 9.34 (d, J= 2.13
   Hz, 1H), 13.90 (br s, 1H). [M+H]    = 435.3.
   Example       37.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 85

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
                     0
                   N'N'
                   ON
                N
                 N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 2.89 (s, 2H), 3.11 (br s, 3H), 3.40 (br s, 2H), 3.78 (s, 2H), 3.95
   (s, 1H), 5.76 (s, 1H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 1H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 1H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 8.72
   (s, 1H), 8.76 (s, 1H). [M+H]      = 420.2.
 5
   Example         38.        9-((3,3-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                   N    N
     O          N          N
                 N
           0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.65 (s, 6H), 3.12 (br s, 2H), 3.23-3.73 (m, 4H), 3.76 (s, 3H),
10 4.00 (br s, 2H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 6.75-6.90 (m, 2H), 7.59 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.37 (s, 1H), 8.81
   (d, J= 1.88 Hz, 1H), 9.03 (d, J= 2.01 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     = 435.3.
   Example         39.        9-((2,2-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                     0
                   NN
      O                    N
                 N
15
                                                    86

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13)         6 1.40 (br s, 6H), 3.22-3.68 (m, 4H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.93-4.18 (m,
   2H), 4.41 (br s, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.74-6.91 (m, 2H), 7.61 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H),
   8.79 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H), 9.05 (d, J= 2.01 Hz, 1H). [M+H]       = 435.2.
 5 Example         40.            9-((2-Ethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                 N     N
     O         N          N
        0      N
               N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)        6 0.97 (t, J= 7.47 Hz, 3H), 1.42-1.63 (m, 2H), 2.58 (t, J= 11.17
   Hz, 1H), 2.80-3.02 (m, 1H), 3.50 (dd, J= 19.95, 11.04 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.81-3.95 (m,
10 1H), 3.99-4.16 (m, 2H), 4.37 (s, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.76-6.91 (m, 2H), 7.51-7.68 (m, 2H), 8.39
   (s, 1H), 8.80 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 9.05 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 435.2.
   Example       41.        9-((2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                 N     N'N
                      N
        O      N~         N
               N
15        0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)        6 1.25 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 3H), 1.55 (d, J= 6.65 Hz, 3H), 2.80 (t, J
   = 10.98 Hz, 1H), 3.26 (d, J= 12.05 Hz, 1H), 3.59 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (d, J= 14.56 Hz,
   1H), 3.74-3.83 (m, 4H), 4.05-4.18 (m, 1H), 4.23-4.36 (m, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.78-6.92 (m,
   2H), 7.55-7.70 (m, 2H), 8.32-8.46 (m, 1H), 8.85 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H), 9.13 (d, J= 2.01 Hz,
20 1H). [M+H]     =  435.2.
                                                   87

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   Example     42.     6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2,2,6,6-tetrafluoromorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N..N
                 N        N
       F       N
           F F
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.08 (t, J= 8.16 Hz, 4H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.95 (s, 2H), 5.76 (s,
 5 2H), 6.79-6.89 (m, 2H), 7.57-7.67 (m, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 8.62 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.78 (d, J
   = 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     = 479.1.
   Example             43.                   9-(8-Oxa-3-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octan-3-ylmethyl)-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N
10       0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.07-2.14 (m, 2H), 2.34-2.39 (m, 2H), 3.09 (dd, J= 11.98,
   2.70 Hz, 2H), 3.48 (d, J= 11.67 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.37 (s, 2H), 4.53 (br s, 2H), 5.74 (s,
   2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.78 (d, J= 2.13 Hz,
   1H), 9.01 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 433.3.
15
   Example       44.        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((1-methyl-8-oxa-1,2-diazaspiro[4.5]decan-2
   yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 88

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                     0
                   N    N
      O         N
                 N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 1.93 (br s, 2H), 2.06 (td, J= 12.36, 4.89 Hz, 2H), 2.39 (t, J=
   7.34 Hz, 2H), 3.00 (s, 3H), 3.34 (t, J= 7.47 Hz, 2H), 3.42-3.53 (m, 2H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.10
   (dd, J= 11.61, 4.71 Hz, 2H), 4.60 (s, 2H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 6.76-6.90 (m, 2H), 7.61 (d, J= 8.66
 5 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.68 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H), 8.81 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H). [M+H]    = 476.3.
   Example          45.            6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                     0
                   N      N
      0         N           N
                 N
           0
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.24 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 3H), 2.55 (t, J= 11.11 Hz, 1H), 2.90 (td,
   J= 11.26, 4.58 Hz, 1H), 3.41-3.57 (m, 2H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.97-4.14 (m, 3H), 4.28-4.44 (m,
   2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.78 (s,
   1H), 9.01 (s, 1H). [M+H]       = 421.2.
15 Example          46.            6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((3-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                   N    N
                           N
                N
                                                    89

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 1.63 (d, J= 6.53 Hz, 3H), 3.28 (d, J= 11.80 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s,
   3H), 3.82-4.20 (m, 6H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H),
   8.39 (s, 1H), 8.81 (d, J= 1.76 Hz, 1H), 9.03 (s, 1H). [M+H]      = 421.3.
 5 Example         47.            9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)
   [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                      N
                   N
            ~            N
                -. N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.24 (d, J= 6.15 Hz, 6H), 2.68 (t, J= 10.98 Hz, 2H), 3.57 (d,
   J= 11.42 Hz, 2H), 3.75 (s, 3H), 4.00 (dd, J= 9.85, 6.09 Hz, 2H), 4.53 (br s, 2H), 5.69 (s,
10 2H), 6.81 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.57 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.50 (s, 1H), 9.11 (s, 1H). [M+H]
   = 436.2.
   Example      48.          6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methyl-1,4-diazepan-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                   N'   N..N
                       N
     O         N            N
          /'N
15
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.92-2.20 (m, 2H), 2.85 (s, 3H), 2.85-3.75 (m, 11H), 4.11
   4.46 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.66 (s, 1H),
   8.72-8.88 (m, 2H). [M+H]          = 434.2.
                                                     90

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   Example          49.            9-((1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  NN
     O         N
          /'N
         0 _
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.02-2.19 (m, 2H), 3.21-3.49 (m, 4H), 3.51-3.79 (m, 13H),
 5 4.58-4.72 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 6.88 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s,
   1H), 8.89 (s, 1H), 8.94 (s, 1H). [M+H]     = 421.2.
   Example      50.        9-((4-Acetyl-1,4-diazepan-1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                  N     N
                         N
10           N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.00-2.22 (m, 5H), 3.05-3.67 (m, 8H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 4.53
   4.72 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 6.88 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.41 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s, 1H),
   8.87 (s, 1H), 8.91 (s, 1H). [M+H]    =  462.3.
15 Example       51.        9-((Cyclohexyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                   91

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                   0
                 N    N
               N
             6
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.10-1.72 (m, 6H), 1.81-1.96 (m, 2H), 1.99-2.21 (m, 2H),
   2.61-2.67 (m, 3H), 3.33-3.41 (m, 1H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 4.38-4.73 (m, 2H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J
   = 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s, 1H), 8.90 (s, 1H), 8.94 (s, 1H). [M+H]     =
 5 433.3.
   Example       52.        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N   N
                 N
          0    N
10  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.42-1.59 (m, 1H), 1.72-1.86 (m, 1H), 1.98-2.09 (m, 1H),
   2.15-2.25 (m, 1H), 2.99-3.21 (m, 2H), 3.23-3.30 (m, 3H), 3.35-3.52 (m, 2H), 3.53-3.61 (m,
   1H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 4.50-4.61 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.66
   Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s, 1H), 8.83-8.92 (m, 2H). [M+H]    = 435.2.
15 Example           53.                6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4
   yl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 92

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                     N   N
               N
               N
                0
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.74-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.98-2.12 (m, 2H), 2.64-2.71 (m, 3H),
   3.32-3.44 (m, 2H), 3.59-3.81 (m, 4H), 3.99-4.10 (m, 2H), 4.37-4.49 (m, 1H), 4.69-4.79 (m,
   1H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s, 1H), 8.90 (s,
 5 1H), 8.95 (s, 1H). [M+H]      = 435.2.
   Example 54. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                       0
          O  4     N-      N
               N    N
       0
                  N
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.54-2.75 (m, 2H), 2.86-3.21 (m, 4H), 3.26-3.33 (m, 5H),
   3.35-3.55 (m, 2H), 3.65 (t, J= 4.71 Hz, 2H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.85-3.94 (m, 2H), 5.60 (s, 2H),
   6.87 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.64 (s, 1H), 8.64-8.67 (m, 1H), 8.75
   8.78 (m, 1H). [M+H]       = 464.3.
15 Example 55.      9-((Isopropyl(2-methoxyethyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 93

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                   0
                 N    N'N
                 N       N
               N
             O
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.27-1.47 (m, 6H), 3.14-3.20 (m, 1H), 3.22 (s, 3H), 3.41
   3.56 (m, 4H), 3.72 (s, 4H), 4.48-4.67 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.40
   (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s, 1H), 8.91 (s, 1H), 8.97 (s, 1H). [M+H]  = 437.2.
 5
   Example       56.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[2,3
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
        ON            N'N
            N
            N
   IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.79 (s, 5H), 2.93 (br s, 3H), 3.55 (d, J= 10.29 Hz, 30H),
10 3.75 (s, 6H), 3.78 (s, 5H), 3.99 (s, 2H), 5.55 (s, 2H), 6.92 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 7.37 (d, J=
   8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.92 (s, 1H), 8.64 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 420.2.
   Example 57.       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N     N
            NN
15          0
                                                 94

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.99 (br s, 4H), 3.74 (s, 4H), 3.76-4.06 (m, 12H), 4.41 (br
   s, 2H), 5.57 (s, 2H), 6.90 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.22 (br s, 1H), 8.68
   (s, 1H), 8.77 (s, 1H). [M+H]     = 407.2.
 5 Example 58. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[2,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                         N
             N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.91 (br s, 2H), 2.14 (br s, 2H), 2.65 (br s, 2H), 2.77-3.00 (m,
   2H), 3.50 (br s, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 4.28 (s, 2H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 6.89 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.47
10 (d, J= 8.16 Hz, 2H), 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.80 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   = 405.2.
   Example           59.                6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N
          o              N
                N     N
             s
15 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.91 (br s, 4H), 3.20 (br s, 4H), 3.67 (s, 3H), 4.21 (s, 2H), 5.57
   (s, 2H), 6.77 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.27 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.41 (br s, 1H), 8.44 (s, 1H),
   8.52 (s, 1H). [M+H]     = 423.2.
   Example 60. 8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3
20 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  95

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                 N
                       N
                   r
             N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.10 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.28 (t, J= 11.23 Hz, 2H), 3.16 (d,
   J= 11.42 Hz, 2H), 3.67 (s, 3H), 3.85-4.02 (m, 2H), 4.20 (s, 2H), 5.51 (s, 2H), 6.76 (d, J=
   8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.25 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.31 (s, 1H), 8.42 (s, 1H), 8.53 (s, 1H). [M+H]      =
 5 435.3.
   Example 61.       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                N '     NN
                 N
10  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.79 (s, 3H), 3.33 (s, 5H), 3.72 (s, 5H), 4.44-4.71 (m, 2H),
   5.61 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.68 (s, 1H), 8.85-8.90 (m,
   1H), 8.91-8.96 (m, 1H). [M+H]     = 409.2.
   Example 62.        7-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
15 c]pyrimidin-9-yl)methyl)tetrahydro-1H-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazin-3(5H)-one.
                    0
                 N     N'N
      O        N~
       yI   N
      Ok
       0
                                                 96

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.90-3.44 (m, 4H), 3.65-3.82 (m, 5H), 3.91-4.49 (m, 5H),
   5.61 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.66 (s, 1H), 8.70-8.88 (m,
   2H). [M+H]     =   462.2.
 5 Example 63. 9-(((2S,5S)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                  N    NN
               N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)       6  1.16 (m, 6H), 2.36 (br s, 2H), 2.84 (br s, 1H), 3.61-3.74 (m,
   3H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.82 (br s, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 8.53
10 Hz, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.63 (br s, 1H), 8.75 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   = 435.3.
   Example 64. 9-(((2R,5R)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                 N ',N
                  N
       0'      N
15 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )     6  1.15 (m, 6H), 2.36 (br s, 2H), 2.83 (br s, 1H), 3.60-3.74 (m,
   3H), 3.77 (s, 4H), 3.83 (d, J= 9.41 Hz, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J
   = 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.63 (br s, 1H), 8.74 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   = 435.3.
   Example 65. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperazin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
20 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  97

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                  N   N'N
                N"       N
                N
          HN
            Step    A.        tert-Butyl    4-((6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)methyl)piperazine- 1-carboxylate.        9-Bromo-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one       (Example 1, 562.00
 5 mg; 1.46 mmol), potassium ((4-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)piperazin-1-yl)methyl)trifluoroborate
   (568.00 mg; 1.86 mmol), dicyclohexyl(2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl-2-yl)phosphine        (60.00
   mg; 0.13 mmol;), Pd(OAc)       2 (30.00 mg; 0.13 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (1.76 g; 5.40 mmol), and
   degassed dioxane-water (9:1; 10 mL) were combined in that order and heated at 80 C for 4
   days. The mixture concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 20-100%
10 EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (216 mg, 29%).
            Step        B.               6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperazin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.     tert-Butyl 4-((6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6
   dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)methyl)piperazine-1-carboxylate
   (216 mg, .427 mmol) was stirred in DCM (3.00 mL) and 2,2,2-trifluoroacetic acid (3.00 mL)
15 for 1 h and concentrated under vacuum to afford the title compound (227.00 mg; 30.03 %).
   A portion of this material (35 mg) was purified by preparative HPLC (10-70% ACN/water) to
   afford the title compound (19.00 mg; 2.51 %) as a white powder.           1H  NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3 and DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.74 (br s, 4H), 3.11 (br s, 4H), 3.65 (d, J= 2.01 Hz, 3H), 3.96 (br s,
   2H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 6.71 (dd, J= 8.72, 1.95 Hz, 2H), 7.47 (dd, J= 8.66, 1.88 Hz, 2H), 8.25 (d,
20 J= 2.01 Hz, 1H), 8.51 (s, 1H), 8.58-8.71 (m, 1H), 9.84 (br s, 1H). [M+H]     = 406.2.
   Example 66 was made in a manner analogous to Example 65, with the appropriate
   starting material and reagent substitutions.
25 Example             66.                   9-(((3S,5R)-3,5-Dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)methyl)-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                   98

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                  N     N
                          N
         HN
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.18 (d, J= 6.53 Hz, 6H), 2.12 (t, J= 11.80 Hz, 2H), 3.03
   (d, J= 10.29 Hz, 2H), 3.34 (br s, 2H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.81 (br s, 2H), 5.60 (s, 2H), 6.87 (d, J=
   8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.21 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 1H), 8.62 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H),
 5 8.64 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H), 8.95 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   = 434.2.
   Example            67.             6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-((THF-3-yl)methyl)piperazin-1
   yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                   NN
       0         N
                 N
                                                                                          1
10 The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 34, Step B.             H NMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl 3 and DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.68 (dd, J= 12.49, 6.96 Hz, 1H), 2.13 (d, J= 6.02 Hz,
   1H), 2.69 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 1H), 2.80-3.07 (m, 6H), 3.19-3.52 (m, 2H), 3.57-3.73 (m, 3H),
   3.59-3.70 (m, 2H), 3.70-3.82 (m, 2H), 3.88 (t, J= 7.47 Hz, 1H), 3.99-4.67 (m, 7H), 5.63 (s,
   2H), 6.72 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.48 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 2H), 8.15-8.31 (m, 1H), 8.55 (br s, 1H),
15 8.63 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   =  490.3.
   Example 68. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 99

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                  NN
      O0        N        N
                N
           N
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.            6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperazin- 1
   ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one    (Example 65, 34 mg, 0.09
 5 mmol), ACN (1 mL), TEA (75 pl, 0.53 mmol), and methane sulfonyl chloride (50 mg, 0.44
   mmol) were combined and the mixture was stirred for 4 h. The reaction was filtered through
   a plug of C18. Purification (HPLC, 10-70% ACN in water) afforded the title compound (17
   mg, 33%) as a white solid.     1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 and DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.48 (d, J= 1.63
   Hz, 2H), 2.76 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 3H), 3.09 (br s, 4H), 3.54 (br s, 4H), 3.65 (d, J= 2.51 Hz, 3H),
10 4.21 (br s, 2H), 5.63 (d, J= 1.76 Hz, 2H), 6.72 (dd, J= 8.78, 2.26 Hz, 2H), 7.47 (dd, J= 8.66,
   2.38 Hz, 2H), 8.26 (d, J= 2.38 Hz, 1H), 8.85 (br s, 1H), 9.00 (br s, 1H). [M+H]   = 484.2.
   Examples 69 thru 71 were made in a manner analogous to Example 68, with the
   appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
15
   Example 69.        4-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-9-yl)methyl)-N,N-dimethylpiperazine- 1-sulfonamide.
                    0
                  N   N'N
                N
       9   N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 and DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.70 (d, J= 2.64 Hz, 6H), 3.13 (br s, 4H), 3.40
20 3.59 (m, 4H), 3.63 (d, J= 2.76 Hz, 3H), 4.32 (br s, 2H), 5.60 (s, 2H), 6.69 (dd, J= 8.72, 2.45
                                                 100

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   Hz, 2H), 7.39-7.59 (m, 2H), 8.24 (d, J         = 2.89 Hz, 1H), 8.93 (br s, 1H), 9.08 (br s, 1H).
   [M+H]    =  513.2.
   Example            70.              6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2,2,2-trifluoroacetyl)piperazin- 1
 5 yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                   N     N
      F         N
    FF
           N
        0
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 and DMSO-d 6 ) 6 2.94 (br s, 4H), 3.64 (s, 3H), 3.80 (br s, 4H),
   4.07 (br s, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 6.61-6.78 (m, 2H), 7.45 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.24 (s, 1H), 8.76
   (br s, 1H), 8.90 (br s, 1H). [M+H]     =  502.2.
10
   Example              71.                6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(THF-3 -carbonyl)piperazin- 1
   yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                       0
                    NN
       O                    N
    0             N
             N
          0
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 and DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.89-2.20 (m, 2H), 2.88-3.25 (m, 5H), 3.36
15 3.64 (m, 4H), 3.68 (d, J= 0.88 Hz, 3H), 3.72-3.95 (m, 4H), 4.26 (br s, 2H), 5.65 (br s, 2H),
   6.74 (d, J= 7.78 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (d, =7.65 Hz, 2H), 8.28 (d, J= 1.00 Hz, 1H), 8.88 (br s, 1H),
   9.09 (br s, 1H). [M+H]     = 504.3.
                                                    101

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   Example 72.          6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                   N   'N
                       N
           0    N          N
                 N
           0''
             Step    A:     6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
 5 c]pyrimidine-8-carbaldehyde.             8-(Dimethoxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 3, 682 mg, 1.79 mmol), THF (20 mL),
   water (5 mL) and 12 N hydrochloric acid (3 mL) were combined and stirred at room
   temperature for 20 h. The mixture was neutralized slowly with powdered sodium bicarbonate
   to pH 8. The mixture was diluted with water (20 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 X 20
10 mL).      The combined extracts were dried (MgSO 4) and concentrated to afford the title
   compound (516 mg, 77%) as a yellow foam, which was used without further purification. H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.73-3.81 (m, 3H), 5.83, (s, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.64
   (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.03 (d, J= 7.78 Hz, 1H), 8.42 (s, 1H), 8.83 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H), 10.22
   (s, 1H). [M+H]      =  336.1.
15         Step B: 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one. The title compound was prepared as described in Example 34, Step
   B. IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 3.47 (br s, 2H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.79-3.82 (m,2H), 3.87 (br s,
   4H), 4.41 (s, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.30 (d, J= 9.29 Hz, 2H), 7.72 (d, J
    = 7.91 Hz, 1H), 8.44 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H). [M+H]    = 407.2.
20
   Examples 73 thru 80 were made in a manner analogous to Example 72, with the
   appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example 73. 8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
25 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  102

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
                      0
                    N kN'N
       0-           N
                 N~
                  -
                          " N
              0  N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.12 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.43 (t, J= 11.04 Hz, 2H), 3.38 (d,
   J= 11.67 Hz, 2H), 3.75 (s, 3H), 4.02 (dd, J= 10.23, 6.34 Hz, 2H), 4.44 (s, 2H), 5.76 (s, 2H),
   6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.36 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.70 (d, J= 7.78 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H),
 5 8.76 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =  435.3.
   Example                   74.                     6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((((3-methyloxetan-3
   yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                    N    N'
            o               N
              NH
          0
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.31 (s, 3H), 3.11 (s, 2H), 3.74 (s, 3H), 4.32-4.40 (m, 4H),
   4.56 (s, 3H), 5.81 (s, 2H), 6.80 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.30 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J=
   7.91 Hz, 1H), 8.42 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H). [M+H]    = 421.2.
   Example 75.        6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((methyl((THF-3-yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
15 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                    N    N'
            0   N-          N
              N"
           0
                                                 103

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)        6 1.54-1.69 (m, 1H), 2.06-2.30 (m, 2H), 2.69 (dt, J= 14.09, 6.95
   Hz, 2H), 2.80 (s, 3H), 3.10 (br s, 2H), 3.39 (dd, J= 8.91, 6.15 Hz, 1H), 3.70-3.75 (m, 1H),
   3.76 (s, 3H), 3.81-3.87 (m, 1H), 3.90 (dd, J= 8.85, 7.22 Hz, 1H), 4.51 (s, 2H), 5.76 (s, 2H),
   6.83 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.32 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.76 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H),
 5 8.79 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 435.3.
   Example      76.        8-((Cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                 NN
                          NI
        17
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 0.67 (d, J= 6.53 Hz, 2H), 1.23 (d, J= 3.01 Hz, 2H), 2.42 (tt, J
   = 7.29, 3.75 Hz, 1H), 2.84 (s, 3H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 4.55 (s, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 6.81 (d, J= 8.53
   Hz, 2H), 7.36 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.74 (d, J= 7.78 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J= 7.91
   Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 391.2.
15 Example 77.      6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                 N'    N
                      N
            NN
            N
         o=s=o
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.87 (s, 3H), 3.15 (br s, 4H), 3.53 (br s, 4H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 4.37
   (s, 2H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.30 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.70 (d, J= 8.03
20 Hz, 1H), 8.44 (s, 1H), 8.77 (d, J= 7.91 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 484.2.
                                                  104

      WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
      Example 78. 8-((Benzylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
      c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                   N    N
                 N        N
               NH
 5    1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 3.62 (s, 3H), 4.03 (s, 2H), 4.26 (s, 2H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 6.67 (d, J
      = 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.19-7.38 (m, 10H), 8.24-8.35 (m, 1H), 8.57-8.65 (m, 1H). [M+H]    = 427.3.
      Example 79. 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((phenylamino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
      c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                       N
   10           N
               NH
10
      1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 3.67 (s, 3H), 4.60 (s, 2H), 5.67 (s, 2H), 6.63 (d, J= 8.03 Hz,
      2H), 6.73 (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 3H), 6.75-6.82 (m, 1H), 7.12 (s, 2H), 7.33-7.40 (m, 1H), 7.41-7.48
      (m, 2H), 8.22-8.34 (m, 1H), 8.45-8.57 (m, 1H). [M+H]   = 413.2.
15    Example 80. 8-(Isoindolin-2-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
      c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  105

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
                   0
                 N    N'
          o            'N
          8 N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 3.68 (s, 3H), 4.46 (br s, 3H), 4.64 (s, 2H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 6.73
   (d, J= 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.03-7.13 (m, 2H), 7.18 (s, 4H), 7.24-7.33 (m, 2H), 7.47-7.56 (m, 1H),
   8.28-8.41 (m, 1H), 8.60-8.71 (m, 1H). [M+H]     = 439.2.
 5
   Example     81.     9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one.
                   0
               IN      N
                   0
   9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.        9-(1
10 Ethoxyvinyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one
   (Example 32, 147 mg, 0.39 mmol) was suspended in dioxane (6 mL) and 6 N hydrochloric
   acid (3 mL) and stirred for 4 h. The mixture was basified to pH 11 with 1 N sodium
   hydroxide and extracted with DCM (3 X 15 mL). The combined extracts were dried (MgSO 4)
                                                                                          1
   and concentrated to afford 122 mg (90%) of the title compound as a yellow solid.        H NMR
15 (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.73 (s, 3H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 5.79 (s, 2H), 6.78-6.89 (m, 2H), 7.56-7.66
   (m, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 9.13 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 9.35 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =  350.2.
   Example 82. 9-(1-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)ethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                106

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
                     0
         ON             N'N
                     N
   9-(1-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)ethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.          9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 81, 67 mg, 0.19 mmol), (2S,6R)-2,6
 5 dimethylmorpholine (0.060 mL, 0.49 mmol), ACN (1 mL) and acetic acid (0.020 mL, 0.35
   mmol) were combined and stirred for 10 minutes. Sodium cyanoborohydride (18 mg, 0.29
   mmol) was added and the mixture was stirred for 3 days at 50 'C. The mixture was filtered.
   Purification (HPLC, 10-65% ACN in water) afforded the title compound (26 mg, 23%) as a
   white solid.     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.19 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 3H), 1.23 (d, J= 6.27 Hz,
10 3H), 1.92 (d, J= 7.03 Hz, 3H), 2.34 (td, J= 11.01, 2.32 Hz, 2H), 3.32 (d, J= 11.42 Hz, 1H),
   3.57 (d, J= 11.42 Hz, 1H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.12 (d, J= 7.03 Hz, 2H), 4.54 (q, J= 6.86 Hz, 1H),
   5.75 (s, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 8.74 (s, 1H),
   8.95 (s, 1H). [M+H]       = 449.3.
15 Example         83.            9-(1 -Hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  N    'N
                       N
                N          N
                     OH
                N
            Step        A.      6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(oxiran-2-yl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.         3-Chloroperbenzoic acid (139 mg, 0.62 mmol) was added to a
20 stirred solution of 6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one (Example 30, 138 mg, 0.41 mmol) in DCM (1.3 mL) and the mixture was stirred
                                                   107

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   for 18 h. Saturated sodium bicarbonate (3 mL) was added to the reaction mixture and the
   mixture was stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM (5 mL), and the
   organic layer was separated, dried (MgSO 4 ), and concentrated under vacuum to afford the
   title compound (118 mg, 82%) as a yellow semi-solid, which was used without further
 5 purification in the next step.
            9-(1-Hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.                  6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(oxiran-2
   yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one    (118 mg, 0.337 mmol) was treated
   with morpholine (0.50 mL) and stirred for 16 h at room temperature.            The mixture was
10 concentrated under vacuum, re-dissolved in DMSO, and filtered. Purification (HPLC, elution
   with 20 to 80% acetonitrile in water) afforded the title compound (63 mg, 26%) as the TFA
   salt as a white powder.     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )     6 3.11 (br s, 4H), 3.26 (dd, J= 13.30,
   2.89 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 13.30, 10.67 Hz, 1H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 4.12 (br s, 4H), 5.65-5.71 (m,
    1H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 7.58 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.35 (s, 1H), 8.69 (d, J
15 =  2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.90 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]    =  437.2.
   Example 84 was made in a manner analogous to Example 83, with the appropriate
   starting material and reagent substitutions.
20 Example           84.           9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)-1-hydroxyethyl)-6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  N'   N-N
                      N
      O                   N
                     OH
                N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)       6 1.29 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 2H), 1.31 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 2H), 2.57 (d, J
   = 11.92 Hz, 2H), 3.21 (d, J= 13.30 Hz, 2H), 3.25-3.39 (m, 2H), 3.66 (d, J= 11.29 Hz, 1H),
25 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.80-3.89 (m, 1H), 4.19 (d, J= 16.06 Hz, 2H), 5.60 (d, J= 10.16 Hz, 1H), 5.74
                                                 108

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   (s, 2H), 6.78-6.87 (m, 2H), 7.59 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.90 (s, 1H).
   [M+H]    = 465.3.
   Example         85.            9-(1-Fluoro-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  NN
           7
     O         N        N
                     F
                N
   9-(1-Fluoro-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one. (Dimethylamino)sulfur trifluoride (0.010 mL, 0.18 mmol) was
   added to a stirred solution of 9-(1-hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4
10 methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 83, 49 mg,
   0.090 mmol) in ACN (1 mL). After 4 h, additional (dimethylamino)sulfur trifluoride (0.035
   mL, 0.36 mmol) was added and the mixture was stirred at 60 'C for 20 h, and cooled to room
   temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate (3 mL) and
   extracted with DCM (2 x 3 mL). The combined organic layers were concentrated under a
15 stream of nitrogen and the residue was taken up in methanol, and filtered. Purification
   (HPLC, 10-75% ACN in water) afforded the title compound but retained impurities. The
   product was diluted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate (3 mL) and extracted with DCM (2 x 3
   mL). The combined organic layers were concentrated under a stream of nitrogen.
   Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 to 40%, IPA/EtOAc) afforded the title compound (9 mg, 210%) as
20 a white powder. H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.58-2.72 (m, 4H), 2.82 (ddd, J= 27.98,
    13.93, 3.39 Hz, 1H), 3.01 (ddd, J= 18.85, 14.15, 7.53 Hz, 1H), 3.72-3.76 (m, 4H), 3.76 (s,
   3H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 5.84 (d, J= 47.93 Hz, 1H), 6.76-6.88 (m, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H),
   8.36 (s, 1H), 8.64 (d, J= 1.88 Hz, 1H), 8.80 (s, 1H). [M+H]   =  439.1.
                                                 109

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   Example 86 was made in a manner analogous to Example 85, with the appropriate
   starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example            86.             9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)-1-fluoroethyl)-6-(4
 5 methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                    NN
                      N
      O                   N
                     F
               N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 1.28 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 3H), 1.33 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 3H), 2.46-2.70
   (m, 2H), 3.35 (d, J= 8.41 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (d, J= 11.80 Hz, 1H), 3.56-3.73 (m, 2H), 3.77 (s,
   2H), 3.80-3.90 (m, 1H), 4.12-4.28 (m, 2H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 6.61 (dd, J= 48.19, 9.41 Hz, 1H),
10 6.83 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.72 (s, 1H), 8.88 (s, 1H).
   [M+H]   =  467.3.
   Example         87.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-hydroxyethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                  N    N'N
                      N
      O                   N
             F      OH
15              F
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-hydroxyethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.           9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (Example 81, 254 mg, 0.76 mmol), THF (1.3 mL) and 2 M
   trimethyl(trifluoromethyl)silane in THF (0.45 mL, 0.91 mmol) were combined and stirred for
20  10 minutes. A 2 M solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride in THF (75 pl, 0.08 mmol) was
                                                  110

    WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   added and stirring was continued for 3 days.           Additional trimethyl(trifluoromethyl)silane
   (0.45 mL, 0.91 mmol) and tetrabutylammonium fluoride (75 pl, 0.08 mmol) was added and
   the mixture was stirred for 4 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with aqueous sodium
   bicarbonate (5 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (2 X 10 mL). The combined extracts were
 5 concentrated under vacuum. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10 to       100%,  EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
   the title compound (154 mg, 48%) as a white powder. H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 + DMSO
   d) 6 3.27 (s, 3H), 4.80 (q, J= 6.90 Hz, 1H), 5.24 (s, 2H), 6.33 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.05 (d, J
   = 8.53 Hz, 2H), 7.91 (s, 1H), 8.32 (s, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H). [M+H]      = 406.1.
10 Example        88.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-morpholinoethyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                     0
                  N     N'N
           O    N/         N
                        F
                N       F
           O          F
             Step      A.      2,2,2-Trifluoro- 1-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5 -oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido [3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethyl methanesulfonate. Methane sulfonyl chloride (49
15 pl, 0.63 mmol) was added to a stirred solution of 6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1
   hydroxyethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one        (Example 87, 127 mg,
   0.31 mmol) and TEA (131 pl, 0.94 mmol) in DCM (1.3 mL) and the mixture was stirred for 2
   hours. It was diluted with DCM (10 mL), washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate (5 mL),
   dried (MgSO 4 ) and concentrated under vacuum to afford the title compound as a brown gum,
20 which was used crude without further purification.
             Step      B.     6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-morpholinoethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.          To a solution of 2,2,2-trifluoro-1-(6-(4
   methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethyl
   methanesulfonate (from Step A) in DMF (1 mL) was added morpholine (0.10 mL, 1.06
25 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 70 C for 20 h. Additional morpholine (0.10 mL,
    1.06 mmol) was added and heating was continued for 3 days. The mixture was concentrated
   under a stream of nitrogen. The residue was taken up in DMF and filtered. Purification
                                                     111

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   (HPLC, 10-80% ACN in water) afforded the title compound (39 mg, 20%) as a white
   powder.    1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 2.72 (br s, 4H), 3.74 (q, J= 4.02 Hz, 4H), 3.78 (s,
   3H), 4.23 (q, J= 8.03 Hz, 1H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 8.66 Hz,
   2H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 8.72 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.82 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =  475.2.
 5
   Example              89.                    9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
   (trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
                         N '
      F ON
   F                         \>
                  N
            Step A. Potassium (((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-trifluoroborate.       To a
10 neat solution of 2,6-dimethyl-morpholine (28.67g, 0.25mol), was added bromomethylene
   potassium-trifluoroborate (25g, 0.125 mol). The resulting suspension was heated to 100 'C
   for 3 h, and then cooled to 50 'C. IPA (2 x 50 mL) was added, and the crude mixture was
   cooled to 10 C. MTBE (4 x 100 mL) was slowly added, after 1 h the white solid was
   filtered, washed by of MTBE (4 x 50 mL), and dried to afford the title compound (33.5g,
15 85%) which was used without further purification.
            Step B: 2-Amino-5-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)nicotinonitrile. A
   suspension of 2-amino-5-bromonicotinonitrile (50 mg, 0.25 mmol), potassium (((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-trifluoroborate (219 mg, 0.51 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (247 mg, 0.76
   mmol), dicyclohexyl(2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl-2-yl)phosphine (36 mg, 0.076 mmol) and
20 palladium(II) acetate (8.5 mg, 0.03 8 mmol) in dioxane (1 mL) and water (0.1 mL) was
   purged with nitrogen for 10 minutes, then sealed and heated at 80 'C for 15 hours. The
   reaction was filtered through CELITE@ while still hot, cooled to room temperature, and
   diluted with water (10 mL). The resulting precipitate was filtered, washed with water (10
   mL) and hexanes (10 mL), and dried under vacuum to give the title compound as a solid (57
25 mg, 92%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.03 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H), 1.61 (t, J= 10.7 Hz,
                                                  112

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   2H), 2.64 (d, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 3.45-3.61 (m, 2H), 6.83 (s, 2H), 7.74 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H),
   8.03-8.19 (m, 1H).
            Step C: Ethyl 3-cyano-5-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyridin-2
   ylcarbamate. Sodium hydride in mineral oil (60%, 25 mg, 0.61 mmol) was added to 2
 5 amino-5-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)nicotinonitrile (100 mg, 0.41 mmol) in
   THF (2 mL) and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. Ethyl chloroformate (0.05 mL, 0.48
   mmol) was added followed by additional sodium hydride (16 mg, 0.41 mmol) and the
   reaction stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction was poured into a saturated
   solution of sodium bicarbonate (10 mL), extracted with EtOAc (3    x 5 mL), dried (Na 2 SO 4 )
10 and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in methanol (10 mL) and
   stirred with potassium carbonate (170 mg) for 10 minutes, then poured into saturated sodium
   bicarbonate (10 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 5 mL). The combined organic layers
   were dried (Na2SO 4) and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, Si0 2 , 0
   100%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as a white powder (104 mg, 80%). 1H
15 NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.04 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 1.26 (t, J= 7.03 Hz, 3H), 1.69 (t, J
   = 10.60 Hz, 2H), 2.67 (d, J= 10.67 Hz, 2H), 3.51 (s, 2H),, 3.54-3.62 (m, 2H), 4.17 (q, J=
   7.11 Hz, 2H), 8.12-8.24 (m, 1H), 8.56 (d, J= 2.01 Hz, 1H), 10.37 (s, 1H).
            Step D: 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one. Ethyl 3-cyano-5-(((2S,6R)-2,6
20 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyridin-2-ylcarbamate (35 mg, 0.11 mmol), formyl hydrazine (8
   mg, 0.13 mmol) and N-ethyl N-isopropylpropan-2-amine (0.01 mL, 0.055 mmol) were heated
   in DMA (1 mL) at 125 'C for 15 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and
   purified directly (HPLC, 10-70% ACN-water) to afford the title compound as a solid (29 mg,
   84%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.04 (d, J= 6.15 Hz, 6H), 1.73 (t, J= 10.67 Hz,
25 2H), 2.72 (d, J= 10.79 Hz, 2H), 3.53-3.66 (m, 4H), 8.45 (s, 1H), 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.62 (s, 1H),
   12.82 (br s, 1H).
            Step E: 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
   (trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.    To a
   mixture of 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
30 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one (50 mg, 0.16 mmol) and 4-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl bromide (49 mg,
   0.19 mmol) in DMF (2 mL) was added potassium carbonate (44 mg, 0.32 mmol). The
   resulting mixture was heated at 55 'C overnight. The crude mixture was filtered then purified
                                                 113

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   directly (HPLC, 10-70% ACN-water) to afford the title compound (58 mg, 610%) as a white
   solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.14 (d, J= 6.15 Hz, 6H), 2.63-2.85 (m, 2H), 3.26
   3.45 (m, 2H), 3.72-3.86 (m, 2H), 4.40-4.62 (m, 2H), 5.70 (s, 2H), 7.32 (d, J= 8.28 Hz, 2H),
   7.59 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 8.69 (s, 1H), 8.84 (s, 1H), 8.89 (br s, 1H). [M+H] = 489.2.
 5
   Examples 90 thru 120 were made in a manner analogous to Example 89, Steps B-E with
   the appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example           90.              9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3
10 methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N
                        N
   IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.13 (d, J= 6.02 Hz, 6H), 2.19 (s, 3H), 2.59-2.85 (m, 2H),
   3.16-3.51 (m, 2H), 3.71-3.85 (m, 2H), 4.38-4.68 (m, 2H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 7.07 (t, J= 9.16 Hz,
   1H), 7.26-7.32 (m, 1H), 7.34-7.40 (m, 1H), 8.69 (s, 1H), 8.77-8.92 (m, 2H). [M+H]   = 437.2.
15
   Example 91.        9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
    F              N   N
              N         N
                                                 114

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.14 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.65-2.86 (m, 2H), 3.29-3.47 (m,
   2H), 3.72-3.86 (m, 2H), 4.47-4.63 (m, 2H), 5.66 (s, 2H), 7.15 (t, J= 8.85 Hz, 2H), 7.51 (dd, J
   = 8.47, 5.58 Hz, 2H), 8.69 (s, 1H), 8.81-8.86 (m, 1H), 8.87-8.92 (m, 1H). [M+H]   = 423.2.
 5 Example           92.             9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3-fluoro-4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
     F           N    N'N
       0           N-    N
                         N
               N
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.14 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.68-2.83 (m, 2H), 3.31-3.43 (m,
   2H), 3.74-3.84 (m, 5H), 4.49-4.61 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 7.11 (t, J= 8.72 Hz, 1H), 7.21-7.36
10 (m, 2H), 8.69 (s, 1H), 8.83-8.86 (m, 1H), 8.87-8.91 (m, 1H). [M+H]    = 453.2.
   Example           93.             9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
         F         0
                 N    N' N
     0        N~N
          ON
15  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 1.14 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.67-2.84 (m, 2H), 3.30-3.43 (m,
   2H), 3.75 (s, 3H), 3.76-3.84 (m, 2H), 4.47-4.59 (m, 2H), 5.64 (s, 2H), 6.65 (dd, J= 8.66, 2.38
   Hz, 1H), 6.88 (dd, J= 12.36, 2.45 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (t, J= 8.91 Hz, 1H), 8.70 (s, 1H), 8.80-8.85
   (m, 1H), 8.87-8.93 (m, 1H). [M+H]     = 453.2.
                                                 115

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
   Example                  94.                         6-(3-Bromo-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
    BrF                 N
                N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.89 (d, J        =  1.63 Hz, 1H), 8.72 (s, 1H), 8.41 (s, 1H), 7.86 (d, J
 5 =   6.40 Hz, 1H), 7.54-7.65 (m, 1H), 7.06 (t, J= 8.41 Hz, 1H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 4.33 (s, 2H), 3.91
   4.08 (m, 2H), 3.47 (d, J= 11.54 Hz, 2H), 2.46 (t, J= 11.11 Hz, 2H), 1.24 (d, J= 6.27 Hz,
   6H). [M+H]      =  501.10.
   Example         95.           4-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1 ,5-c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile.
                      0
                   N    N
                           N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.90 (d, J         = 2.38 Hz, 1H),, 8.73 (d, J  = 2.26 Hz, 1H),, 8.44 (s,
   1H),, 7.71 - 7.77 (m, 2H),, 7.61 - 7.67 (m, 2H),, 5.85 (s, 2H),, 4.32 (s, 2H),, 3.96 - 4.08 (m,
   2H),, 3.47 (d, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H),, 2.47 (t, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H),, 1.26 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H),,
15 [M+H]    =  430.20.
   Example                   96.                            6-(4-(tert-Butyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                    116

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
               N
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.89 (d, J        =  2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.68 (d, J =  2.26 Hz,
    1H), 7.57 (d, J =  8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.31-7.39 (m, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 4.31 (s, 2H), 3.94-4.08 (m,
   2H), 3.44 (d, J  =  11.04 Hz, 2H), 2.43 (t, J  =  11.11 Hz, 3H), 1.28 (s, 9H), 1.24 (d, J  = 6.40
 5 Hz, 6H). [M+H]      =  461.30.
   Example        97.           3-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile.
                     0
                N
                           N
                 N         N
                           N
10 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 1.25 (d, J        =  6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.52 (t, J = 11.23 Hz, 2H), 3.54 (d,
   J= 11.42 Hz, 2H), 3.93 - 4.04 (m, 2H), 4.38 (s, 2H), 4.77 (s, 1H), 5.31 (s, 1H), 7.43 - 7.50
   (m, 1H), 7.57 - 7.61 (m, 2H), 7.89 (d, J   =  1.38 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.79 (d, J  = 2.38 Hz,
    1H), 8.87 (d, J= 2.38 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      =  430.17.
15 Example               98.                     9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
   (methylsulfonyl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                    117

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                   0
        S     " N      N
               N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) d 1.26 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 6H), 2.50 (t, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.04 (s,
   3H), 3.51 (d, J  = 11.04 Hz, 2H), 3.96 - 4.07 (m, 2H), 4.35 (s, 2H), 5.88 (s, 2H), 7.80 (d, J =
   8.41 Hz, 2H), 7.91 (d, J   = 8.53 Hz, 2H), 8.44 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J = 2.38 Hz, 1H), 8.88 (d, J=
 5 2.38 Hz, 1H). [M+H]      = 483.20.
   Example 99.       9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
               0
             N   NN
           N
10 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 1.15 (d, J      =  6.40 Hz, 6H), 1.84 (t, J= 10.67 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (s,
   3H), 2.69 (d, J  = 10.29 Hz, 2H), 3.60 (s, 2H) 3.65 - 3.74 (m, 2H), 5.80 (s, 2H), 6.93 (d, J=
   7.65 Hz, 1H), 7.04 (t, J= 7.59 Hz, 1H), 7.13 - 7.18 (m, 1H), 7.20 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 8.40 (s,
   1H), 8.64 (dd, J= 10.35, 2.20 Hz, 2H). [M+H]       = 419.81.
15 Example 100.         9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3-iodobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  118

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
                  0
    I           N    NN
              N    N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) d 8.86 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.75 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.41 (s,
   1H), 7.95 (t, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.64 - 7.55 (m,2H), 7.05 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 4.37
   (s, 2H), 4.04 - 3.93 (m, 2H), 3.52 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (t, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.25 (d, J=
 5 6.4 Hz,6H). [M+H]      = 531.01.
   Example                  101.                            6-(3,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
    F           N    N
         F
           ** N
         04I)
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 1.27 (d, J     =  6.40 Hz, 6H),, 2.48 (t, J = 11.23 Hz, 2H),, 3.49
   (d, J =  11.04 Hz, 2H), 3.97 - 4.09 (m, 2H),, 4.35 (s, 2H),, 5.77 (s, 2H),, 6.71 - 6.81 (m, 1H),
   7.09 - 7.18 (m, 2H), 8.44 (s, 1H), 8.76 (d, J  = 2.38 Hz, 1H), 8.88 (d, J  = 2.26 Hz, 1H).
   [M+H]    = 441.20.
15 Example               102.                       6-(2-Bromo-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
                                                  119

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
          Br        0
                 N     N-N
     O         N         N
               N
          O
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) d 1.25 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.42 (t, J= 11.11 Hz, 2H), 3.42 (d,
   J= 11.04 Hz, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 3.99 - 4.08 (m, 2H), 4.28 (s, 2H), 5.84 (s, 2H), 6.70 - 6.77
   (m, 1H), 6.89 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (d, J= 2.51 Hz, 1H), 8.46 (s, 1H), 8.74 - 8.81 (m,
 5 2H). [M+H] = 514.10.
   Example              103.                   6-(2,6-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
          F           0
        ON              N
                   N
            Oy
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 1.24 (d, J      =  6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.39 (t, J = 11.11 Hz, 2H), 3.07
   3.15 (m, 1H), 3.36 (d, J= 11.29 Hz, 2H), 3.52 (s, 1H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.90 (s, 1H), 3.95 - 4.07
   (m, 2H), 4.24 (s, 2H), 5.84 (s, 2H), 6.36 - 6.47 (m, 2H), 6.62 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 8.40 (s, 1H),
   8.71 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.79 (d, J= 2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H] = 471.20.
15 Example     104.      9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-((1-methyl-iH-indazol-6
   yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  120

    WO 2013/192229                                                                   PCT/US2013/046415
                     0
                  N         N
     N
               N
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.93 (d, J          = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.68 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.41 (s,
    1H), 7.94 (d, J= 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (s, 1H), 7.66 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.45 (dd, J= 1.3, 8.4
   Hz, 1H), 5.95 (s, 2H), 4.30 (s, 2H), 4.07 (s, 3H), 4.01 (dd, J    =  6.4, 8.9 Hz, 2H), 3.43 (d, J=
 5  11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.42 (t, J     = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.23 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    = 459.20.
   Example                  105.                       6-(4-(1H-Pyrazol-1-yl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                       0
                   N          N
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.92 (d, J         = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.72 (d, J  = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s,
    1H), 7.91 (d, J  =   2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.78 - 7.74 (m, 2H), 7.73 (d, J  = 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.68 - 7.60 (m,
   2H), 6.50 - 6.44 (m, 1H), 5.84 (s, 2H), 4.33 (s, 2H), 4.13 - 3.92 (m, 2H), 3.46 (d, J= 11.0 Hz,
   3H), 2.45 (t, J  =   11.2 Hz, 3H), 1.25 (d, J  = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]     = 471.20.
15 Example             106.                  6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                     121

    WO 2013/192229                                                                    PCT/US2013/046415
               F        0
       F     /        N kN'N
     F   0           N      N
                         N
               O
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.68 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.32 (s,
    1H), 7.24 (t, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.83 - 6.71 (m, 2H), 6.60 - 6.18 (m, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 3.99 (br
   s, 2H), 3.83 (dd, J    =  6.5, 8.7 Hz, 2H), 3.10 (d, J  = 10.4 Hz, 2H), 2.16 (t, J = 10.7 Hz, 2H),
 5  1.12 (d, J   = 6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H]     = 489.16.
   Example                107.                     6-(3,5-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
      F            N N-N
           F
                           N
           Oy
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.81 (d, J          =  1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.71 (s, 1H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 7.24 - 7.15
   (m, 2H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 3.99 (br s, 1H), 3.95 (s, 3H), 3.93 - 3.83 (m, 2H), 3.71 (s, 1H), 2.23
   2.13 (m, 1H), 1.44 (s, 1H), 1.20 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]= 471.11.
   Example                108.                     6-(2,3 -Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
15 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one.
           F          0
      FN                N'N
                           N
           Oy
                                                      122

   WO 2013/192229                                                                   PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D ) d 1.20 (d, J         =  6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.25 - 2.54 (m, 2H), 3.10 - 3.22
   (m, 2H), 3.74 - 3.83 (m, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 4.05 - 4.30 (m, 2H), 5.83 (s, 2H), 6.77 - 6.86 (m,
   1H), 7.03 - 7.12 (m, 1H), 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.82 (s, 2H). [M+H]        = 471.20.
 5 Example              109.                    9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2
   ((trifluoromethyl)thio)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
       F
       F's       0
               N    N' N
             N          N
             N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.56 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.52 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.32 (s,
   1H), 7.69 (d, J  =  7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.30 - 7.21 (m, 2H), 7.14 (dd, J    = 1.6, 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.03 (s,
10 2H), 3.67 - 3.55 (m, 2H), 3.50 (s, 2H), 2.59 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 2H), 1.75 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H),
   1.06 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]      =  505.10.
   Example                 110.                         6-(3-Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
   CI           N     N
     F        N
                   N
15
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.64 (d, J      =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.56 (d, J   =  2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.29 (s,
   1H), 7.63 (dd, J   = 2.1, 7.0 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (ddd, J   = 2.3, 4.6, 8.5 Hz, 1H), 6.99 (t, J = 8.7 Hz,
   1H), 5.65 (s, 2H), 3.66 - 3.57 (m, 2H), 3.54 (s, 2H), 2.61 (d, J     = 10.3 Hz, 2H), 1.78 (t, J=
   10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.07 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]         = 457.09.
20
                                                    123

   WO 2013/192229                                                                      PCT/US2013/046415
   Example                    111.                              6-(3,4-Dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
    ci           N     N
                    N
          oY
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.63 (d, J         =  2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.56 (d, J   =  2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.30 (s,
 5 1H), 7.64 (d, J   =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.41 (dd, J  =  2.0, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (d, J   = 8.3 Hz, 1H), 5.65
   (s, 2H), 3.66 - 3.57 (m, 2H), 3.54 (s, 2H), 2.61 (d, J     =  10.4 Hz, 2H), 1.78 (t, J =  10.6 Hz,
   2H), 1.07 (d, J   =  6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]   =  473.04.
   Example                  112.                       6-(2-Chloro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
10 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
          ci        0
                 N      N''N
          O    N           N
               N
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 1.26 (d, J        =  6.27 Hz, 6H), 2.45 (t, J   =  11.23 Hz, 2H), 3.47 (d,
   J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 4.00 - 4.08 (m, 2H), 4.32 (s, 2H), 5.86 (s, 2H), 6.70 (dd, J=
   8.72, 2.57 Hz, 1H), 6.95 - 7.01 (m, 2H), 8.45 (s, 1H), 8.77 (d, J       = 1.63 Hz, 2H). [M+H]     =
15 469.20.
   Example                 113.                       6-(2-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                     124

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
       F
    F     O,      O
                N   N'N
             N         N
             N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.59 - 8.52 (m, 2H), 8.30 (s, 1H), 7.21 (s, 1H), 7.09 (d, J     = 7.9
   Hz, 2H), 7.03 - 6.97 (m, 1H), 6.82 - 6.39 (m, 1H), 5.80 (s, 2H), 3.64 - 3.56 (m, 2H), 3.52 (s,
   2H), 2.60 (d, J= 10.5 Hz, 2H), 1.76 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.06 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]       =
 5 471.16.
   Example               114.                        6-(4-Chloro-3-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
      F  7            N
               N
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.72 (d, J      = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.65 (d, J = 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.38 (s,
   1H), 7.46 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 3.76 - 3.67 (m, 2H), 3.63 (s, 2H), 2.70 (d, J= 10.3 Hz,
   2H), 1.87 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J= 6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H]      = 457.11.
   Example               115.                        6-(3-Chloro-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
15 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 125

    WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
    F            N     N
                           N
       *CI    N.
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.72 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.66 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s,
    1H), 7.40 (s, 1H), 7.26 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 7.04 - 6.99 (m, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.67 (m, 2H),
   3.64 (s, 2H), 2.71 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 2H), 1.87 (t, J     = 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.16 (d, J =  6.3 Hz, 6H).
 5 [M+H] = 457.10.
   Example        116.         9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(2-oxopyrrolidin-1
   yl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                        0
       N~          NN        N
           0
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.86 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.72 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.37 (s,
    1H), 7.61 (d, J   =   8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 4.35 (s, 2H), 3.99 (dd, J
   = 6.3, 9.2 Hz, 2H), 3.83 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 3.47 (d, J= 11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (t, J= 8.1 Hz,
   2H), 2.49 (t, J    =  11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.15 (quin, J = 7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.23 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]
   -488.17.
15
   Example 117.         9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                     126

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
                       0
                    N     N'N
                             N
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.90 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.67 (d, J  =  2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.37 (s,
    1H), 7.59 (d, J  =  8.7 Hz, 2H), 6.87 - 6.77 (m, 2H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 4.28 (s, 2H), 4.06 - 3.93 (m,
   4H), 3.40 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.40 (t, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.37 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H), 1.23 (d, J
 5 =  6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H]       = 449.20.
   Example                    118.                            6-(3,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
    F  7                 N
       F~      N~      NN
              N
         04
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.79 (s, 1H), 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 7.54 - 7.45 (m, 1H),
   7.41 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 1H), 7.14 - 7.05 (m, 1H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 3.93 - 3.77 (m, 4H), 2.99 (d, J=
   8.9 Hz, 2H), 2.15 - 2.03 (m, 2H), 1.19 (d, J    =  6.1 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    = 441.14.
   Example               119.                    9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
15 (methylthio)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                 N
           s               N
                                                    127

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 8.72 (s, 1H), 8.62 (s, 1H), 8.37 (s, 1H), 7.57 (d, J       = 8.0 Hz,
   2H), 7.19 (d, J   = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 5.76 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.67 (m, 2H), 3.63 (s, 2H), 2.71 (d, J  =
   10.9 Hz, 2H), 2.44 (s, 3H), 1.87 (t, J= 10.5 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]         =
   451.13.
 5
   Example             120.                 6-(2-Chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
        ci          0
      o           N    N
           r    N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) d 1.25 (d, J        = 6.15 Hz, 6H), 2.46 (t, J  = 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.06 (s,
10 3H), 3.44 - 3.49 (m, 2H), 3.93 - 4.05 (m, 3H), 4.30 (s, 2H), 5.94 (s, 2H), 7.14 (d, J= 8.28 Hz,
   1H), 7.70 (d, J   = 8.16 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 8.47 (s, 1H), 8.73 (s, 1H), 8.82 (s, 1H). [M+H]
   -517.10.
             Example 121 was made in a manner analogous                   to Example 1, with the
15 appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example      121.      6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(phenoxymethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                      N
              0
                                                   128

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            3.69 (s, 3H) 5.28 (s, 2H), 5.67 (s, 2H), 6.75 (d, J = 8.53 Hz,
   2H), 6.93 (d, J    = 8.53 Hz, 3H), 7.24 (s, 2H), 7.53 (d, J   = 8.78 Hz, 3H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.51
   8.61 (m, 1H). [M+H]      = 308.1.
 5         Examples 122 through 123 were made in a manner analogous to Example 72,
   with the appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example          122.             6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-isopropylpiperazin-1
   yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
        F         0
                N    N
                   N
                         N
10
   IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.70 (s, 2H), 8.45 - 8.31 (m, 1H), 7.13 - 6.99 (m, 1H), 6.71
   6.55 (m, 1H), 5.81 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.61 - 3.41 (m, 3H), 3.16 (s, 6H), 1.45
   1.31 (m, 6H). [M+H]      = 484.35.
15 Example       123.       6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
        F         0
    F           N~     N
              N        N
                  N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.90 - 8.72 (m, J= 2.3, 18.7 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 7.15
   7.02 (m, 1H), 6.70 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 5.80 (s, 2H), 4.37 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.73 - 3.60 (m,
20 2H), 2.73 (br s, 2H), 2.10 - 1.81 (m, 5H), 1.43 (br s, 1H). [M+H]     = 441.28.
                                                   129

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
            Examples 124 through 161 were made in a manner analogous to Example 89,
   with the appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
 5 Example              124.                 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,4,5
   trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
         F        0
    F          N       N
         F
                      <10
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.79 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.74 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.41 (s,
    1H), 7.18 (ddd, J= 6.8, 8.6, 10.3 Hz, 1H), 6.95 (dt, J= 6.5, 9.7 Hz, 1H), 5.79 (s, 2H), 4.20
10 (s, 2H), 4.03 - 3.91 (m, 2H), 3.31 (d, J= 11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.34 (t, J= 11.1 Hz, 2H), 1.22 (d, J=
   6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]       = 459.14.
   Example               125.                    9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
   isopropylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                 NILN
               N          N
15
    HNMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.85 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 8.66 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 8.37 (s,
    1H), 7.56 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.17 (d, J= 8.2Hz, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 4.10 (br s, 2H), 3.93 (dd,
   J= 6.5, 8.9 Hz, 2H), 3.21 (d, J= 10.9 Hz, 2H), 2.86 (quin, J= 6.9 Hz, 1H), 2.32 - 2.18 (m,
   2H), 1.23 - 1.17 (m, 12H). [M+H] = 447.2.
20
                                                    130

   WO 2013/192229                                                                   PCT/US2013/046415
   Example               126.                         6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
    F   O           N
                        N1
                           <,0
 5 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.87 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.68 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.38 (s,
   1H), 7.69 - 7.62 (m, 2H), 7.05 (d, J      = 8.7 Hz,2H), 6.68 - 6.26 (m, 1H), 5.77 (s, 2H), 4.20 (s,
   2H), 4.02 - 3.91 (m, 2H), 3.32 (d, J      = 11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.35 (t, J = 11.0 Hz, 2H), 1.22 (d, J=
   6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]       =  471.16.
10 Example         127.                9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-3,5
   difluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
       F           N     N
                             N
            F
                          K0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)             8.85 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.72 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s,
   1H), 7.23 - 7.14 (m, 2H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.23 - 4.12 (m, 4H), 4.02 - 3.91 (m, 2H), 3.31 (d, J=
15 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.35 (t, J     = 11.0 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H), 1.22 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H).
   [M+H]   =  485.19.
   Example 128. 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethynylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                     131

   WO 2013/192229                                                                   PCT/US2013/046415
                    0
                     N    N
       K          NII
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.70 (d, J=2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.38 (s,
   1H), 7.57 (d, J  =  8.3 Hz, 2H), 7.43 (d, J   = 8.3, Hz, 2H), 5.79 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.65 (m, 3H),
   3.62 (s, 2H), 2.69 (d, J   =  10.3 Hz, 2H), 1.85 (t, J =  10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H).
 5 [M+H] = 429.17.
   Example 129.          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-iodobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                 0
               N    N
                       N
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.87 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.71 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s,
   1H), 7.67 - 7.62 (m, 2H), 7.37 (d, J    =  8.4 Hz, 2H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 4.33 (s, 2H), 4.06 - 3.95 (m,
   2H), 3.47 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.46 (t, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.24 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]           =
   531.07.
15 Example                  130.                            6-(3,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
                   N
               N'13       N
                                                     132

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.93 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.70 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s,
   1H), 7.29 (d, J  =  1.9 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (dd, J  = 1.9, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 6.79 (d, J =  8.3 Hz, 1H), 5.75
   (s, 2H), 5.32 (s, 1H), 4.36 (s, 2H), 4.07 - 3.96 (m, 2H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.50 (d, J=
   11.4 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (t, J  =  11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.25 (d, J  =  6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    =  465.2.
 5
   Example            131.                  6-(3-Chloro-5-fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
    CI           N    N
          F
                     N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.87 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.75 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.42 (s,
10 1H), 7.43 (t, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (dd, J= 2.1, 11.3 Hz, 1H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.35 (s, 2H), 4.04
   - 3.95 (m, 2H), 3.92 (d, J  =  1.5 Hz, 3H), 3.50 (d, J  =  11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (t, J = 11.2 Hz, 2H),
   1.25 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]        = 487.13.
   Example         132.              9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxy-3
15 methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
                 N    N
                 N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.90 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.69 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s,
   1H), 7.50 - 7.41 (m, 2H), 6.74 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 4.34 (s, 2H), 4.06 - 3.96 (m,
   2H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.48 (d, J= 11.4 Hz, 2H), 2.46 (t, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.16 (s, 3H), 1.24 (d, J
20 =  6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H] = 449.2.
                                                   133

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
   Example             133.                    9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                   0
     O          N     N
                        N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)         1.24 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H),, 2.43 (t, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.44
 5 (d, J= 11.29 Hz, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.97 - 4.08 (m, 2H), 4.31 (s, 2H), 5.79 (s, 2H), 6.81 - 6.86
   (m, 1H), 7.16 - 7.27 (m, 3H), 8.41 (s, 1H), 8.70 (d, J  = 2.38 Hz, 1H), 8.88 (d, J = 2.26 Hz,
   1H). [M+H]    =  435.1.
   Example                  134.                            6-(2,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
10 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
     F        0
      F-    N     N
      F    N.
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)         1.24 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 6H),, 2.43 (t, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.43
   (d, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.98 - 4.07 (m, 2H), 4.30 (s, 2H), 5.85 (s, 2H), 6.92 - 6.99 (m, 2H),
   7.02 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 8.44 (s, 1H), 8.76 (s, 1H), 8.80 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 441.1.
15
   Example                  135.                            6-(2,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  134

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
         F        0
                N N
    F                   N
                N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13)           1.24 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H),, 2.43 (t, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.43
   (d, J  = 11.29 Hz, 2H), 3.96 - 4.08 (m, 2H), 4.29 (s, 2H), 5.84 (s, 2H), 6.78 - 6.88 (m, 2H),
   7.32 - 7.41 (m, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.74 (s, 1H), 8.81 (s, 1H). [M+H]    = 441.1.
 5
   Example              136.                    9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4
   (trifluoromethyl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                     0
                  N KN
     F          N        - \>
    F   F
                        N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          1.24 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H),, 2.44 (t, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.44
10 (d, J  = 11.17 Hz, 2H), 3.97 - 4.08 (m, 2H), 4.30 (s, 2H), 5.85 (s, 2H), 7.59 (d, J= 8.16 Hz,
   2H), 7.74 (d, J   = 8.16 Hz, 2H), 8.42 (s, 1H), 8.70 - 8.73 (m, 1H), 8.88 - 8.90 (m, 1H). [M+H]
   = 473.1.
   Example           137.             9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3
15 methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
             N  N
                   N
                                                   135

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13)           8.89 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.68 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s,
   1H), 7.36 (dd, J  = 2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (ddd, J  = 2.1, 4.3, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 6.98 (dd, J= 8.3,
   11.1 Hz, 1H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 4.21 (s, 2H), 4.01 - 3.91 (m, 2H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 3.32 (d, J= 11.2
   Hz, 2H), 2.35 (t, J= 11.1 Hz, 2H), 1.22 (d, J= 6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H]         =  453.14.
 5
   Example          138.              9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4
   methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
       F        0
              N    N'N
            N         N
                   N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          8.65 (dd, J= 2.2, 10.6 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 7.13 (t, J= 7.9
10 Hz, 1H), 6.92 - 6.81 (m, 2H), 5.84 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.65 (m, 2H), 3.61 (s, 2H), 2.70 (d, J   =  10.5
   Hz, 2H), 2.30 (s, 3H), 1.85 (t, J =  10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J  = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    = 437.15.
   Example               139.                     6-(2-Chloro-4,5-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
        ci       0
              N      N
    F-      N          N
        F
15                 1
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.69 (d, J =  2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (d, J    = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.42 (s,
   1H), 7.30 (dd, J  =  7.2, 9.7 Hz, 1H), 6.80 (dd, J  = 8.1, 10.7 Hz, 1H), 5.82 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.65
   (m, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 2.70 (d, J   =  10.4 Hz, 2H), 1.86 (t, J  =  10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J  = 6.3
   Hz, 6H). [M+H]     =  475.12.
20
                                                  136

    WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
   Example                140.                       6-(3-Chloro-2,4-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
          F        0
    CN                    N
        F               N \
                    N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.69 - 8.64 (m, 2H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 7.23 (dt, J= 6.0, 8.3 Hz,
 5  1H), 6.88 (dt, J  =  1.9, 8.5 Hz, 1H), 5.85 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.65 (m, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 2.69 (d, J
    = 10.3 Hz, 2H), 1.86 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d,     J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]     =  475.09.
   Example              141.                  9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3,4,5
   trimethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
       A          N      N
                N          N
                     N
10
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.74 (d, J=2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.37 (s,
    1H), 6.99 (s, 2H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 3.84 (s, 6H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.75 - 3.67 (m, 2H), 3.64 (s, 2H),
   2.70 (d, J =  10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.86 (t, J   = 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J =  6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    =
   495.2.
15
   Example                    142.                            6-(2,4-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5 -c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                     137

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
         CI        0
                N  N
   Ci         N          N
                   N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          8.80 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 1H), 8.73 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.45 (s,
   1H), 7.46 (d, J   = 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (dd, J = 2.1, 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.84
   (s, 2H), 4.34 (s, 2H), 4.04 - 3.94 (m, 2H), 3.50 (d, J  = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.47 (t, J = 11.2 Hz,
 5 2H), 1.24 (d, J   = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]   =  473.13.
   Example               143.                     6-(2,4-Dichloro-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
         CI        0
   CI           N      N
         F
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)         8.69 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.62 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s,
   1H), 7.51 (d, J= 6.5 Hz, 1H), 6.74 (d, J= 9.4 Hz, 1H), 5.82 (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.66 (m, 2H),
   3.63 (s, 2H), 2.71 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 2H), 1.87 (t, J= 10.6 Hz, 2H), 1.15 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H).
   [M+H]    = 491.13.
15 Example                 144.                        6-(2-Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                  138

   WO 2013/192229                                                                      PCT/US2013/046415
        CI        0
               N- N
    F        N            N
    HNMR(400MHz,CDC 3)                  8.67(d,J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.63 (d,J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.42(s,
   1H), 7.19 (dd, J     = 2.6, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 6.95 (dd, J    = 5.8, 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.87 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 5.86
   (s, 2H), 3.75 - 3.65 (m, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 2.69 (d, J       = 10.5 Hz, 2H), 1.86 (t, J = 10.7 Hz,
 5 2H), 1.15 (d, J    =  6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    = 457.1.
   Example                   145.                           6-(4-Chloro-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
         F          0
   CI          N           N
10 1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.66 (q, J=2.1 Hz, 2H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 7.22 (t, J= 8.2 Hz,
   1H), 7.11 (dd, J= 2.0, 9.8 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (dd, J= 1.4, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 5.83 (s, 2H), 3.79 - 3.66
   (m, 4H), 2.78 (d, J     =  10.4 Hz, 2H), 1.92 (t, J  =  10.4 Hz, 2H), 1.16 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H).
   [M+H]   =  457.15.
15 Example       146.          9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                       139

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
           F        0
             F
        F            N
                EN~      N
                       KO
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 )           8.69 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.55 (d, J= 2.1 Hz,
   1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 4.02 (s, 3H), 3.65 (s, 2H), 3.62 - 3.52 (m, 2H), 2.71 (d, J= 10.5 Hz, 2H),
   1.73 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.02 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]= 507.17.
 5
   Example               147.                      6-(4-Chloro-2,6-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
          F        0
       CI~
                    N
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 )           8.60 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.47 (d, J= 2.3 Hz,
10 1H), 7.28 - 7.21 (m, 2H), 5.64 (s, 2H), 3.57 (s, 2H), 3.55 - 3.45 (m, 2H), 2.63 (d, J  = 10.2 Hz,
   2H), 1.66 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 0.95 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]        = 475.14.
   Example          148.            9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3,5
   dimethylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
      F=      N'~      N
                  N
15
                                                   140

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            8.89 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.70 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s,
    1H), 7.29 - 7.24 (m, 2H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.33 (s, 2H), 4.06 - 3.96 (m, 2H), 3.47 (d, J    = 11.2 Hz,
   2H), 2.46 (t, J   = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.20 (d, J  =  2.0 Hz, 6H), 1.24 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    =
   451.22.
 5
   Example              149.                  9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,4
   trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
         F         0
    F            N     N
    F           N        N
                   N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)            1.17 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H),, 1.88 (t, J= 10.67 Hz, 2H), 2.71
10 (d, J =   10.42 Hz, 2H), 3.65 (s, 2H), 3.68 - 3.77 (m, 2H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 7.29 - 7.36 (m, 2H),
   8.40 (s, 1H), 8.67 (d, J   = 2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.73 (d, J  =  2.13 Hz, 1H). [M+H]   =  459.2.
   Example                   150.                              6-(2,3-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
          CI        0
    CI                 N
                          N
15                   I    0
    HNMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)             1.15 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 6H),, 1.86 (t, J= 10.67 Hz, 2H), 2.69
   (d, J =   10.29 Hz, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 3.66 - 3.75 (m, 2H), 5.91 (s, 2H), 6.79 (d, J  =  7.78 Hz,
    1H), 7.06 (t, J= 7.97 Hz, 1H), 7.40 (dd, J= 7.97, 1.19 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.62 (d, J
   2.13 Hz, 1H), 8.68 (d, J    =  2.26 Hz, 1H). [M+H]    =  474.2.
20
                                                     141

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
   Example               151.                     6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
         F        0
    F           N k N
                        N
                   IO
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           1.16 (d, J= 6.27 Hz, 6H),, 1.86 (t, J= 10.67 Hz, 2H), 2.27 (s,
 5 3H), 2.70 (d, J  =  10.29 Hz, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 3.66 - 3.76 (m, 2H), 5.87 (s, 2H), 6.78 - 6.85
   (m, 1H), 6.89 - 6.96 (m, 1H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 8.66 (d, J   =  6.65 Hz, 2H). [M+H]     = 455.2.
   Example            152.                6-(4-Chloro-3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
       F
    F     F          0
       0                  N
                     N
10                     1
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           1.16 (d, J= 6.40 Hz, 6H),, 1.86 (t, J= 10.67 Hz, 2H), 2.69
   (d, J =  10.29 Hz, 2H), 3.64 (s, 2H), 3.67 - 3.76 (m, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 7.41 (d, J   = 8.28 Hz,
   1H), 7.57 (dd, J   =  8.28, 1.88 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (s, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.65 (d, J = 2.26 Hz, 1H),
   8.72 (d, J= 2.13 Hz, 1H). [M+H]       = 523.2.
15
   Example                  153.                          6-(3,5-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                   142

   WO 2013/192229                                                                    PCT/US2013/046415
         1          0
   O             N     N
                          N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 )             8.86 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.74 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s,
   1H), 6.72 (d, J    =  2.3 Hz, 2H), 6.36 (t, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 4.37 (s, 2H), 4.04 - 3.95
   (m, 2H), 3.75 (s, 6H), 3.50 (d, J     = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (t, J = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.24 (d, J =  6.3
 5 Hz, 6H). [M+H]        =  465.21.
   Example               154.                  6-(3-Chloro-4-ethoxy-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                      0
      F            N     N
     01          N         N
        )cl
            010       N
                         1
10 1H   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.88 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.75 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s,
   1H), 7.42 (t, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (dd, J= 2.1, 11.1 Hz, 1H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.34 (s, 2H), 4.17
   - 4.08 (m, 2H), 4.05 - 3.96 (m, 2H), 3.47 (d, J      = 11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.47 (t, J = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.37
   (t, J  = 7.0 Hz, 3H), 1.24 (d, J   = 6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H]     = 501.16.
15 Example            155.            9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-2,3
   difluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                      143

    WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
            F           0
                    N     N'
      0          N~          N
                        N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13)              8.81 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.77 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s,
    1H), 7.09 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 6.67 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 5.81 (s, 2H), 4.35 (s, 2H), 4.07 (q, J  =  7.0 Hz,
   2H), 4.03 - 3.95 (m, 2H), 3.50 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.49 (t, J     =  11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.42 (t, J = 7.0
 5 Hz, 3H), 1.24 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]           = 485.16.
   Example                156.                 9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3,4,5
   trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                    0
    F             N    ,NN
    F                      N
         F
                      N
10  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)             8.88 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.78 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s,
    1H), 7.30 - 7.25 (m, 2H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 4.38 (s, 2H), 4.03 - 3.94 (m, 2H), 3.50 (d, J  =  11.2 Hz,
   2H), 2.51 (t, J     =  11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.24 (d, J =  6.4 Hz, 6H). [M+H] =  459.18.
   Example           157.           6-Benzyl-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
15 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                 0
           -~  N    N-N
              N       N
                 N
                                                       144

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          8.88 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.75 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (s,
   1H), 7.60 (dd, J= 1.4, 7.8 Hz, 2H), 7.33 - 7.27 (m, 3H), 5.79 (s, 2H), 4.38 (s, 2H), 4.04
   3.94 (m, 2H), 3.51 (d, J= 11.3 Hz, 2H), 2.50 (t, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.24 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H).
   [M+H]   =  405.2.
 5
   Example                  158.                            6-(3,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
             N        N
                       N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          8.88 (d, J=2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.72 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.38 (s,
10 1H), 7.38 (s, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (d, J    = 7.7 Hz, 1H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 4.36 (s,
   2H), 4.07 - 3.96 (m, 2H), 3.48 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (t, J     = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (d, J=
   3.9 Hz, 6H), 1.23 (d, J   = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    = 433.28.
   Example                  159.                            6-(2,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
15 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
               N      N
                    N
                N
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          8.77 (q, J=2.3 Hz, 2H), 8.42 (s, 1H), 7.04 (s, 1H), 6.84 (d, J
   = 0.9 Hz, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 4.34 (s, 2H), 4.04 - 3.94 (m, 2H), 3.49 (d, J = 11.4 Hz, 2H), 2.54
   (s, 3H), 2.47 (t, J  = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 2.26 (s, 3H), 1.23 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]    = 433.26.
20
                                                   145

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
   Example      160.        9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
   methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one
        F        0
   F           N    N
          FF        N N
    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 )           8.68 (d, J= 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.62 (s, 1H), 8.55 (d, J= 2.1 Hz,
 5 1H), 5.77 (s, 2H), 3.64 (s, 2H), 3.61 - 3.53 (m, 2H), 2.73 - 2.67 (m, 2H), 2.22 (s, 3H), 1.73 (t,
   J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 1.02 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]        =  491.21.
   Example             161.                    6-(Benzo[d] [1,3]dioxol-5-ylmethyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                 0
         ON         N
    \--o
                  N
10
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)          8.89 (s, 1H), 8.71 (br s, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 7.19 - 7.12 (m,
   2H), 6.74 (d, J  = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.91 (s, 2H), 5.70 (s, 2H), 4.32 (s, 2H), 4.08 - 3.96 (m, 2H),
   3.71 (s, 2H), 2.44 (t, J = 11.2 Hz, 2H), 1.24 (d, J  = 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]     =  449.21.
15          Examples 162 through 169 were made in a manner analogous to Example 72,
   with the appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
   Example    162.      6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin
   5(6H)-one.
                                                   146

   WO 2013/192229                                                                PCT/US2013/046415
                 0
      0-      N
                     N
                  N
                  N
                      0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)          8.93 (s, 1H), 8.66 (s, 1H), 7.52 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 6.82
   6.88 (m, 2H), 5.70 (s, 2H), 4.72 (s, 2H), 3.96 (br s, 4H), 3.74 (s, 3H), 3.37-3.50 (m, 4H).
   [M+H]   =  408.21.
 5
   Example 163.         6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one.
                 0
               N N
               J    N    N>
                  N
                        0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)          8.94 (s, 1H), 8.65 (s, 1H), 7.51 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 6.79
10 6.89 (m, 2H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 4.74 (s, 2H), 4.10 (dd, J= 3.45, 13.36 Hz, 1H), 3.83-3.97 (m,
   2H), 3.73 (s, 3H), 3.57 (d, J = 12.30 Hz, 2H), 3.21-3.28 (m, 1H), 2.98 (t, J   = 11.67 Hz, 1H),
   1.23 (d, J = 6.27 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 422.23.
   Example 164.       6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin
15 5(6H)-one.
                 0
                        N
    o
        0            N
                  N
                                                 147

   WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)             8.93 (s, 1H), 8.65 (s, 1H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.66 Hz, 2H), 6.84 (d,
   J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 5.60-5.74 (m, 2H), 4.70 (s, 2H), 3.73 (s, 3H), 3.66 (d, J= 10.29 Hz, 2H),
   3.15 (d, J= 11.17 Hz, 2H), 1.77-2.04 (m, 5H), 1.59 (br s, 1H). [M+H] = 406.27.
 5 Example           165.               6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)
   [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pteridin-5 (6H)-one
                  0
                 N         O
                   KN
   0                    N
                   N
                           0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)             8.92 (s, 1H), 8.66 (s, 1H), 7.48-7.55 (m, 2H), 6.82-6.88 (m,
   2H), 5.70 (s, 2H), 4.73 (s, 2H), 3.74 (s, 3H), 3.62-3.69 (m, 1H), 3.48 (dd, J= 1.63, 3.26 Hz,
10 3H), 3.38 (s, 3H), 2.24-2.38 (m, 1H), 1.94-2.22 (m, 3H), 1.77 (br s, 1H). [M+H]        = 436.3.
   Example 166.       9-((4-Acetylpiperazin-1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one.
                  0
         o              N
    o              N
                   N
                        N    O
15 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)             8.94 (s, 1H), 8.66 (s, 1H), 7.52 (d, J= 8.78 Hz, 2H), 6.82
   6.88 (m, 2H), 5.70 (s, 2H), 4.69 (s, 2H), 3.78-3.95 (m, 3H), 3.74 (s, 3H), 3.34-3.50 (m, 3H),
   2.79 (br s, 2H), 2.16 (s, 3H). [M+H]     =  449.29.
   Example 167.       9-((1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(2,3-difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                    148

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
        F        0
    F  ~       N    N
                 N
                       0
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.84 (dd, J= 2.3, 13.2 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 7.13  - 7.04 (m,
   1H), 6.70 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 5.80 (s, 2H), 4.49 (s, 2H), 3.95 (t, J  = 4.3 Hz, 2H), 3.91 - 3.78 (m,
   5H), 3.58 - 3.29 (m, 4H), 2.32 (br s, 2H). [M+H]      = 457.24.
 5
   Example                  168.                            6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3
   methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
        F        0
    F          N    N'
   0             N     N
                  N
                       0
   1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3)           8.83 (dd, J= 2.3, 15.9 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 7.14  - 7.03 (m,
10 1H), 6.71 - 6.58 (m, 1H), 5.80 (s, 2H), 4.91 - 4.61 (m, 1H), 4.15 (d, J= 11.0 Hz, 1H), 4.07
   3.73 (m, 7H), 3.32 (d, J   =  11.7 Hz, 2H), 3.16 - 2.90 (m, 1H), 1.61 (d, J = 6.5 Hz, 3H).
   [M+H]   = 457.26.
   Example          169.                6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3-hydroxyazetidin-1
15 yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
        F        0
    F          N    N'
   0         N      N
                         OH
                                                   149

   WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)           8.87 - 8.80 (m, 2H), 8.53 (s, 1H), 7.09  - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.81
   6.72 (in, 1H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 4.73 - 4.60 (in, 3H), 4.42 (dd, J = 6.7, 11.5 Hz, 2H), 4.06 (dd, J=
   5.4, 11.3 Hz, 2H), 3.82 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 429.26.
 5                                     PDE1b Inhibitory Assay
                                           Assay Conditions
           PDElb inhibition was determined by an IMAP TR-FRET assay.                 The IMAP TR
   FRET PDE assay was optimized for concentration of enzyme, Calmodulin, cAMP or cGMP
   substrate, DMSO tolerance, and incubation time.
10         Into each well of a solid white 1536 well plate (Coming) was dispensed 250 pg full
   length recombinant NH-terminal GST tagged human PDElb enzyme (BPS Bioscience Cat #
   60011, San Diego, CA) in 2.5            L IMAP BSA reaction buffer (Molecular Devices,
   Sunnyvale, CA) containing 10 U/mL Calmodulin and 2.5 mM CaCl 2 (Sigma Aldrich.) After a
   brief centrifugation, 30 nL compound was added by transfer from 1 mM stock in DMSO
15 using a Kalypsys 1536 Pintool. Plates were incubated for 5 minutes at room temperature
   before dispensing 1.5    L of 533 nM 5-carboxy fluorescein (FAM)-labeled cAMP (Molecular
   Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) for a final concentration of 200 nM. After a brief centrifugation, the
   plates were incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature. The assay was terminated by
   adding 5      L IMAP binding reagent/Tb complex (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) to
20 each well.
           Plates were incubated 1 hour at room temperature and read on a Viewlux multimode
   plate reader (Perkin Elmer).    The instrument was set to excite using the DUGl 1 filter and
   measure using 490/10 nm and 520/10 nm filters.          Ratios of acceptor and donor were then
   calculated.
25                                           Data Analysis
           For EC50 calculations, the values of % efficacy versus a series of compound
   concentrations were then plotted using non-linear regression analysis of sigmoidal dose
   response curves generated with the equation Y = B+(T-B)/1+10((LogEC 5o-X)            x Hill Slope),
   where Y = percent activity, B = minimum percent efficacy, T = maximum percent efficacy, X
                                                  150

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
   = logarithm of compound and Hill Slope = slope factor or Hill coefficient. The EC50 value
   was determined by the concentration causing a half-maximal percent efficacy.
                                                  Results
            The following Table presents the negative log of the half-maximal molar inhibitory
 5 concentration (pEC5 o), with respect to PDElb activity, for compounds of Formula (I).
      PDE1b           Example Numbers
      (pEC5o)
                >7    5, 7, 36, 40, 41, 44, 45, 62, 63, 69, 82, 84, 86, 88, 93, 103, 128, 147, 161;
                6-7    1,4, 6, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
                      37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 46, 47, 49, 50, 52, 55, 61, 64, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 75, 76,
                      77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 85, 87, 90, 91, 92, 94, 100, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111,
                       112, 114, 117, 118, 119, 121, 124, 126, 129, 131, 132, 134, 135, 138, 140,
                       142, 145, 146, 150, 151, 157, 158, 159, 160, 162, 163, 165, 166, 167, 168;
                5-6   2,3, 10, 11, 12, 18, 21, 25, 27, 28, 35, 48, 51, 53, 54, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 65,
                      66, 67, 74, 89, 99, 101, 102, 115, 122, 123, 125, 127, 133, 136, 139, 143,
                       144, 149, 155, 156, 164, 169;
                <5    95,96,97,98,104,105,109,113,116,120,137,148,152,153,154.
                                    PDE1 Selectivity of Compounds
                                            Assay Conditions
            The selectivity of compounds of the present invention was determined using a panel
10 of recombinant human PDEs and an in vitro enzymatic assay (BPS Bioscience). Series of
   dilutions of each test compound were prepared with 10% DMSO in assay buffer and 5pL of
   the dilution was added to a 50pL reaction so that the final concentration of DMSO is 1% in
   all of reactions.
            The enzymatic reactions were conducted at room temperature for 60 minutes in a
15 50pL mixture containing PDE assay buffer, 100 nM FAM-cAMP, or 100 nM FAM-cGMP, a
   recombinant PDE enzyme and the test compound.
            After the enzymatic reaction, 100 pL of a binding solution (1:100 dilution of the
   binding agent with the binding agent diluent) was added to each reaction and the reaction was
   performed at room temperature for 60 minutes.
20          Fluorescence intensity was measured at an excitation of 485 nm and an emission of
   528 nm using a Tecan Infinite M1000 microplate reader.
                                                    151

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
                                            Data Analysis
           PDE activity assays were performed in duplicate at each concentration. Fluorescence
   intensity is converted to fluorescence polarization using the Tecan Magellan6 software. The
   fluorescence polarization data were analyzed using the computer software, Graphpad Prism.
 5 The fluorescence polarization (FPt) in absence of the compound in each data set was defined
   as 100% activity. In the absence of PDE and the compound, the value of fluorescent
   polarization (FPb) in each data set was defined as 0% activity. The percent activity in the
   presence of the compound was calculated according to the following equation: % activity =
   (FP-FPb)/(FPt-FPb)x10%, where FP= the fluorescence polarization in the presence of the
10 compound.
           For EC 50 calculations, the values of % activity versus a series of compound
   concentrations were then plotted using non-linear regression analysis of Sigmoidal dose
   response curve generated with the equation Y = B+(T-B)/1+10((LogECo-X) x Hill Slope),
   where Y = percent activity, B=minimum percent activity, T=maximum percent activity, X =
15 logarithm of compound and Hill Slope = slope factor or Hill coefficient. The EC50 value was
   determined by the concentration causing a half-maximal percent activity.
                                               Results
           Exemplary compounds of the present invention displayed selectivity for PDEl
   enzymes versus isoforms from many, if not all, other PDE families. In addition, exemplary
20 compounds showed greater specificity for PDElb compared to PDEla and PDElc.
                                   BIOLOGICAL EXAMPLES
           The present disclosure will be further illustrated by the following biological examples.
   These examples are understood to be exemplary only, and not to limit the scope of the
25 invention disclosed herein.
                                        Biological Example 1
            Effect of siRNA Mediated Knockdown of PDE1B on Memory Formation
           The role of pdelb in memory formation in animals was evaluated by RNA
   interference. See, e.g., Peters et al., 2009, Genes Brain Behav. 8, 320-329.         The results
30 showed that siRNA-mediated inhibition of pdelb in animals enhanced several forms of long
                                                 152

    WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   term memory, including contextual and temporal (trace) memory.
                                              Procedures
            siRNA
            Initially, several non-modified siRNAs were tested for pdela and pdelb knockdown
 5 in vitro using Neuro 2a cells. The siRNAs were specific to the Pdel isoforms as identified by
   BLAST search. Several siRNAs showed efficacy in reducing pdelb mRNA levels and were
   chosen for further in vivo characterization.      The behavioral studies used in vivo grade
   siSTABLE siRNA, which was chemically modified to enhance stability (Dharmacon Inc.,
   Lafayette,     USA).        The  sequence   of the pdelb-6      siRNA   sense    strand  was:
10 5'-GCUACAUGGUGAAGCAGUU-3'. The sequence of the non-targeting, control siRNA
   sense strand was: 5'-UAGCGACUAAACACAUCAAUU-3'.
            Subjects
           Young-adult (12-16 weeks old) C57BL/6Jax (Jackson Laboratories) male mice were
   utilized for contextual conditioning and C57Bl/6NTac (Taconic Farms) mice for trace fear
15 conditioning. Upon arrival, mice were group-housed (5 mice) in standard laboratory cages
   and maintained on a 12:12 hours light-dark cycle. Experiments were always conducted
   during the light phase of the cycle.
           After surgery for hippocampal cannulation, mice were housed in individual cages for
   the duration of the experiment. Mice received food and water ad libitum except when being
20 trained or tested. They were maintained and bred under standard conditions, consistent with
   National Institutes of Health (NIH) guidelines and approved by the Institutional Animal Care
   and Use Committee.
           Animal Surgery
            For both contextual and trace conditioning, mice were infused with non-targeting or
25 Pdelb siRNA into the hippocampus. For the injection of siRNA, mice were anesthetized with
   20 mg/kg Avertin and implanted with a 33-gauge guide cannula bilateraly into the dorsal
   hippocampus (coordinates: A=-1.8 mm, L=+/-1.5 mm to a depth of 1.2 mm) or into
   amygdala (coordinates: A = -1.58 mm, L = +/-2.8 mm to a depth of 4.0 mm) (Franklin and
   Paxinos, The Mouse Brain in Stereotaxic Coordinates. Academic Press, San Diego 2003).
30 Five to nine days after recovery from surgery, animals were injected with siRNA diluted to
   0.5 pg/pl in 5% glucose and mixed with 6 equivalents of a 22 kDa linear polyethyleneimine
                                                 153

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   (Fermentas). After 10 min of incubation at room temperature, 2 pl were injected into each
   hippocampus through an infusion cannula that was connected to a micro-syringe by a
   polyethylene tube. Animals were handled gently to minimize stress.
           A total of 3 infusions of siRNA were given over a period of 3 days (1 pg siRNA per
 5 hippocampus per day). Mice were trained 3 days after the last siRNA injection and tested 24
   hours later. Behavioral testing was initiated 3 days later. This design was chosen based on
   pilot experiments on siRNA knockdown in hippocampus, and because previous studies have
   indicated that gene-knockdown by siRNA duplexes takes several days to develop in CNS.
   See, e.g., Salahpour et al., 2007, Biol. Psychiatry 61, 65-69; Tan et al., 2005, Gene Therapy
10  12, 59-66; Thakker et al., 2004, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101, 17270-17275.
                                          Fear Conditioning
            Rationale
            Contextual fear conditioning is a form of associative learning in which animals learn
   to recognize a training environment (conditioned stimulus, CS) that has been previously
15 paired with an aversive stimulus such as foot shock (unconditioned stimulus, US). When
   exposed to the same context at a later time, conditioned animals show a variety of conditional
   fear responses, including freezing behavior. See, e.g., Fanselow, 1984, Behav. Neurosci. 98,
   269-277; Fanselow, 1984, Behav. Neurosci. 98, 79-95; Phillips and LeDoux, 1992, Behav.
   Neurosci. 106, 274-285.
20          Contextual conditioning has been used to investigate the neural substrates mediating
   fear-motivated learning. See, e.g., Phillips and LeDoux, 1992, Behav. Neurosci. 106, 274
   285; Kim et al., 1993, Behav. Neurosci. 107, 1093-1098. Recent studies in mice and rats
   provided evidence for functional interaction between hippocampal and non-hippocampal
   systems during contextual conditioning training. See, e.g., Maren et al., 1997, Behav. Brain
25 Res. 88, 261-274; Maren et al., 1997, Neurobiol. Learn. Mem. 67, 142-149; Frankland et al.,
    1998, Behav. Neurosci. 112, 863-874. Specifically, post-training lesions of the hippocampus
   (but not pre-training lesions) greatly reduced contextual fear, implying that: 1) the
   hippocampus is essential for contextual memory but not for contextual learning per se and 2)
   in the absence of the hippocampus during training, non-hippocampal systems can support
30 contextual conditioning.
            Contextual conditioning has been extensively used to study the impact of various
                                                  154

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   mutations on hippocampus-dependent learning and memory and strain differences in mice.
   See, e.g., Bourtchouladze et al., 1994, Cell 79, 59-68; Bourtchouladze et al., 1998, Learn
   Mem. 5, 365-374; Kogan et al., 1997, Current Biology 7, 1-11; Silva et al., 1996, Current
   Biology 6, 1509-1518; Abel et al., 1997, Cell 88, 615-626; Giese et al., 1998, Science 279,
 5 870-873; Logue et al., 1997, Neuroscience 80, 1075-1086; Chen et al., 1996, Behav.
   Neurosci. 110, 1177-1180; Nguyen et al., 2000, Learn Mem. 7, 170-179.
            Because robust learning can be triggered with a few minutes training session,
   contextual conditioning has been especially useful to study the biology of temporally distinct
   processes of short- and long-term memory. See, e.g., Kim et al., 1993, Behav. Neurosci. 107,
10  1093-1098; Abel et al., 1997, Cell 88, 615-626; Bourtchouladze et al., 1994, Cell 79, 59-68;
   Bourtchouladze et al., 1998, Learn. Mem. 5, 365-374. As such, contextual conditioning
   provides an excellent model to evaluate the role of various novel genes in hippocampal
   dependent memory formation.
           Protocol
15         Previous investigations had established that training with 1x or 2x CS-US pairings
   induces sub-maximal (weak) memory in wild-type mice. See, e.g., U.S.2009/0053140; Tully
   et al., 2003, Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 2, 267-77; Bourtchouladze et al. 1998, Learn. Mem. 5,
   365-374. Accordingly, contextual conditioning in this study was performed as described by
   Bourtchouladze et al., 1994, Cell 79, 59-68.
20          An automated fear conditioning system (Colburn Instruments) was used for
   contextual conditioning and a manual setup (Med Associates) for trace fear conditioning.
   Mice were placed in the conditioning chamber and allowed to explore for 2 min. A total of
   two foot-shocks were delivered (0.6 mA, 2 s duration) with an inter-trial interval of 1 min.
   Freezing was scored for 30 s after the last foot-shock (immediate freezing). Mice were then
25 returned to their home-cage. Memory was tested after 24 h (LTM). To assess contextual
   memory, freezing behavior was scored for 3 min intervals of 1 s in the chamber in which the
   mice were trained
                                         Trace Conditioning
            Rationale
30          Trace fear conditioning is a form of Pavlovian conditioning, in which an interval of
   time passes between CS termination and UCS onset. Thus, the CS and US are separated in
                                                 155

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   time by a trace interval, and the memory of this temporal relationship requires the
   hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. See Knight et al., 2004, J. Neurosci. 24, 218-228.
           Trace conditioning becomes increasingly difficult as the time interval between CS and
   US increases. For example, C57BL/6 mice show poor memory if the trace interval between
 5 CS and US is 60 seconds or longer. See, e.g., U.S.2009/0053140. Moreover, previous studies
   have demonstrated that this memory impairment can be overcome if mice are treated with
   siRNA against PP1, a negative regulator of plasticity in the hippocampus. Peters et al., 2009,
   Genes Brain Behav. 8, 320-329.         Consequently, the trace conditioning assay provides a
   method to test the ability of a compound to facilitate hippocampal-dependent memory.
10         Protocol
           Facilitation of temporal memory in this study was assessed using a single CS-US
   pairing with a 60 s trace interval.      For this study, standardized mouse contextual fear
   conditioning equipment was used (Med Associates, Inc., VA; Bourtchouladze et al., 1994,
   Cell 79, 59-68; (Bourtchouladze et al., 1998 Learn Mem. 5, 365-374). On the training day,
15 the mouse was placed into the conditioning chamber for 2 minutes before the onset of the
   conditioned stimulus (CS), a 2800 Hz tone, which lasted for 20 seconds at 75 dB. Sixty
   seconds after the end of the tone, a 0.5 mA shock unconditioned stimulus (US) was delivered
   to the animal for two seconds. Following an additional 30 s in the chamber, the mouse was
   returned to its home cage.
20         Mice were tested at 24 h after training in a novel chamber located in another
   procedural room to avoid confounding effects of contextual conditioning. The internal
   conditioning chamber was removed and replaced with a mouse cage. Different colored tape
   was placed on the backside of each cage to differentiate one from another. Three different
   cages were used in rotation in order to decrease the possibility of scent contamination from
25 subject to subject. A 30-watt lamp was placed inside the chamber to insure difference in
   illumination between training and testing. The cages were cleaned using a soapy solution
   instead of ethanol.
           Each test began with two minutes of light only (pre-CS), then 20 seconds of tone
   presentation (CS), followed by an additional 30 seconds of light only (post-CS). In the same
30 manner as during training, the mice were scored one at a time for "freezing" in five-second
   intervals, as for contextual conditioning described above. The proceeding of each experiment
   was filmed. The proportion of the freezing response specific to the auditory memory was
                                                 156

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   determined by subtraction of preCS freezing (non-specific) from CS freezing (CS - preCS).
                                         Statistical Analyses
           All behavioral experiments were designed and performed in a balanced fashion: First,
   for each experimental condition (e.g., a specific dose effect) an equal number of experimental
 5 and control mice were used.       Second, each experimental condition was replicated several
   times and replicate days were added to generate final number of subjects. Third, each session
   was video recorded and the experimenter was unaware (blind) to the treatment the subjects
   during training and testing.
           Data were analyzed by ANOVA using JMP software. Except where indicated, all
10 values in the text and figures are expressed as mean + SEM.
                                                Results
           Contextual Memory
           When tested in contextual fear conditioning with 2 CS-US pairings to induce weak
   (sub-maximal) contextual memory, pdelb siRNA-injected mice showed significantly
15 enhanced freezing 24 hours after training, compared to non-targeting siRNA-injected mice
   (FIG. 1).
           Trace Memory
           Similarly, when tested in trace conditioning with one CS/US pairing and a 60-s trace
   interval, pdelb siRNA-injected mice showed enhanced trace memory (FIG. 2). Repeated
20 measures ANOVA revealed a significant treatment-by-trial interaction (p < 0.05). Contrast
   analysis revealed that pdelb siRNA and control mice froze an equal proportion of time to
   tone (CS: p = 0.13, preCS: p = 0.54). However, only pdelb siRNA-treated mice formed a
   memory for the CS, while mice treated with control siRNA did not (effect of tone CS: p <
   0.05 and p = 0.62 for pdelb and control siRNA, respectively). Moreover, pdelb treated mice
25 showed significantly higher freezing if the nonspecific freezing in the alternate testing
   context was subtracted from the response to tone CS (CS - preCS: p < 0.05). Thus, siRNA
   mediated knockdown of hippocampal pdelb enhanced memory formation after trace fear
   conditioning as observed for contextual fear conditioning.
          Taken together these results show that Pdelb is a negative regulator of memory
30 formation in the hippocampus, a temporal lobe structure that is critical to memory formation
                                                 157

    WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   in mice as well as in humans. Importantly, Pde lb siRNA induced a 'gain of function' (that is,
   enhancement of contextual and temporal memory formation). Hence these results show that
   Pdelb is a valid target for enhancing cognition, and memory specifically.
                                        Biological Example 2
 5              Effect of siRNA Mediated Knockdown of PDE1 on Neurite Growth
            In the mouse, pdelb is highly expressed in the dentate gyrus and olfactory bulb, the
   two areas where neurogenesis occurs in the adult nervous system. Neurogenesis is the
   process by which new neurons are born and undergo dendritic and synaptic differentiation to
   integrate with functional circuitry. Neurogenesis in the hippocampus has been implicated in
10 memory formation. See, e.g., Shors et al., 2001, Nature 410, 372-376; Shors et al., 2004,
   Trends Neurosci. 27, 250-256. The studies here evaluated the effect of pdelb inhibition of
   neurite outgrowth in the PC12 subclone NS1 (Cellomics). Neurite outgrowth (NOG) in PC12
   cells (and primary neurons) occurs upon activation of signaling pathways that act through
   CREB. See, e.g., Greene and Tischler, 1976, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73, 2424-2428;
15 Cheng et al., 2002, J. Biol. Chem. 277, 33930-33942.
            This study evaluated the effect on neurite outgrowth (NOG) of drugs known to
   enhance cAMP-mediated activation of CREB, i.e., the PDE4 inhibitor rolipram - and
   compared these effects with those induced by siRNA-mediated inhibition ofpdelb.
                                              Methods
20          Cell Culture
            Neuroscreen 1 (NS1) Cells (Cellomics Inc.) were cultured on collagen type I coated
   75 cm2 plastic flasks (Biocoat, Becton Dickinson) in a humidified incubator at 370 C in 5%
   C02. Cells were cultured in RPMI complete cell culture medium (Cambrex) supplemented
   with 10% heat-inactivated horse serum (Invitrogen), 5% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum
25 (Cellgro), and 2 mM L-glutamine (Cambrex). For expansion, the cells were trypsinized and
   split at 80% confluence. Cell culture media was changed every 2 to 3 days.
            NS1 cells were harvested and counted using a Coulter counter (Becton Dickinson
   Coulter ZI). Cells were seeded in 96-well collagen I coated plates at a density of 2000 cells
   per well in volume of 200pl. RPMI media was supplemented with 200ng/ml nerve growth
30 factor (NGF, Sigma). NS1 cells were incubated for 72 hours to allow differentiation to a
   neuronal phenotype. NGF as then diluted to 50 ng/ml and the cells were treated with siRNA
                                                 158

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   or compound at the indicated doses in Figure 2A.
           Neurite Outgrowth Assay
           Neurite outgrowth (NOG) assays were performed using the Cellomics Arrayscan II
   Vti HCS scanner. Cells were stained using the HitKitTM HCS reagent kit (Cellomics)
 5 according to the manufacturer's instructions (which were previously validated for specific
   labeling of both neurites and neuronal cell bodies.        Briefly, cells were fixed in 3.7%
   formaldehyde and stained with Hoechst dye to label the nuclei. The cells were then washed
   in neurite outgrowth buffer, incubated for one hour with the primary antibody for neurite
   outgrowth (anti-tubulin III), washed again, and incubated with fluorescently labeled
10 secondary antibody solution for 1 hr.
           Antibody-stained 96-well plates were stored at 4'C in the dark until scanning. Plates
   were scanned using Cellomics ArrayScan II Vti HCS scanner. The neurite outgrowth assay is
   based on two channels to scanning: (1) Channel 1, which detects the Hoechst Dye and is used
   by the software to identify cells and for automated focusing; and (2) Channel 2, which detects
15 the FITC fluorescence of the secondary antibody and is used by the software to calculate all
   data generated in reference to neurites.
           siRNA and Drug administration
           The pdelb-specific siRNAs were the same as those described in Biological Example
    1. The adenylyl cyclase stimulator forskolin and the selective PDE4 small molecule inhibitor
20 Rolipram were administered at the doses indicated in FIG. 3A.
                                                Results
           As shown in FIG. 3A, neurite length and branching in NS 1 cells was enhanced in
   dose-dependent manner by acute treatment with Rolipram and forskolin - but was not
   affected by treatment with Rolipram alone. Similarly, FIG. 3B shows that neurite outgrowth
25 in NS 1 cells was enhanced by siRNA-mediated knockdown ofpde4d (the target of Rolipram)
   or pdelb in combination with forskolin. In contrast to Rolipram (which likely only inhibits
   PDE4 for several hours), pde4d and pdelb siRNA administration (> 48 h) each had a small
   effect on NOG without the addition of Forskolin.
           These results demonstrate that Pdelb inhibition leads to a functional enhancement of
30 neurite growth in NS 1 cells. Accordingly, the NOG assay also offers a suitable secondary
   (cellular/phenotypic) assay to test Pdelb inhibitors identified from a high throughput
                                                 159

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   screening campaign.
                                         Biological Example 3
                            Effect of Exemplary Compounds on Memory
             The studies here evaluated the effect of exemplary compounds of the present
 5 invention on memory and on haloperidol induced catalepsy in mice and rats.
                                                Methods
             Subjects
             Three month old B6129F1/J hybrid male mice (Jackson Laboratories, Bar Harbor,
   ME) male mice were utilized for contextual conditioning fear conditioning and novel object
10 recognition studies and C57BL/6J males (Jackson Laboratories) were used for catalepsy
   studies. Outbred hooded Long Evans rats (200g average weight, Harlan) were used for rat
   object recognition and fear conditioning. Upon arrival, mice were group-housed (4
   mice/cage) in Inovive IVC racks and maintained on a 12:12 hours light-dark cycle. Rats
   were house in standard cages in groups of two. Experiments were always conducted during
15 the light phase of the cycle. The animals received food and water ad libitum except during
   training and testing. All procedures were consistent with National Institutes of Health (NIH)
   guidelines and approved by the DNS/Helicon Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.
             Drug Administration
            Pdel inhibitors and positive control were dosed in a Vehicle containing 10% DMSO,
20 30% PEG (MW400) and 60% PBS, unless specified otherwise. For subcutaneous dosing
   (s.c.), all drugs were administered at a volume of 10 ml per kg 30 min prior to behavior
   training unless specified otherwise. For oral dosing (p.o.), animals were dosed at the
   indicated amount 30 minutes prior to training.
                                       Contextual Conditioning
25           Protocol
             Contextual conditioning was essentially carried out as described in Biological
   Example 1. An automated fear conditioning system (Colburn Instruments) was used for
   contextual conditioning and a manual setup (Med Associates) for trace fear conditioning.
   Mice were placed in the conditioning chamber and allowed to explore for 2 min. A total of
30 two foot-shocks were delivered (0.2 mA, 2 s duration) with an inter-trial interval of 1 min.
                                                   160

    WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   As previously noted, these training conditions generate sub-maximal, or weak, memory in
   control mice, thereby allowing one to evaluate whether a Pdelb compound of the present
   invention can enhance memory formation.
            Freezing was scored for 30 s after the last foot-shock (immediate freezing). The mice
 5 were then returned to their home-cage. Memory was tested after 24 h (LTM) for 3 min by
   scoring freezing behavior in intervals of Is in the chamber in which the mice were trained.
                                     Object Recognition Memory
            Rationale
            Novel Object Recognition (NOR) is an assay of recognition learning and memory
10 retrieval, which takes advantage of the spontaneous preference of rodents to investigate a
   novel object compared with a familiar one.
            The NOR test has been employed extensively to assess the potential cognitive
   enhancing properties of novel compounds derived from high-throughput screening. Object
   recognition is an ethologically relevant task that does not result from negative reinforcement
15 (foot shock). This task relies on the natural curiosity of rodents to explore novel objects in
   their environments more than familiar ones. Obviously, for an object to be "familiar," the
   animal must have attended to it before and remembered that experience. Hence, animals with
   better memory will attend and explore a new object more than an object familiar to them.
   During testing, the animal is presented with the training object and a second, novel one.
20 Memory of the training object renders it familiar to the animal, and it then spends more time
   exploring the new novel object rather than the familiar one. See Bourtchouladze et. al., 2003,
   Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100, 10518-10522).
           Studies indicate that the NOR procedure involves several brain regions, including the
   cortex and the hippocampus.       Recent neuroimaging studies in humans demonstrated that
25 memory in object recognition depends on prefrontal cortex (PFC). See Delbert et al., 1999,
   Neurology 52, 1413-1417. Consistent with these findings, rats with the PFC lesions show
   poor working memory when they are required to discriminate between familiar and novel
   objects. See Mitchell, 1998, Behav. Brain Res. 97, 107-113. Other studies on monkeys and
   rodents suggest that the hippocampus is important for novel object recognition. See, e.g.,
30 Teng et al., 2000, J. Neurosci 20, 3853-3863; Mumby, 2001, Brain Res. 127, 159-181.
   Hence, object recognition provides an excellent behavioral model to evaluate drug-compound
                                                 161

    WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   effects on cognitive task associated with function of the hippocampus and cortex.
            Protocol
            The novel object recognition task was performed as described by Bevins and Besheer,
   2006 (Nat. Protocol. 1, 1306-1311) using a standard novel object recognition system for rats
 5 (Stoelting). Objects were placed in the center of the box, testing was carried out in low light,
   and time exploring objects was assessed using Ethovision Software.            All videos were
   reviewed by trained observers.
            For two consecutive days, rats were habituated to the chamber for 5 min with 5 min of
   handling immediately following exposure to the apparatus. The next day, rats treated with
10  10% DMSO, 30% PEG400, 60% Saline vehicle or compoun 30 min before training were
   exposed to either two white blocks or two grey balls (~4 cm in width/diameter) for 3 min. A
   performance control group was treated with vehicle and exposed to object for 15 min.
   Approximately 24 h after training, rats were exposed to one familiar object and one novel
   object (grey ball is replaced with a white block and vice versa) and the time exploring each
15 object was measured. Memory was scored by calculation of a discrimination index ((TN
   TF)/(TN+TF))* 100; between group comparison) and by comparison of the time exploring the
   novel versus familiar object on the test day (within group comparison).
                                          Statistical Analyses
           All behavioral experiments were designed and performed in a balanced fashion: (i)
20 For each experimental condition (e.g. a specific dose-effect) an equal number of experimental
   and control mice were used; (ii) Each experimental condition was replicated several times,
   and (iii) Replicate days were added to generate final number of subjects. The proceeding of
   each session was filmed. In each experiment, the experimenter was unaware (blind) to the
   treatment of the subjects during training and testing. Data were analyzed by ANOVA using
25 JMP software, followed by contrast analysis.
            Data were transformed using box-cox transformation, and the results of contrast
   analysis comparing treatment groups to vehicle are shown (LS means students-t). Except
   were indicated, all values in the text and figures are expressed as Mean + SEM.
                                                 Results
30          Exemplary compounds of Formula I Fwere found to significantly enhance 24 hour
                                                  162

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   memory, and where tested, to enhance 48 hour memory, in the object recognition assay.
   Control experiments showed that compound administration did not significantly affect the
   cumulative distance traveled or amount of time spent exploring the left and right halves of the
   box. Significant effects were seen at several concentrations, depending on the compound,
 5 including concentrations of 0.1 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg.
            Exemplary compounds were also found to enhance contextual memory in the fear
   conditioning assay. Significant effects were seen at several concentrations, depending on the
   compound, including 0.01 mg/kg, 0.03 mg/kg, and 1.0 mg/kg.
                                          Biological Example 4
10                      Effect of Exemplary Compounds on Cardiac Function
            Exemplary compounds of the present invention were also evaluated in several models
   of cardiovascular function, in both guinea pigs and in telemeterized male rats. Each test
   compound (or vehicle) was administered by oral gavage, and animals were evaluated after
   each dose for any abnormal clinical signs. Systemic blood pressure (systolic, diastolic, and
15 mean arterial pressure), HR and pulse pressure were recorded following dosing.
            The results showed no notable effects of vehicle administration on systemic blood
   pressure, heart rate, or arterial pulse pressure in these studies. All parameters were within
   expected range during the entire monitoring period. In contrast, however, administration of
   several test compounds let to a reduction in blood pressure, and in some cases, prolongation
20 of the QTc interval.
            It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the described embodiments herein
   do not limit the scope of the invention. The specification, including the examples, is intended
   to be exemplary only, and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various
   modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the
25 scope or spirit of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
          Furthermore, while certain details in the present disclosure are provided to convey a
   thorough understanding of the invention as defined by the appended claims, it will be
   apparent to those skilled in the art that certain embodiments may be practiced without these
   details. Moreover, in certain instances, well-known methods, procedures, or other specific
30 details have not been described to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the invention
   defined by the appended claims.
                                                   163

   I: \sxd\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SXD\ 6114527 ldocx-5 12/2017
                     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 5
                     The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
   from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
10 the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                                - 163A -

   II\sxdInterwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SXD\1 6114527 ldocx-5  12/2017
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A chemical entity of Formula I:
                                                       0
        (R1 )M
                                        -~                      N
                                   R3                  Z
                                                R4
                                                          (1)
 5 wherein:
   Y and Z are each independently -CH- or -N-, with the proviso that at least one Y or Z
   member is -N-;
   M is 0-5;
   R' is each independently selected from H, halo, -CN, -Ci-6 alkyl, -Ci-6 alkynyl
10                  -C1 .. haloalkyl, -CI 6thioalkyl, -CI 6 thiohaloalkyl, -CI. 6 alkoxy, -CI. 6haloalkoxy,
                    -SO 2 CI. 6 alkyl, aryl, pyrazole, and 2-oxopyrrolidine; or
   two R members are on adjacent carbons and taken together with the carbons to which they
                    are attached form a 5-6 member saturated or unsaturated monocylic ring system
                    comprising one or more oxygen or nitrogen atoms, wherein the ring system is
15                  optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo, -C1. 6 alkyl,
                    -Ci-6 alkoxy, and -C 1-C6haloalkoxy;
   R 3 and R 4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, halo, -CN, -OH,
                    -C1 .6 alkyl, -C1 .6haloalkyl, -C1 .6 alkenyl, -CH 20-aryl, -C1 .6 alkoxy, -C1 .6 haloalkoxy,
                    -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)(CF 3), -(CR R ") 0 .3 NR 12R , aryl, heteroaryl,
20                  heterocycloalkyl, wherein each aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl is optionally
                   unsubstituted or substituted with a member each independently selected from the
                    group consisting of-CH 3 and -OCH 3;
   R10 and R" are each independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, -F,
                    -Ci1 6 alkyl, -CF 3, and -OH;
                                                                  - 164 -

    WO 2013/192229                                                                 PCT/US2013/046415
   R    and R    are each independently selected from the group consisting of -H, -C1_6 alkyl,
           C0 2-benzyl, -CI-6 alkyl(aryl), -CI-6 alkyl(heterocycloalkyl), optionally unsubstituted or
           substituted aryl, -C 3 _6 cycloalkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocycloalkyl;
   or R   and R 13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an
 5         optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; and
           wherein the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of compounds of
   Formula     (I),     pharmaceutically      acceptable    salts of compounds      of  Formula    (I),
   pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I); and pharmaceutically
   active metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
10 2. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Y is -N-.
   3. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is -N-.
   4. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Y and Z are -N-.
   5. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 1.
   6. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 2.
15 7. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 3.
   8. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 4.
   9. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 5.
   10. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5, and R 1 is each
   independently H, -Br, -Cl, -F, -I, -CN, -CI 6 alkyl, -C1_6 alkynyl, -SCH 3, -OCF 3, -OCF 2 H, -C1 _
20 6 alkoxy, -SCF 3, -SO 2 CH 3 , 2-oxopyrrolidine, and pyrazole.
   11. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein two R 1 members are on adjacent carbons and
   taken together with the carbons to which they are attached form a fused 5-member ring
   selected from 1-methyl-1H-pyrazole or dioxolane.
   12. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein M is 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1 is each independently
25 Cl, -F or -CI 6 alkoxy.
                                                     165

    WO 2013/192229                                                                      PCT/US2013/046415
   13. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R3 is selected from -H, -CH(OCH 3 2, -CH 2 0
   phenyl, or -(CR   4R") 1 _
                            3 NR R   , where R 10 and R" are each H, R           is H or -CI 6 alkyl, R1 is
   selected from phenyl, benzyl, (3-methyloxetan-3-yl)methyl, (tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)methyl or
   cyclopropyl(methyl).
 5 14. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R4 is H or -CH 3 and R3 is -(CR1 4R")1_3NRR.
   15. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R3 is -(CR 0 R")NR12 R , R and R" are each
   independently H, -OH, or -CH 3 , and R12 and R13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which
   they are attached to form a heterocycloalkyl ring selected from morpholine, (2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholine, 4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1-yl or isoindolin-2-yl.
                                                                  1 11        12    13  10        1
10 16. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R3 is -(CR     4R      ) 1-2NR R , R and R" are each
   independently H, -OH, or -CH 3 , and R and R13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which
   they are attached to form a heterocycloalkyl ring selected from morpholine, 2,6
   dimethylmorpholine, (2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholine, (2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholine or
   4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazine.
                                                                3                                     12 13
15 17. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R3 is H or -CH 3 and R4 is -(CR4R") 1_3NR R
   18. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R3 is -H, -CH 3, R4 is H, -Br, -CI 6 alkyl, -C1_
   6 alkenyl, -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)CF 3, -CH 2 0CH2 0CH3 , optionally substituted phenyl,
                                                 11
                                                10       12  13      10        1
   optionally substituted pyridyl, and -(CR   4R")1_3NR     R , R and R" are each independently
   H, -CH 3, or -OH, and R     and R   are each independently -H, -CI 6 alkyl, -C0 2 -benzyl,
20 CH(CH 3)phenyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, and optionally substituted
   heterocycloalkyl.
   19. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R3 is -H, -CH 3, R4 is -(CR 0 R 1 ) 1 _3NR R1 , R
   and R" are each independently -H, -F, -CH 3, -CF 3, or -OH, and R and R are taken
   together with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form a heterocycloalkyl ring selected
25 from (2R,5R)-2,5-dimethylmorpholine, (2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholine, (2S,5S)-2,5
   dimethylmorpholine, (2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholine, (3S,5R)- 2-methoxyethyl)piperazine,
   (4-((tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)methyl)piperazine), 1,4-oxazepane, 1-methyl-8-oxa-1,2
   diazaspiro[4.5]decane, 2,2-dimethylmorpholine, 2,5-dimethylmorpholine, 2-ethylmorpholine,
   2-methylmorpholine, 2-oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane, 3-(dimethylamino)pyrrolidine, 3,3
30 dimethylmorpholine, 3,5-dimethylpiperazine, 3-hydroxyazetidine, 3-methyl-6-oxopyridazin
                                                    166

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   1(6H)-yl, 3-methylmorpholine, 4-(2,2,2-trifluoroacetyl)piperazine, 4
   (methylsulfonyl)piperazine, 4-(propan-2-yl)piperazine, 4-(tetrahydrofuran-3
   carbonyl)piperazine, 4-acetyl-1,4-diazepane, 4-cyclopropylpiperazine, 4-methoxypiperidine,
   4-methyl-1,4-diazepane, 4-methyl-piperazine, 8-oxa-3 -azabicyclo [3.2.1 ]octane, isoindoline,
 5 morpholine, N,N-dimethylpiperazine- 1-sulfonamide, piperazine, piperidine, tetrahydro- 1H
   oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazin-3(5H)-one, and thiomorpholine.
   20. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R4 is morpholinomethyl, (3
   methylmorpholino)methyl, (2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl, ((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl, ((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholin-4-yl)methyl, (4
10 (methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1-yl)methyl, 1-hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl or 2-((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)-1-hydroxyethyl, and R 3 is H or -CH 3.
   21. A chemical entity selected from the group consisting of:
   9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   8-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 8-(Dimethoxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(3,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
20 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(3-methyl-6-oxopyridazin-1(6H)-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
25 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(4-Cyclopropylpiperazin-1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                167

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   9-(((l S,2S)-2-Aminocyclohexyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(1 -methylpiperidin-4-yl)amino)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
 5 9-((2-(Dimethylamino)ethyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin- 1-yl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(3 -(Dimethylamino)pyrrolidin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
10 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(4-(Dimethylamino)piperidin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 9-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((3-(Dimethylamino)propyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
20 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   Benzyl (2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethyl)carbamate;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
25 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
                                                 168

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(2-Aminoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
10 one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((1 -phenylethyl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methoxymethoxy)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(1 -Ethoxyvinyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
20 9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
   9-(2-Oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-5-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((Dimethylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
25 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
                                                 169

   WO 2013/192229                                                          PCT/US2013/046415
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((3,3-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
 5 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((2,2-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((2-Ethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
10 9-((2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2,2,6,6-tetrafluoromorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(8-Oxa-3-azabicyclo[3.2.1 ]octan-3-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
15 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((1 -methyl-8-oxa- 1,2-diazaspiro[4.5]decan-2-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
20 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((3-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methyl- 1,4-diazepan- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
25 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
                                                 170

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((4-Acetyl- 1,4-diazepan- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((Cyclohexyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
 5 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
10 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((Isopropyl(2-methoxyethyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-methylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[2,3 -e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
15 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3 -e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[2,3 -e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
20 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
25 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   7-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-9
                                                 171

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   yl)methyl)tetrahydro- 1H-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazin-3 (5H)-one;
   9-(((2S,5S)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,5R)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperazin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   9-(((3 S,5R)-3,5-Dimethylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
10 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-((tetrahydrofuran-3 -yl)methyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   4-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-9
15 yl)methyl)-N,N-dimethylpiperazine- 1-sulfonamide;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2,2,2-trifluoroacetyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(tetrahydrofuran-3 -carbonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
20 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((((3 -methyloxetan-3 -yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
25 e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((methyl((tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
                                                   172

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   8-((Cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   8-((Benzylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((phenylamino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
10 8-(Isoindolin-2-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(1-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)ethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 9-(1 -Hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)- 1-hydroxyethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(1 -Fluoro-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
20 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)- 1-fluoroethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-hydroxyethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-morpholinoethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 173

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3 -methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 -fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3 -bromo-4-Fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   4-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile;
15 6-(4-(tert-Butyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   3-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(methylsulfonyl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 -iodobenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(3,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 174

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(2-Bromo-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,6-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-((1-methyl-i H-indazol-6
   yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-(1 H-Pyrazol- 1-yl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
10 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,5-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-((trifluoromethyl)thio)benzy)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3 -Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,4-Dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(4-Chloro-3 -fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 175

   WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(3 -Chloro-5 -fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(2-oxopyrrolidin- 1-yl)benzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
 5 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(3 ,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(methylthio)benzyl)pyrido [3,2
10 e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(phenoxymethyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
15 6-(2,3 -Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-isopropylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2,3 -Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,4,5-trifluorobenzyl)pyrido [3,2
20 e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-isopropylbenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2 S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
25 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-3 ,5-difluorobenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
                                                    176

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethynylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-iodobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(3,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3-Chloro-5-fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxy-3-methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 6-(2,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(trifluoromethyl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3 -methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4-methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4,5-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(3 -Chloro-2,4-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 177

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,4-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(2,4-Dichloro-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chloro-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chloro-2,6-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3,5-dimethylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,4-trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chloro-3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(3,5-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 178

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(3 -Chloro-4-ethoxy-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-2,3 -difluorobenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
 5 9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 ,4,5-trifluorobenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-Benzyl-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(3 ,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
10 e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3 ,5 ,6-tetrafluoro-4
   methylbenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2-e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
15 6-(Benzo [d] [ 1,31 dioxol-5-ylmethyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -c]pteridin-5 (6H)
   one;
20 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)-[[1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -cipteridin
   5(6H)-one;
   9-((4-Acetylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[ [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5 -cipteridin
   5(6H)-one;
25 9-(( 1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(2,3 -difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
                                                    179

    WO 2013/192229                                                                      PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(2,3 -Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3 -methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3 -hydroxyazetidin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; and pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs
   thereof.
   22. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of a chemical entity of
   Formula (I):
                                    0
         (R')M\
                                           N
                        R3_I        Z
                                 R4
                                      (I)
10      wherein:
        Y and Z are each independently -CH- or -N-, with the proviso that at least one Y or Z
             member is -N-;
       M is 0-5;
        R is each independently selected from H, halo, -CN, -C1_ 6alkyl, -CI 6 alkynyl -C1 _
15           6haloalkyl,  -C1- 6thioalkyl, -C1- 6thiohaloalkyl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1- 6haloalkoxy, -SO 2C1 _
             6alkyl, aryl, pyrazole, and 2-oxopyrrolidine; or
        two R members are on adjacent carbons and taken together with the carbons to which
             they are attached form a 5-6 member saturated or unsaturated monocylic ring system
             comprising one or more oxygen or nitrogen atoms, wherein the ring system is
20           optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo, -C1- 6 alkyl, -C1_
             6alkoxy,  and -C1-C 6haloalkoxy;
        R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, halo, -CN,
             OH, -CI 6alkyl, -CI 6 haloalkyl, -CI-6 alkenyl, -CH 20-aryl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1_
                                                                              2 3
             6haloalkoxy,   -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)(CF 3), -(CR       4R") 0 _3NR R ,     aryl, heteroaryl,
                                                       180

   WO 2013/192229                                                                   PCT/US2013/046415
            heterocycloalkyl, wherein each aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl is optionally
            unsubstituted or substituted with a member each independently selected from the
            group consisting of -CH 3 and -OCH 3 ;
       Rio and R" are each independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, -F, -C1_
 5          6alkyl, -CF 3, and -OH;
       R 12 and R13 are each independently selected from the group consisting of -H, -CI 6 alkyl,
            C0 2-benzyl, -CI-6 alkyl(aryl), -CI-6 alkyl(heterocycloalkyl), optionally unsubstituted or
            substituted aryl, -C 3 _6 cycloalkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocycloalkyl;
       or R and R13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an
10          optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; and
            wherein the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of compounds of
   Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I),
   pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and pharmaceutically
   acceptable metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
15 23. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of at least one chemical
   entity of claim 1 or claim 21.
   24. A method of treating a disease, disorder, or medical condition mediated by PDEl
   enzymatic activity, comprising administering to a subject in need of such treatment an
   effective amount of a chemical entity of Formula (I):
                                  0
        (R1 )M                             N
                       R3          Z
                              R4
20
       wherein:
       Y and Z are each independently -CH- or -N-, with the proviso that at least one Y or Z
            member is -N-;
       M is 0-5;
                                                      181

   WO 2013/192229                                                                       PCT/US2013/046415
       R1 is each independently selected from H, halo, -CN, -C1_ 6 alkyl, -CI 6alkynyl -C1 _
            6haloalkyl,   -C1- 6thioalkyl, -C1- 6thiohaloalkyl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1- 6haloalkoxy, -SO 2C 1 _
            6 alkyl, aryl, pyrazole, and 2-oxopyrrolidine; or
       two R 1 members are on adjacent carbons and taken together with the carbons to which
 5          they are attached form a 5-6 member saturated or unsaturated monocylic ring system
            comprising one or more oxygen or nitrogen atoms, wherein the ring system is
            optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo, -C1- 6 alkyl, -C1_
            6 alkoxy,  and -CI-C 6 haloalkoxy;
       R 3 and R 4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, halo, -CN,
10          OH, -CI 6 alkyl, -CI 6haloalkyl, -CI-6 alkenyl, -CH 20-aryl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1_
            6haloalkoxy,    -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)(CF 3), -(CR 0 R 1) 0 _3 NR12 R 13 , aryl, heteroaryl,
            heterocycloalkyl, wherein each aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl is optionally
            unsubstituted or substituted with a member each independently selected from the
            group consisting of -CH 3 and -OCH 3 ;
15     R10 and R" are each independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, -F, -C1_
            6 alkyl, -CF 3, and -OH;
       R     and R13 are each independently selected from the group consisting of -H, -CI 6 alkyl,
            C0 2-benzyl, -CI-6 alkyl(aryl), -CI-6 alkyl(heterocycloalkyl), optionally unsubstituted or
            substituted aryl, -C 3 _6 cycloalkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocycloalkyl;
20     or R     and R    are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an
            optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; and
       wherein the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of compounds of
   Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I),
   pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and pharmaceutically
25 acceptable metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
   25. The method of Claim 24, wherein Y is N and Z is CH.
   26. A method of treating a disease, disorder, or medical condition mediated by a PDE 1
   enzyme, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount
   of a chemical entity of claim 1 or claim 21.
                                                       182

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
   27. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any one of claims 1-23 in a method of
   treating a disease or disorder selected from the group comprising neurological disorders,
   cognitive disorders, cardiovascular disorders, renal disorders, hematological disorders,
   gastrointestinal and liver disorders, cancer disorders, and neurodegenerative disorders, said
 5 method comprising administering an effective amount of the chemical entity of composition
   to a patient in need thereof.
   28. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any one of claims 1-23 in a method of
   treating a CNS disorder, comprising administration of an effective amount of the chemical
   entity or composition to a patient in need thereof.
10 29. The use of claim 28, wherein the CNS disorder is selected from one or more of the group
   comprising dementias and neurodegenerative disorders, cognitive disorders, psychiatric
   disorders, developmental and genetic conditions, age-associated memory impairments, and
   learning disabilities.
   30. The use of claim 28, wherein the CNS disorder is selected from one or more of the group
15 comprising Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia,
   mild-cognitive impairment, and ADHD.
   31. The use of claim 28, wherein the CNS disorder is a cognitive disorder associated with a
   progressive nervous system disease.
   32. The use of claim 31, wherein the progressive nervous system disease is multiple
20 sclerosis.
   33. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of treating
   a cognitive impairment, comprising:
            (a)     providing cognitive training to an animal in need of treatment of a cognitive
           impairment under conditions sufficient to produce an improvement in performance by
25         said animal of a cognitive function whose deficit is associated with said cognitive
           impairment;
            (b)     administering a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 to said
           animal in conjunction with said cognitive training;
            (c)     repeating said providing and administering steps one or more times; and
                                                  183

    WO 2013/192229                                                              PCT/US2013/046415
            (d)    reducing the number of training sessions sufficient to produce the
            improvement in performance, relative to the improvement in performance produced
            by cognitive training alone.
   34. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of treating
 5 a vascular disorder, comprising administering an effective amount of the chemical entity or
   composition to a patient in need thereof.
   35. The use of claim 34, wherein the vascular disorder is selected from one or more of the
   group comprising atherosclerosis, post-angioplasty restenosis, allograft vasculopathy, and
   pulmonary hypertension.
10 36. The use of claim 35, wherein the vascular disorder is heart failure or congestive heart
   failure.
   37. The use of claim 35, wherein the vascular disorder is caused by myocardial infarction,
   ischemic heart disease, hypertension, valvular heart disease, or cardiomyopathy.
   38. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of treating
15 a renal disorder, said method comprising administering an effective amount of the chemical
   entity or composition to a patient in need thereof.
   39. The use of claim 38, wherein the renal disorder is selected from one or more of the group
   comprising renal artery stenosis, pyelonephritis, glomerulonephritis, kidney tumors,
   polycystic kidney disease, injury to the kidney, and damage resulting from radiation of the
20 kidney.
   40. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of treating,
   an injury or disease that results in neuronal degeneration, said method comprising
   administering an effective amount of the chemical entity or composition to a patient in need
   thereof.
25 41. The use of claim 40, wherein the injury is a primary nervous system injury selected from
   the group comprising closed head injuries, blunt trauma, penetrating trauma, hemorrhagic
   stroke, ischemic stroke, glaucoma, cerebral ischemia, and neuronal damage caused by
   surgical procedures.
                                                  184

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   42. The use of claim 41, wherein the injury is secondary degeneration resulting from a
   primary nervous system injury.
   43. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of
   promoting neurogenesis, comprising administering an effective amount of the chemical entity
 5 or composition to an animal
   44. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of treating
   a disorder that includes an aberrant or dysregulated signaling pathway mediated by PDEl.
   45. The use of claim 44, wherein the signaling pathway mediated by PDEl involves nitric
   oxide, natriuretic peptides, dopamine, noradrenalin, neurotensin, cholecystokinin (CCK),
10 vasoactive intestinal peptide, serotonin, glutamate, GABA, acetylcholine, adenosine,
   cannabinoids, natriuretic peptides, or endorphins.
   46. The use of claim 44, wherein the disorder is characterized by alterations in dopamine
   signaling.
   47. The use of a chemical entity or composition of any of claims 1-23 in a method of treating
15 substance or drug abuse, or a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder.
   48. A method for modulating PDE 1 enzyme activity, comprising exposing a PDE 1 enzyme to
   an effective amount of at least one chemical entity selected from compounds of Formula (I)
                                    0
           (R1 )M
                          R3 -yZ
                                 R4
                                      (I)
       wherein:
20     Y and Z are each independently -CH- or -N-, with the proviso that at least one Y or Z
           member is -N-;
       M is 0-5;
                                                  185

   WO 2013/192229                                                                       PCT/US2013/046415
       R1 is each independently selected from H, halo, -CN, -C1_ 6 alkyl, -CI 6alkynyl -C1 _
            6haloalkyl,   -C1- 6thioalkyl, -C1- 6thiohaloalkyl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1- 6haloalkoxy, -SO 2C 1 _
            6 alkyl, aryl, pyrazole, and 2-oxopyrrolidine; or
       two R 1 members are on adjacent carbons and taken together with the carbons to which
 5          they are attached form a 5-6 member saturated or unsaturated monocylic ring system
            comprising one or more oxygen or nitrogen atoms, wherein the ring system is
            optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo, -C1- 6 alkyl, -C1_
            6 alkoxy,  and -CI-C 6 haloalkoxy;
       R 3 and R 4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, halo, -CN,
10          OH, -CI 6 alkyl, -CI 6haloalkyl, -CI-6 alkenyl, -CH 20-aryl, -CI-6 alkoxy, -C1_
            6haloalkoxy,    -C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)(CF 3), -(CR 0 R 1) 0 _3 NR12 R 13 , aryl, heteroaryl,
            heterocycloalkyl, wherein each aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl is optionally
            unsubstituted or substituted with a member each independently selected from the
            group consisting of -CH 3 and -OCH 3;
15     R10 and R" are each independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, -F, -C1_
            6 alkyl, -CF 3, and -OH;
       R     and R13 are each independently selected from the group consisting of -H, -CI 6 alkyl,
            C0 2-benzyl, -CI-6 alkyl(aryl), -CI-6 alkyl(heterocycloalkyl), optionally unsubstituted or
            substituted aryl, -C 3 _6 cycloalkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocycloalkyl;
20     or R     and R    are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an
            optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl;
       and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I), pharmaceutically
            acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and pharmaceutically acceptable
            metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
25 49. The method of Claim 28, wherein Y is N and Z is CH.
   50. A method for modulating PDE 1 enzyme activity, comprising exposing a PDE 1 enzyme to
   an effective amount of a chemical entity of claim 1 or claim 21.
   51. The method of claim 30, wherein said one or more PDEl enzymes are in a human
   subject.
                                                       186

    WO 2013/192229                                                                  PCT/US2013/046415
   52. A compound, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, of Formula I:
                                0
     (R)M\
                    0,-                 N
                     R3         Z
                             R4
                                  (1)
   wherein:
   Y and Z are each independently -CH- or -N-, with the proviso that at least one Y or Z
 5 member is -N-;
   M is 0-5;
   R1 is each independently selected from H, halo, -CN, -C1_ 6alkyl, -CI 6 alkynyl -CI 6 haloalkyl,
           CI-6 thioalkyl, -C1- 6thiohaloalkyl, -C1- 6alkoxy, -C1- 6haloalkoxy, -SO 2 C1- 6alkyl, aryl,
           pyrazole, and 2-oxopyrrolidine; or
10 two R1 members are on adjacent carbons and taken together with the carbons to which they
           are attached form a 5-6 member saturated or unsaturated monocylic ring system
           comprising one or more oxygen or nitrogen atoms, wherein the ring system is
           optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo, -C1- 6 alkyl, -C1_
           6alkoxy,   and -CI-C 6haloalkoxy;
15 R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, halo, -CN, -OH,
           CI-6 alkyl, -C1- 6haloalkyl, -CI-6 alkenyl, -CH 20-aryl, -C1- 6alkoxy, -CI-6 haloalkoxy,
           C(O)CH 3, -CH(OH)(CF 3), -(CR 0 R 1) 0-3NR12R13 , aryl, heteroaryl, heterocycloalkyl,
           wherein each aryl, heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl is optionally unsubstituted or
           substituted with a member each independently selected from the group consisting of
20         CH 3 and -OCH 3 ;
   R10 and R11 are each independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, -F, -CI 6 alkyl,
           CF 3, and -OH;
   R and R are each independently selected from the group consisting of -H, -C1-6alkyl,
           C0 2-benzyl, -CI-6 alkyl(aryl), -CI-6 alkyl(heterocycloalkyl), optionally unsubstituted or
25         substituted aryl, -C 3 _6 cycloalkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocycloalkyl;
                                                     187

   WO 2013/192229                                                               PCT/US2013/046415
   or R   and R 13 are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an
           optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
   53. A compound, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, selected from the group
   consisting of:
 5 9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   8-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   8-(Dimethoxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   9-Bromo-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
10 9-(3,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
15 5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(3-methyl-6-oxopyridazin-1(6H)-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(4-Cyclopropylpiperazin-1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
20 9-(((1S,2S)-2-Aminocyclohexyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)amino)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((2-(Dimethylamino)ethyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
25 c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(3-(Dimethylamino)pyrrolidin-1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                  188

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   9-(4-(Dimethylamino)piperidin- 1-yl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 9-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((3-(Dimethylamino)propyl)(methyl)amino)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
10 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   Benzyl (2-(6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-9-yl)ethyl)carbamate;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
15 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
20 5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 9-(2-Aminoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2-((1-phenylethyl)amino)ethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
                                                 189

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-vinylpyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methoxymethoxy)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 9-(1 -Ethoxyvinyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
   9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
   9-(2-Oxa-5-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-5-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((Dimethylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((3,3-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((2,2-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
20 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((2-Ethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2,2,6,6-tetrafluoromorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(8-Oxa-3-azabicyclo[3.2.1 ]octan-3-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((1 -methyl-8-oxa- 1,2-diazaspiro[4.5]decan-2-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
                                                 190

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((3-methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
 5 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methyl- 1,4-diazepan- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
10 9-((1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((4-Acetyl- 1,4-diazepan- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((Cyclohexyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
15 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((methyl(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
20 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-((Isopropyl(2-methoxyethyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-methylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[2,3 -e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5
25 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3 -e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[2,3 -e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
                                                 191

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(thiomorpholinomethyl)pyrido[2,3-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[2,3
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   7-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-9
   yl)methyl)tetrahydro- 1H-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazin-3 (5H)-one;
   9-(((2S,5S)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,5R)-2,5-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperazin- 1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
15 9-(((3 S,5R)-3,5-Dimethylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-((tetrahydrofuran-3 -yl)methyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   4-((6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-5-oxo-5,6-dihydropyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-9
   yl)methyl)-N,N-dimethylpiperazine- 1-sulfonamide;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(2,2,2-trifluoroacetyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
25 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-(tetrahydrofuran-3 -carbonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo [1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   8-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
                                                   192

   WO 2013/192229                                                            PCT/US2013/046415
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((((3 -methyloxetan-3 -yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((methyl((tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)methyl)amino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   8-((Cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
10 8-((Benzylamino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-((phenylamino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
   5(6H)-one;
   8-(Isoindolin-2-ylmethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin
15 5(6H)-one;
   9-Acetyl-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(1-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)ethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(1 -Hydroxy-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
20 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)- 1-hydroxyethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(1 -Fluoro-2-morpholinoethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 9-(2-((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)- 1-fluoroethyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-hydroxyethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(2,2,2-trifluoro- 1-morpholinoethyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
                                                 193

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3 -methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 -fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
10 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3 -bromo-4-Fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   4-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
15 c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile;
   6-(4-(tert-Butyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   3-((9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-5-oxopyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-6(5H)-yl)methyl)benzonitrile;
20 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(methylsulfonyl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 -iodobenzyl)pyrido [3,2
25 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-Bromo-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 194

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(2,6-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-((1-methyl-i H-indazol-6
   yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(4-(l H-Pyrazol- 1-yl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,5-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-((trifluoromethyl)thio)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 6-(3 -Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,4-Dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Chloro-3 -fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-(3 -Chloro-5 -fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(2-oxopyrrolidin- 1-yl)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
                                                 195

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(methylthio)benzyl)pyrido[3,2
 5 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one; and
   6-(2-Chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
   54. A compound, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, selected from the group
   consisting of:
10 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-8-(phenoxymethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)
   one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-isopropylpiperazin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrido[3,2-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
15 c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,4,5-trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-isopropylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
20 6-(4-(Difluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-3,5-difluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethynylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
25 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-iodobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 196

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(3 -Chloro-5 -fluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-(((2 S,6R)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-methoxy-3 -methylbenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
 5 9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 -methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2,5-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2,4-Difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
10 e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-(trifluoromethyl)benzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3 -methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
15 9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2-fluoro-4-methylbenzyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4,5 -difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(3 -Chloro-2,4-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
20 e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3 ,4,5-trimethoxybenzyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2,4-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
25 6-(2,4-Dichloro-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido [3,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
   6-(2-Chloro-4-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3 ,2
   e] [ 1,2,4]triazolo[[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5 (6H)-one;
                                                    197

   WO 2013/192229                                                           PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(4-Chloro-2-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
   methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(4-Chloro-2,6-difluorobenzyl)-9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-fluoro-3,5-dimethylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,4-trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
10 e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-dichlorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
15 6-(4-Chloro-3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
   dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,5-Dimethoxybenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3 -Chloro-4-ethoxy-5-fluorobenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6
20 dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(4-ethoxy-2,3-difluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(3,4,5-trifluorobenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
25 6-Benzyl-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5
   c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(3,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
                                                 198

   WO 2013/192229                                                             PCT/US2013/046415
   6-(2,4-Dimethylbenzyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   9-(((2S,6R)-2,6-Dimethylmorpholino)methyl)-6-(2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
   methylbenzyl)pyrido[3,2-e] [1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
 5 6-(Benzo[d] [1,3]dioxol-5-ylmethyl)-9-(((2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(morpholinomethyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((2-methylmorpholino)methyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)
   one;
10 6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-(piperidin- 1-ylmethyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-9-((4-methoxypiperidin- 1-yl)methyl)-[ 1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pteridin
   5(6H)-one;
   9-((4-Acetylpiperazin- 1-yl)methyl)-6-(4-methoxybenzyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-c]pteridin
   5(6H)-one;
15 9-((1,4-Oxazepan-4-yl)methyl)-6-(2,3 -difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)pyrido[3,2
   e] [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one;
   6-(2,3 -Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3 -methylmorpholino)methyl)pyrido[3,2
   e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one; and
   6-(2,3-Difluoro-4-methoxybenzyl)-9-((3-hydroxyazetidin-1-yl)methyl)pyrido[3,2
20 e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one.
                                                 199

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
