                                               Abstract
The invention relates to the field of disinfectants, in particular to a botanical disinfection
composition. The botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials in
parts by weight: 0.5-1.0 part of tea tree essential oil, 0.5-1.0 part of niaouli essential oil, 0.5-1.0
part of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5-1.0 part of lemon mint essential oil, and 0.3-0.8 part of lemon
myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil. The invention further provides a method for
preparing the botanical disinfection composition, comprising uniformly mixing tea tree essential
oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle
essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil according to predetermined parts by weight. The
botanical disinfection composition provided by the invention is low in usage amount of ethanol,
small in toxic and side effects, good in sterilization effect and short in action time.

                                                      -1
               Botanical Disinfection Composition, Disinfectant and Preparation
                                            Method Thereof
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5 The present invention relates to the field of disinfectants, in particular to a botanical disinfection
   composition, disinfectant and preparation method thereof.
   BACKGROUND
   Materials used for botanical disinfection products are mainly substances having antimicrobial
 0 activities of organic compounds contained in secondary metabolites, such as terpenoids,
   alkaloids and phenolic compounds. Such compounds are secondary metabolites produced
   through self adjustment and self protection during long-term evolution under adaptive
   environment. It is generically recognized that such compounds can be used for disinfection and
   sterilization. Compared with conventional chemical synthetic disinfectants, the compounds
 5 especially have the advantages that various compounds contained in the botanical disinfectant
   can act on pathogenic microorganisms in a multi-target manner, and drug resistance is not liable
   to cause as compared with conventional chemical synthetic disinfectants; the compounds are
   completely biodegradable and are environmentally-friendly and safe; botanical materials are
   renewable resources, and completely meet the sustainable development requirements of human
20 beings; the selected botanical sterilization materials can have strong target selectivity and are
   safe and harmless to non-target organisms; and botanical sterilization and disinfection products
   are generally mild in effect and less in irritability, and almost have no toxicity and side effect
   within dosage.
25 At present, domestic research and development on botanical antibacterial materials are generally
   concentrated on antibacterial and bacteriostatic actions, and particularly many research
   achievements in the respects of the antibacterial and bacteriostatic actions are achieved.

                                                     -2
   However, no research that actually achieves the disinfection effect is obtained. Antibacterial &
   bacteriostatic actions and disinfection are two different concepts. Disinfection is a normative
   concept with specific connotation and refers to killing or removing pathogenic microorganisms
   from propagation media to the extent of harmlessness. The disinfection efficacy of the
 5 disinfection products needs to be certified through inspection of Technical Standard for
   Disinfection (2002). Although fruitful research results are achieved on botanical antibacterial
   materials in the field of pesticides application, research achievements are not in the same
   application field as sterilization and disinfection products for humans.
 0 In general, three research and development ways exist for conventional botanical disinfection
   products for sterilization and disinfection: finished products made by using plant (or Chinese
   herbal medicine) crude extracts as the raw material; finished products made by using plant refine
   extracts, namely plant essential oil as the raw materials; and finished products made by using
   single plant extracts as the raw material. The botanical antibacterial materials having certain
 5 disinfection efficacy have provided some preliminary achievements. A precedent of a
   composition compounding Chinese herbal medicine crude extracts is used as an example:
   Chinese patent document (CN101861883A) discloses a botanical disinfectant and a preparation
   method thereof, the botanical disinfectant comprising the following raw materials in percentage
   by weight: 1-10% of fructus forsythiae, 5-20% of honeysuckles, 25-45% of licorice roots, 5-15%
20 of rhizoma coptidis, 5-15% of cortex phellodendri, 1-10% of radix et rhizoma rhei, 1-10% of
   safflowers, 1-10% of cloves, 1-10% of radix paeoniae rubra and 1-10% of fineleaf schizonepeta
   herbs, and crushed materials are soaked in baijiu for 5-10 days. Such kind of composition is
   characterized in that the content of ethanol is nearly 50%, and is expressed as 49% or below
   (50% ethanol already has the ability of killing bacteria); and as shown in test reports, fetal bovine
25 serum used in interferents is only 0.3%, indicating that the compound can only be used for
   secondary disinfection even in compliance with relevant regulations in the Technical Standards
   for Disinfection, having little significance in practical use. A precedent of a composition

                                                     -3
   compounding essential oils      as a disinfectant is used as an example: Chinese patent document
   (CN102239893A) discloses a bactericidal disinfectant made of plant essential oils, which is
   prepared from the following raw materials in percentage by weight: 0.3% of eucalyptus oil, 0.4%
   of tea tree oil, 0.3% of armoise oil, 0.5% of rosemary oil, 0.5% of bergamot oil, 0.5% of lemon
 5 oil, 0.7% of lavender oil, 0.2% of clove oil, 0.4% of thyme oil and the balance of a diluent. In the
   composition disclosed by the invention, essential oil accounts for 3.8% and the balance is the
   diluent. The ethanol is usually used as a diluent of essential oils, and such a high proportion of
   ethanol makes the composition insignificant in practical promotion. In addition, Chinese patent
   document (CN103749563A) discloses a composition disinfectant of plant essential oils, which
 0 comprises the following components in percentage by weight: 1% of peppermint oil, 0.5% of
   bay essential oil, 1.5% of eucalyptus essential oil, 1% of tangerine peel essential oil, 1% of
   juglandiphyllum essential oil, 3% of citric acid and the balanced of ethanol. The same as the
   previous example, the ethanol content of the compound is up to 90% or above. Due to high
   ethanol content of the two patent application compositions, it is impossible to determine the
 5 disinfection effect of essential oil components.
   The botanical disinfectants described in the patent applications have the following
   characteristics:
          1. the preparation technology is simple and rough, for example, only essential oils and
20 ethanol are used;
          2. a substantial amount of organic diluents is used, so that the making cost is high, and
   practical use value does not exist;
          3. the products are not effective in functions, the problem that the functions of main
   functional materials in the compounds are even not clear, exists, and obvious defects existing in
25 the technology; and
          4. the property advantages of botanical disinfection products fail cannot be shown due to
   heavy use of diluents (ethanol).

                                                      -4
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as an
   admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general knowledge in the
   field.
 5
   SUMMARY
   Therefore, a technical problem to be solved in the present invention is to overcome the defects
   existing in the prior art that ethanol is used in a large amount with low practical use value and
   poor sterilizing effects while the acting time of disinfectants is long, and the present invention
 0 provides a botanical disinfection composition and a botanical disinfectant which are low in usage
   amount of ethanol, small in toxic and side effects, good in sterilizing effects and short in action
   time.
   Another technical problem to be solved in the present invention is that preparation methods of
 5 existing disinfectants are complex and costly and causes serious environment pollution, and the
   present invention provides simple, low-cost and pollution-free methods for preparing the
   botanical disinfection composition and the botanical disinfectant.
   Therefore, according to one aspect, the present application provides a botanical disinfection
20 composition, comprising the following raw materials in parts by weight:
          0.5-1.0 part of tea tree essential oil,
          0.5-1.0 part of niaouli essential oil,
          0.5-1.0 part of palmarosa essential oil,
          0.5-1.0 part of lemon mint essential oil, and
25        0.3-0.8 part of lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil.
   Preferably, the botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials in parts

                                                   -5
   by weight:
         0.8 part of tea tree essential oil,
         0.5 part of niaouli essential oil,
         0.5 part of palmarosa essential oil,
 5       0.5 part of lemon mint essential oil, and
         0.5 part of lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil.
   Preferably, the botanical disinfection composition further comprises 0.3-1.0 part of azelaic acid.
 0 Preferably, the botanical disinfection composition further comprises 0.5 part of azelaic acid.
   According to another aspect, the present application further provides a botanical disinfectant,
   comprising the botanical disinfection composition of the present invention, and further
   comprises 3.4-6.4 parts of Tween 80, 20-30 parts of ethanol, 4-6 parts of 1,2-propanediol,
 5 0.03-0.05 part of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium salt, and water.
   Preferably, the botanical disinfectant comprises the botanical disinfection composition of the
   present invention, and further comprises 3.5 parts of Tween 80, 30 parts of ethanol, 4 parts of
   1,2-propanediol, 0.03 part of EDTA disodium salt, and water.
20
   According to another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing the botanical
   disinfection composition, the method comprising: uniformly mixing tea tree essential oil, niaouli
   essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil
   and/or litsea cubeba essential oil according to predetermined parts by weight.
25
   Preferably, the method for preparing the botanical disinfection composition further comprises:
   mixing azelaic acid with ethanol in a weight ratio of 1:(5-15) to prepare an ethanolic solution of

                                                    -6
   azelaic acid; and mixing the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid with tea tree essential oil, niaouli
   essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil
   and/or litsea cubeba essential oil which are uniformly mixed.
 5 According to another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing the botanical
   disinfectant, comprising:
         (1) uniformly mixing tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil,
   lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil
   according to predetermined parts by weight to obtain an essential oil mixture;
 0        (2) mixing azelaic acid with ethanol in a weight ratio of 1:(5-15) to prepare an ethanolic
   solution of azelaic acid;
         (3) mixing Tween 80 with 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
         (4) mixing the essential oil mixture with the auxiliary agent to obtain a first mixture;
         (5) adding water into the first mixture and then adding EDTA disodium salt to prepare a
 5 second mixture;
          (6) mixing the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid with the second mixture to obtain a third
   mixture; and
          (7) mixing the remaining ethanol with the third mixture to prepare the botanical
   disinfectant.
20
   According to another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing the botanical
   disinfectant, comprising:
          (1) uniformly mixing tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil,
   lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil in
25 required amounts to obtain an essential oil mixture;
          (2) mixing azelaic acid with ethanol in a weight ratio of 1:(5-15) to prepare an ethanolic
   solution of azelaic acid;

                                                    -7
         (3) mixing Tween 80 with 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
         (4) mixing the essential oil mixture with the auxiliary agent to obtain a first mixture;
         (5) mixing the remaining ethanol with the first mixture to obtain a second mixture;
         (6) mixing the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid with the second mixture to obtain a third
 5 mixture; and adding water into the third mixture and then adding EDTA disodium salt to prepare
   the botanical disinfectant; and
         (7) adding water into the third mixture and then adding EDTA disodium salt to prepare the
   botanical disinfectant.
 0 Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the
   words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as
   opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not
   limited to".
 5 The technical scheme of the invention has the following advantages.
          1. In the botanical disinfection composition provided by the invention, tea tree essential oil,
   which is famous for its sterilization effect, contains a high proportion of monoterpene alcohol,
   and monoterpene and terpene oxides thereof, niaouli essential oil contains a high proportion of
   terpene oxides and corresponding monoterpene, palmarosa essential oil and lemon mint essential
20 oil contain a high proportion of monoterpene alcohol and terpene esters, and both lemon myrtle
   essential oil and litsea cubeba essential oil contain citral which not only can be used as a
   perfuming agent to regulate the fragrance of the disinfectant so as to make the disinfectant more
   acceptable to people but also have antibacterial effect to further improve the antibacterial effect
   of the disinfectant, making the disinfectant especially effective in killing mycobacterium
25 chelonei subsp. abscessus and meet the requirements for disinfection. Monoterpene alcohol,
   monoterpene aldehyde, terpene oxides and terpene esters all have strong sterilization functions,
   and are free of toxic and side effects and environmentally-friendly because the raw materials are

                                                      -8
   all extracted from plants, and main components of the essential oils synergistically interact with
   each other in the composition, so that multi-target bactericidal efficacy is formed, good
   sterilization effect is achieved, and resistant strains are not liable to generate. In addition,
   monoterpene contained in essential oils has high cell membrane permeability, so that active
 5 components can more quickly act on the objects to be disinfected and the disinfection time is
   shortened.
          2. In the botanical disinfection composition provided by the invention, azelaic acid is also
   added to the essential oil mixture, and azelaic acid is a botanical product belonging to natural
   saturated linear dicarboxylic acid of organic acids. Azelaic acid has antibacterial properties with
 0 a bactericidal concentration of lmol/L. In addition, because of low toxicity, azelaic acid can be
   used with various active matters to achieve synergism, and azelaic acid has high permeation
   promoting effects in an emulsion system, and can carry 40-60% of active matters into a cortex.
   Azelaic acid can rapidly carry bactericidal components in liquor to permeate through outer-layer
   cell membranes of pathogenic bacteria by the permeation promoting effects to achieve the effect
 5 of sterilization, and besides, the sterilization time is shortened.
          3. In the botanical disinfectant provided by the invention, an emulgator namely Tween 80,
   an emulgator additive namely ethanol, and 1,2-propanediol, and EDTA disodium salt are added,
   so that the prepared disinfectant forms an emulsible system which is stable and has long shelf
   life. Even the disinfectant is stored for a long term, the sterilization effect of the disinfectant is
20 not influenced. Besides, based on less usage amount of ethanol, the disinfection effect of the
   essential oil mixture is guaranteed.
          4. In the method for preparing the botanical disinfectant provided by the invention, the
   emulgator, the emulgator additive, deionized water and a synergist are added in order into the
   plant essential oil mixture, so that the disinfectant is prepared. The preparation technology is
25 simple and reasonable and requirements for production equipment are low, so that production
   cost of the disinfectant is further reduced.

                                                      -9
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Embodiment 1
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.5g of tea tree
   essential oil, 1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of lemon mint
 5 essential oil and 0.3g of lemon myrtle essential oil.
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.5g of tea tree essential oil,
   1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.3g of lemon myrtle essential oil are uniformly mixed.
 0
   Embodiment 2
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 1.Og of tea tree
   essential oil, 0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 1.Og of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint
   essential oil and 0.8g of litsea cubeba essential oil.
 5
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 1.Og of tea tree essential oil,
   0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.8g of litsea cubeba essential oil are uniformly mixed.
20 Embodiment 3
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.8g of tea tree
   essential oil, 0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint
   essential oil and 0.5g of lemon myrtle essential oil.
25 A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.8g of tea tree essential oil,
   0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.5g of lemon myrtle essential oil are uniformly mixed.

                                                      - 10
   Embodiment 4
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.7g of tea tree
   essential oil, 0.8g of niaouli essential oil, 0.7g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.8g of lemon mint
   essential oil and 0.6g of litsea cubeba essential oil.
 5
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.7g of tea tree essential oil,
   0.8g of niaouli essential oil, 0.7g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.8g of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.6g of litsea cubeba essential oil are uniformly mixed.
 0 Embodiment 5
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 1.Og of tea tree
   essential oil, 0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 1.Og of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint
   essential oil, 0.8g of lemon myrtle essential oil and 0.3g of azelaic acid.
 5 A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 1.Og of tea tree essential oil,
   0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 1.Og of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.8g of lemon myrtle essential oil are uniformly mixed. 0.3g of azelaic acid is mixed with 3g of
   ethanol to prepare an ethanolic solution of azelaic acid; and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid
   is mixed with tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint
20 essential oil and lemon myrtle essential oil which are uniformly mixed.
   Embodiment 6
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.5g of tea tree
   essential oil, 1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of lemon mint
25 essential oil, 0.3g of litsea cubeba essential oil and 1.Og of azelaic acid.
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.5g of tea tree essential oil,

                                                      - 11
   1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.3g of litsea cubeba essential oil are uniformly mixed. 1.Og of azelaic acid is mixed with lOg of
   ethanol to prepare an ethanolic solution of azelaic acid; and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid
   is mixed with tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint
 5 essential oil and litsea cubeba essential oil which are uniformly mixed.
   Embodiment 7
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.8g of tea tree
   essential oil, 0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint
 0 essential oil, 0.5g of lemon myrtle essential oil and 0.5g of azelaic acid.
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.8g of tea tree essential oil,
   0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.5g of lemon myrtle essential oil are uniformly mixed. 0.5g of azelaic acid is mixed with 5g of
 5 ethanol to prepare an ethanolic solution of azelaic acid; and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid
   is mixed with tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint
   essential oil and lemon myrtle essential oil which are uniformly mixed.
   Embodiment 8
20 A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.7g of tea tree
   essential oil, 0.8g of niaouli essential oil, 0.7g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.8g of lemon mint
   essential oil, 0.6g of litsea cubeba essential oil and 0.7g of azelaic acid.
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.7g of tea tree essential oil,
25 0.8g of niaouli essential oil, 0.7g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.8g of lemon mint essential oil and
   0.6g of litsea cubeba essential oil are uniformly mixed. 0.7g of azelaic acid is mixed with 7g of
   ethanol to prepare an ethanolic solution of azelaic acid; and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid

                                                      - 12
   is mixed with tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint
   essential oil and litsea cubeba essential oil which are uniformly mixed.
   Embodiment 9
 5 A botanical disinfectant comprises the following raw materials: 0.5g of tea tree essential oil, 1.Og
   of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of lemon mint essential oil, 0.3g of
   lemon myrtle essential oil, 1.Og of azelaic acid, 3.4g of Tween 80, 30g of ethanol, 4g of
   1,2-propanediol, 0.05g of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium salt and water.
 0 A method for preparing the botanical disinfectant comprises:
          (1) 0.5g of tea tree essential oil, 1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential
   oil, 1.Og of lemon mint essential oil and 0.3g of lemon myrtle essential oil are mixed and then
   uniformly stirred for 20min to obtain an essential oil mixture, and the essential oil mixture is
   permitted to stand for later use;
 5         (2) 1.Og of azelaic acid is mixed with 5.Og of ethanol to be dissolved to prepare an
   ethanolic solution of azelaic acid, and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is permitted to stand
   for later use;
          (3) 3.4g of Tween 80 is mixed with 4g of 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
          (4) the essential oil mixture is mixed with the auxiliary agent, and stirring is performed for
20 20min to obtain a first mixture;
           (5) deionized water is slowly added into the first mixture, then 0.05g of EDTA disodium
   salt is added, and stirring is performed for 20min to prepare a second mixture;
           (6) the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is mixed with the second mixture, and stirring is
   performed for 20min to obtain a third mixture; and
25         (7) 25.0g of remaining ethanol is mixed with the third mixture in a manner that stirring is
   performed during adding of ethanol until all the ethanol is added, an obtained liquor is permitted
   to stand when the liquor becomes transparent, the liquor is pumped into a microfilter to be

                                                      - 13
   filtered, and filtrate is taken to obtain a finished product, the finished product is subjected to
   appearance detection and pH value detection and goes to the next procedure if qualified, and the
   qualified finished product is pumped into a storage tank for later use so as to obtain the botanical
   disinfectant.
 5
   Embodiment 10
   A botanical disinfectant comprises the following raw materials: 1.Og of tea tree essential oil, 0.5g
   of niaouli essential oil,1.Og of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil, 0.8g of
   litsea cubeba essential oil, 0.3g of azelaic acid, 6.4g of Tween 80, 20g of ethanol, 6g of
 0 1,2-propanediol, 0.03g of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium salt and water.
   A method for preparing the botanical disinfectant comprises:
          (1) 1.Og of tea tree essential oil, 0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 1.Og of palmarosa essential
   oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil and 0.8g of the litsea cubeba essential oil are mixed and then
 5 uniformly stirred for 20min to obtain an essential oil mixture, and the essential oil mixture is
   permitted to stand for later use;
          (2) 0.3g of azelaic acid is mixed with 4.5g of ethanol to be dissolved to prepare an
   ethanolic solution of azelaic acid, and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is permitted to stand
   for later use;
20        (3) 6.4g of Tween 80 is mixed with 6g of 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
          (4) the essential oil mixture is mixed with the auxiliary agent, and stirring is performed for
   20min to obtain a first mixture;
          (5) 15.5g of remaining ethanol is mixed with the first mixture in a manner that stirring is
   performed during adding of ethanol until all the ethanol is added to obtain a second mixture;
25        (6) the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is mixed with the second mixture, and stirring is
   performed for 20min to obtain a third mixture; and
          (7) water is slowly added into the third mixture, then 0.03g of EDTA disodium salt is

                                                       - 14
   added, stirring is performed for 20min, an obtained liquor is permitted to stand, the liquor is
   pumped into a microfilter to be filtered, and filtrate is taken to obtain a finished product, the
   finished product is subjected to appearance detection and pH value detection and goes into the
   next procedure is qualified, and the qualified finished product is pumped into a storage tank for
 5 later use so as to obtain the botanical disinfectant.
   Embodiment 11
   A botanical disinfectant comprises the following raw materials: 0.8g of tea tree essential oil, 0.5g
   of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil, 0.5g of
 0 lemon myrtle essential oil, 0.5g of azelaic acid, 3.5g of Tween 80, 30g of ethanol, 4g of
   1,2-propanediol, 0.03g of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium salt and water.
   A method for preparing the botanical disinfectant comprises:
           (1) 0.8g of tea tree essential oil, 0.5g of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential
 5 oil, 0.5g of lemon mint essential oil and 0.5g of lemon myrtle essential oil are mixed and then
   uniformly stirred for 20min to obtain an essential oil mixture, and then the essential oil mixture
   is permitted to stand for later use;
           (2) 0.5g of azelaic acid is mixed with 5.Og of ethanol to be dissolved to prepare an
   ethanolic solution of azelaic acid, and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is permitted to stand
20 for later use;
           (3) 3.5g of Tween 80 is mixed with 4g of 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
           (4) the essential oil mixture is mixed with the auxiliary agent, and stirring is performed for
   20min to obtain a first mixture;
           (5) deionized water is slowly added into the first mixture, then 0.03g of EDTA disodium
25 salt is added, and stirring is performed for 20min to prepare a second mixture;
           (6) the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is mixed with the second mixture, and stirring is
   performed for 20min to obtain a third mixture; and

                                                      - 15
          (7) 25.Og of remaining ethanol is mixed with the third mixture in a manner that stirring is
   performed during adding of ethanol until all the ethanol is added, an obtained liquor is permitted
   to stand when the liquor becomes transparent, the liquor is pumped into a microfilter to be
   filtered, filtrate is taken to obtain a finished product, the finished product is subjected to
 5 appearance detection and pH value detection and goes into the next procedure if qualified, and
   the qualified finished product is pumped into a storage tank for later use so as to obtain the
   botanical disinfectant.
   Embodiment 12
 0 A botanical disinfectant comprises the following raw materials: 0.7g of tea tree essential oil, 0.8g
   of niaouli essential oil, 0.7g of palmarosa essential oil, 0.8g of lemon mint essential oil, 0.6g of
   litsea cubeba essential oil, 0.7g of azelaic acid, 5.Og of Tween 80, 25g of ethanol, 5g of
   1,2-propanediol, 0.04g of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium salt and water.
 5 A method for preparing the botanical disinfectant comprises:
          (1) 0.7g of tea tree essential oil, 0.8g of niaouli essential oil, 0.7g of palmarosa essential
   oil, 0.8g of lemon mint essential oil and 0.6g of litsea cubeba essential oil are mixed and then
   uniformly stirred for 20min to obtain an essential oil mixture, and the essential oil mixture is
   permitted to stand for later use;
20        (2) 0.7g of azelaic acid is mixed with 7.Og of ethanol to be dissolved to prepare an
   ethanolic solution of azelaic acid, and the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is permitted to stand
   for later use;
          (3) 5.Og of Tween 80 is mixed with 5g of 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
          (4) the essential oil mixture is mixed with the auxiliary agent, and stirring is performed for
25 20min to obtain a first mixture;
          (5) 18.Og of remaining ethanol is mixed with the first mixture in a manner that stirring is
   performed during adding of ethanol until all the ethanol is added to obtain a second mixture;

                                                      - 16
          (6) the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid is mixed with the second mixture, and stirring is
   performed for 20min to obtain a third mixture; and
          (7) water slowly added into the third mixture, then 0.04g of EDTA disodium salt is added,
   stirring is performed for 20min, an obtained liquor is permitted to stand, the liquor pumped into a
 5 microfilter to be filtered, and filtrate   is taken to obtain a finished product, the finished product
   is subjected to appearance detection and pH value detection and goes into the next procedure is
   qualified, and the qualified finished product is pumped into a storage tank for later use so as to
   obtain the botanical disinfectant.
 0 Comparative example 1
   A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.5g of tea tree
   essential oil, 1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of angelica essential oil, 1.Og of honeysuckle
   essential oil and 0.3g of lemon myrtle essential oil.
 5 A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.5g of tea tree essential oil,
   1.Og of niaouli essential oil, 0.5g of angelica essential oil, 1.Og of honeysuckle essential oil and
   0.3g of the lemon myrtle essential oil are uniformly mixed.
   Comparative example 2
20 A botanical disinfection composition comprises the following raw materials: 0.5g of tea tree
   essential oil, 1.Og of bay essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of walnut leaf
   essential oil and 0.3g of litsea cubeba essential oil.
   A method for preparing the disinfection composition comprises: 0.5g of tea tree essential oil,
25 1.Og of bay essential oil, 0.5g of palmarosa essential oil, 1.Og of walnut leaf essential oil and 0.3g
   of the litsea cubeba essential oil are uniformly mixed.

                                                      - 17
  Comparative example 3
  Tianjing Brand pure botanical disinfectant produced by Beijing Purui Huakang Biotechnology
  Co., Ltd. is taken as the comparative example 3.
5 Experimental example
  The botanical disinfection compositions in the embodiments 1, 3, 5 and 7 and in the comparative
  examples 1-3 are applied to act on fifth-generation staphylococcus aureus (ATCC6538),
  fifth-generation escherichia coli (8099), fifth-generation candida albicans (ATCC 10231),
  fifth-generation pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 15442) and fourth-generation mycobacterium
0 chelonei subsp. abscessus (ATCC93326), and action times and average killing effects are shown
  in the table 1 below.
        Table 1 Comparative results of action times and average killing effects of botanical disinfection
     compositions in embodiments 1, 3, 5 and 7 and comparative examples 1-3 on different test organisms
5
       Serial                                                       Action time     Average killing effect
        No. N. Experimental example         Test organisms             (m                      %
                                                                       (min)                  (%)
                   Embodiment 1                                          30                >99.998
                   Embodiment 3                                          28                >99.999
                   Embodiment 5              fifth-generation            1.5               >99.998
          1        Embodiment 7          staphylococcus aureus            1                >99.999
               Comparative example  1          (ATCC6538)                35                   99.8
               Comparative example  2                                    35                   99.7
               Comparative example  3                                     1                  99.91
                   Embodiment 1                                          30                >99.997
                   Embodiment 3                                          27                >99.999
                   Embodiment 5                                           1                >99.997
         2.        Embodiment 7              fifth-generation           0.5                >99.999
               Comparative example  1    escherichia coli (8099)         35                   99.3
               Comparative example  2                                    35                   99.4
               Comparative example 3                                      1                  99.98

                                                      - 18
        Serial                                                   Action time   Average killing effect
         No. N. Experimental example         Test organisms         (m
                                                                    (min)
                                                                                         %
                                                                                        (%)
                    Embodiment 1                                      30              >99.98
                    Embodiment 3                                      29              >99.99
                    Embodiment 5                                       2              >99.97
          3         Embodiment 7        fifth-generation candida      1.5             >99.99
                Comparative example 1    albicans (ATCC10231)         33                99.5
                Comparative example 2                                 33                99.6
                Comparative example 3                                  1               99.94
                    Embodiment 1                                      30              >99.997
                    Embodiment 3                                      27              >99.999
                    Embodiment 5             fifth-generation          1              >99.998
          4.        Embodiment 7              pseudomonas            0.5             >99.999
                                                aeruginosa
                Comparative example 1         (ATCC15442)             35                99.8
                Comparative example 2                                 35                99.7
                Comparative example 3                                 2                99.92
                    Embodiment 1                                      15              >99.98
                    Embodiment 3            fourth-generation         13              >99.99
                    Embodiment 5             mycobacterium            1.5             >99.98
          5         Embodiment 7             chelonei subsp.           1              >99.99
                Comparative example 1            abscessus            18                99.3
                Comparative example 2         (ATCC93326)             18                99.4
                Comparative example 3                                  3               99.94
   As shown in Table 1, the disinfection compositions of the embodiments 1,3,5 and 7 are
   obviously better than those of the comparative examples 1-3 in respect of the average killing
   effects on the test organisms, with all the standard requirements met. After azelaic acid is added,
 5 the disinfection action time of the disinfection compositions is obviously shortened.
   Chemical synthetic disinfectants such as ethanol, benzalkonium bromide (bromogeramine), 1210
   (fourth generation) and iodophor are adopted as comparative examples which are to be compared
   with the botanical disinfectant prepared according to the embodiment 11 of the present invention
10 in terms of times needed for acting on different test organisms to meet the disinfection
   requirements. The results are as shown in Table 2 below.

                                                      - 19
       Table 2 Comparative results of times needed by the chemical synthetic disinfectants in comparative
     examples and the disinfection composition in embodiment 11 to act on different test organisms to meet
                                           disinfection requirements
                                                                                          Time needed for
                                                                                               meeting
      Serial
                                             Concentration          Test organisms           disinfection
       No.       Experimental example
                                                                                            requirements
                                                                                                 (min)
                                                                    Escherichia coli              0.5.
                                                               Pseudomonas auerginosa               1
                           Ethanol                              Staphylococcus aureus              5
        1.                                        700%
                         (alcohols)                                 Mycobacterium
                                                                                                   5
                                                                     tuberculosis
                                                                   Candida albicans                 1
                 Benzalkonium bromide                               Escherichia coli               10
        2            (bromogeramine)             1:1000
               (quaternary ammonium salt)
                                                                Staphylococcus aureus
                 1210 (fourth generation)       250ppm            Shechi a                         5
        3                                                           Escherichia cohi
               (quaternary ammonium salt)
                                                500ppm         Pseudomonas auerginosa              5
                                                                 Common pathogenic                  1
                                                                        bacteria
        4                 Jodophor              40mg/L             Candida albicans                5
                         halogenss)             1Mycobacterium                   chelonei
                                                                   subsp. Abscessus
                                                                    Escherichia coli              0.5.
                                                               Pseudomonas auerginosa             0.5.
                                                  Stock         Staphylococcus aureus              1.
        5             Embodiment 11
                                                                   Candida albicans                1.5
                                                               Mycobacterium chelonei
                                                                                                   1.
                                                                   subsp. Abscessus
 5
   As shown in Table 2, compared with common chemical synthetic disinfectants in comparative
   examples, the disinfectant of embodiment 11 has bactericidal effects on various bacteria, needs
   obviously less time for meeting disinfection requirements, and has notable effects particularly on
   staphylococcus aureus, pseudomonas auerginosa and mycobacterium chelonei subsp.abscessus.
10
   In general, the disinfection composition and disinfectant made by the method provided by the

                                                -20
  invention can effectively kill common bacteria which can cause hospitals infection such as
  enteropathogenic bacteria, suppurative pathogens and pathogenic yeast, and can effectively kill
  mycobacterium chelonei. The disinfection composition and disinfectant disclosed by the
  invention can be widely used for medical sterilization, personal sanitary disinfection and family
5 preventive disinfection.
  Apparently, the above-described embodiments are merely examples for the purpose of clarity
  and are not intended to limit the embodiments. For one of ordinary skill in the art, other different
  forms of changes or variations can be made on the basis of the above description. It is
0 unnecessary and impossible to be exhaustive of all implementations. Obvious changes or
  modifications extended therefrom are still within the protection scope of the invention.

                                                 - 21
CLAIMS:
1.     A botanical disinfection composition, comprising the following raw materials in parts by
weight:
      0.5-1.0 part of tea tree essential oil,
      0.5-1.0 part of niaouli essential oil,
      0.5-1.0 part of palmarosa essential oil,
      0.5-1.0 part of lemon mint essential oil, and
      0.3-0.8 part of lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil.
2.     The botanical disinfection composition of claim 1, comprising the following raw materials
in parts by weight:
      0.8 part of tea tree essential oil,
      0.5 part of niaouli essential oil,
      0.5 part of palmarosa essential oil,
      0.5 part of lemon mint essential oil, and
      0.5 part of lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil.
3.     The botanical disinfection composition of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising 0.3-1.0
part of azelaic acid.
4.     The botanical disinfection composition of claim 3, further comprising 0.5 part of azelaic
acid.
5.     A botanical disinfectant, comprising the botanical disinfection composition of any one of
claims 1-4, and further comprising 3.4-6.4 parts of Tween 80, 20-30 parts of ethanol, 4-6 parts of
1,2-propanediol, 0.03-0.05 part of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium salt, and
water.

                                                - 22
6.     The botanical disinfectant of claim 5, comprising the botanical disinfection composition of
any one of claims 1-4, and further comprising 3.5 parts of Tween 80, 30 parts of ethanol, 4 parts
of 1,2-propanediol, 0.03 part of EDTA disodium salt, and water.
7.    A method for preparing the botanical disinfection composition of any one of claims 1-4,
comprising:
      uniformly mixing tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil, lemon
mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil according to
predetermined parts by weight.
8.     The method for preparing the botanical disinfection composition of claim 7, further
comprising:
      mixing azelaic acid with ethanol in a weight ratio of 1:(5-15) to prepare an ethanolic
solution of azelaic acid; and
      mixing the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid with tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil,
palmarosa essential oil, lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea
cubeba essential oil which are uniformly mixed.
9.    A method for preparing the botanical disinfectant of claim 5 or claim 6, comprising:
     (1) uniformly mixing tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil,
lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil
according to predetermined parts by weight to obtain an essential oil mixture;
     (2) mixing azelaic acid with ethanol in a weight ratio of 1:(5-15) to prepare an ethanolic
solution of azelaic acid;
     (3) mixing Tween 80 with 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
     (4) mixing the essential oil mixture with the auxiliary agent to obtain a first mixture;

                                               -  23
     (5) adding water into the first mixture and then adding EDTA disodium salt to prepare a
second mixture;
     (6) mixing the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid with the second mixture to obtain a third
mixture; and
     (7) mixing the remaining ethanol with the third mixture to prepare the botanical
disinfectant.
10.      A method for preparing the botanical disinfectant of claim 5 or claim 6, comprising the
following steps of:
     (1) uniformly mixing tea tree essential oil, niaouli essential oil, palmarosa essential oil,
lemon mint essential oil, and lemon myrtle essential oil and/or litsea cubeba essential oil
according to predetermined parts by weight to obtain an essential oil mixture;
     (2) mixing azelaic acid with ethanol in a weight ratio of 1:(5-15) to prepare an ethanolic
solution of azelaic acid;
     (3) mixing Tween 80 with 1,2-propanediol to obtain an auxiliary agent;
     (4) mixing the essential oil mixture with the auxiliary agent to obtain a first mixture;
     (5) mixing the remaining ethanol with the first mixture to obtain a second mixture;
     (6) mixing the ethanolic solution of azelaic acid with the second mixture to obtain a third
mixture; and
     (7) adding water into the third mixture and then adding EDTA disodium salt to prepare the
botanical disinfectant.

