                                     ABSTRACT
         A composition comprising mesoporous silica rods comprising an immune cell
  recruitment compound and an immune cell activation compound, and optionally
5 comprising an antigen such as a tumor lysate. The composition is used to elicit an
  immune response to a vaccine antigen.

                                       1/28
20 gm* EHT =10.75 kV Signal A=SE1         Sample ID               Peltier Temp 20.0 C
                 Mag = 1.04 KX    WD 19.0 mm Chamber 1.33e-003 Pa Humidity 0.0%
                                     FIG. 1
                90%-         E MHCll+
          o 80%-             0 CD86+
          u 70%
          x60%
            '50%
                40%
          E 30%
                20%
                10%
                 0%-                              -  r        -         "
                          Control   2 pm      30 pm    100 pm      CpG
                                    FIG. 2

     MESOPOROUS SILICA COMPOSITIONS FOR MODULATING IMMUNE
                                         RESPONSES
 5                               GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
           This invention was made with Government support under Grant No.
   5R01DE019917-03 awarded by the NIH, and Grant No. GRFP:2010107013 awarded
   by the NSF. The Government has certain rights in the invention.
10                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           This invention relates to biocompatible injectable compositions.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15         Vaccines that require ex vivo manipulation of cells, such as most cell based
   therapy, lead to poor lymph node homing and limited efficiency.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20         The invention provides a solution to problems and drawbacks associated with
   earlier approaches. Accordingly, the invention features a composition comprising
   mesoporous silica (MPS) rods comprising an immune cell recruitment compound and
   an immune cell activation compound. The rods comprise pores of between 2-50 nm
   in diameter, e.g., pores of between 5-25 nm in diameter or pores of between 5-10 nm
25 in diameter. In preferred embodiments, the rods comprise pores of approximately 8
   nm in diameter. The length of the micro rods ranges from 5 pm to 500 pm. In one
   example, the rods comprise a length of 5-25 ptm, e.g., 10-20 pm. In other examples,
   the rods comprise length of 50 pm to 250 pm. Robust recruitment of cells was
   achieved with MPS microparticle compositions characterized as having a higher
30 aspect ratio, e.g., with rods comprising a length of 80 pm to 120 pm.
           Exemplary immune cell recruitment compounds include granulocyte
   macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Other examples of recruitment
   compounds include chemokines, e.g., a chemokine selected from the group consisting
   of chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 21 (CCL-2 1, GenBank Accession Number: (aa)
                                                1

   CAG29322.1 (GI:47496599), (na) EF064765.1 (GI:117606581), incorporated herein
   by reference), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL-19, GenBank Accession
   Number: (aa) CAG33149.1 (GI:48145853), (na) NM_006274.2 (GI:22165424),
   incorporated herein by reference), as well as FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 ligand (Flt3)
 5 ligand; Genbank Accession Number: (aa) AA144040 (GI:219519004), (na)
   NM_004119 (GI: GI: 121114303), incorporated herein by reference)
            Immune cell activating compounds include TLR agonists. Such agonists
   include pathogen associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), e.g., an infection
   mimicking composition such as a bacterially-derived immunomodulator (a.k.a.,
10 danger signal). TLR agonists include nucleic acid or lipid compositions [e.g.,
   monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA)]. In one example, the TLR agonist comprises a
   TLR9 agonist such as a cytosine-guanosine oligonucleotide (CpG-ODN), a
   poly(ethylenimine) (PEI)-condensed oligonucleotide (ODN) such as PEI-CpG-ODN,
   or double stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). For example, the device comprises
15 5 ptg, 10ptg, 25ptg, 50 ptg, 100 [tg, 250ptg, or 500 pg of CpG-ODN. In another
   example, the TLR agonist comprises a TLR3 agonist such as polyinosine
   polycytidylic acid (poly I:C), PEI-poly (I:C), polyadenylic-polyuridylic acid (poly
   (A:U)), PEI-poly (A:U), or double stranded ribonucleic acid (RNA).
   Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is also useful for this purpose.
20          To generate an immune response, the composition comprises an antigen to
   which the immune response is desired. For example, the composition comprises a
   tumor antigen. In preferred embodiments, the antigen comprises a tumor cell lysate
   (e.g., from a tumor biopsy sample that was taken from the subject to be treated). The
   subject is preferably a human patient, but the compositions/systems are also used for
25 veterinary use, e.g., for treatment of companion animals such as dogs and cats as well
   as performance animals such as horses and livestock such as cattle, oxen, sheep,
   goats, and the like.
            Antigen presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DC's) traffick through the
   MPS device, i.e., the cells do not stay in the device permanently. The immune cells
30 are recruited to the device and are present in the device temporarily while they
   encounter antigen and are activated. Immune cells such as DC's then home to a
   lymph node. They accumulate in a lymph node, e.g., a draining lymph node, not in
   the MPS device. The accumulated cells in the lymph node further augment the
                                                  2

   immune response to the vaccine antigen resulting in a strong cellular and humoral
   response to the antigen.
            Thus, a method of inducing a systemic antigen-specific immune response to a
   vaccine antigen, comprises administering to a subject the MPS composition described
 5 above. The composition is loaded into a syringe and injected into the body of the
   recipient. For example, a small amount (e.g., 50-500 pl, e.g.., 150 pl) is administered
   subcutaneously. Typically, the device (MPS composition) is infiltrated with cells by
   Day 2 post-administration, and by Day 5-7, a draining lymph node is swollen with
   cells that have migrated out of the device and to the lymph node tissue, where they
10 accumulate and further propagate an antigen-specific response. The compositions are
   therefore useful to induce homing of immune cells to a lymph node. The MPS
   composition need not be removed after vaccination therapy. The composition may
   remain in the body at the site of administration, where it degrades. For example, the
   MPS particles are consumed by macrophages over time and then cleared from the
15 body.
           A method of making a vaccine comprises providing a suspension of
   mesoporous silica rods, contacting the rods with a vaccine antigen, an immune cell
   recruitment compound, and an immune cell activation compound. The vaccine
   antigen comprises a tumor cell lysate, the recruitment compound comprises GM-CSF,
20 and the activation compound comprises CpG ODN. In some cases, the rods are
   modified with glycolic acid or lactic acid prior to contacting the rods with one or
   more of the following compounds: vaccine antigen, recruitment compound, or
   activation compound. Optionally, the MPS composition/device is fabricated with
   MPS rods, an immune cell recruitment compound, and an immune cell activation
25 compound (optionally, with glycolic or lactic acid modification), stored, and/or
   shipped to the site of use, whereupon the patient-specific tumor antigen preparation or
   lysate is added to the rod suspension prior to administration, e.g., 1, 2, 6, 12, 24, or 48
   hours, prior to administration to the patient.
            The compounds that are loaded into the MPS compostion are processed or
30 purified. For example, polynucleotides, polypeptides, or other agents are purified and/or
   isolated. Specifically, as used herein, an "isolated" or "purified" nucleic acid molecule,
   polynucleotide, polypeptide, or protein, is substantially free of other cellular material, or
   culture medium when produced by recombinant techniques, or chemical precursors or
   other chemicals when chemically synthesized. Purified compounds are at least 60%
                                                  3

   by weight (dry weight) the compound of interest. Preferably, the preparation is at
   least 75%, more preferably at least 90%, and most preferably at least 99%, by weight
   the compound of interest. For example, a purified compound is one that is at least
   90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 98%, 99%, or 100% (w/w) of the desired
 5 compound by weight. Purity is measured by any appropriate standard method, for
   example, by column chromatography, thin layer chromatography, or high
   performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. A purified or isolated
   polynucleotide (ribonucleic acid (RNA) or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)) is free of the
   genes or sequences that flank it in its naturally-occurring state. Purified also defines a
10 degree of sterility that is safe for administration to a human subject, e.g., lacking
   infectious or toxic agents. In the case of tumor antigens, the antigen may be purified
   or a processed preparation such as a tumor cell lysate.
           Similarly, by "substantially pure" is meant a nucleotide or polypeptide that has
   been separated from the components that naturally accompany it. Typically, the
15 nucleotides and polypeptides are substantially pure when they are at least 60%, 70%,
   80%, 90%, 95%, or even 99%, by weight, free from the proteins and naturally
   occurring organic molecules with they are naturally associated.
               A small molecule is a compound that is less than 2000 daltons in mass. The
   molecular mass of the small molecule is preferably less than 1000 daltons, more
20 preferably less than 600 daltons, e.g., the compound is less than 500 daltons, 400
   daltons, 300 daltons, 200 daltons, or 100 daltons.
           The transitional term "comprising," which is synonymous with "including,"
   "containing," or "characterized by," is inclusive or open-ended and does not exclude
   additional, unrecited elements or method steps. By contrast, the transitional phrase
25 "consisting of' excludes any element, step, or ingredient not specified in the claim.
   The transitional phrase "consisting essentially of' limits the scope of a claim to the
   specified materials or steps "and those that do not materially affect the basic and
   novel characteristic(s)" of the claimed invention.
           It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
30 such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of
   the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
           Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
   following description of the preferred embodiments thereof, and from the claims.
   Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
                                                 4

   meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention,
   suitable methods and materials are described below. All published foreign patents
 5 and patent applications cited herein are incorporated herein by reference. Genbank
   and NCBI submissions indicated by accession number cited herein are incorporated
   herein by reference. All other published references, documents, manuscripts and
   scientific literature cited herein are incorporated herein by reference. In the case of
   conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control. In addition, the
10 materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 is an SEM image of the MPS rods. The random stacking and self
   assembly of these rods generate a 3D space that allows for cell infiltration.
15          Figure 2 is a bar graph showing surface marker expression dependent on MPS
   rods of different lengths. 100 pg of the MPS rods of different lengths were incubated
   with bone marrow derived dendritic cells for 18 hour. As a marker of inflammation,
   the percentage of activated cells was determined by staining for cell surface receptors
   CD1 Ic (DC marker), MHCII (antigen presentation marker) and CD86 (costimulatory
20 receptor). The inflammatory property of the rods increased with increasing length.
   Since a desired scaffold exhibits inflammatory properties (similar to the PLG scaffold
   control), rods between 30 and 100 pm or 120 pm were used in subsequent
   experiments.
            Figure 3 is a series of images showing the effect of MPS rods in a mouse.
25 Figure 3A is a picture depicting a scaffold injection site excised after 7 days after 5
   mg of rhodamine labeled MPS rod was injected subcutaneously into a C57bl/6j
   mouse. The subcutaneous pocket indicates that the rods were localized and have self
   assembled to create a 3D microenvironment. Figure 3B is an SEM image of the
   excised scaffold site demonstrating cell infiltration into the scaffold site. Figure 3C
30 depicts live/dead imaging of the cells detached from the MPS scaffold, demonstrating
   the recruitment of living cells.
           Figure 4A is a line graph showing GM-CSF release from MPS rods. 1 pg of
   GM-CSF was loaded into the MPS rods and incubated in 0.1 %BSA/PBS. Supernatant
   was collected periodically and measured for GM-CSF using ELISA (R&D). GM
                                                 5

   CSF is being continuously released from the MPS rods. Figure 4B is a bar graph
   showing surface marker expression in an in vitro bone marrow derived dendritic cell
   (BMDC) co-culture with MPS. 100pg of the unmodified, amine-, thiol-, chloro- and
   phosphonate- modified MPS rods were incubated with 106/ml BMDCs for 18 hours.
 5 The cells were then analyzed for the expression of MHC class-II and the
   costimulatory molecule CD86. An increased expression of MHCII and CD86 of the
   BMDCs stimulated by MPS indicates that the MPS rods are inflammatory, and this
   property was modulated by surface-modifying the MPS rods.
           Figure 5A is a bar graph depicting recruitment of CDs by GM-CSF loaded
10 MPS rods. 5 mg/mouse of MPS rods loaded with or without 1 ptg/mouse GM-CSF
   were injected subcutaneously. Cells from the scaffold site were retrieved and stained
   for the CD1lc receptor (DC marker). The MPS scaffold loaded with GM-CSF was
   capable of recruiting more DCs than the blank MPS scaffold. Figure 5B is a bar
   graph depicting surface marker expression of DCs. The MPS scaffold loaded with
15 GM-CSF and CpG-ODN activated more DCs than without CpG-ODN.
           Figures 6A-B are bar graphs showing (Figure 6A) percentage of B220+ cells
   or (Figure 6B) total number of B220+ cells at the scaffold site. 5 mg/mouse of MPS
   rods loaded with or without 1 ptg/mouse GM-CSF, 100 pg CpG-ODN and 130 pg
   ovalbumin were injected subcutaneously. Cells from the scaffold site were retrieved
20 periodically and stained for the B220 receptor (B cell marker). The MPS scaffold
   loaded with GM-CSF, CpG-ODN and Ova was capable of recruiting more B cells by
   day 3.
           Figures 7A-C are flow cytometry scatterplots (Figure 7A) and bar graphs
   (Figures 7B-C) depicting the presence of the MHC-I-SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1)
25 marker on the surface of DCs. The MPS scaffold loaded with GM-CSF, CpG-ODN
   and the model antigen ovalbumin induced the expansion of antigen specific DCs
   homed to the draining lymph node (dLN). dLN cells are stained with the dendritic
   marker CD1 Ic and the marker MHC-I-SIINFEKL, which indicates that a part of the
   ovalbumin protein, the peptide sequence SIINFEKL, is being presented on the surface
30 of the cell in the MHC-I complex.
           Figures 8A-B are bar graphs showing formation of the germinal center due to
   the MPS scaffold. The MPS scaffold loaded with GM-CSF, CpG-ODN and the
   model antigen ovalbumin was able to induce the germinal center, home to activated
   and antigen primed B cells, in the dLN. The dLN cells are stained with B220 (B cell
                                               6

   marker) and GL7 (germinal center marker) to investigate the formation of the
   germinal center, which hosts only B cells that are activated and in the process of
   somatic hypermutation and isotype switching.
            Figures 9A-B are bar graphs depicting that the MPS scaffold loaded with GM
 5 CSF, CpG-ODN and the model antigen ovalbumin was able to induce the expansion
   of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that can specifically recognize the model
   antigen. Splenocytes were stained for CD8 (killer T cell marker) and with a MHCI
   tetramer-SIINFEKL antibody, which indicates whether a T cell is able to recognize a
   specific antigen presented on the MHCI complex.
10          Figures 10A-C are histograms showing that the MPS scaffold loaded with
   GM-CSF, CpG-ODN and the model antigen ovalbumin was able to induce the clonal
   expansion of antigen specific CD8+ CTLs in the dLN and the spleen. Injected
   splenocytes from the OT-I mouse were stained the cell tracker dye CFSE, whose
   fluorescence halves every time a cell divides. The lower fluorescence in the CFSE
15 stained splenocytes in the spleen and the dLN in the fully loaded vaccine group
   indicates ova-specific CTL proliferation.
            Figures 11 A-C are histograms showing that the MPS scaffold loaded with
   GM-CSF, CpG-ODN and the model antigen ovalbumin was able to induce the clonal
   expansion of antigen specific CD4+ THs in the dLN and the spleen. Injected
20 splenocytes from the OT-II mouse were stained the cell tracker dye CFSE, whose
   fluorescence halves every time a cell divides. The lower fluorescence in the CFSE
   stained splenocytes in the spleen and the dLN in the fully loaded vaccine group and
   the MPS loaded with only the antigen group indicates ova-specific CD4+ TH cell
   proliferation.
25          Figures 12 A-B are histograms showing that antibody titer is defined as the
   degree to which the antibody-serum solution can be diluted and still contain a
   detectable amount of the antibody. The anti-ovalbumin serum antibodies were
   titrated. The MPS scaffold loaded with GM-CSF, CpG-ODN and ova elicited a strong
   and durable THI and TH2 antibody response. MPS loaded with OVA alone can elicit
30 a strong TH2 response, indicating the adjuvant potential of the MPS material itself.
            Figures 13 A- B are line graphs showing that GM-CSF is released from the
   MPS microparticles in a controlled and sustained manner. A) 1pg of GM-CSF was
   loaded into 5mg of MPS rods and incubated in 0.10%BSA/PBS. Supernatant was
   collected periodically and measured for GM-CSF using ELISA (R&D). GM-CSF was
                                               7

   continuously released from the MPS rods, although in small quantities. B) 1pg of
   GM-CSF was loaded into 5mg of MPS containing OVA and CpG. It was then
   injected subcutaneously into C57BL/6j mice. At various time points, the tissue
   surrounding the injected particle scaffold was harvested and analyzed for GM-CSF
 5 level. The level of GM-CSF was maintained throughout a week.
           Figures 14 A-B are photographs, and Figure 14C is a bar graph. Higher aspect
   ratio MPS microparticles recruit more cells. Figure 14A shows SEM images of MPS
   microparticles either between 10pm and 20 pm or between 80pm and 120pm in
   length. The longer rods resulted in a composition with greater area or space between
10 the rods. Figure 14B shows MPS compositions that was harvested from mice. 5pig of
   MPS microparticles were injected subcutaneously into mice, and the scaffold site was
   harvested on day 7 post injection. Figure 14 C is a bar graph showing enumeration of
   cells that were isolated from the scaffold. MPS microparticles of higher aspect ratio
   recruited more cells.
15         Figures 15 A- B are bar graphs. Dendritic cells (DCs) are recruited to the MPS
   microparticle as a response to GM-CSF. MPS microparticles were loaded with GM
   CSF (Ong, 500ng, 10OOng, 3000ng) and injected subcutaneously into mice. On day 7
   post injection, the scaffold was harvested and analyzed using flow cytometry. Figure
   15A shows that recruited CD1 lc+ CD1 lb+ DCs increases with increasing GM-CSF
20 dose. Fig. 15B shows that recruited mature CD1 lc+ MHCII+ DCs also DCs increases
   with increasing GM-CSF dose.
           Figure 16 is a bar graph showing that GM-CSF increases recruited DC
   trafficking to the draining LN. MPS microparticles were loaded with Alexa 647
   labeled ovalbumin (OVA), or Alexa 647 labeled OVA with Ip g GM-C SF, and
25 injected subcutaneously into mice. On day 7 post injection, the draining lymph node
   (dLN) was harvested and analyzed using flow cytometry. With the addition of
   antigen (OVA), there is a modest increase of Alexa 647+ CD1 1c+ DCs that have
   trafficked to the scaffold and up-taken the OVA. However, the addition of GM-CSF
   drastically increases DC trafficking from the scaffold to the dLN.
30         Figures 17 A-C are scatterplots and Figure 17D is a bar graph. Local delivery
   of CpG-ODN from the MPS microparticle scaffold increases circulation of activated
   DCs. MPS microparticles were loaded with 1pg of GM-CSF, 300ptg of OVA and
   100ptg of CpG-ODN. They were then injected subcutaneously into mice. The dLNs
   were harvested and analyzed after 7 days post injection. LN cells were stained with
                                               8

   CD1 Ic and CD86. The addition of CpG-ODN, which is locally released from the
   MPS scaffold, further increases the percentage and number of activated, mature DCs
   in the dLN.
           Figures 18 A-C are photographs and Figure 18 D is a bar graph. Proteins are
 5 released from the MPS microparticle scaffold in a controlled and sustained manner.
   Alexa 647 labeled ovalbumin was injected subcutaneously into the flank of a mouse
   either in a buffer solution or loaded onto the MPS microparticles. Relative
   fluorescence was measured using the IVIS at various time points. If injected in a
   buffer solution, the protein diffuses away from the injection site in less than 1 day.
10 However, if loaded onto the MPS microparticles, the protein is released from the local
   scaffold site in a sustained manner, e.g., over the course of a week (2, 3, 4, 5, 7 or
   more days).
           Figures 19 A-B are line graphs showing antibody titers. Antibody titer is
   defined as the degree to which the antibody-serum solution can be diluted and still
15 contain a detectable amount of the antibody. Mice were vaccinated with 300pg OVA,
   100ptg CpG-ODN and 1pg GM-CSF in the soluble form or loaded in 5mg of MPS
   microparticles. The anti-ovalbumin serum antibodies are titrated. The MPS scaffold
   loaded with GM-CSF, CpG-ODN and ova can elicit a strong and durable THI and
   TH2 antibody response, as indicated by a high titer of the IgG2a and IgGI antibody,
20 respectively. More impressively, this response is evident beyond 200 days after
   vaccination with a single injection. This response was compared to OVA delivered
   using aluminum hydroxide, the only adjuvant approved for human use in the US.
   While the MPS vaccine is capable of inducing both THI and TH2 antibody responses,
   due to its capability to load small cytokines, proteins and DNAs, the response induced
25 by alum is completely TH2 biased. The MPS vaccine is very versatile and is readily
   fine tuned and controlled to induce specific immune responses.
           Figures 20 A-D are scatterplots showing that vaccination with the MPS
   vaccine induces the expansion of T follicular helper cells. OT-II splenocytes were
   stained with CFSE and adoptively transferred into Thyl.l+ recipient mice. The
30 recipient mice were then vaccinated with MPS and lysozyme, MPS and OVA, and the
   full form of the vaccine containing GM-CSF and CpG. Three days after vaccination,
   dLN were harvested and the adoptively transferred cells were analyzed. It is shown
   here that mice that were vaccinated with MPS and ova, and the full form of the
   vaccine, generated a strong population of follicular T helper cells, which are the cells
                                                9

   directly responsible for "helping" B cells to differentiate and mature into full,
   functional antigen specific antibody secreting plasma cells.
           Figures 21 A-D are line graphs showing that vaccination with the MPS
   vaccine induces the clonal expansion of CD4+ T helper cells. OT-II splenocytes were
 5 stained with CFSE and adoptively transferred into Thyl.l+ recipient mice. The
   recipient mice were then vaccinated with MPS and lysozyme, MPS and OVA, and the
   full form of the vaccine containing GM-CSF and CpG. Three days after vaccination,
   dLN were harvested and the adoptively transferred cells were analyzed. It is shown
   here that both MPS and OVA, and the full vaccine, induced strong clonal expansion
10 of the CD4+ T helper cells, indicating a systemic antigen specific response.
           Figure 22 A-B are line graphs showing that glycolic acid and lactic acid
   modification of the MPS microparticles aids the release of bioactive GM-CSF. 1pg
   of GM-CSF was loaded into 5mg of glycolic acid or lactic acid modified MPS rods
   and incubated in 0.10%BSA/PBS. Supernatant was collected periodically and
15 measured for GM-CSF using ELISA (R&D). Compared to GM-CSF released from
   unmodified MPS microparticles, glycolic acid and lactic acid modification
   increasecumulative release of bioactive GM-CSF by more than 20 fold.
           Figures 23 A-D are scatterplots showing that glycolic acid modified MPS
   increases the percentage of recruited DCs and mature DCs. 5mg of unmodified or
20 glycolic acid modified MPS microparticles were loaded with Ip g of GM-CSF for 1
   hour at 37C, and injected subcutaneously into mice. The scaffold was harvested at
   day 7 and analyzed. It is evident here that the modified MPS almost doubles the
   percentage of recruited CD1 lc+ CD1 lb+ DCs, and more drastically increases the
   percentage of CD11c+ CD86+ mature DCs. These results indicate that the great
25 surface modification potential of the MPS microparticles permit further manipulation
   of the phenotype of recruited cells to induce more potent immune responses.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Injectable MPS-based micro-rods randomly self-assemble to form 3D scaffold
30 in vivo. This system is designed such that it releases a cytokine to recruit and
   transiently house immune cells, present them with an antigen, and activate them with
   a danger signal. After recruitment and temporary housing or presence of the cells in
   the structure, these immune cells migrate out of the device structure and homed to a
   lymph node. Thus, the composition is one in which cells traffic/circulate in and out
                                               10

   of, their status of immune activation being altered/modulated as a result of the
   trafficking through the device.
            A markedly expanded population of antigen specific dendritic cells was found
   in the lymph node as well as the formation of the germinal center, which is aided by
 5 the involvement of follicular T helper cells in the lymph node as a result of the
   administration of the device. A population of antigen-recognizing CD8+ CTLs in the
   spleen was also found to be significantly enhanced. The system also induces the
   clonal expansion of both antigen specific CD4 and CD8 T cells. In addition to the
   significant amplification of the cellular immune response, a high and durable antibody
10 production and a balanced TH1/TH2 response was detected.
            Key elements of the injectable mesoporous silica micro-rod based scaffold
   system for modulating immune cell trafficking and reprogramming include:
   -        Aspect ratio of the MPS micro rods (10 nm cross sectional area by 100 micron
   length) prevents their uptake and therefore allows for local formation of a 3D
15 structure.
   -        8 nm pore size allows for adsorption of small molecules that can be delivered
   via diffusion in a controlled and continuous manner.
   -        High surface area to volume ratio allows for the control of the loading of
   various cytokines, danger signal and antigen.
20 -        Inflammatory property of the MPS micro rods promotes immune cell
   recruitment without the need of other inflammatory cytokines.
   -        Versatility in ability of surface chemical modification of the MPS rods that
   modulate properties of the rods and ways that proteins are bound to the rods.
   -        Controlled release of GM-CSF can modulate the trafficking of immune cells
25 to the site of the scaffold.
   -        Controlled release of CpG-ODN activates the recruited dendritic cells.
   -        Anchored protein antigens are taken up by the recruited immune cells at the
   site of the scaffold.
            A pore size of approximately 5-10, e.g., 8 nm, was found to be optimal for
30 loading efficiency for small molecules as well as larger proteins, e.g., GM-CSF
   (which molecule is about 3 nm in diameter).
            Upon subcutaneous injection of the micro rods suspended in a buffer, the rods
   randomly stack into a 3D structure; the ends of the rods form physical contact with
   each other, and a micro space is formed between the contacts.
                                                 11

   MPS
            Mesoporous silica nanoparticles are synthesized by reacting tetraethyl
   orthosilicate with a template made of micellar rods. The result is a collection of nano
   sized spheres or rods that are filled with a regular arrangement of pores. The template
 5 can then be removed by washing with a solvent adjusted to the proper pH. In another
   technique, the mesoporous particle could be synthesized using a simple sol-gel
   method or a spray drying method. Tetraethyl orthosilicate is also used with an
   additional polymer monomer (as a template). Other methods include those described
   in U.S. Patent Publication 20120264599 and 20120256336, hereby incorporated by
10 reference.
   Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF)
            Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a protein
   secreted by macrophages, T cells, mast cells, endothelial cells and fibroblasts.
15 Specifically, GM-CSF is a cytokine that functions as a white blood cell growth factor.
   GM-CSF stimulates stem cells to produce granulocytes and monocytes. Monocytes
   exit the blood stream, migrate into tissue, and subsequently mature into macrophages.
            Scaffold devices described herein comprise and release GM-CSF polypeptides
   to attract host DCs to the device. Contemplated GM-CSF polypeptides are isolated
20 from endogenous sources or synthesized in vivo or in vitro. Endogenous GM-CSF
   polypeptides are isolated from healthy human tissue. Synthetic GM-CSF polypeptides
   are synthesized in vivo following transfection or transformation of template DNA into
   a host organism or cell, e.g. a mammal or cultured human cell line. Alternatively,
   synthetic GM-CSF polypeptides are synthesized in vitro by polymerase chain reaction
25 (PCR) or other art-recognized methods Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E.F., and Maniatis, T.,
   Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, NY,
   Vol. 1, 2, 3 (1989), herein incorporated by reference).
            GM-CSF polypeptides are modified to increase protein stability in vivo.
   Alternatively, GM-CSF polypeptides are engineered to be more or less immunogenic.
30 Endogenous mature human GM-CSF polypeptides are glycosylated, reportedly, at
   amino acid residues 23 (leucine), 27 (asparagine), and 39 (glutamic acid) (see US
   Patent No. 5,073,627). GM-CSF polypeptides of the present invention are modified at
   one or more of these amino acid residues with respect to glycosylation state.
                                                12

           GM-CSF polypeptides are recombinant. Alternatively GM-CSF polypeptides
   are humanized derivatives of mammalian GM-CSF polypeptides. Exemplary
   mammalian species from which GM-CSF polypeptides are derived include, but are
   not limited to, mouse, rat, hamster, guinea pig, ferret, cat, dog, monkey, or primate. In
 5 a preferred embodiment, GM-CSF is a recombinant human protein (PeproTech,
   Catalog # 300-03). Alternatively, GM-CSF is a recombinant murine (mouse) protein
   (PeproTech, Catalog #315-03). Finally, GM-CSF is a humanized derivative of a
   recombinant mouse protein.
           Human Recombinant GM-CSF (PeproTech, Catalog # 300-03) is encoded by
10 the following polypeptide sequence (SEQ ID NO:2):
   MAPARSPSPS TQPWEHVNAI QEARRLLNLS RDTAAEMNET VEVISEMFDL QEPTCLQTRL
   ELYKQGLRGS LTKLKGPLTM MASHYKQHCP PTPETSCATQ IITFESFKEN LKDFLLVIPF
   DCWEPVQE
           Murine Recombinant GM-CSF (PeproTech, Catalog # 315-03) is encoded by
15 the following polypeptide sequence (SEQ ID NO: 3):
   MAPTRSPITV TRPWKHVEAI KEALNLLDDM PVTLNEEVEV VSNEFSFKKL TCVQTRLKIF
   EQGLRGNFTK LKGALNMTAS YYQTYCPPTP ETDCETQVTT YADFIDSLKT FLTDIPFECK
   KPVQK
           Human Endogenous GM-CSF is encoded by the following mRNA sequence
20 (NCBI Accession No. NM_000758 and SEQ ID NO: 4):
      1  acacagagag   aaaggctaaa    gttctctgga     ggatgtggct     gcagagcctg   ctgctcttgg
     61  gcactgtggc   ctgcagcatc    tctgcacccg     cccgctcgcc     cagecccagc   acgcagccct
   121   gggagcatgt   gaatgccatc    caggaggccc     ggcgtctcct     gaacctgagt   agagacactg
   181   ctgctgagat   gaatgaaaca    gtagaagtca     tctcagaaat     gtttgacctc   caggagccga
25 241   cctacctaca   gacecqcetg    gagctgtaca     agcaqqqcct     gcqqqqcagc   ctcaccaagc
   301   tcaagggccc   cttgaccatg    atggccagcc     actacaagca     gcactgccct   ccaaccccgg
   361   aaacttcctg   tgcaacccag    attatcacct     ttgaaagttt     caaagagaac   ctgaaggact
   421   ttctgcttgt   catccccttt    gactgctggg     agccagtcca     ggagtgagac   cggccagatg
   481   aggctggcca   agccggggag    ctgctctctc     atgaaacaag     agctagaaac   tcaggatggt
30 541   catcttggag   ggaccaaggg    qtaqqccaca     accatgqtag gatgccta         qacc        tccct
   601   gggccacact   gaccctgata    caggcatggc     agaagaatgg gaatatttta       tactgacaga
   661   aatcagtaat   atttatatat    ttatattttt     aaaatattta tttatttatt       tatttaagtt
   721   catattccat   atttattcaa    gatgttttac     cgtaataatt attattaaaa       atatgcttct
   781   a
35
           Human Endogenous GM-CSF is encoded by the following amino acid
   sequence (NCBI Accession No. NP_000749.2 and SEQ ID NO: 5):
   MWLQSLLLLGTVACSISAPARSPSPSTQPWEHVNAIQEARRLLNLSRDTAAEM
   NETVEVISEMFDLQEPTCLQTRLELYKQGLRGSLTKLKGPLTMMASHYKQHC
40 PPTPETSCATQIITFESFKENLKDFLLVIPFDCWEPVQE
                                               13

   Cytosine-Guanosine (CpG) Oligonucleotide (CpG-ODN) Sequences
            CpG sites are regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) where a cysteine
   nucleotide occurs next to a guanine nucleotide in the linear sequence of bases along
   its length (the "p" represents the phosphate linkage between them and distinguishes
 5 them from a cytosine-guanine complementary base pairing). CpG sites play a pivotal
   role in DNA methylation, which is one of several endogenous mechanisms cells use
   to silence gene expression. Methylation of CpG sites within promoter elements can
   lead to gene silencing. In the case of cancer, it is known that tumor suppressor genes
   are often silenced while oncogenes, or cancer-inducing genes, are expressed. CpG
10 sites in the promoter regions of tumor suppressor genes (which prevent cancer
   formation) have been shown to be methylated while CpG sites in the promoter regions
   of oncogenes are hypomethylated or unmethylated in certain cancers. The TLR-9
   receptor binds unmethylated CpG sites in DNA.
            The vaccine composition described herein comprises CpG oligonucleotides.
15 CpG oligonucleotides are isolated from endogenous sources or synthesized in vivo or
   in vitro. Exemplary sources of endogenous CpG oligonucleotides include, but are not
   limited to, microorganisms, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, viruses, molds, or parasites.
   Alternatively, endogenous CpG oligonucleotides are isolated from mammalian benign
   or malignant neoplastic tumors. Synthetic CpG oligonucleotides are synthesized in
20 vivo following transfection or transformation of template DNA into a host organism.
   Alternatively, Synthetic CpG oligonucleotides are synthesized in vitro by polymerase
   chain reaction (PCR) or other art-recognized methods (Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E.F.,
   and Maniatis, T., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press, NY, Vol. 1, 2, 3 (1989), herein incorporated by reference).
25          CpG oligonucleotides are presented for cellular uptake by dendritic cells. For
   example, naked CpG oligonucleotides are used. The term "naked" is used to describe
   an isolated endogenous or synthetic polynucleotide (or oligonucleotide) that is free of
   additional substituents. In another embodiment, CpG oligonucleotides are bound to
   one or more compounds to increase the efficiency of cellular uptake. Alternatively, or
30 in addition, CpG oligonucleotides are bound to one or more compounds to increase
   the stability of the oligonucleotide within the scaffold and/or dendritic cell. CpG
   oligonucleotides are optionally condensed prior to cellular uptake. For example, CpG
   oligonucleotides are condensed using polyethylimine (PEI), a cationic polymer that
   increases the efficiency of cellular uptake into dendritic cells.
                                                14

           CpG oligonucleotides can be divided into multiple classes. For example,
   exemplary CpG-ODNs encompassed by compositions, methods and devices of the
   present invention are stimulatory, neutral, or suppressive. The term "stimulatory"
   describes a class of CpG-ODN sequences that activate TLR9. The term "neutral"
 5 describes a class of CpG-ODN sequences that do not activate TLR9. The term
   "suppressive" describes a class of CpG-ODN sequences that inhibit TLR9. The term
   "activate TLR9" describes a process by which TLR9 initiates intracellular signaling.
           Stimulatory CpG-ODNs can further be divided into three types A, B and C,
   which differ in their immune-stimulatory activities. Type A stimulatory CpG ODNs
10 are characterized by a phosphodiester central CpG-containing palindromic motif and a
   phosphorothioate 3' poly-G string. Following activation of TLR9, these CpG ODNs
   induce high IFN-a production from plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC). Type A CpG
   ODNs weakly stimulate TLR9-dependent NF-KB signaling.
           Type B stimulatory CpG ODNs contain a full phosphorothioate backbone with
15 one or more CpG dinucleotides. Following TLR9 activation, these CpG-ODNs
   strongly activate B cells. In contrast to Type A CpG-ODNs, Type B CpG-ODNS
   weakly stimulate IFN-a secretion.
           Type C stimulatory CpG ODNs comprise features of Types A and B. Type C
   CpG-ODNs contain a complete phosphorothioate backbone and a CpG containing
20 palindromic motif. Similar to Type A CpG ODNs, Type C CpG ODNs induce strong
   IFN-a production from pDC. Simlar to Type B CpG ODNs, Type C CpG ODNs
   induce strong B cell stimulation.
           Exemplary stimulatory CpG ODNs comprise, but are not limited to, ODN
   1585, ODN 1668, ODN 1826, ODN 2006, ODN 2006-G5, ODN 2216, ODN 2336,
25 ODN 2395, ODN M362 (all InvivoGen). The present invention also encompasses any
   humanized version of the preceding CpG ODNs. In one preferred embodiment,
   compositions, methods, and devices of the present invention comprise ODN 1826 (the
   sequence of which from 5' to 3' is tccatgacgttcctgacgtt, wherein CpG elements are
   bolded, SEQ ID NO: 10).
30         Neutral, or control, CpG ODNs that do not stimulate TLR9 are encompassed
   by the present invention. These ODNs comprise the same sequence as their
   stimulatory counterparts but contain GpC dinucleotides in place of CpG
   dinucleotides.
                                               15

           Exemplary neutral, or control, CpG ODNs encompassed by the present
   invention comprise, but are not limited to, ODN 1585 control, ODN 1668 control,
   ODN 1826 control, ODN 2006 control, ODN 2216 control, ODN 2336 control, ODN
   2395 control, ODN M362 control (all InvivoGen). The present invention also
 5 encompasses any humanized version of the preceding CpG ODNs.
   Antigens
           Compositions, methods, and devices described herein comprise tumor antigens
   or other antigens. Antigens elicit protective immunity or generate a therapeutic
10 immune response in a subject to whom such a device was administered. Preferred
   tumor antigens are tumor cell lysates (see, e.g., Ali et. Al., 2009, Nature Materials 8,
   151 - 158; hereby incorporated by reference). For example, a whole tumor or tumor
   biopsy sample is extracted from a human patient (or non-human animal), and digested
   using collagenase to degrade the extra cellular matrix. Then the tumor cells then
15 undergo three cycles of the freeze thaw process, in which the cells are frozen in liquid
   N 2 and then thawed in a water bath. This process generates the tumor antigens, which
   are then loaded onto the MPS particles at the same time with GM-CSF and CpG
   ODN. For example, a vaccine dose of tumor cell lysate antigen is the amount
   obtained from 1 x 106 tumor cells. After fabrication of the MPS particles, the
20 particles are suspended in a physiologically accepted buffer, e.g., PBS, and the
   recruitment compound (e.g., GM-CSF), activating compound (e.g., CpG), and antigen
   added to the suspension of rods. The mixture is shaken at room temperature
   overnight and then lyophilized for about 4 hours. Prior to administration, the rods are
   again suspended in buffer and the suspension loaded into a 1 ml syringe (18 gauge
25 needle). A typical vaccine dose is 150 pl of the mixture per injection.
           Exemplary cancer antigens encompassed by the compositions, methods, and
   devices of the present invention include, but are not limited to, tumor lysates extracted
   from biopsies, irradiated tumor cells, MAGE series of antigens (MAGE- 1 is an
   example), MART-1/melana, tyrosinase, ganglioside, gplOO, GD-2, 0-acetylated GD
30 3, GM-2, MUC-1, Sosl, Protein kinase C-binding protein, Reverse transcriptase
   protein, AKAP protein, VRK1, KIAA1735, T7-1, T 1-3, T 1l-9, Homo Sapiens
   telomerase ferment (hTRT), Cytokeratin-19 (CYFRA21-1), SQUAMOUS CELL
   CARCINOMA ANTIGEN 1 (SCCA-1), (PROTEIN T4-A), SQUAMOUS CELL
   CARCINOMA ANTIGEN 2 (SCCA-2), Ovarian carcinoma antigen CA125 (lAl-3B)
                                               16

   (KIAA0049), MUCIN 1 (TUMOR-ASSOCIATED MUCIN), (CARCINOMA
   ASSOCIATED MUCIN), (POLYMORPHIC EPITHELIAL
   MUCIN),(PEM),(PEMT),(EPISIALIN), (TUMOR-ASSOCIATED EPITHELIAL
   MEMBRANE ANTIGEN),(EMA),(H23AG), (PEANUT-REACTIVE URINARY
 5 MUCIN), (PUM), (BREAST CARCINOMA- ASSOCIATED ANTIGEN DF3),
   CTCL tumor antigen se1-1, CTCL tumor antigen se14-3, CTCL tumor antigen se20
   4, CTCL tumor antigen se20-9, CTCL tumor antigen se33-1, CTCL tumor antigen
   se37-2, CTCL tumor antigen se57-1, CTCL tumor antigen se89-1, Prostate-specific
   membrane antigen, 5T4 oncofetal trophoblast glycoprotein, Orf73 Kaposi's sarcoma
10 associated herpesvirus, MAGE-CI (cancer/testis antigen CT7), MAGE-BI
   ANTIGEN (MAGE-XP ANTIGEN) (DAM10), MAGE-B2 ANTIGEN (DAM6),
   MAGE-2 ANTIGEN, MAGE-4a antigen, MAGE-4b antigen, Colon cancer antigen
   NY-CO-45, Lung cancer antigen NY-LU-12 variant A, Cancer associated surface
   antigen, Adenocarcinoma antigen ART 1, Paraneoplastic associated brain-testis-cancer
15 antigen (onconeuronal antigen MA2; paraneoplastic neuronal antigen), Neuro
   oncological ventral antigen 2 (NOVA2), Hepatocellular carcinoma antigen gene 520,
   TUMOR-ASSOCIATED ANTIGEN CO-029, Tumor-associated antigen MAGE-X2,
   Synovial sarcoma, X breakpoint 2, Squamous cell carcinoma antigen recognized by T
   cell, Serologically defined colon cancer antigen 1, Serologically defined breast cancer
20 antigen NY-BR-15, Serologically defined breast cancer antigen NY-BR-16,
   Chromogranin A; parathyroid secretory protein 1, DUPAN-2, CA 19-9, CA 72-4, CA
   195, Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). Purified tumor antigens are used alone or in
   combination with one another.
            The system is also useful to generate an immune response to other antigens
25 such as microbial pathogens (e.g., bacteria, viruses, fungi).
            The following materials and methods were used to generate the data described
   herein.
   MPS scaffold fabrication
            The Pluronic P-123 (Sigma-Aldrich) surfactant was dissolved in 1.6M HCl at
30 room temperature, and heated 40 degrees C. 42 mmol of Tetraethyl orthosilicate
   (TEOS) (Sigma-Aldrich) was added and heated for 20 hours at 40 degrees C under
   stirring (600 rpm). The composition was then heated to 100 degrees C for 24 hours.
   The rod particles were collected by filtration and air dried at room temperature. The
   particles were extracted in ethanol/HCl (5 parts HCl to 500 parts EtOH) overnight at
                                               17

   80 degrees C. Alternatively, the particles were calcined at 550 degrees C for 4 hours
   in 100% ethanol. The MPS composition may be stored and shipped for use before or
   after adding recruitment and/or activation compounds and before or after adding
   antigen. For example, if antigen is a tumor cells lysate made from a biopsy sample
 5 taken from a patient, it may be processed and added to MPS particles shortly before
   administration to the patient.
            For full vaccine composition, 1 ptg/mouse GM-CSF, 100 ptg/mouse CpG
   ODN and 130 ptg/mouse of the ovalbumin protein were incubated with 5 mg/mouse
   MPS in dH 20 for 12 hours, lyophilized for 12 hours, resuspended in 150 pl/mouse
10 PBS and injected subcutaneously using a 18G needle.
           To determine the release kinetics of GM-CSF, and CpG-ODN from the MPS
   rods, radioactive I-labeled recombinant human GM-CSF was used as a tracer, and
   standard release studies were carried out. Similarly, the amount of CpG-ODN
   released into PBS was determined by the absorbance readings using a Nanodrop
15 instrument (ND 1000, Nanodrop Technologies).
   Modification of MPS microparticles
           Standard 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide (EDC) chemistry is
   used to activate a carboxylic acid on glycolic acid or lactic acid. The MPS particles
   are amine modified using amine propyl silane. The two components are then mixed
20 together at room temperature overnight to react. The particles are then allowed to air
   dry. The resulting glycolic acid and/or lactic acid modified particles are then
   contacted with GM-CSF or other compounds as described above.
   In vitro DC activation assay
           Murine Dendritic Cells (DCs) were differentiated from the bone marrow cells
25 using 20 ng/ml GM-CSF. Differentiated DCs, at 106/ml, were incubated with 100
   ptg/ml of the MPS particles for 18 hours, and analyzed for the expression of CD1 Ic
   (ebiosciences, San Diego, CA), CD86 (ebiosciences, San Diego, CA) and MHC class
   II (ebiosciences, San Diego, CA) using flow cytometry.
   Analysis of DC recruitment to MPS scaffold and emigration to lymph nodes
30         The MPS scaffold was retrieved from the animal and digested by
   mechanically separating the cells from the rods. APC conjugated CD1 Ic (dendritic
   cell marker), FITC conjugated MHC class-II, and PE conjugated CD86 (B7,
   costimulatory molecule) stains were used for DC and leukocyte recruitment analysis.
   Cells were gated according to positive fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC),
                                               18

   Allophycocyanin (APC) and phycoerythrin (PE) using isotype controls, and the
   percentage of cells staining positive for each surface antigen was recorded.
            To determine the presence of antigen specific DCs in the lymph nodes, the
   draining lymph node (dLN) was harvested and analyzed using APC conjugated
 5 CD1 Ic and PE conjugated SIINFEKL-MHC class-I (ebiosciences, San Diego, CA).
   Analysis of antigen specific CD8+ spleen T cells
            The spleen was harvested and digested. After lysing the red blood cells, the
   splenocytes were analyzed using PE-CY7 conjugated CD3 (ebiosciences, San Diego,
   CA), APC conjugated CD8 (ebiosciences, San Diego, CA) and the PE conjugated
10 SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: ) MHC class-I tetramer (Beckman Coulter). SIINFEKL is
   an ovalbumin derived peptide [OVA(257-264)].
   Analysis of CD4+ or CD8+ T cell clonal expansion
            The spleens from the OT-II (for CD4) or OT-I (for CD8) transgenic C57bl/6
   mice (Jackson Laboratories) were harvested, digested, pooled and stained with the
15 cell tracer Carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE). 20x 106 stained
   splenocytes/mouse were IV injected into the C57bl/6 (Jackson Laboratories) mice two
   days post immunization. The dLNs and spleens were retrieved after four days post IV
   injection and analyzed using PE conjugated CD8 or CD4 marker.
   Characterization of anti-OVA humoral response
20          Blood sera were analyzed for IgGI, and IgG2a antibodies by ELISA using
   ovalbumin-coated plates. Antibody titration was defined as the lowest serum dilution
   at which the ELISA OD reading is >0.3 (blank).
                                  OTHER EMBODIMENTS
            While the invention has been described in conjunction with the detailed
25 description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not limit the
   scope of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other
   aspects, advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the following claims.
            The patent and scientific literature referred to herein establishes the knowledge
   that is available to those with skill in the art. All United States patents and published
30 or unpublished United States patent applications cited herein are incorporated by
   reference. All published foreign patents and patent applications cited herein are
   hereby incorporated by reference. Genbank and NCBI submissions indicated by
   accession number cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference. All other
                                                 19

   published references, documents, manuscripts and scientific literature cited herein are
   hereby incorporated by reference.
            While this invention has been particularly shown and described with
   references to preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in
 5 the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without
   departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.
            The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
   Application No. 2013249366 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
   application.
10
                                               20

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A composition comprising mesoporous silica rods comprising an immune cell
   recruitment compound and an immune cell activation compound.
 5
   2. The composition of claim 1, wherein said rods comprise pores of between 2-50 nm
   in diameter.
   3. The composition of claims 1, wherein said rods comprise pores of between 5-25
10 nm in diameter.
   4. The composition of claim 1, wherein said rods comprise pores of between 5-10 nm
   in diameter.
15 5. The composition of claim 1, wherein said rods comprise pores of approximately 8
   nm in diameter.
   6. The composition of claim 1, wherein said rods comprise a length of 5 pm to 500
   pm.
20
   7. The composition of claim 1, wherein said rods a length of 5 pm to 25 pm.
   8. The composition of claim 1, wherein said rods comprise a length of 80 pm to 120
   pm.
25
   9. The composition of claim 1, wherein said recruitment compound comprises
   granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), chemokine (C-C
   motif) ligand 21 (CCL-2 1), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCl-19), or a FMS-like
   tyrosine kinase 3 (Flt-3) ligand.
30
   10. The composition of claim 1, wherein said recruitment compound comprises GM
   CSF.
                                             21

   11. The composition of claim 1, wherein said composition further comprises an
   antigen.
   12. The composition of claim 11, wherein said antigen comprises a tumor antigen.
 5
   13. The composition of claim 11, wherein said antigen comprises a tumor cell lysate.
   14. A method of inducing a systemic antigen-specific immune response to a vaccine
   antigen, comprising administering to a subject the composition of claim 1.
10
   15. Use of a composition comprising mesoporous silica rods comprising an immune
   cell recruitment compound, an immune cell activation compound, and a vaccine
   antigen for inducing a systemic antigen-specific immune response to said vaccine
   antigen or
15 inducing homing of vaccine antigen-specific immune cells to a lymph node.
   16. A method of making a vaccine, comprising providing a suspension of
   mesoporous silica rods, contacting said rods with a vaccine antigen, an immune cell
   recruitment compound, and an immune cell activation compound.
20
   17. The method of claim 16, wherein said vaccine antigen comprises a tumor cell
   lysate, wherein said recruitment compound comprises GM-CSF, and wherein said
   activation compound comprises CpG ODN.
25 18. The method of claim 16, wherein said rods are modified with glycolic acid or
   lactic acid prior to contacting said rods with said vaccine antigen, recruitment
   compound, or activation compound.
                                               22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
