ABSTRACT
Methods of modulating high mannose glycoform content of a protein in a cell culture by
contacting the cells expressing the protein of interest with monensin are provided.

   WO 2015/066357                                                                       PCT/US2014/063211
                       USE OF MONENSIN TO REGULATE GLYCOSYLATION
                                      OF RECOMBINANT PROTEINS
 5
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates generally to compounds and processes for modulating one or
   more properties of a recombinant protein produced by cell culture, including mammalian cell cultures
   such as CHO cell cultures.
10 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/898,310 filed
   October 31, 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15          Glycosylation is a ubiquitous post-translational modification in mammalian cells; both normal
   human immunoglobulins and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) produced in Chinese hamster
   ovary (CHO) cells are glycoproteins. Although the glycoforms of a protein expressed by CHO host
   cells are largely determined during cell line generation and clone selection, the presence and/or degree
   of high mannose glycoform content can also be affected by cell culture conditions (Pacis et al., (2011)
20 BiotechnolBioeng 108, 2348-2358).
            Both pharmacokinetic properties and effector functions of therapeutic mAbs can be affected
   by glycosylation of the constant region. Terminal sugars such as fucose and galactose may affect
   antibody-dependent cellular cytoxicity (ADCC) and complement-dependent cytoxicity (CDC; Wright,
   A. and S.L. Morrison, Trends Biotechnol (1997) 15:26-32). High mannose glycans may increase
25 serum clearance of certain mAbs thus potentially affecting efficacy (Goetze, et al., (2011)
   Glycobiology 21:949-59). Alternatively, high mannose glycoforms can increase the affinity of
   antibodies for Fc gamma III receptor thus increasing ADCC activity of certain antibodies (Yu, et al.
   (2012) MAbs 4:475-87).       Thus for each recombinant mAb a certain glycosylation profile that best
   supports the therapeutic potential of the mAb needs to be maintained.
30          Methods for manipulating high mannose glycoform content of a protein in cell culture include
   changes in media compositions, osmolality, pH, temperature, etc (Yu, et al., supra, Pacis et al., supra,
   Chee Furng Wong et al. (2005) Biotechnol Bioeng 89:164-177; Ahn, et al. (2008) Biotechnol Bioeng
   101:1234-44). The effectiveness of these methods is specific to cell lines, molecule types and media
   environment and is typically obtained by trial and error. Additionally, these methods tend to also alter
35 antibody productivity, cell culture behavior and other antibody quality attributes.
            Monensin is a sodium-hydrogen inophore capable of integrating into biological membranes
   and thus disturbing sodium-hydrogen gradients across those membranes. It is widely used as an
   antibiotic in the cattle and fowl industry and as a tool for studying intracellular vesicular trafficking in
                                                        1

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
   cultured eukaryotic cells. Addition of monensin has been reported to inhibit secretion of many
   different proteins from various cell types (Fukao, H., et al. (1989) 14:673-84; Kuhn, L.J., et al (1986).
   J Biol Chem 261:3816-25). Monensin also inhibits glycan processing by neutralizing the pH of the
   Golgi thus affecting the function of various glycosylation enzymes (Kubo, R.T. and M.L. Pigeon,
 5 (1983) Mollmmunol 20:345-8).
            It has been observed that the addition of monensin leads to an increase in high mannose
   glycoforms on a variety of different proteins expressed in various cell systems (Machamer, C.E. and
   P. Cresswell (1984) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 81:1287-91; Kousoulas, K.G., et al. (1983) Intervirology
   20: 56-60; Chatterjee, S., et al., (1982) J Virol 44:1003-12). However, in most of the published reports
10 short term application of monensin is used to study its effects on glycan processing; prolonged
   administration of monensin at micromolar concentrations is toxic to the cells. Also, no studies have
   evaluated the utility of monensin to modulate the high mannose profile of therapeutic antibodies
   produced by CHO production cell lines.
            There still exists a need to identify a universal mechanism which can increase high mannose
15 glycoforms (particularly Mannose 5), on mAbs without compromising CHO production culture
   performance and antibody yield.          Such a method would benefit the process development of
   therapeutic proteins. The invention provides a method that regulates high mannose glycoform content
   by contacting cells expressing a therapeutic protein with monensin.
20 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention provides a method for regulating the high mannose glycoform content
   of a recombinant protein during a mammalian cell culture process comprising establishing a
   mammalian cell culture in a bioreactor, and contacting the cell culture with monensin. Optionally, the
   invention further comprises a step of harvesting the recombinant protein produced by the cell culture.
25 In a further embodiment the recombinant protein produced by the cell culture is purified and
   formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation.
            In a further embodiment the high mannose glycoform content of a recombinant protein is
   increased compared to that produced by a culture where the cells are not contacted with monensin. In
   one embodiment the high mannose glycan species is Mannose 5 (Man5). In another embodiment, the
30 high mannose glycan species is Mannose 6 (Man6), Mannose 7 (Man7), Mannose 8 (including
   Mannose 8a and 8b; Man8a and 8b, or Mannose 9 (Man9).                In a further embodiment the high
   mannose glycan species comprise a mixture of Man5, Man6, Man7, Man8a, Man8b, and/or Man9.
            The invention provides a further embodiment in which the high mannose glycoform content
   of a recombinant protein is less than 10%.        In another embodiment, the high mannose glycoform
35 content of a recombinant protein is greater than or equal to 10%. In a further embodiment, the high
   mannose glycoform content of a recombinant protein produced by a cell culture that is contacted with
   monensin is greater than that produced by a cell culture that is not contacted with monensin by one
   percentage point, two percentage points, three percentage points, four percentage points or 5
                                                         2

    WO 2015/066357                                                                   PCT/US2014/063211
   percentage points.    In yet another embodiment, high mannose glycoform content of a recombinant
   protein produced by a cell culture that is contacted with monensin is greater than that produced by a
   cell culture that is not contacted with monensin by a 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 percentage points. In further
   embodiments high mannose glycoform content of a recombinant protein produced by a cell culture
 5 that is contacted with monensin is greater than that produced by a cell culture that is not contacted
   with monensin by a 12, 15, 17, 20, 22, 25, 27, 30, 32, 35, 37 or 40 percentage points. In yet another
   embodiment, the high mannose glycoform content of a recombinant protein produced by a cell culture
   that is contacted with monensin is greater than that produced by a cell culture that is not contacted
   with monensin by 50 percentage points or more (i.e., 60, 70, 80, 90 or 100 percentage points).
10          In one embodiment, monensin is added to the cell culture in a single bolus dose to achieve a
   final concentration. In one embodiment, the final concentration of monensin in the medium is 0.1 nM
   - 1000 nM; in another embodiment, the concentration is 10 nM - 800 nM; in another the final
   concentration is 25 nM - 750 nM; in yet another embodiment, the final concentration is 50 nM - 500
   nM.    Further aspects of the invention include a method for regulating the high mannose glycoform
15 content of a recombinant protein during a mammalian cell culture process by including monensin in
   the cell culture medium at a final concentration of 50 nM, 100 nM, 250 nM; 500nM; or of 750 nM.
            One embodiment of the invention provides a method for regulating the high mannose
   glycoform content of a recombinant protein during a mammalian cell culture process by feeding the
   cells with a medium containing monensin, or to which monensin is added, continuously for between
20 one and three days. In one embodiment, the monensin is present in the cell culture (by virtue of being
   added to the medium or being added to the culture along with medium) for approximately one day (20
   - 28 hours); for approximately two days (40 - 56 hours) or approximately three days (60 - 84 hours).
   In a further embodiment, the monensin is present in the cell culture (by virtue of being added to the
   medium or being added to the culture along with medium) for four days, five days, six days, seven
25 days, eight days, nine days 10 days or longer. For additional embodiments, the monensin is present in
   the cell culture for the entire duration of the culture process. In these embodiment, the monensin may
   be present at a set, selected concentration, or it may be present in increasing concentration, or in an
   initial concentration that is increased to a higher concentration before being decreased again to the
   original concentration or another, lower concentration, as described herein.
30          A further embodiment of the invention provides a method for regulating the high mannose
   glycoform content of a recombinant protein during a mammalian cell culture process by contacting
   the cells with a medium containing monensin, and simultaneously or sequentially adding monensin
   separately to the culture. Additional embodiments include the use of monensin in a fed-batch culture
   and the use of monensin in a perfusion culture.        In one embodiment, the culture is perfused using
35 alternating tangential flow (ATF). In one embodiment, the monensin is present in the cell culture by
   virtue of being added to the culture in the medium at a selected concentration for a selected period of
   time, as herein described, and the concentration of monensin is increased, at a selected point of time
                                                         3

    WO 2015/066357                                                                        PCT/US2014/063211
   and for a selected period of time, by the addition of monensin to the culture separately from, but
   optionally along with, the feed medium or the perfusion medium.
            The invention further provides for the addition of monensin to the cell culture between three
   and 15 days after the culture is established. In one embodiment, monensin is added to the cell culture
 5 at day 3, at day 4, at day 5; at day 6; at day 7; at day 8; at day 9; at day 10; at day 11; or at day 12 after
   the culture is established. The monensin is maintained at a concentration as previously described (in
   one embodiment, at a final concentration of 25 nM, 50 nM, 100 nM, 250 nM, of 500 nM or of 750
   nM) for a period of time between one and seven days, and may be added by any of the herein
   mentioned methods (i.e., inclusion in feed medium, addition separately from feed medium, etc.).
10          A further embodiment of the invention provides for the addition of monensin to the cell
   culture between one and 15 days before the cell culture is harvested. In yet another embodiment, the
   monensin is present for the entire duration of the cell culture, from day 0 through harvest. In one
   embodiment, monensin is added to the cell culture one day before harvest; two days, three days; four
   days; five days; six days; seven days; eight days; nine days; or ten days before harvest. The monensin
15 is maintained at a concentration as previously described (in one embodiment, at a final concentration
   of 25 nM, 50 nM, 100 nM, 250 nM, of 500 nM or of 750 nM; in another embodiment, at one of the
   aforementioned ranges) for a period of time between one and three days. In a further embodiment, the
   amount of monensin is increased over time, to a steady state or to a concentration from which it is
   then decreased, as described herein.
20          In yet another aspect of the invention, the addition of monensin to the cell culture begins
   between one and 15 days after the culture is established, or between three and 15 days after the culture
   is established, and optionally continues until the cell culture is harvested.          In one embodiment,
   monensin is added to the cell culture one day after the culture is established; two days, three days;
   four days; five days; six days; seven days; eight days; nine days; or ten days after the culture is
25 established. In a further embodiment, monensin is added to the cell culture 11 days, 12 days; 13 days;
    14 days; 15 days; 16 days; 17 days; 18 days; 19 days; 20 days; 21 days or 22 days after establishment
   of the culture.    As previously described, in one embodiment, monensin is present for the entire
   duration of the cell culture, from day 0 through harvest. In another embodiment, the monensin is
   maintained at a concentration as described above (in one embodiment, at a final concentration of 25
30 nM, 50 nM, 100 nM, 250 nM, of 500 nM or of 750 nM; in another embodiment, at one of the
   aforementioned ranges) for a period of time between one and three days. In a further embodiment, the
   amount of monensin is increased over time, to a steady state or to a concentration from which it is
   then decreased, as described herein.
            In one embodiment of the invention, monensin is added to the cell culture to achieve a
35 constant concentration; in another embodiment, the concentration of monensin is varied.              For one
   embodiment, the concentration of monensin in the cell culture may be held at 25 nM for from three to
   five days, then increased (or ramped up) to 50nM for from one day through the duration of the
                                                          4

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
   culture. In another embodiment, the concentration of monensin in the cell culture may be held at 25
   nM for from three to five days, then increased to 50nM for three to five days, then tapered again to 25
   nM for the duration of the culture. Additional embodiments comprise shorter or longer time periods
   during which the levels of monensin are increased, held steady, and optionally decreased, for
 5 example, increased over a period of from one to two days, held steady for a period of from one to two
   days, and optionally decreased for a period of from one to two days.
            The invention further includes varying the concentration of monensin from between 25 nM
   and 100 nM to between 100 nM and 500 nM, and maintaining the second, higher concentration of
   monensin for a period of from one day through the duration of the culture. In another embodiment,
10 the method optionally comprises a tapering step that reduces the concentration of monensin to
   between 25 nM and 100 nM (for a period of from one day through the duration of the culture). The
   duration of each stage can be varied, as described, holding the monensin at a selected level for from
   three to five days at each stage. Longer time periods may also be employed, as may other variations
   such as gradually increasing the amount of monensin over a time period and holding the monensin
15 concentration, or decreasing it gradually.
            In one embodiment, the monensin is included in the medium, which can be a feed medium or
   a perfusion medium, at a selected final concentration (i.e., 25 nM, 50 nM, 100 nM, 250 nM, of 500
   nM or of 750 nM); in another embodiment, the monensin is added to the cell culture along with the
   medium, in yet another embodiment the monensin is added separately from the medium.                 The
20 monensin is added to the culture at a rate sufficient to achieve and/or maintain a desired final
   concentration in the culture. In one embodiment, the monensin is added at a rate of 1/40 - 1/60 of the
   rate at which medium is added to the culture, for example by perfusion; in another embodiment, the
   monensin is added at a rate of 1/50 of the rate. In further embodiments, the rate is varied to achieve a
   desired concentration using calculations that are known in the art. The monensin can be added at a
25 rate that is from 1/10 of that of the culture medium to 1/100 of that of the culture medium.
            In combination with any of the embodiments of the invention described herein, antifoam may
   also added into the culture vessel as needed. Alternatively or additionally, IM Sodium Carbonate or
   another suitable base is used to maintain pH at the desired setpoint.
            As described herein, in one aspect of the invention the cell culture may be maintained by
30 perfusion.    In one embodiment perfusion begins on or about day 1 to on or about day 9 of the cell
   culture. In a related embodiment perfusion begins on or about day 3 to on or about day 7 of the cell
   culture.   In one embodiment perfusion begins when the cells have reached a production phase. In
   further embodiments of the invention, perfusion is accomplished by alternating tangential flow. In a
   related embodiment the perfusion is accomplished by alternating tangential flow using an ultrafilter or
35 a microfilter.
            A further embodiment of the invention provides continuous perfusion; in yet a further
   embodiment the rate of perfusion is constant. One embodiment of the invention provides perfusion
                                                       5

    WO 2015/066357                                                                       PCT/US2014/063211
   performed at a rate of less than or equal to 1.0 working volumes per day. In a related embodiment
   perfusion is performed at a rate that increases during the production phase from 0.25 working volume
   per day to 1.0 working volume per day during the cell culture.             In another related embodiment
   perfusion is performed at a rate that reaches 1.0 working volume per day on day 9 to day 11 of the cell
 5 culture.   In another related embodiment perfusion is performed at a rate that reaches 1.0 working
   volume per day on day 10 of the cell culture.
             In one embodiment the cell culture receives bolus cell culture media feeds prior to days 3 - 7
   of the culture.
             In yet another aspect of the invention, the cell culture is maintained by fed batch. In one
10 embodiment of a fed batch culture, the culture is fed three times during production. In a further
   embodiment, the culture is fed on a day between day two and four, on a day between day 5 and 7, and
   on a day between day 8 and 10. Another embodiment provides a fed batch method in which the
   culture is fed four times during production. In a still further embodiment, the culture is fed on a day
   between day two and four, on a day between day 5 and 6, on a day between day 7 and 8, and on a day
15 between day 8 and 10 or later.
             In one embodiment of the invention, monensin is added to a fed batch culture along with the
   feed medium. Thus, monensin may be added three or four times during the production process, at the
   times set forth previously. The monensin may be added to the medium (i.e., production medium) at a
   concentration designed to achieve a particular concentration in the culture, or the monensin may be
20 added to the culture separately from, but along with, the feed medium. In another embodiment, the
   monensin is added directly to the culture on a day or days during which the culture is not being fed
   (i.e., no additional feed medium is added). The concentration of the monensin and the amount of time
   it is present in the culture is selected according to the aforementioned parameters.
             According to one embodiment of the invention, the mammalian cell culture is established by
25 inoculating the bioreactor with at least 0.5 x 106 to 3.0 x 106 cells/mL in a serum-free culture media.
   In an alternate or further embodiment the mammalian cell culture is established by inoculating the
   bioreactor with at least 0.5 x 106 to 1.5 x 106 cells/mL in a serum-free culture media.
             The invention may further comprise a temperature shift during the culture.                In one
   embodiment the temperature shift is from 36 0 C to 31 C. In one embodiment the invention further
30 comprises a temperature shift from 36 0 C to 33 0 C. In a related embodiment the temperature shift
   occurs at the transition between the growth phase and production phase. In a related embodiment the
   temperature shift occurs during the production phase.
             In another embodiment the invention further comprises inducing cell growth-arrest by L
   asparagine starvation followed by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion media having an L
35 asparagine concentration of 5 mM or less. In another embodiment the invention further comprises
   inducing cell growth-arrest by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion media having an L-asparagine
   concentration of 5 mM or less. In a related embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in the
                                                          6

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
   serum-free perfusion media is less than or equal to 5mM. In a related embodiment the concentration
   of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion media is less than or equal to 4.0 mM.             In a related
   embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion media is less than or equal
   to 3.0 mM. In a related embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion
 5 media is less than or equal to 2.0 mM. In a related embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in
   the serum-free perfusion media is less than or equal to 1.0 mM.            In a related embodiment the
   concentration of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion media is 0 mM. In a related embodiment
   the L-asparagine concentration of the cell culture media is monitored prior to and during L-asparagine
   starvation.
10          In yet another embodiment the invention comprises that the packed cell volume during a
   production phase is less than or equal to 35%. In a related embodiment the packed cell volume is less
   than or equal to 35%. In a related embodiment the packed cell volume is less than or equal to 30%.
            In a related embodiment the viable cell density of the mammalian cell culture at a packed cell
                                                  6                            6
   volume less than or equal to 35% is 10x10         viable cells/ml to 80x10    viable cells/ml.   In another
                                                                                                              6
15 embodiment the viable cell density of the mammalian cell culture is 20x1 06 viable cells/ml to 30x10
   viable cells/ml.
            In yet another embodiment the bioreactor has a capacity of at least 500L.          In yet another
   embodiment the bioreactor has a capacity of at least 500L to 2000L. In yet another embodiment the
   bioreactor has a capacity of at least 1OOL to 2000L.
20          In yet another embodiment the mammalian cells are Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. In
   yet another embodiment the recombinant protein is selected from the group consisting of a human
   antibody, a humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody, a recombinant fusion protein, or a cytokine.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25          Figures 1 through 4 present the results obtained when evaluating the effect of monensin on
   cell culture performance in bioreactors using alternating tangential (ATF). Monensin concentration in
   ATF reactors Ra (gray triangle) and Rb (gray circles) was held at 500nM over the course of~22 hours
   starting on day 8 and ending on day 9. Cells in the control reactor (black circles) were grown in the
   absence of monensin. Viable cell density is illustrated in Figure 1. Figure 2 presents the results of
30 viability analysis.   In Figure 3, the packed cell volume of the monensin and control tanks, monitored
   on a daily basis throughout the course of the experiment, is shown. Daily spent medium samples were
   also submitted for titer analysis. Packed cell volume and titer values were used to calculate packed
   cell-adjusted titers, which are shown in Figure 4.
            Figures 5 - 8 represent the high mannose profiles of MAb E produced in ATFs in the presence
35 of monensin. As described for Figures 1 - 4, monensin concentration in ATF reactors Ra and Rb was
   held at 500nM over the course of ~22 hours starting on day 8 and ending on day 9. Daily spent
   medium samples were submitted for analysis of total high mannose glycans. The total glycan analysis
                                                        7

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
   for the spent media samples is shown in Figure 5 (Ra - gray triangles, Rb - gray circles, control (no
   monensin) - black circles). In addition to total high mannose, the individual higher order mannose
   species were analyzed; results are shown in Figure 6 for the ATF control (no monensin) reactor (total
   high mannose, black circles; Man5 (black diamonds), Man6 (black triangles), Man7 (black asterisk),
 5 Man8 (black square), Man9 (black line). Figure 7 depicts the same analysis for Ra reactor, and Figure
   8 for the Rb reactor.
             Figures 9 - 12 depict the predicted and measured high mannose levels and the rate of high
   mannose decrease for MAb E produced in ATF reactors with monensin. Monensin concentration in
10 ATF reactors Ra and Rb was held at 500nM over the course of ~22 hours starting on day 8 and ending
   on day 9. For time-points when measured high mannose (black bars) was continuing to increase (days
   9-11), predicted high mannose values (white bars) were calculated for Ra (Figure 9) and Rb (Figure
    10) reactors based on the assumption that all of the produced MAb E antibodies contain high mannose
   glycans. For days 13 and on when high mannose levels on MAb E start decreasing, predicted high
15 mannose values were calculated assuming that none of the newly produced MAb E antibodies
   contained any high mannose glycans (Figures 9 and 10). Fold titer increase (black bars) and fold high
   mannose decrease (white bars) were also calculated for this time period for Ra (Figure 11) and Rb
   (Figure 12).
             Figures 13 and 14 illustrate the calculated monensin concentration in ATF reactors Ra (Figure
20  13) and Rb (Figure 14). Monensin was bolused at 500nM into reactors on day 8 and was maintained
   at that concentration for a period of ~22 hours. Monensin concentration in tanks after the termination
   of monensin administration was calculated based on the medium perfusion rates in the reactors (gray
   circles). Total measured percent high mannose is shown in black circles.
25 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             While the terminology used in this application is standard within the art, definitions of certain
   terms are provided herein to assure clarity and definiteness in the meaning of the claims. Units,
   prefixes, and symbols may be denoted in their SI (International System of Units) accepted form.
   Numeric ranges recited herein are inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include and are
30 supportive of each integer within the defined range. The methods and techniques described herein are
   generally performed according to conventional methods well known in the art and as described in
   various general and more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present
   specification unless otherwise indicated. See, e.g., Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
   Manual, 3rd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001) and Ausubel
35 et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publishing Associates (1992), and Harlow and
   Lane Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor,
   N.Y. (1990).
                                                         8

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
            The disclosed methods are applicable to adherent culture or suspension cultures grown in
   stirred tank reactors (including traditional batch and fed-batch cell cultures, which may but need not
   comprise a spin filter), perfusion systems (including alternating tangential flow ("ATF") cultures,
   acoustic perfusion systems, depth filter perfusion systems, and other systems), hollow fiber
 5 bioreactors (HFB, which in some cases may be employed in perfusion processes) as well as various
   other cell culture methods (see, e.g., Tao et al., (2003) Biotechnol. Bioeng. 82:751-65; Kuystermans &
   Al-Rubeai, (2011) "Bioreactor Systems for Producing Antibody from Mammalian Cells" in Antibody
   Expression and Production, Cell Engineering 7:25-52, Al-Rubeai (ed) Springer; Catapano et al.,
   (2009) "Bioreactor Design and Scale-Up" in Cell and Tissue Reaction Engineering: Principles and
10 Practice, Eibl et al. (eds) Springer-Verlag, incorporated herein by reference in their entireties).
            All documents, or portions of documents, cited in this application, including but not limited to
   patents, patent applications, articles, books, and treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated by
   reference.   What is described in an embodiment of the invention can be combined with other
   embodiments of the invention.
15
   Definitions
            As used herein, the terms "a" and "an" mean one or more unless specifically indicated
   otherwise. Further, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms shall include pluralities and
   plural terms shall include the singular.       Generally, nomenclatures used in connection with, and
20 techniques of, cell and tissue culture, molecular biology, immunology, microbiology, genetics and
   protein and nucleic acid chemistry and hybridization described herein are those well known and
   commonly used in the art.
            The instant disclosure provides methods of modulating the properties of cell cultures
   expressing a "protein of interest;" "protein of interest" includes naturally occurring proteins,
25 recombinant proteins, and engineered proteins (e.g., proteins that do not occur in nature and which
   have been designed and/or created by humans). A protein of interest can, but need not be, a protein
   that is known or suspected to be therapeutically relevant. Particular examples of a protein of interest
   include antigen binding proteins (as described and defined herein), peptibodies (i.e., a molecule
   comprising peptide(s) fused either directly or indirectly to other molecules such as an Fc domain of an
30 antibody, where the peptide moiety specifically binds to a desired target; the peptide(s) may be fused
   to either an Fc region or inserted into an Fc-Loop, or a modified Fc molecule, for example as
   described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2006/0140934 incorporated herein by
   reference in its entirety), fusion proteins (e.g., Fc fusion proteins, wherein a Fc fragment is fused to a
   protein or peptide), cytokines, growth factors, hormones and other naturally occurring secreted
35 proteins, as well as mutant forms of naturally occurring proteins.
            The term "antigen binding protein" is used in its broadest sense and means a protein
   comprising a portion that binds to an antigen or target and, optionally, a scaffold or framework
                                                         9

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
   portion that allows the antigen binding portion to adopt a conformation that promotes binding of the
   antigen binding protein to the antigen.        Examples of antigen binding proteins include a human
   antibody, a humanized antibody; a chimeric antibody; a recombinant antibody; a single chain
   antibody; a diabody; a triabody; a tetrabody; a Fab fragment; a F(ab')   2 fragment; an IgD antibody; an
 5 IgE antibody; an IgM antibody; an IgGI antibody; an IgG2 antibody; an IgG3 antibody; or an IgG4
   antibody, and fragments thereof.         The antigen binding protein can comprise, for example, an
   alternative protein scaffold or artificial scaffold with grafted CDRs or CDR derivatives.              Such
   scaffolds include, but are not limited to, antibody-derived scaffolds comprising mutations introduced
   to, for example, stabilize the three-dimensional structure of the antigen binding protein as well as
10 wholly synthetic scaffolds comprising, for example, a biocompatible polymer. See, e.g., Korndorfer
   et al., 2003, Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics 53(1):121-129 (2003); Roque et al.,
   Biotechnol. Prog. 20:639-654 (2004). In addition, peptide antibody mimetics ("PAMs") can be used,
   as well as scaffolds based on antibody mimetics utilizing fibronectin components as a scaffold.
            An antigen binding protein can have, for example, the structure of a naturally occurring
15 immunoglobulin.       An "immunoglobulin" is a tetrameric molecule.             In a naturally occurring
   immunoglobulin, each tetramer is composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains, each pair
   having one "light" (about 25 kDa) and one "heavy" chain (about 50-70 kDa). The amino-terminal
   portion of each chain includes a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily
   responsible for antigen recognition.     The carboxy-terminal portion of each chain defines a constant
20 region primarily responsible for effector function.      Human light chains are classified as kappa and
   lambda light chains. Heavy chains are classified as mu, delta, gamma, alpha, or epsilon, and define
   the antibody's isotype as IgM, IgD, IgG, IgA, and IgE, respectively.
            Naturally occurring immunoglobulin chains exhibit the same general structure of relatively
   conserved framework regions (FR) joined by three hypervariable regions, also called complementarity
25 determining regions or CDRs. From N-terminus to C-terminus, both light and heavy chains comprise
   the domains FRI, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3 and FR4. The assignment of amino acids to each
   domain can be done in accordance with the definitions of Kabat et al. in Sequences of Proteins of
   Immunological Interest,    5 th Ed., US Dept. of Health and Human Services, PHS, NIH, NIH Publication
   no. 91-3242, (1991).        As desired, the CDRs can also be redefined according an alternative
30 nomenclature scheme, such as that of Chothia (see Chothia & Lesk, (1987) J. Mol. Biol. 196:901-917;
   Chothia et al., (1989) Nature 342:878-883 or Honegger & Pluckthun, (2001) J. Mol. Biol. 309:657
   670).
            In the context of the instant disclosure an antigen binding protein is said to "specifically bind"
   or "selectively bind" its target antigen when the dissociation constant   (KD)  is  10 8 M. The antibody
35 specifically binds antigen with "high affinity" when the       KD  is <5x 10- 9 M, and with "very high
   affinity" when the  KD  is <5x 1040 M.
                                                        10

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
            The term     "antibody"    includes   reference  to both glycosylated and non-glycosylated
   immunoglobulins of any isotype or subclass or to an antigen-binding region thereof that competes
   with the intact antibody for specific binding, unless otherwise specified.         Additionally, the term
   "antibody" refers to an intact immunoglobulin or to an antigen binding portion thereof that competes
 5 with the intact antibody for specific binding, unless otherwise specified. Antigen binding portions can
   be produced by recombinant DNA techniques or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact
   antibodies and can form an element of a protein of interest. Antigen binding portions include, inter
   alia, Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , Fv, domain antibodies (dAbs), fragments including complementarity
   determining regions      (CDRs),    single-chain   antibodies  (scFv),  chimeric   antibodies,  diabodies,
10 triabodies, tetrabodies, and polypeptides that contain at least a portion of an immunoglobulin that is
   sufficient to confer specific antigen binding to the polypeptide.
            A Fab fragment is a monovalent fragment having the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; a F(ab')        2
   fragment is a bivalent fragment having two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge
   region; a Fd fragment has the VH and CHI domains; an Fv fragment has the VL and VH domains of a
15 single arm of an antibody; and a dAb fragment has a VH domain, a VL domain, or an antigen-binding
   fragment of a VH or VL domain (U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,846,634, 6,696,245, U.S. App. Pub. Nos.
   05/0202512, 04/0202995, 04/0038291, 04/0009507, 03/0039958, Ward et al., (1989) Nature 341:544
   546).
            A single-chain antibody (scFv) is an antibody in which a VL and a VH region are joined via a
20 linker (e.g., a synthetic sequence of amino acid residues) to form a continuous protein chain wherein
   the linker is long enough to allow the protein chain to fold back on itself and form a monovalent
   antigen binding site (see, e.g., Bird et al., Science 242:423-26 (1988) and Huston et al., (1988) Proc.
   Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-83).         Diabodies are bivalent antibodies comprising two polypeptide
   chains, wherein each polypeptide chain comprises VH and VL domains joined by a linker that is too
25 short to allow for pairing between two domains on the same chain, thus allowing each domain to pair
   with a complementary domain on another polypeptide chain (see, e.g., Holliger et al., (1993) Proc.
   Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6444-48; and Poljak et al., (1994) Structure 2:1121-23).               If the two
   polypeptide chains of a diabody are identical, then a diabody resulting from their pairing will have
   two identical antigen binding sites. Polypeptide chains having different sequences can be used to
30 make a diabody with two different antigen binding sites.         Similarly, tribodies and tetrabodies are
   antibodies comprising three and four polypeptide chains, respectively, and forming three and four
   antigen binding sites, respectively, which can be the same or different.
            One or more CDRs can be incorporated into a molecule either covalently or noncovalently to
   make it an antigen binding protein. An antigen binding protein can incorporate the CDR(s) as part of
35 a larger polypeptide chain, can covalently link the CDR(s) to another polypeptide chain, or can
   incorporate the CDR(s) noncovalently. The CDRs permit the antigen binding protein to specifically
   bind to a particular antigen of interest.
                                                         11

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
            An antigen binding protein can have one or more binding sites.       If there is more than one
   binding site, the binding sites can be identical to one another or can be different.     For example, a
   naturally occurring human immunoglobulin typically has two identical binding sites, while a
   "bispecific" or "bifunctional" antibody has two different binding sites.
 5          For purposes of clarity, and as described herein, it is noted that an antigen binding protein
   can, but need not, be of human origin (e.g., a human antibody), and in some cases will comprise a
   non-human protein, for example a rat or murine protein, and in other cases an antigen binding protein
   can comprise a hybrid of human and non-human proteins (e.g., a humanized antibody).
            A protein of interest can comprise a human antibody. The term "human antibody" includes
10 all antibodies that have one or more variable          and constant regions       derived   from human
   immunoglobulin sequences. In one embodiment, all of the variable and constant domains are derived
   from human immunoglobulin sequences (a fully human antibody).          Such antibodies can be prepared
   in a variety of ways, including through the immunization with an antigen of interest of a mouse that is
   genetically modified to express antibodies derived from human heavy and/or light chain-encoding
15 genes, such as a mouse derived from a Xenomouse®, UltiMabTM, or Velocimmune@ system. Phage
   based approaches can also be employed.
            Alternatively, a protein of interest can comprise a humanized antibody.          A "humanized
   antibody" has a sequence that differs from the sequence of an antibody derived from a non-human
   species by one or more amino acid substitutions, deletions, and/or additions, such that the humanized
20 antibody is less likely to induce an immune response, and/or induces a less severe immune response,
   as compared to the non-human species antibody, when it is administered to a human subject. In one
   embodiment, certain amino acids in the framework and constant domains of the heavy and/or light
   chains of the non-human species antibody are mutated to produce the humanized antibody. In another
   embodiment, the constant domain(s) from a human antibody are fused to the variable domain(s) of a
25 non-human species. Examples of how to make humanized antibodies can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos.
   6,054,297, 5,886,152 and 5,877,293.
            An "Fc" region, as the term is used herein, comprises two heavy chain fragments comprising
          2
   the CH and CH3 domains of an antibody. The two heavy chain fragments are held together by two or
   more disulfide bonds and by hydrophobic interactions of the CH3 domains.             Proteins of interest
30 comprising an Fc region, including antigen binding proteins and Fc fusion proteins, form another
   aspect of the instant disclosure.
            A "hemibody" is an immunologically functional immunoglobulin construct comprising a
   complete heavy chain, a complete light chain and a second heavy chain Fc region paired with the Fc
   region of the complete heavy chain. A linker can, but need not, be employed to join the heavy chain
35 Fc region and the second heavy chain Fc region.         In particular embodiments a hemibody is a
   monovalent form of an antigen binding protein disclosed herein.         In other embodiments, pairs of
                                                     12

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
   charged residues can be employed to associate one Fc region with the second Fc region. A hemibody
   can be a protein of interest in the context of the instant disclosure.
            The term "host cell" means a cell that has been transformed, or is capable of being
   transformed, with a nucleic acid sequence and thereby expresses a gene of interest. The term includes
 5 the progeny of the parent cell, whether or not the progeny is identical in morphology or in genetic
   make-up to the original parent cell, so long as the gene of interest is present.      A cell culture can
   comprise one or more host cells.
            The term "hybridoma" means a cell or progeny of a cell resulting from fusion of an
   immortalized cell and an antibody-producing cell. The resulting hybridoma is an immortalized cell
10 that produces antibodies.      The individual cells used to create the hybridoma can be from any
   mammalian source, including, but not limited to, hamster, rat, pig, rabbit, sheep, goat, and human.
   The term also encompasses trioma cell lines, which result when progeny of heterohybrid myeloma
   fusions, which are the product of a fusion between human cells and a murine myeloma cell line, are
   subsequently fused with a plasma cell. The term is meant to include any immortalized hybrid cell line
15 that produces antibodies such as, for example, quadromas (see, e.g., Milstein et al., (1983) Nature,
   537:3053).
            The terms "culture" and "cell culture" are used interchangeably and refer to a cell population
   that is maintained in a medium under conditions suitable to survival and/or growth of the cell
   population.   As will be clear to those of ordinary skill in the art, these terms also refer to the
20 combination comprising the cell population and the medium in which the population is suspended.
            The terms "polypeptide" and "protein" (e.g., as used in the context of a protein of interest or a
   polypeptide of interest) are used interchangeably herein to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues.
   The terms also apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residues is an analog
   or mimetic of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally occurring amino
25 acid polymers. The terms can also encompass amino acid polymers that have been modified, e.g., by
   the addition of carbohydrate residues to form glycoproteins, or phosphorylated.        Polypeptides and
   proteins can be produced by a naturally-occurring and non-recombinant cell, or polypeptides and
   proteins can be produced by a genetically-engineered or recombinant cell. Polypeptides and proteins
   can comprise molecules having the amino acid sequence of a native protein, or molecules having
30 deletions from, additions to, and/or substitutions of one or more amino acids of the native sequence.
            The terms "polypeptide" and "protein" encompass molecules comprising only naturally
   occurring amino acids, as well as molecules that comprise non-naturally occurring amino acids.
   Examples of non-naturally occurring amino acids (which can be substituted for any naturally
   occurring amino acid found in any sequence disclosed herein, as desired) include: 4-hydroxyproline,
35 y-carboxyglutamate,   E-N,N,N-trimethyllysine, E-N-acetyllysine, O-phosphoserine, N-acetylserine, N
   formylmethionine, 3-methylhistidine, 5-hydroxylysine,       o-N-methylarginine, and other similar amino
   acids and imino acids (e.g., 4-hydroxyproline). In the polypeptide notation used herein, the left-hand
                                                        13

    WO 2015/066357                                                                       PCT/US2014/063211
   direction is the amino terminal direction and the right-hand direction is the carboxyl-terminal
   direction, in accordance with standard usage and convention.
            A non-limiting list of examples of non-naturally occurring amino acids that can be inserted
   into a protein or polypeptide sequence or substituted for a wild-type residue in a protein or
 5 polypeptide sequence include f-amino acids, homoamino acids, cyclic amino acids and amino acids
   with derivatized side chains.       Examples include (in the L-form or D-form; abbreviated as in
   parentheses):     citrulline    (Cit),    homocitrulline     (hCit),     Na-methylcitrulline     (NMeCit),
   Na-methylhomocitrulline      (Na-MeHoCit), ornithine       (Orn), Na-Methylornithine       (Na-MeOm      or
   NMeOrn), sarcosine (Sar), homolysine (hLys or hK), homoarginine (hArg or hR), homoglutamine
10 (hQ), Na-methylarginine (NMeR), Na-methylleucine (Na-MeL or NMeL), N-methylhomolysine
   (NMeHoK),       Na-methylglutamine        (NMeQ),     norleucine     (Nle),   norvaline   (Nva),   1,2,3,4
   tetrahydroisoquinoline (Tic), Octahydroindole-2-carboxylic acid (Oic), 3-(1-naphthyl)alanine (1-Nal),
   3-(2-naphthyl)alanine (2-Nal), 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline         (Tic), 2-indanylglycine (IgI), para
   iodophenylalanine     (pI-Phe),   para-aminophenylalanine      (4AmP      or  4-Amino-Phe),    4-guanidino
15 phenylalanine    (Guf), glycyllysine     (abbreviated   "K(NE-glycyl)"      or "K(glycyl)"   or "K(gly)"),
   nitrophenylalanine (nitrophe), aminophenylalanine (aminophe or Amino-Phe), benzylphenylalanine
   (benzylphe), y-carboxyglutamic       acid (y-carboxyglu),    hydroxyproline (hydroxypro), p-carboxyl
   phenylalanine (Cpa), a-aminoadipic acid (Aad), Na-methyl valine (NMeVal), N-a-methyl leucine
   (NMeLeu), Na-methylnorleucine (NMeNle), cyclopentylglycine (Cpg), cyclohexylglycine (Chg),
20 acetylarginine (acetylarg), a,    p-diaminopropionoic     acid (Dpr), a, y-diaminobutyric acid (Dab),
   diaminopropionic acid (Dap), cyclohexylalanine (Cha), 4-methyl-phenylalanine (MePhe),
   diphenyl-alanine (BiPhA), aminobutyric acid (Abu), 4-phenyl-phenylalanine (or biphenylalanine;
   4Bip), a-amino-isobutyric acid (Aib), beta-alanine, beta-aminopropionic acid, piperidinic acid,
   aminocaprioic acid, aminoheptanoic acid, aminopimelic acid, desmosine, diaminopimelic acid, N
25 ethylglycine, N-ethylaspargine, hydroxylysine, allo-hydroxylysine, isodesmosine, allo-isoleucine,
   N-methylglycine, N-methylisoleucine, N-methylvaline, 4-hydroxyproline (Hyp), y-carboxyglutamate,
   E-N,N,N-trimethyllysine, E-N-acetyllysine, O-phosphoserine, N-acetylserine, N-formylmethionine,
   3-methylhistidine, 5-hydroxylysine, o-methylarginine, 4-Amino-O-Phthalic Acid (4APA), and other
   similar amino acids, and derivatized forms of any of those specifically listed.
30          By "cell culture" or "culture" is meant the growth and propagation of cells outside of a
   multicellular organism or tissue. Suitable culture conditions for mammalian cells are known in the
   art. See e.g. Animal cell culture: A Practical Approach, D. Rickwood, ed., Oxford University Press,
   New York (1992).       Mammalian cells may be cultured in suspension or while attached to a solid
   substrate. Fluidized bed bioreactors, hollow fiber bioreactors, roller bottles, shake flasks, or stirred
35 tank bioreactors, with or without microcarriers, can be used.          In one embodiment 500L to 2000L
   bioreactors are used. In one embodiment, 1OOL to 2000L bioreactors are used.
                                                        14

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
             The term "cell culturing medium" (also called "culture medium," "cell culture media," "tissue
   culture media,") refers to any nutrient solution used for growing cells, e.g., animal or mammalian
   cells, and which generally provides at least one or more components from the following: an energy
   source (usually in the form of a carbohydrate such as glucose); one or more of all essential amino
 5 acids, and generally the twenty basic amino acids, plus cysteine; vitamins and/or other organic
   compounds typically required at low concentrations; lipids or free fatty acids; and trace elements, e.g.,
   inorganic compounds or naturally occurring elements that are typically required at very low
   concentrations, usually in the micromolar range.
             The nutrient solution may optionally be supplemented with additional optional components to
10 optimize growth of cells, such as hormones and other growth factors, e.g., insulin, transferrin,
   epidermal growth factor, serum, and the like; salts, e.g., calcium, magnesium and phosphate, and
   buffers, e.g., HEPES; nucleosides and bases, e.g., adenosine, thymidine, hypoxanthine; and protein
   and tissue hydrolysates, e.g., hydrolyzed animal or plant protein (peptone or peptone mixtures, which
   can be obtained from animal byproducts, purified gelatin or plant material); antibiotics, e.g.,
15 gentamycin; cell protectants or surfactants such as Pluronic®F68 (also referred to as Lutrol@ F68 and
   Kolliphor@ P188; nonionic triblock copolymers composed of a central hydrophobic chain of
   polyoxypropylene (poly(propylene oxide)) flanked by two hydrophilic chains of polyoxyethylene
   (poly(ethylene oxide)); polyamines, e.g., putrescine, spermidine and spermine (see e.g., WIPO
   Publication No. WO 2008/154014) and pyruvate (see e.g. U.S. Patent No. 8053238) depending on the
20 requirements of the cells to be cultured and/or the desired cell culture parameters.
             Cell culture media include those that are typically employed in and/or are known for use with
   any cell culture process, such as, but not limited to, batch, extended batch, fed-batch and/or perfusion
   or continuous culturing of cells.
             A "base" (or batch) cell culture medium refers to a cell culture medium that is typically used
25 to initiate a cell culture and is sufficiently complete to support the cell culture.
             A "growth" cell culture medium refers to a cell culture medium that is typically used in cell
   cultures during a period of exponential growth, a "growth phase", and is sufficiently complete to
   support the cell culture during this phase. A growth cell culture medium may also contain selection
   agents that confer resistance or survival to selectable markers incorporated into the host cell line.
30 Such selection agents include, but are not limited to, geneticin (G4118), neomycin, hygromycin B,
   puromycin, zeocin, methionine sulfoximine, methotrexate, glutamine-free cell culture medium, cell
   culture medium lacking glycine, hypoxanthine and thymidine, or thymidine alone.
             A "production" cell culture medium refers to a cell culture medium that is typically used in
   cell cultures during the transition when exponential growth is ending and protein production takes
35 over, "transition" and/or "product" phases, and is sufficiently complete to maintain a desired cell
   density, viability and/or product titer during this phase.
                                                         15

    WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
            A "perfusion" cell culture medium refers to a cell culture medium that is typically used in cell
   cultures that are maintained by perfusion or continuous culture methods and is sufficiently complete
   to support the cell culture during this process. Perfusion cell culture medium formulations may be
   richer or more concentrated than base cell culture medium formulations to accommodate the method
 5 used to remove the spent medium. Perfusion cell culture medium can be used during both the growth
   and production phases.
            Concentrated cell culture medium can contain some or all of the nutrients necessary to
   maintain the cell culture; in particular, concentrated medium can contain nutrients identified as or
   known to be consumed during the course of the production phase of the cell culture. Concentrated
10 medium may be based on just about any cell culture media formulation.           Such a concentrated feed
   medium can contain some or all the components of the cell culture medium at, for example, about 2X,
   3X, 4X, 5X, 6X, 7X, 8X, 9X, lOX, 12X, 14X, 16X, 20X, 30X, 50X, 100x, 200X, 400X, 600X, 80OX,
   or even about 1 OOX of their normal amount.
            The components used to prepare cell culture medium may be completely milled into a powder
15 medium formulation; partially milled with liquid supplements added to the cell culture medium as
   needed; or added in a completely liquid form to the cell culture.
            Cell cultures can also be supplemented with independent concentrated feeds of particular
   nutrients which may be difficult to formulate or are quickly depleted in cell cultures. Such nutrients
   may be amino acids such as tyrosine, cysteine and/or cystine (see e.g., WIPO Publication No.
20 2012/145682). In one embodiment, a concentrated solution of tyrosine is independently fed to a cell
   culture grown in a cell culture medium containing tyrosine, such that the concentration of tyrosine in
   the cell culture does not exceed 8 mM. In another embodiment, a concentrated solution of tyrosine
   and cystine is independently fed to the cell culture being grown in a cell culture medium lacking
   tyrosine, cystine or cysteine. The independent feeds can begin prior to or at the start of the production
25 phase. The independent feeds can be accomplished by fed batch to the cell culture medium on the
   same or different days as the concentrated feed medium. The independent feeds can also be perfused
   on the same or different days as the perfused medium.
            "Serum-free" applies to a cell culture medium that does not contain animal sera, such as fetal
   bovine serum.     Various tissue culture media, including defined culture media, are commercially
30 available, for example, any one or a combination of the following cell culture media can be used:
   RPMI-1640      Medium, RPMI-1641         Medium, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's         Medium     (DMEM),
   Minimum Essential Medium Eagle, F-12K Medium, Ham's F12 Medium, Iscove's Modified
   Dulbecco's Medium, McCoy's 5A Medium, Leibovitz's L-15 Medium, and serum-free media such as
   EX-CELL TM 300 Series (JRH Biosciences, Lenexa, Kansas), among others.            Serum-free versions of
35 such culture media are also available.     Cell culture media may be supplemented with additional or
   increased concentrations of components such as amino acids, salts, sugars, vitamins, hormones,
   growth factors, buffers, antibiotics, lipids, trace elements and the like, depending on the requirements
                                                         16

    WO 2015/066357                                                                        PCT/US2014/063211
   of the cells to be cultured and/or the desired cell culture parameters. The term "bioreactor" means any
   vessel useful for the growth of a cell culture. The cell cultures of the instant disclosure can be grown
   in a bioreactor, which can be selected based on the application of a protein of interest that is produced
   by cells growing in the bioreactor. A bioreactor can be of any size so long as it is useful for the
 5 culturing of cells; typically, a bioreactor is sized appropriate to the volume of cell culture being grown
   inside of it. Typically, a bioreactor will be at least 1 liter and may be 2, 5, 10, 50, 100, 200, 250, 500,
    1,000, 1500, 2000, 2,500, 5,000, 8,000, 10,000, 12,000 liters or more, or any volume in between. The
   internal conditions of the bioreactor, including, but not limited to pH and temperature, can be
   controlled during the culturing period. Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of, and will be
10 able to select, suitable bioreactors for use in practicing the present invention based on the relevant
   considerations.
             "Cell density" refers to the number of cells in a given volume of culture medium. "Viable cell
   density" refers to the number of live cells in a given volume of culture medium, as determined by
   standard viability assays (such as trypan blue dye exclusion method).
15           The term "cell viability" means the ability of cells in culture to survive under a given set of
   culture conditions or experimental variations. The term also refers to that portion of cells which are
   alive at a particular time in relation to the total number of cells, living and dead, in the culture at that
   time.
             "Packed cell volume" (PCV), also referred to as "percent packed cell volume" (%PCV), is the
20 ratio of the volume occupied by the cells, to the total volume of cell culture, expressed as a percentage
   (see Stettler, et al., (2006) Biotechnol Bioeng. Dec 20:95(6):1228-33).            Packed cell volume is a
   function of cell density and cell diameter; increases in packed cell volume could arise from increases
   in either cell density or cell diameter or both. Packed cell volume is a measure of the solid content in
   the cell culture. Solids are removed during harvest and downstream purification. More solids mean
25 more effort to separate the solid material from the desired product during harvest and downstream
   purification steps. Also, the desired product can become trapped in the solids and lost during the
   harvest process, resulting in a decreased product yield. Since host cells vary in size and cell cultures
   also contain dead and dying cells and other cellular debris, packed cell volume is a more accurate way
   to describe the solid content within a cell culture than cell density or viable cell density. For example,
30 a 2000L culture having a cell density of 50 x 106 cells/ml would have vastly different packed cell
   volumes depending on the size of the cells. In addition, some cells, when in a growth-arrested state,
   will increase in size, so the packed cell volume prior to growth-arrest and post growth-arrest will
   likely be different, due to increase in biomass as a result to cell size increase.
             "Growth-arrest", which may also be referred to as "cell growth-arrest", is the point where
35 cells stop increasing in number or when the cell cycle no longer progresses. Growth-arrest can be
   monitored by determining the viable cell density of a cell culture.        Some cells in a growth-arrested
   state may increase in size but not number, so the packed cell volume of a growth-arrested culture may
                                                         17

    WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
   increase.   Growth-arrest can be reversed to some extent, if the cells are not in declining health, by
   adding reversing the conditions that lead to growth arrest.
             The term "titer" means the total amount of a polypeptide or protein of interest (which may be
   a naturally occurring or recombinant protein of interest) produced by a cell culture in a given amount
 5 of medium volume. Titer can be expressed in units of milligrams or micrograms of polypeptide or
   protein per milliliter (or other measure of volume) of medium.           "Cumulative titer" is the titer
   produced by the cells during the course of the culture, and can be determined, for example, by
   measuring daily titers and using those values to calculate the cumulative titer.
             The term "fed-batch culture" refers to a form of suspension culture and means a method of
10 culturing cells in which additional components are provided to the culture at a time or times
   subsequent to the beginning of the culture process.      The provided components typically comprise
   nutritional supplements for the cells which have been depleted during the culturing process.
   Additionally or alternatively, the additional components may include supplementary components
   (e.g., a cell-cycle inhibitory compound). A fed-batch culture is typically stopped at some point and
15 the cells and/or components in the medium are harvested and optionally purified.
             The terms "integrated viable cell density" or "IVCD" are used interchangeably and mean the
   average density of viable cells over the course of the culture multiplied by the amount of time the
   culture has run.
             "Cumulative viable cell density" (CVCD) is calculated by multiplying an average viable cell
20 density (VCD) between two time-points with the time duration between those two time points.
   CVCD is the area under the curve formed by plotting the VCD versus time.
   Description of Cell Culture process
             During recombinant protein production it is desirable to have a controlled system where cells
25 are grown to a desired density and then the physiological state of the cells is switched to a growth
   arrested, high productivity state where the cells use energy and substrates to produce the recombinant
   protein of interest instead of making more cells. Various methods for accomplishing this goal exist,
   and include temperature shifts and amino acid starvation, as wells as use of a cell-cycle inhibitor or
   other molecule that can arrest cell growth without causing cell death.
30           The production of a recombinant protein begins with establishing a mammalian cell
   production culture of cells that express the protein, in a culture plate, flask, tube, bioreactor or other
   suitable vessel. Smaller production bioreactors are typically used, in one embodiment the bioreactors
   are 500L to 2000L.      In another embodiment, 1OOL - 2000L bioreactors are used. The seed cell
   density used to inoculate the bioreactor can have a positive impact on the level of recombinant protein
35 produced. In one embodiment the bioreactor is inoculated with at least 0.5 x10 6 up to and beyond 3.0
   x106 viable cells/mL in a serum-free culture medium.         In another embodiment the inoculation is
           6
    1.0x10 viable cells/mL.
                                                       18

    WO 2015/066357                                                                        PCT/US2014/063211
             The mammalian cells then undergo an exponential growth phase.             The cell culture can be
   maintained without supplemental feeding until a desired cell density is achieved. In one embodiment
   the cell culture is maintained for up to three days with or without supplemental feeding. In another
   embodiment the culture can be inoculated at a desired cell density to begin the production phase
 5 without a brief growth phase. In any of the embodiments herein the switch from the growth phase to
   production phase can also be initiated by any of the afore-mentioned methods.
            At the transition between the growth phase and the production phase, and during the
   production phase, the percent packed cell volume (%PCV) is equal to or less than 35%. The desired
   packed cell volume maintained during the production phase is equal to or less than 35%. In one
10 embodiment the packed cell volume is equal to or less than 30%.         In another embodiment the packed
   cell volume is equal to or less than 20%. In yet another embodiment the packed cell volume is equal
   to or less than 150%. In a further embodiment the packed cell volume is equal to or less than 10%.
             The desired viable cell density at the transition between the growth and production phases and
   maintained during the production phase van be various depending on the projects. It can be decided
15 based on the equivalent packed cell volume from the historical data. In one embodiment, the viable
   cell density is at least about 10x106 viable cells/mL to 80X10 viable cells/mL. In one embodiment the
   viable cell density is at least about 10X106 viable cells/mL to 70x10            viable cells/mL.    In one
   embodiment the viable cell density is at least about 10x100 viable cells/mL to 60x106 viable cells/mL.
   In one embodiment the viable cell density is at least about    1    x10   viable cells/mL to 50x1601 viable
20 cells/mL.    In one embodiment the viable cell density is at least about 10X106 Viable cells/mL to
   40x06 viable cells/mL. In another embodiment the viable cell density is at least about 10x100 viable
   cells/mL to 30x10 viable cells/mL. In another embodiment the viable cell density is at least about
    10X106 viable cells/mL to 20x10 viable cells/mL.         In another embodiment, the viable cell density is
   at least about 20x10 viable cells/mL to 30x10 viable cells/mL. In another embodiment the viable
25 cell density is at least about 20x10 6 viable cells/mL to at least about 25x10 6 viable cells/mL, or at least
   about 20x106 viable cells/mL.
             Lower packed cell volume during the production phase helps mitigate dissolved oxygen
   sparging problems that can hinder higher cell density perfusion cultures.            The lower packed cell
   volume also allows for a smaller media volume which allows for the use of smaller media storage
30 vessels and can be combined with slower flow rates. Lower packed cell volume also has less impact
   on harvest and downstream processing, compared to higher cell biomass cultures.                All of which
   reduces the costs associated with manufacturing recombinant protein therapeutics.
             Three methods are typically used in commercial processes for the production of recombinant
   proteins by mammalian cell culture: batch culture, fed-batch culture, and perfusion culture.          Batch
35 culture is a discontinuous method where cells are grown in a fixed volume of culture media for a short
   period of time followed by a full harvest.        Cultures grown using the batch method experience an
   increase in cell density until a maximum cell density is reached, followed by a decline in viable cell
                                                         19

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
   density as the media components are consumed and levels of metabolic by-products (such as lactate
   and ammonia) accumulate. Harvest typically occurs at the point when the maximum cell density is
   achieved (typically 5-10x10 6 cells/mL, depending on media formulation, cell line, etc).       The batch
   process is the simplest culture method, however viable cell density is limited by the nutrient
 5 availability and once the cells are at maximum density, the culture declines and production decreases.
   There is no ability to extend a production phase because the accumulation of waste products and
   nutrient depletion rapidly lead to culture decline, (typically around 3 to 7 days).
             Fed-batch culture improves on the batch process by providing bolus or continuous media
   feeds to replenish those media components that have been consumed.               Since fed-batch cultures
10 receive additional nutrients throughout the run, they have the potential to achieve higher cell densities
   (>10 to 30x1 06 cells/ml, depending on media formulation, cell line, etc)) and increased product titers,
   when compared to the batch method. Unlike the batch process, a biphasic culture can be created and
   sustained by manipulating feeding strategies and media formulations to distinguish the period of cell
   proliferation to achieve a desired cell density (the growth phase) from the period of suspended or slow
15 cell growth (the production phase). As such, fed batch cultures have the potential to achieve higher
   product titers compared to batch cultures. Typically a batch method is used during the growth phase
   and a fed-batch method used during the production phase, but a fed-batch feeding strategy can be used
   throughout the entire process.     However, unlike the batch process, bioreactor volume is a limiting
   factor which limits the amount of feed.        Also, as with the batch method, metabolic by-product
20 accumulation will lead to culture decline, which limits the duration of the production phase, about 1.5
   to 3 weeks.    Fed-batch cultures are discontinuous and harvest typically occurs when metabolic by
   product levels or culture viability reach predetermined levels. When compared to a batch culture, in
   which no feeding occurs, a fed batch culture can produce greater amounts of recombinant protein.
   See e.g. U.S. Patent No. 5,672,502.
25           Perfusion methods offer potential improvement over the batch and fed-batch methods by
   adding fresh media and simultaneously removing spent media. Typical large scale commercial cell
   culture strategies strive to reach high cell densities, 60 - 90(+) x 106 cells/mL where almost a third to
   over one-half of the reactor volume is biomass. With perfusion culture, extreme cell densities of >1 x
    108 cells/mL have been achieved and even higher densities are predicted. Typical perfusion cultures
30 begin with a batch culture start-up lasting for a day or two followed by continuous, step-wise and/or
   intermittent addition of fresh feed media to the culture and simultaneous removal of spent media with
   the retention of cells and additional high molecular weight compounds such as proteins (based on the
   filter molecular weight cutoff) throughout the growth and production phases of the culture. Various
   methods, such as sedimentation, centrifugation, or filtration, can be used to remove spent media,
35 while maintaining cell density. Perfusion flow rates of a fraction of a working volume per day up to
   many multiple working volumes per day have been reported.
                                                        20

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
            An advantage of the perfusion process is that the production culture can be maintained for
   longer periods than batch or fed-batch culture methods. However, increased media preparation, use,
   storage and disposal are necessary to support a long term perfusion culture, particularly those with
   high cell densities, which also need even more nutrients, and all of this drives the production costs
 5 even higher, compared to batch and fed batch methods. In addition, higher cell densities can cause
   problems during production,       such as maintaining dissolved oxygen levels and problems with
   increased gassing including supplying more oxygen and removing more carbon dioxide, which would
   result in more foaming and the need for alterations to antifoam strategies; as well as during harvest
   and downstream processing where the efforts required to remove the excessive cell material can result
10 in loss of product, negating the benefit of increased titer due to increased cell mass.
            Also provided is a large scale cell culture strategy that combines fed batch feeding during the
   growth phase followed by continuous perfusion during the production phase.          The method targets a
   production phase where the cell culture is maintained at a packed cell volume of less than or equal to
   35%.
15          In one embodiment, a fed-batch culture with bolus feeds is used to maintain a cell culture
   during the growth phase.      Perfusion feeding can then be used during a production phase. In one
   embodiment, perfusion begins when the cells have reached a production phase.                    In another
   embodiment, perfusion begins on or about day 3 to on or about day 9 of the cell culture. In another
   embodiment perfusion begins on or about day 5 to on or about day 7 of the cell culture.
20          Using bolus feeding during the growth phase allows the cells to transition into the production
   phase, resulting in less dependence on a temperature shift as a means of initiating and controlling the
   production phase, however a temperature shift of 36'C to 31PC can take place between the growth
   phase and production phase.        In one embodiment the shift is from 36'C to 33'C.             In another
   embodiment the initiation of cell growth-arrest in the fed-batch culture can be initiated by exposing
25 the fed-batch culture to a cell-cycle inhibitor. In another embodiment the initiation of cell growth
   arrest in the fed-batch culture can be achieved by perfusion with a serum free perfusion medium
   comprising a cell-cycle inhibitor.
                                                                                           6
            As described herein, the bioreactor can be inoculated with at least 0.5 x10      up to and beyond
   3.0 x10 6 viable cells/mL in a serum-free culture medium, for example 1.0x106 viable cells/mL.
30          Perfusion culture is one in which the cell culture receives fresh perfusion feed medium while
   simultaneously removing spent medium. Perfusion can be continuous, step-wise, intermittent, or a
   combination of any or all of any of these. Perfusion rates can be less than a working volume to many
   working volumes per day. The cells are retained in the culture and the spent medium that is removed
   is substantially free of cells or has significantly fewer cells than the culture. Recombinant proteins
35 expressed by the cell culture can also be retained in the culture. Perfusion can be accomplished by a
   number of means including centrifugation, sedimentation, or filtration, See e.g. Voisard et al., (2003),
   Biotechnology and Bioengineering 82:751-65.          An example of a filtration method is alternating
                                                       21

    WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
   tangential flow filtration.  Alternating tangential flow is maintained by pumping medium through
   hollow-fiber filter modules. See e.g. U.S. Patent No. 6,544,424; Furey (2002) Gen. Eng. News. 22
   (7), 62-63.
             "Perfusion flow rate" is the amount of media that is passed through (added and removed)
 5 from a bioreactor, typically expressed as some portion or multiple of the working volume, in a given
   time.    "Working volume" refers to the amount of bioreactor volume used for cell culture.          In one
   embodiment the perfusion flow rate is one working volume or less per day. Perfusion feed medium
   can be formulated to maximize perfusion nutrient concentration to minimize perfusion rate.
             Cell cultures can be supplemented with concentrated feed medium containing components,
10 such as nutrients and amino acids, which are consumed during the course of the production phase of
   the cell culture.    Concentrated feed medium may be based on just about any cell culture media
   formulation. Such a concentrated feed medium can contain most of the components of the cell culture
   medium at, for example, about 5X, 6X, 7X, 8X, 9X, lOX, 12X, 14X, 16X, 20X, 30X, 50X, 100x,
   200X, 400X, 600X, 800X, or even about 1 OOX of their normal amount. Concentrated feed media are
15 often used in fed batch culture processes.
             The method according to the present invention may be used to improve the production of
   recombinant proteins in multiple phase culture processes.         In a multiple stage process, cells are
   cultured in two or more distinct phases.        For example cells may be cultured first in one or more
   growth phases, under environmental conditions that maximize cell proliferation and viability, then
20 transferred to a production phase, under conditions that maximize protein production.                 In a
   commercial process for production of a protein by mammalian cells, there are commonly multiple, for
   example, at least about 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 growth phases that occur in different culture vessels
   preceding a final production culture.
             The growth and production phases may be preceded by, or separated by, one or more
25 transition phases. In multiple phase processes, the method according to the present invention can be
   employed at least during the growth and production phase of the final production phase of a
   commercial cell culture, although it may also be employed in a preceding growth phase.                   A
   production phase can be conducted at large scale. A large scale process can be conducted in a volume
   of at least about 100, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 5000, 7000, 8000, 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 liters. In one
30 embodiment production is conducted in 5OOL, 1OOL and/or 2000L bioreactors.
             A growth phase may occur at a higher temperature than a production phase. For example, a
   growth phase may occur at a first temperature from about 35'C to about 38'C, and a production phase
   may occur at a second temperature from about 29'C to about 37 0 C, optionally from about 30'C to
   about 36'C or from about 30'C to about 34'C. In addition, chemical inducers of protein production,
35 such as, for example, caffeine, butyrate, and hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA), may be added at
   the same time as, before, and/or after a temperature shift. If inducers are added after a temperature
   shift, they can be added from one hour to five days after the temperature shift, optionally from one to
                                                         22

    WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
   two days after the temperature shift.     The cell cultures can be maintained for days or even weeks
   while the cells produce the desired protein(s).
            Samples from the cell culture can be monitored and evaluated using any of the analytical
   techniques known in the art. A variety of parameters including recombinant protein and medium
 5 quality and characteristics can be monitored for the duration of the culture. Samples can be taken and
   monitored intermittently at a desirable frequency, including continuous monitoring, real time or near
   real time.
            Typically the cell cultures that precede the final production culture (N-x to N-1) are used to
   generate the seed cells that will be used to inoculate the production bioreactor, the N-I culture. The
10 seed cell density can have a positive impact on the level of recombinant protein produced. Product
   levels tend to increase with increasing seed density. Improvement in titer is tied not only to higher
   seed density, but is likely to be influenced by the metabolic and cell cycle state of the cells that are
   placed into production.
            Seed cells can be produced by any culture method. One such method is a perfusion culture
15 using alternating tangential flow filtration. An N-1 bioreactor can be run using alternating tangential
   flow filtration to provide cells at high density to inoculate a production bioreactor.     The N-I stage
   may be used to grow cells to densities of >90 x 106 cells/mL.         The N-1 bioreactor can be used to
   generate bolus seed cultures or can be used as a rolling seed stock culture that could be maintained to
   seed multiple production bioreactors at high seed cell density. The duration of the growth stage of
20 production can range from 7 to 14 days and can be designed so as to maintain cells in exponential
   growth prior to inoculation of the production bioreactor.      Perfusion rates, medium formulation and
   timing are optimized to grow cells and deliver them to the production bioreactor in a state that is most
   conducive to optimizing their production.     Seed cell densities of >15 x 106 cells/mL can be achieved
   for seeding production bioreactors.     Higher seed cell densities at inoculation can decrease or even
25 eliminate the time needed to reach a desired production density.
            The invention    finds particular utility in regulating      the presence    and/or amount    of
   glycosylation of a recombinant protein. The cell lines (also referred to as "host cells") used in the
   invention are genetically engineered to express a polypeptide of commercial or scientific interest. Cell
   lines are typically derived from a lineage arising from a primary culture that can be maintained in
30 culture for an unlimited time. Genetically engineering the cell line involves transfecting, transforming
   or transducing the cells with a recombinant polynucleotide molecule, and/or otherwise altering (e.g.,
   by homologous recombination and gene activation or fusion of a recombinant cell with a non
   recombinant cell) so as to cause the host cell to express a desired recombinant polypeptide. Methods
   and vectors for genetically engineering cells and/or cell lines to express a polypeptide of interest are
35 well known to those of skill in the art; for example, various techniques are illustrated in Current
   Protocols in Molecular Biology, Ausubel et al., eds. (Wiley & Sons, New York, 1988, and quarterly
                                                      23

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
   updates); Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (Cold Spring Laboratory Press,
    1989); Kaufman, R.J., Large Scale Mammalian Cell Culture, 1990, pp. 15-69.
            Animal cell lines are derived from cells whose progenitors were derived from a multi-cellular
   animal. One type of animal cell line is a mammalian cell line. A wide variety of mammalian cell lines
 5 suitable for growth in culture are available from the American Type Culture Collection (Manassas,
   Va.) and commercial vendors. Examples of cell lines commonly used in the industry include VERO,
   BHK, HeLa, CV1 (including Cos), MDCK, 293, 3T3, myeloma cell lines (e.g., NSO, NS1), PC12,
   W138 cells, and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. CHO cells are widely used for the production of
   complex recombinant proteins, e.g. cytokines, clotting factors, and antibodies (Brasel et al. (1996),
10 Blood 88:2004-2012; Kaufiman et al. (1988), J Biol Chem. 263:6352-6362; McKinnon et al. (1991), J
   Mol Endocrinol. 6:231-239; Wood et al. (1990), J Immunol. 145:3011-3016).             The dihydrofolate
   reductase (DHFR)-deficient mutant cell lines (Urlaub et al. (1980), Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 77: 4216
   4220), DXB 11 and DG-44, are desirable CHO host cell lines because the efficient DHFR selectable
   and amplifiable gene expression system allows high level recombinant protein expression in these
15 cells (Kaufman R.J. (1990), Meth Enzymol 185:537-566).            In addition, these cells are easy to
   manipulate as adherent or suspension cultures and exhibit relatively good genetic stability. CHO cells
   and proteins recombinantly expressed in them have been extensively characterized and have been
   approved for use in clinical commercial manufacturing by regulatory agencies.
20 Proteins of Interest
            The methods of the invention can be used to culture cells that express recombinant proteins of
   interest. The expressed recombinant proteins may be secreted into the culture medium from which
   they can be recovered and/or collected. In addition, the proteins can be purified, or partially purified,
   from such culture or component (e.g., from culture medium) using lown processes and products
25 available from commercial vendors.      The purified proteins can then be "formulated", meaning buffer
   exchanged, sterilized, bulk-packaged, and/or packaged for a final user.       Suitable formulations for
   pharmaceutical compositions include those described in Remingtons PharmaceuticalSciences, 18th
   ed. 1995, Mack Publishing Company, Easton, PA.
            Examples of polypeptides that can be produced with the methods of the invention include
30 proteins comprising amino acid sequences identical to or substantially similar to all or part of one of
   the following proteins: tumor necrosis factor (TNF), flt3 ligand (WO 94/28391), erythropoeitin,
   thrombopoeitin, calcitonin, IL-2, angiopoietin-2 (Maisonpierre et al. (1997), Science 277(5322): 55
   60), ligand for receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANKL, WO 01/36637), tumor necrosis factor
   (TNF)-related     apoptosis-inducing   ligand   (TRAIL,     WO    97/01633),   thymic    stroma-derived
35 lymphopoietin, granulocyte colony stimulating factor, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating
   factor (GM-CSF, Australian Patent No. 588819), mast cell growth factor, stem cell growth factor
   (U.S. Patent No.6,204,363), epidermal growth factor, keratinocyte growth factor, megakaryote growth
                                                      24

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
   and development factor, RANTES, human fibrinogen-like 2 protein (FGL2; NCBI accession no.
   NM_00682; Rnegg and Pytela (1995), Gene 160:257-62) growth hormone, insulin, insulinotropin,
   insulin-like growth factors, parathyroid hormone, interferons including a-interferons, 7-interferon, and
   consensus interferons (U.S. Patent Nos. 4,695,623 and 4,897471), nerve growth factor, brain-derived
 5 neurotrophic factor, synaptotagmin-like proteins (SLP 1-5), neurotrophin-3, glucagon, interleukins,
   colony     stimulating   factors, lyinphotoxin-,    leukemia   inhibitory  factor,  and   oncostatin-M.
   Descriptions of proteins that can be produced according to the inventive methods may be found in, for
   example, Human Cytokines: Handbook for Basic and Clinical Research, all volumes (Aggarwal and
   Gutterman, eds. Blackwell Sciences, Cambridge, MA, 1998); Growth Factors: A Practical Approach
10 (McKay and Leigh, eds., Oxford University Press Inc., New York, 1993); and The Cytokine
   Handbook. Vols. I and 2 (Thompson and Lotze eds., Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 2003).
             Additionally the methods of the invention would be useful to produce proteins comprising all
   or part of the amino acid sequence of a receptor for any of the above-mentioned proteins, an
   antagonist to such a receptor or any of the above-mentioned proteins, and/or proteins substantially
15 similar to such receptors or antagonists.    These receptors and antagonists include:    both forns of
   tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR, referred to as p55 and p75, U.S. Patent No. 5,395,760 and U.S.
   Patent No. 5,610,279), Interleukin-1 (IL-i) receptors (types I and II; EP Patent No. 0460846, U.S.
   Patent No. 4,968,607, and U.S. Patent No. 5,767,064,), IL-1 receptor antagonists (U.S. Patent No.
   6,337,072), IL-I antagonists or inhibitors (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,981,713, 6,096,728, and 5,075,222) IL
20 2 receptors, IL-4 receptors (EP Patent No. 0 367 566 and U.S. Patent No. 5,856,296), IL-1 5 receptors,
   IL-17 receptors, IL-18 receptors, Fe receptors, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor
   receptor, granulocyte colony stimulating factor receptor, receptors for oncostatin-M and leukemia
   inhibitory factor, receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANK, WO 01/36637 and U.S. Patent No.
   6,271,349), osteoprotegerin (U.S. Patent No. 6,015,938), receptors for TRAIL (including TRAIL
25 receptors 1, 2, 3, and 4), and receptors that comprise death domains, such as Fas or Apoptosis
   Inducing Receptor (AIR).
             Other proteins that can be produced using the invention include proteins comprising all or
   part of the amino acid sequences of differentiation antigens (referred to as CD proteins) or their
   ligands or proteins substantially similar to either of these. Such antigens are disclosed in Leukocyte
30 Typing VI (Proceedingsof the VIth International Workshop and Conference, Kishimoto, Kikutani et
   al., eds., Kobe, Japan, 1996). Similar CD proteins are disclosed in subsequent workshops. Examples
   of such antigens include CD22, CD27, CD30, CD39, CD40, and ligands thereto (CD27 ligand, CD30
   ligand, etc.).   Several of the CD antigens are members of the TNF receptor family, which also
   includes 41BB and OX40. The ligands are often members of the TNF family, as are 41BB ligand and
35 OX40 ligand.
             Enzymatically active proteins or their ligands can also be produced using the invention.
   Examples include proteins comprising all or part of one of the following proteins or their ligands or a
                                                       25

    WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
   protein substantially similar to one of these:     a disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain family
   members including TNF-alpha Converting Enzyme, various kinases, glucocerebrosidase, superoxide
   dismutase, tissue plasminogen activator, Factor VIII, Factor IX, apolipoprotein E, apolipoprotein A-I,
   globins, an IL-2 antagonist, alpha-i antitrypsin, ligands for any of the above-mentioned enzymes, and
 5 numerous other enzymes and their ligands.
             Examples of antibodies that can be produced include, but are not limited to, those that
   recognize any one or a combination of proteins including, but not limited to, the above-mentioned
   proteins and/or the following antigens: CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CDl Ia, CD14, CDl 8, CD20, CD22,
   CD23, CD25, CD33, CD40, CD44, CD52, CD80 (B7.1), CD86 (B7.2), CD147, IL-la, IL-1f.                 IL-2,
10 IL-3, IL-7, IL-4, IL-5, IL-8, IL-10, IL-I receptor, IL-2 receptor, IL-4 receptor, IL-6 receptor, IL-13
   receptor, IL-18 receptor subunits, FGL2, PDGF-       and analogs thereof (see US Patent Nos. 5,272,064
   and 5,149,792), VEGF, TGF, TGF-2, TGF-f31, EGF receptor (see US Patent No. 6,235,883) VEGF
   receptor, hepatocyte growth      factor, osteoprotegerin ligand, interferon gamma, B lymphocyte
   stimulator (BlyS, also known as BAFF, THANK, TALL-I, and zTNF4; see Do and Chen-Kiang
15 (2002), Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 13(1): 19-25), C5 complement, IgE, tumor antigen CA125,
   tumor antigen MUC1, PEM antigen, LCG (which is a gene product that is expressed in association
   with lung cancer), HER.-2, HER-3, a tumor-associated glycoprotein TAG-72, the SK-I antigen,
   tumor-associated epitopes that are present in elevated levels in the sera of patients with colon and/or
   pancreatic cancer, cancer-associated epitopes or proteins expressed on breast, colon, squamous cell,
20 prostate, pancreatic, lung, and/or kidney cancer cells and/or on melanoma, glioma, or neuroblastoma
   cells, the necrotic core of a tumor, integrin alpha 4 beta 7, the integrin VLA-4, integrins (including
   integrins comprising alpha4beta7), TRAIL receptors 1, 2, 3, and 4, RANK, RANK ligand, TNF-a,
   the adhesion molecule VAP-1, epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), intercellular adhesion
   molecule-3 (ICAM-3), leukointegrin adhesin, the platelet glycoprotein gp lIb/IIla, cardiac myosin
25 heavy chain, parathyroid hormone, rNAPc2 (which is an inhibitor of factor ViIa-tissue factor), MHC
   I, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), CTLA-4
   (which is a cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen), Fc-y-i receptor, HLA-DR 10 beta, HLA-DR
   antigen, sclerostin, L-selectin, Respiratory Syncitial Virus, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
   hepatitis B virus (HBV), Streptococcus mutans. and Staphlycoccus aureus.
30           Specific examples of known antibodies which can be produced using the methods of the
   invention include but are not        limited to adalimumab,      bevacizumab,    infliximab, abeiximab,
   alemtuzumab, bapineuzumab, basiliximab, belimumab, briakinumab, brodalumab, canakinumab,
   certolizumab pegol, cetuximab, conatuinumab, denosumab, eculizumab, genituzumab ozogamicin,
   golimumab,      ibritumomab   tiuxetan,   labetuzumab,    mapatumumab,      matuzumab,     mepolizumab,
35 motavizumab,        muromonab-CD3,      natalizumab,     nimotuzumab,      ofatumumab,      omalizumab,
   oregovomab,      palivizumab,  panitumnumab,    pemntumomab,    pertuzumab,    ranibizumab, rituximab,
                                                       26

    WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
   rovelizumab, tocilizumab, tositumomab, trastuzumab, ustekinumab, vedolizomab, zalutumumab, and
   zanolimumab.
            The invention can also be used to produce recombinant fusion proteins comprising, for
   example, any of the above-mentioned proteins. For example, recombinant fusion proteins comprising
 5 one of the above-mentioned proteins plus a multimerization domain, such as a leucine zipper, a coiled
   coil, an Fe portion of an immunoglobulin, or a substantially similar protein, can be produced using the
   methods of the invention. See e.g. W094/10308; Lovejoy et al. (1993), Science 259:1288-1293;
   Harbury et al. (1993), Science 262:1401-05; Harburv et al. (1994), Nature 371:80-83; Hakansson et
   al.(1999), Structure 7:255-64.      Specifically included among such recombinant fusion proteins are
10 proteins in which a portion of a receptor is fused to an Fe portion of an antibody such as etanercept (a
   p75 TNFR:Fc), abatacept and belatacept (CTLA4:Fc).
            The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described
   herein that are intended as single illustrations of individual aspects of the invention, and functionally
15 equivalent methods and components           are within the scope of the invention. Indeed, various
   modifications of the invention, in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent
   to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Such
   modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.
20                                                 EXAMPLES
   Example 1
            The effect of monensin on high mannose glycans in a recombinant CHO cell line producing
   an antibody (MAb A) that exhibits very low levels of high mannose glycans was assessed in a six day
25 batch assay. Cells were centrifuged at 1500 rpm for five minutes and seeded at 2X10 6 cells per ml
   into batch production medium in a 24 deep-well plate at a final volume of 3 ml. Stock solutions of
   monensin (1000X; eBiosciences Inc., San Diego, Ca) were prepared in methanol and added to the
   cultures at different concentrations and at different time points during the assay (0.1nM to 50nM on
   day 1 and 100-500nM on day 3); methanol was added as vehicle control.
30          Cell culture parameters were analyzed on day 6 and the corresponding spent medium
   supernatants were evaluated for antibody titer and glycan analysis to assess the effect of monensin on
   cell growth, viability, titer and glycan profile of the recombinant antibody.   Cell density and viability
   were measured by Guava easyCyte flow cytometer (Milipore, Billerica, MA) with the ViaCount
   application. Cultures were spun down, supernatants were filtered on 0.4 micron filters, and were
35 analyzed for titer and glycan distribution.
            Antibody titer was measured by loading filtered cell culture supernatants over a POROS A/20
   Protein A column (Applied Biosystems, Carlsbad, CA) equilibrated with 20mM Tris, 150nM NaCl,
   pH 7.0 buffer. Antibody elution was performed with 220mM acetic acid, 150nM NaCl, pH 2.6 buffer
                                                        27

    WO 2015/066357                                                                   PCT/US2014/063211
   at a mobile phase flow rate of 4.0 ml/min. Eluted antibody was detected at a wavelength of 280nm.
   Antibody concentration was determined based on a standard curve with a reference antibody standard.
   For high molecular weight measurement, antibodies were purified from spent medium supernatants on
   ATOLL columns (ATOLL-Bio Inc USA, Lawrance, Kansas) and were then analyzed using size
 5 exclusion chromatography.
            For glycan analysis, Peptide -N-Glycosidase F (PNGAse F)- released N-linked glycans from
   protein A purified antibodies were labeled with 2-aminobenzoic acid (2-AA) and separated by HILIC
   (hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography) in-line with a fluorescence detector. The separation
   was performed using a Waters Acquity UPLC (Waters, Milford, MA). In-line mass spectrometry
10 (MS), using an ion trap mass spectrometer (LTQ; Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA) in positive
   mode, was incorporated to accommodate mass determination of species. Glycans were injected and
   bound to the column in high organic conditions and were then eluted with an increasing gradient of an
   aqueous ammonium formate buffer. Fast separation times were achieved using a 1.7 microM small
   particle column format (Acquity UPLC BEH Glycan Column, 2.1 x 100 mm; Waters, Milford, MA).
15          Monensin caused a dose dependent increase in high mannose glycans on the recombinant
   antibody as shown in Table 1. Man5 was the major high mannose species upregulated upon monensin
   treatment, though there was a slight increase in higher order mannose structures as well. At monensin
   concentrations between 0.1 to lOnM, there were no impacts on high mannose or cell culture
   parameters. At high concentrations (50 nM incubated for six days and 500nM incubated for three
20 days), monensin caused large increases in high mannose at the expense of cell growth, viability and
   titer. However, when administered as a 25nM bolus on day 0 or either a 200nM or 1OOnM bolus on
   day 3, monensin increased total high mannose glycans on the recombinant antibody anywhere from 6
   to 30-fold with no negative impact on cell culture parameters. Methanol, which was used as a vehicle
   control, did not increase high mannose glycans.
25
                                       Table 1: Levels of various glycans
         Average         Total     Man5         Man6       Man7         Man8a      Man8b
                         HM        (0)          (%)         (0)          (0)       (0)
         Control         1.25      0.785        0.06       0.43         0.305      0
         Methanol        0.65      0.655        0          0            0.375      0
         50 nM           25.1      15.725       4.64       4.73         0.8        2.02
         25nM            7.65      6.43         0.59       0.59         0.39       0.115
         1OnM            1.6       1.485        0.16       0            0.315      0
         5nM             1.35      1.12         0.18       0.27         0.37       0
         InM             1.05      0.89         0.13       0.04         0.29       0
                                                       28

   WO 2015/066357                                                                  PCT/US2014/063211
        Average         Total     Man5        Man6        Man7         Man8a      Man8b
                        HM        (0)         (%)         (0)          (0)        (0)
        0.5nM           0.85      0.785       0.07        0            0.3        0
        0.lnM           0.8       0.775       0.09        0            0.31       0
        500nM(d 3)       14.3     11.735       1.545       1.045       0.355      0.2
        200nM(d 3)      27.35     18.585      4.975       3.795        0.61       1.17
        lOOnM(d 3)      33.65     19.365      7.475       6.795        0.8        2.635
            Cell culture performance was assessed via viable cell density (VCD), viability and titer
   measurements of harvested samples. Each bar represents an average result for duplicate cell culture
   samples. Each value is an average of duplicates.
 5
                                      Table 2: Cell cult -e parameters
                           Average         VCD            Viability     Titer
                                           (10 6 c/ml)    (%)           (g/L)
                           Control         11             79            3.76
                           Methanol        10             80            3.835
                           50 nM           5              72            2.025
                           25nM            11             85            5.22
                           lOnM            11             81            3.635
                           5nM             11             82            3.45
                           InM             11             82            4.265
                           0.5nM           11             81            4.415
                           0.lnM           10             81            3.835
                           500nM(d 3)      5              41            3.055
                           200nM(d 3)      11             87            4.43
                           lOOnM(d 3)      11             86            3.515
            Taken together these results indicated that monensin has a potential to be used to increase
   high mannose glycans on recombinant therapeutic antibodies with no negative impacts on product
10 yield.
                                                      29

   WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
   Example 2
            The effect of monensin on various antibody production cell lines was evaluated in a mock
   perfusion setting. Mock perfusion assay is a small scale, plate-based assay that is designed to mimic
   perfusion conditions in bioreactors through daily medium exchanges. For a 10-day mock perfusion
 5 assay, passaging cultures of various production cell lines were diluted 1:5 into chemically defined
   base perfusion medium in a 24 deep-well plate at a final volume of 3 ml per well. Mock perfusion
   was initiated on day 3 when the cells were spun down at 1000 rpm for 5 minutes and 25% of each
   spent culture medium was exchanged with the equivalent volume of fresh perfusion media.
   Subsequent medium exchange percentages were 40% on days 4-8 and 50% on day 9. Exchanged
10 supernatants were stored at 40 C prior to analysis.
            Analysis of cell culture parameters was also started on day 3; viable cell density and viability
   were analyzed using the ViaCount Guava assay as previously described. Glucose was measured daily
   starting on day 3 and was maintained at 12g/l. Stored supernatants were analyzed for antibody titer as
   described previously. Samples of supernatant fluid from days 6, 8 and 10 were also analyzed for the
15 presence and type of glycans by HILIC analysis.
            The cell lines used included three production cell lines that are known to generate mAbs with
   low high mannose glycans (MAb A, MAb B and MAb C) and one production cell line that
   consistently produces product with high levels of high mannose glycans (MAb D). Monensin was
   added at a final concentration of 25nM on day 3 and from then on one set of duplicate samples
20 underwent daily partial medium exchanges with perfusion medium containing 25nM monensin
   (referred to as "Constant Monensin" in Table 3 below; columns 3 and 4 of the 24-well plate).
   Another set of duplicate samples received perfusion medium with increasing doses of monensin
   (referred to as "Increasing Monensin" in Table 3 below; columns 5 and 6 of the 24-well plate).
   Equivalent volumes of methanol were added daily to control cultures (columns 1 and 2 of the 24-well
25 plate). This scheme is depicted below:
                              Columns 1 and 2             Columns 3 and 4          Columns 5 and 6
   Row       1:        Cells  Control:                    Constant monensin:       Increasing monensin:
   producing MAb A            Perfused at 40% of          Perfused at 40% of Perfused at 40% of
                              initial volume with         initial volume with initial volume with
                              media        containing     media containing 25 media             containing
                              equal      volume      of   nM monensin          on varying monensin on
                              methanol on days 4,         days 4, 5,6,7, and 8, days 4 (25nM); 5 - 9
                              5,6,7,and 8, and 50%        and 50% on 9             (50nM; 50% volume
                              on 9                                                 perfused on day 9)
                                                       30

    WO 2015/066357                                                                  PCT/US2014/063211
                              Columns 1 and 2            Columns 3 and 4         Columns 5 and 6
   Rows 2 - 4: Cells          Control:                   Constant monensin:      Increasing monensin:
   producing     MAb      B,  Perfused at 40% of Perfused at 40% of              Perfused at 40% of
   C, D, respectively         initial volume with        initial volume with     initial volume with
                              media        containing    media containing 25     media      containing
                              equal     volume       of  nM monensin          on varying monensin on
                              methanol on days 4,        days 4, 5,6,7, and 8,   days 4 (25nM), 5 and
                              5,6,7, and 8, and 50%      and 50% on 9            6 (50nM), 7, 8 and 9
                              on 9                                               (100nM;           50%
                                                                                 volume perfused on
                                                                                 day 9)
             On day 10, cell pellets were washed once with cold PBS and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde
   for 10 minutes on ice. Cells were then washed once in again in cold PBS and stored at 40C until they
   were immunofluorescently stained as described below
 5 Similar to results obtained with six day batch assay, monensin increased high mannose glycans on all
   four antibody products tested in a dose dependent manner though the magnitude of upregulation was
   cell line dependent, as shown in Table 3.
                                       Table 3: Levels of various glycans
                      Total       Total      Total                        Total     Total     Total
   MAb A              HM          HM         HM          MAb B            HM        HM        HM
                      (0)         (0)        (0)                          (0)       (0)       (0)
                      Day6        Day 8      Day 10                       Day 6     Day 8     Day 10
   Control            1.5         1.6         1.4        Control          3.0       2.8       2.8
   Constant           55.7        19.7       9           Constant         9.6       4.6       4.0
   monensin                                              monensin
   Increasing         61.9        44.9       23.2        Increasing       13.2       12.4      14.0
   monensin                                              monensin
   MAb C                                                 MAb D
   Control            4.6         4.7        7.7         Control          18.4      26.8       32.2
   Constant           49.6        31.1       30.9        Constant         70.6       80.1      72.6
   monensin                                              monensin
   Increasing         56.6        67.6       65.8        Increasing       83.0       92.5      94.9
   monensin                                              monensin
10
             When compared to the control samples, high mannose levels on antibodies collected on day
    10 of the production assay exhibited increases of anywhere from 1.5 to 15-fold depending on the
   monensin dose. The levels of high mannose glycans decreased over time in cultures that were
   subjected to partial daily medium exchange, starting on day 3, with perfusion medium containing
15 25nM monensin, but were higher than control cultures at all time points (Table 3, values shown in
   rows designated "Constant monensin"). This is likely due to increases in cell number with time, thus
   reducing the per cell dose of monensin at later time points.
                                                       31

   WO 2015/066357                                                                   PCT/US2014/063211
           For one of the cell lines, monensin dose in the perfusion medium was ramped up to 50nM
   over the course of the production assay run; for the remaining cell-lines, monensin dose in the
   perfusion medium was ramped up (increased) to 1OOnM. As a result of the increasing monensin
   concentration, high mannose levels on the antibodies produced by these cell lines were held steady
 5 from early to later time points (Table 3, values shown in rows designated "Increasing monensin").
   For the cell line expressing MAb A (evaluated in Example 1), monensin concentration in the
   perfusion medium was not increased beyond 50nM due to the previously observed deleterious effects
   on cell culture parameters.    As such, and similarly to what was observed with 25nM addition
   condition, high mannose levels on antibodies produced by that cell-line decreased with time.
10         Total high mannose values (Total HM column) and the corresponding distributions into high
   mannose species from Man5 through Man9 were determined for purified antibody samples collected
   on day 10. Each value shown in Table 4 represents an average of duplicates.
                                                    32

    WO 2015/066357                                                                   PCT/US2014/063211
                                                                               {
                                           Table 4: Levels of various g ycans
                                      Total    Man5     Man6    Man7     Man8a   Man8b      Man9
                                       %Ab)    (0)      (0)     (0)      (0%)            {(%)
            Control                   1.4      0.7      0.1     0.1      0.3     0.1        0.0
            Constant Monensin         9        5.6      1.2     1.0      0.4     0.6        0.2
            Increasing monensin       23.2     14.2     3.7     1.9      0.6     1.4        0.4
            MAb B
            Control                   2.8      1.3      0.5     0.4      0.4     0.3        0.0
            Constant Monensin         4.0      2.2      0.7     0.5      0.3     0.3        0.0
            Increasing monensin       14.0     7.7      3.0     2.0      0.3     0.9        0.1
            MAb C
            Control                   7.7      4.5      1.3     0.8      0.7     0.3        0.1
            Constant Monensin         30.9     19.5     5.3     3.6      0.7     1.4        0.3
            Increasing monensin       65.8     31.6     13.7    12.3     1.0     5.9        1.3
            MAbD
            Control                   32.2     20.6     4.3     3.8      0.6     2.6        0.3
            Constant Monensin         72.6     30.4     14.7     15.3    0.7     10.1       1.4
            Increasing monensin       94.9     12.8     14.9    27.2     0.8     34.3       5.0
            In most cases monensin elevated the level of high mannose species without changing their
 5 relative distribution (i.e. if Man5 was the primary high mannose form prior to monensin addition, it
   typically stayed the predominant form after monensin administration).
   The only exception to this effect was seen on one cell line, that producing MAb D. The increasing
   dose of monensin primarily upregulated Man7 and Man8(b) high mannose glycans on the mAbs
   produced by this cell line.     This cell line has (in these experiments and in the past) consistently
10 produced mAbs with high levels of high mannose glycans even under control culture conditions. The
   difference in the upregulation of high mannose species in the presence of monensin in this cell-line
   when compared to the other tested cell lines could reflect a fundamental difference in high mannose
   processing machinery in these cells.
                                                       33

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
   Example 3
            Monensin is known to cause gross changes in Golgi architecture characterized by swollen and
   fragmented cisternae. The structure of the Golgi of CHO production cell lines after monensin
   treatment was analyzed using a panel of five different commercially available antibodies against
 5 various Golgi proteins with a passaging culture of recombinant cells producing MAb A using
   immunofluorescence microscopy. Only the antibody against GM130, a Golgi matrix protein, showed
   a Golgi specific staining pattern.
            Next, day 10 control and monensin-treated mock perfusion cultures of MAb A producing
   cells and MAb C producing cells were subjected to immunofluorescence microscopy using GM130
10 antibody. Paraformaldehyde fixed cell pellets were permeablized with 0.1% TritonX-100 made in
   PBS. Pellets were washed with PBSA (0.5% BSA in PBS) and incubated with GM130 antibody (BD
   Biosciences, San Jose, CA) diluted 1:50 in PBSA. Cells were washed thrice with PBSA and incubated
   with Alexa 488 conjugated mouse secondary antibody (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY) diluted 1:1000
   in PBSA. Nuclear DNA was visualized with DRAQ5 (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY). Images were
15 captured using Zeiss 510 microscope (Carl Zeiss, Inc., Jena, Germany) with 63X water immersion
   lens and analyzed using LSM image browser software.
            No morphological difference were observed between control and monensin-treated MAb A
   producing     cells.  However, MAb C producing cells treated with perfusion medium containing
   continuously increasing amounts of monensin, culminating at 1 OOnM final monensin concentration in
20 the perfusion medium from days 7-10, showed punctate distribution of GM130 protein perhaps
   indicative of Golgi stress. This kind of change in staining pattern of GM130 has previously been
   linked to arsenite or heat shock induced cell stress in HeLa cells (Kolobova, E., et al., Exp Cell Res,
   2009; 315(3) 542-55).
            The effects of either constant levels of monensin or increasing levels of monensin on various
25 cell culture parameters was also evaluated. Viable cell density (VCD) and viability were measured
   daily starting on day 3. Spent medium samples were collected on days 3-10 and were subjected to titer
   analysis. Viable cell densities were used to calculate cumulative viable cell densities, which were
   along with cumulative titer values used to calculate specific productivities (qP). Every value shown is
   an average of duplicates. There was no drop in titer or any other negative cell culture impacts in these
30 cells, despite the apparent loss of Golgi morphology, as shown in Table 5.
                                                      34

   WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
                                       Table 5: Cell culture parameters
                                                    End         of
                                      CVCD
             MAb A                    (10 6
                                               c-   Production      Cumulative
                                      day/mi)     IViability        Titer (g/L)
                                                                                   qP(pg/c/d)
             Control                  85            85              7.5            88
             Constant Monensin        57            78              5.9            103
             Increasing monensin      57            80              5.8            101
             MAb B
             Control                  95            85              3.6            38
             Constant Monensin        89            85              3.5            40
             Increasing monensin      88            83              3.6            40
             MAbC
             Control                  192           69              7.3            38
             Constant Monensin        215           77              7.4            34
             Increasing monensin      208           77              7.1            34
             MAbD
             Control                  129           68              5.2            40
             Constant Monensin        104           68              4.5            43
             Increasing monensin      89            53              3.6            41
            The effect of monensin on cell culture parameters under mock perfusion conditions was cell
 5 line specific, with MAb A cells exhibiting a decrease in total cell mass accumulation followed by a
   similar, though not as pronounced, negative growth impact on MAb D cells.      Monensin had no effect
   on the growth or viability of MAb B cells and slightly increased cumulative viable cell density and
   improved the viability of MAb C cells.
            Monensin has a different effect on cell growth and viability depending on production cell line
10 in question. Monensin has been reported to cause GUS or G2/M cell cycle block and induce apoptosis
   in certain lymphoma and renal cancer cells lines. It was shown to decrease the level of several cell
   cycle related proteins like CDK2, CD6, cyclin A and cyclinB 1 and to increase the levels of cell cycle
   inhibitors p21 and p27 (Park, W.H., et al., Int J Oncol. 2003, 22(4): 855-60; Park, W.H., et al., Int J
                                                      35

    WO 2015/066357                                                                     PCT/US2014/063211
   Oncol. 2003, 23(1): 197-204; Park, W.H., et al., Br JHaematol.2002, 119(2): p. 400-7). The effect of
   monensin on these cell cycle proteins could explain the negative effect of monensin on MAb A and
   MAb D cell growth and viability.
            On the other hand, low doses of monensin have been reported to improve cell culture
 5 parameters by increasing intracellular Na' levels which could explain the improved cell culture
   performance of MAb C cells in the presence of monensin (Tenaglia, A.N., C.G. Fry, and G. Van Zant,
   Exp Hematol. 1985. 13(6): 512-519). Why different production cell-lines respond differently to
   monensin is not known and could in part be explained by the heterogeneity of the cells from which
   these clonal cell lines were derived.
10          The effect of monensin on titer and specific productivity was also cell line specific (Figure 3).
   MAb A cells showed decreased titer but increased specific productivity whereas MAb C cells showed
   increased titer but slightly lower specific productivity in the presence of monensin. Monensin had no
   impact on either titer or specific productivity of MAb B cells and slightly decreased the titer of MAb
   D cells but had no effect on specific productivity. This effect on titer and specific productivity likely
15 reflects the effect monensin has on cell growth and viability. In general however, the use of monensin
   will facilitate large increases in high mannose glycans without significant effects on titer or specific
   productivity, and virtually no changes in high molecular weight profiles of antibodies produced.
   Example 4
20          The applicability of using monensin to modulate high mannose levels in a large scale,
   controlled production setting was evaluated using a recombinant cell line producing MAb E in
   alternating tangential flow (ATF) bioreactors.     MAb E cells grown in growth medium for the seed
   train were used to inoculate the N-I bioreactor at 6 x 105 cells/ml in growth medium. The cells from
   N-1 bioreactor were then used to inoculate three, 2L production bioreactors (N) at 7.5 x 105 cells/ml
25 in base perfusion medium (referred to as control, Ra, and Rb bioreactors).
            The production bioreactors were grown for 20 days at pH 7.00, 36'C, 30% DO and 400 rpm
   agitation. These production tanks were run with the ATF system starting on day 3 with 0.5 vol/day
   perfusion rate, which was increased to 0.6 vol/day, 0.8352 vol/day and 1 vol/day on day 6, 7 and 8,
   respectively. Glucose levels were maintained separately at 5g/L since the perfusion medium was
30 prepared without glucose.
            Monensin (25microM stock solution) was added as a single bolus dose to achieve a final
   concentration of 500nM into two tanks (Ra and Rb) on day 8; the third tank served as a control tank.
   Thereafter monensin was fed continuously for roughly 22 hours at a rate of 1/50 of the perfusion
   medium rate to maintain 500nM concentration in the tanks. Antifoam was also added into the tank as
35 needed, while 1M Sodium Carbonate was used to maintain pH at the desired setpoint. Daily tank
   samples were collected for the measurement of various cell culture parameters as well as for the titer
   and high mannose analyses.
                                                      36

    WO 2015/066357                                                                    PCT/US2014/063211
            Sixty micrograms of daily MAb E samples collected from ATF bioreactors were digested into
   the Fc/2 and Fab'2 with 60 units of the IdeS enzyme (fabRICATOR, Genovis, Lund, Sweden) in
   50mM Sodium Phosphate, 150mM NaCl, pH 6.6 with incubation in a 37'C water bath for 30 minutes.
   The digested samples were then reduced in 4M Guanidine Hydrochloride 50mM Tris, pH 8.3 with
 5 50mM DTT followed by incubation in a 55'C heat block for 10 minutes resulting in reduction to Fc/2,
   LC and Fd.
            Following digestion and reduction, samples were analyzed immediately by RP-HPLC/MS.
   Analysis was performed using Waters Acquity Ultra-Performance liquid chromatography (UPLC)
   system (Waters, Milford, MA) coupled to an Agilent MST Time of Flight (TOF) mass spectrometer
10 (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA).      The digested and reduced samples were separated on a
   reversed-phased Waters BEH Phenyl column (1.7 micron particle size, 2.1 x 150 mm; Waters,
   Milford, MA) maintained at 80'C.        The mobile phases employed for separation were 0.1% TFA
   (Buffer A) and Acetonitrile, 0.1% TFA (Buffer B).
            Five micrograms of each sample was injected and eluted at a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min with the
15 following gradient: 30% B was held for 2.5 minutes followed by a gradient from 30% to 45% B over
   a duration of 5 minutes, followed by a gradient from 45% to 100% B over 0.5 minutes; B was held at
    100% for 4 minutes, followed by a gradient of 100% to 30% B over 0.1 minutes, and then held at 30%
   B for the remaining 2.9 minutes. The UV elution was also monitored at a wavelength of 220nm. Mass
   data were extracted from the TIC of the FC/2 peak, followed by deconvolution of the extracted
20 spectra using Agilent MassHunter deconvolution software. Ion intensities of the deconvoluted peaks
   were used for quantification of the glycan species.
            As shown in Figures 1 - 4 and Figure 7, monensin addition had a slight negative impact on
   cell growth and viability but these effects were not significant enough to cause any negative impact on
   the productivity of the cultures. In fact, monensin-treated tanks showed marginally improved titers as
25 compared to the control tank. Importantly, addition of monensin led to a 9-10 fold increase in the
   levels of high mannose glycans on the recombinant antibodies (Figures 5 - 9). The primary increase
   was seen in Man5 species, though at earlier time points (days 9 and 10) other high order mannose
   species were also upregulated. From day 11 onwards, Man5 was almost the exclusive high mannose
   species present in the tanks with negligible quantities of other high mannose species detected.
30          Comparisons of predicted and measured high mannose levels show that the expression of high
   mannose containing antibodies peaked on day 10 where 89% of the produced antibodies contained
   high mannose glycans (Figure 9). Once monensin amounts became negligible in the tanks (based on
   perfusion medium flow rate calculations, days 11 and on), the rate of decrease in the percentage of
   antibodies with high mannose glycans was proportional to the rate at which the titer was increasing
35 (Figure 10). In other words, high levels of high mannose antibodies were diluted out with newly
   produced antibodies containing low level of high mannose.
                                                       37

  WO 2015/066357                                                                 PCT/US2014/063211
           Overall, the increase in high mannose levels correlated well with the flow rate-based
  calculated concentrations of monensin in the tanks, with maximum increase seen on days 9 and 10
  when monensin concentrations were at their highest and tapering down from day 11 onwards (Figures
  9-12). After the complete flushing out of monensin from the tanks through the process of continuous
5 medium perfusion, high mannose levels decreased from an initial spike of 35-50% down to 15-17%
  on the day of the harvest (Figures 13 and 14).
                                                  38

WO 2015/066357                                                                   PCT/US2014/063211
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A method of regulating the high mannose glycoform content of a recombinant protein
        comprising an immunoglobulin Fc region during a mammalian cell culture process,
        comprising:
        establishing a mammalian cell culture expressing the recombinant protein in a serum-free
        culture medium in a bioreactor,
        maintaining the mammalian cells during a production phase, and
        contacting the cell culture with monensin.
2.      The method according to claim 1 wherein the monensin is present in the cell culture for a time
        period selected form the group consisting of: one day; two days; three days; four days; five
        days; six days; seven days; eight days; nine days; and 10 days or longer.
3.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the monensin is present in the cell culture for the
        duration of the cell culture.
4.      The method according to claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein the monensin is present in the cell culture
        at a set, selected concentration.
5.      The method according to claim 4 wherein the set, selected concentration of monensin is
        between 0.1 nM and 1000 nM.
6.      The method according to claim 4 wherein the set, selected concentration of monensin is
        between 10 nM and 800 nM.
7.      The method according to claim 4 wherein the set, selected concentration of monensin is
        between 25 nM - 750 nM.
8.      The method according to claim 4 wherein the set, selected concentration of monensin is
        between 50 nM and 500 nM.
9.      The method according to claim 4 wherein the concentration of monensin is selected from the
        group consisting of 50 nM, 100 nM, 250 nM; 500nM; and 750 nM.
                                                   39

WO 2015/066357                                                                      PCT/US2014/063211
10.  The method according to claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein the monensin is present in the cell culture
     at a first, selected concentration between 25 nM and 100 nM, then increased to a second,
     higher concentration between 100 nM and 500 nM.
11.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the monensin is maintained at the first
     concentration for a period of from three to five days, then maintained at the second
     concentration for a period of from one day through the duration of the culture.
12.  The method according to claim 10 or 11 wherein the second, higher concentration of
     monensin is subsequently tapered to between 25 nM and 100 nM for a time period of from
     one day through the duration of the culture.
13.  The method of any one of claims 1 - 12, wherein the monensin is added to the cell culture
     between three and 15 days after the culture is established.
14.  The method of claim 13, wherein the monensin is added to the cell culture at day 3, at day 4,
     at day 5; at day 6; at day 7; at day 8; at day 9; at day 10; at day 11; or at day 12 after the
     culture is established.
15.  The method of any one of claims 1 - 14, wherein cell culture is maintained by perfusion.
16.  The method of claim 15, wherein perfusion begins on or about day I to on or about day 9 of
     the cell culture.
17.  The method of claim 15, wherein perfusion begins on or about day 3 to on or about day 7 of
     the cell culture.
18.  The method of claim 15, wherein perfusion begins when cells have reached a production
     phase.
19.  The method of claims 15, 16, 17 or 18, wherein perfusion is accomplished by alternating
     tangential flow.
20.   The method of claim 19 wherein perfusion is accomplished by alternating tangential flow
     using an ultrafilter or a microfilter.
21.  The method of any one of claims 1 - 14, wherein cell culture is maintained by fed batch.
                                                  40

WO 2015/066357                                                                PCT/US2014/063211
22.  The method of claim 21, wherein the culture is fed three times during production.
23.  The method of claim 22, wherein the culture is fed on a day between day two and four, on a
     day between day 5 and 7, and on a day between day 8 and 10.
24.  The method of claim 21, wherein the culture is fed four times during production.
25.  The method of claim 24, wherein the culture is fed on a day between day two and four, on a
     day between day 5 and 6, on a day between day 7 and 8, and on a day between day 8 and 10
     or later.
26.  The method of any one of claims 1 through 25, wherein the method further comprises a
     harvest step.
                                             41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
