Abstract
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING A MATERIAL
MOVING OPERATION
A system for determining a lowest cost distal end dump location (150) is provided. A controller
(46) determines an amount of material to be moved from the first work area (110) to the second
work area (111), and evaluates a plurality of potential distal end dump locations at the second
work area to determine a cost associated with moving the material at the second work area to
form each second work area material configuration and select a lowest cost distal end dump
location corresponding to a lowest cost second work area material configuration.

                         1/8
                         C0
   C)
o
0
                     (NO
                         C)C
                   co
               C)C
          C)
     ICC)
  C)
             N

                                                   -1
16-1910
Description
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING A MATERIAL
MOVING OPERATION
Technical Field
[0001]     This disclosure relates generally to controlling a machine and, more particularly, to a
system and method for planning a path of a machine to optimize the cost of a material moving
operation.
Background
[0002]     Machines such as dozers, motor graders, wheel loaders, etc., are used to perform a
variety of tasks. For example, these machines may be used to move material at a work site. The
machines may operate in an autonomous or semi-autonomous manner to perform these tasks in
response to commands generated as part of a work plan for the machines. The machines may
receive instructions in accordance with the work plan to perform operations including digging,
loosening, carrying, etc., different materials at the work site such as those related to mining,
earthmoving and other industrial activities.
[0003]     Autonomously operated machines may remain consistently productive without regard
to a human operator or environmental conditions. In addition, autonomous systems may permit
operation in environments that are unsuitable or undesirable for a human operator. Autonomous
or semi-autonomous systems may also compensate for inexperienced human operators as well as
inefficiencies associated with repetitive tasks.
[0004]     When operating in an autonomous or semi-autonomous manner, minimizing the need
for operator intervention is desirable. Operating instructions for moving the machines and their
associated work implements are often developed by a planning system or module. However, a
plurality of variables may affect the planning system and impact the efficiency of the machine
operation. Optimizing certain of the variables may result in material movement operations
performed in a highly cost effective manner.

                                                    -2
16-1910
[0005]      U.S. Patent No. 9,014,922 discloses a system for determining a cut location at a work
surface in which a controller stores a desired operating parameter and a final design plane of the
work surface and determines an actual profile of the work surface. The controller determines a
plurality of target profiles corresponding to different cut locations. The target profiles are based
at least in part upon the cut location, a loading profile, slot parameters, and the actual profile of
the work surface. The controller further determines an optimized target profile relative to the
desired operating parameter and the optimized target profile defines an optimized cut location.
[0006]      The foregoing background discussion is intended solely to aid the reader. It is not
intended to limit the innovations described herein, nor to limit or expand the prior art discussed.
Thus, the foregoing discussion should not be taken to indicate that any particular element of a
prior system is unsuitable for use with the innovations described herein, nor is it intended to
indicate that any element is essential in implementing the innovations described herein. The
implementations and application of the innovations described herein are defined by the appended
claims.
Summary
[0007]      In one aspect, a system is provided for determining a lowest cost distal end dump
location for moving material with a ground engaging work implement of a machine along a work
surface from a first work area to a second work area. The system includes a position sensor and a
controller. The position sensor generates position signals indicative of a position of the work
surface. The controller is configured to store a final design plane, store a proximal end dump
location along the work surface at the second work area, receive position signals from the
position sensor, and determine the position of the work surface based upon the position signals.
The controller is further configured to determine an amount of material to be moved from the
first work area to the second work area based upon the final design plane and the position of the
work surface, determine a plurality of distal end dump locations along the work surface at the
second work area, with a distance between the proximal end dump location and each of the
plurality of distal end dump locations defining a plurality of potential first layers of material. For
each of the plurality of potential first layers of material, the controller is configured to determine
a plurality of additional layers of material above the potential first layer of material, with each
potential first layer of material plus the plurality of additional layers above the potential first
layer of material being equal to the amount of material to be moved and defining a second work

                                                    -3
16-1910
area material configuration. The controller is also configured to determine a cost associated with
moving the amount of material at the second work area to form each second work area material
configuration and select a lowest cost distal end dump location corresponding to a lowest cost
second work area material configuration.
[0008]      In another aspect, a controller-implemented method is provided for determining a
lowest cost distal end dump location for moving material with a ground engaging work
implement of a machine along a work surface from a first work area to a second work area. The
method includes storing a final design plane, storing a proximal end dump location along the
work surface at the second work area, receiving position signals from a position sensor, and
determining a position of the work surface based upon position signals from the position sensor.
The method further includes determining an amount of material to be moved from the first work
area to the second work area based upon the final design plane and the position of the work
surface, determining a plurality of distal end dump locations along the work surface at the second
work area, with a distance between the proximal end dump location and each of the plurality of
distal end dump locations defining a plurality of potential first layers of material, and for each of
the plurality of potential first layers of material, determining a plurality of additional layers of
material above the potential first layer of material, with each potential first layer of material plus
the plurality of additional layers above the potential first layer of material being equal to the
amount of material to be moved and defining a second work area material configuration. The
method still further includes determining a cost associated with moving the amount of material at
the second work area to form each second work area material configuration and selecting a
lowest cost distal end dump location corresponding to a lowest cost second work area material
configuration.
[0009]      In still another aspect, a machine includes a prime mover, a ground engaging work
implement for engaging a work surface to move material from a first work area to a second work
area, a position sensor for generating position signals indicative of a position of the work surface,
and a controller. The controller is configured to store a final design plane, store a proximal end
dump location along the work surface at the second work area, receive position signals from the
position sensor, and determine the position of the work surface based upon the position signals.
The controller is further configured to determine an amount of material to be moved from the
first work area to the second work area based upon the final design plane and the position of the

                                                    -4
16-1910
work surface, determine a plurality of distal end dump locations along the work surface at the
second work area, with a distance between the proximal end dump location and each of the
plurality of distal end dump locations defining a plurality of potential first layers of material. For
each of the plurality of potential first layers of material, the controller is configured to determine
a plurality of additional layers of material above the potential first layer of material, with each
potential first layer of material plus the plurality of additional layers above the potential first
layer of material being equal to the amount of material to be moved and defining a second work
area material configuration. The controller is also configured to determine a cost associated with
moving the amount of material at the second work area to form each second work area material
configuration and select a lowest cost distal end dump location corresponding to a lowest cost
second work area material configuration.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0010]      Fig. 1 depicts a diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of a work site with upper and
lower layers of material illustrated;
[0011]      Fig. 2 depicts a diagrammatic illustration of a machine in accordance with the
disclosure;
[0012]      Fig. 3 depicts an enlarged diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of a work site
illustrating a plurality of cutting operations;
[0013]      Fig. 4 depicts an enlarged diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of the work site of
Fig. 1 illustrating the result of a plurality of backstacking operations;
[0014]      Fig. 5 depicts a diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of the work site of Fig. 1 with
the material at a second work area in a first configuration void partially filled after an initial
process;
[0015]      Fig. 6 depicts a diagrammatic cross-section similar to Fig. 5 but with the material at
the second work area in a second configuration;

                                                   -5
16-1910
[0016]      Fig. 7 depicts a diagrammatic cross-section similar to Fig. 5 but with the material at
the third work area in a third configuration, and
[0017]      Fig. 8 depicts a flowchart illustrating a material moving process in accordance with
the disclosure.
Detailed Description
[0018]      Fig. 1 depicts a diagrammatic illustration of a portion 101 of a work site 100 which
one or more machines may operate in an autonomous, a semi-autonomous, or a manual manner.
Work site 100 is depicted as a mining site with lower layer 102 of material to be mined such as
coal and an upper layer 105 of material such as overburden or topsoil that covers the lower layer.
At some work sites 100, the overburden is removed from above a portion of the lower layer 102
of material at a first work area 110 and moved to a second work area 111. The exposed lower
layer 102 of material is then removed and transported to a desired location at a remote site. The
removal of the lower layer 102 of material creates an open area or void 112 into which
overburden from a new or adjacent section of the upper layer 105 may be moved to expose
another or adjacent portion of the lower layer. The process may be repeated about the work site
100 until the entire lower layer 102 of material is removed.
[0019]      In some instances, the process of movement of the overburden may begin by moving a
portion of the overburden into the void 112 adjacent the lower layer 102 such as with explosives.
As depicted in Fig. 1, a portion of the upper layer 105 has been moved or displaced into the void
112 (to the right of the edge 103 of the lower layer 102 in Fig. 1). The area from which the
overburden has been removed is indicated generally at 113 and the overburden moved into the
void 112 is indicated at 114.
[0020]      As a result of the movement of the overburden, by explosives and/or otherwise, the
void 112 may have a shape as generally depicted in Fig. 1 with a first sloped surface 115 that
slopes downward from generally adjacent the edge 103 of the lower layer 102 and a second
sloped surface formed during a previous material movement process that extends upward from
the first sloped surface. The second sloped surface may extend upward any desired distance and
may be referred to as a low wall 116. In some instances, the upper end of the low wall 116 may

                                                  -6
16-1910
be approximately at the same height as the upper surface of the lower layer 102. The remaining
space of the void 112 is thus defined by the first sloped surface 115 and the low wall 116. .
[0021]      In some instances, machines 10 such as dozers may be used to move the overburden
above the lower layer 102 to expose the lower layer for subsequent mining. To do so, the
machines 10 may move the overburden into and above the void 112 by moving a series of
relatively small layers or sections of material into the open area.
[0022]      As used herein, a layer may refer to a layer or a section of material having a uniform
or non-uniform (e.g., triangular) thickness or cross-section. For example, as depicted in Fig. 1,
the remaining portion of the upper layer 105 of overburden to be removed is divided into a series
of relatively smaller layers 120-125. Each smaller layer 120-125 may be moved from its position
above the lower layer 102 to a position in or above the void 112 by utilizing the dozers to
perform a series of material moving operations during which the overburden is moved from the
first work area 110 to the second work area 111 to eventually expose the lower layer 102. In
some instances, it may be desirable to leave a small amount of overburden on the lower layer 102
of material. Although depicted with six smaller layers 120-125, the upper layer 105 may be
divided into any desired number of smaller layers. The number and position of the smaller layers
may be determined by a planning system 47 described below or in any other manner.
[0023]      Fig. 2 depicts a diagrammatic illustration of a machine 10 such as a dozer with a
ground engaging work implement such as a blade 16 configured to push material. The machine
10 includes a frame 12 and a prime mover such as an engine 13. A ground-engaging drive
mechanism such as a track 15 may be driven by a drive sprocket 14 on opposite sides of machine
10 to propel the machine. Engine 13 and a transmission (not shown) are operatively connected to
the drive sprockets 14, which drive tracks 15. The systems and methods of the disclosure may be
used with any machine propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms applicable in the art for causing
movement of the machine including hydrostatic, electric, or mechanical drives.
[0024]      Blade 16 may be pivotably connected to frame 12 by arms 18 on each side of machine
10. First hydraulic cylinder 21 coupled to frame 12 supports blade 16 in the vertical direction and
allows blade 16 to move up or down vertically from the point of view of Fig. 2. Second

                                                 -7
16-1910
hydraulic cylinders 22 on each side of machine 10 allow the pitch angle of blade tip to change
relative to a centerline of the machine.
[0025]      Machine 10 may include a cab 24 that an operator may physically occupy and provide
input to control the machine. Cab 24 may include one or more input devices such as joystick 25
through which the operator may issue commands to control the propulsion system and steering
system of the machine as well as operate various implements associated with the machine.
[0026]      Machine 10 may be controlled by a control system 45 as shown generally by an arrow
in Fig. 2 indicating association with the machine 10. The control system 45 may include an
electronic control module or controller 46 and a plurality of sensors. The controller 46 may
receive input signals from an operator operating the machine 10 from within cab 24 or off-board
the machine through a wireless communications system 201. The controller 46 may control the
operation of various aspects of the machine 10 including the drivetrain and the hydraulic
systems.
[0027]      The controller 46 may be an electronic controller that operates in a logical fashion to
perform operations, execute control algorithms, store and retrieve data and other desired
operations. The controller 46 may include or access memory, secondary storage devices,
processors, and any other components for running an application. The memory and secondary
storage devices may be in the form of read-only memory (ROM) or random access memory
(RAM) or integrated circuitry that is accessible by the controller. Various other circuits may be
associated with the controller 46 such as power supply circuitry, signal conditioning circuitry,
driver circuitry, and other types of circuitry.
[0028]      The controller 46 may be a single controller or may include more than one controller
disposed to control various functions and/or features of the machine 10. The term "controller" is
meant to be used in its broadest sense to include one or more controllers and/or microprocessors
that may be associated with the machine 10 and that may cooperate in controlling various
functions and operations of the machine. The functionality of the controller 46 may be
implemented in hardware and/or software without regard to the functionality. The controller 46
may rely on one or more data maps relating to the operating conditions and the operating
environment of the machine 10 and the work site 100 that may be stored in the memory of

                                                     -8
16-1910
controller. Each of these data maps may include a collection of data in the form of tables, graphs,
and/or equations.
[0029]      The control system 45 and the controller 46 may be located on the machine 10 and
may also include components located remotely from the machine such as at a command center
200. The functionality of control system 45 may be distributed so that certain functions are
performed at machine 10 and other functions are performed remotely. In such case, the control
system 45 may include a communications system such as wireless communications system 201
for transmitting signals between the machine 10 and a system located remote from the machine.
[0030]      Machine 10 may be configured to be operated autonomously, semi-autonomously, or
manually. When operating semi-autonomously or manually, the machine 10 may be operated by
remote control and/or by an operator physically located within the cab 24.
[0031]      Machine 10 may be equipped with a plurality of machine sensors that provide data
indicative (directly or indirectly) of various operating parameters of the machine and/or the
operating environment in which the machine is operating. The term "sensor" is meant to be used
in its broadest sense to include one or more sensors and related components that may be
associated with the machine 10 and that may cooperate to sense various functions, operations,
and operating characteristics of the machine and/or aspects of the environment in which the
machine is operating.
[0032]      A position sensing system 27, as shown generally by an arrow in Fig. 2 indicating
association with the machine 10, may include a position sensor 28, also shown generally by an
arrow in Fig. 2 to indicate association with the machine, to sense the position and orientation
(i.e., the heading, pitch, roll or tilt, and yaw) of the machine relative to the work site 100. The
position sensor 28 may include a plurality of individual sensors that cooperate to generate and
provide position signals to controller 46 indicative of the position and orientation of the machine
10. In one example, the position sensor 28 may include one or more sensors that interact with a
positioning system such as a global navigation satellite system or a global positioning system to
operate as a position sensor. In another example, the position sensor 28 may further include a
slope or inclination sensor such as pitch angle sensor for measuring the slope or inclination of the
machine 10 relative to a ground or earth reference. The controller 46 may use position signals

                                                 -9
16-1910
from the position sensors 28 to determine the position of the machine 10 within work site 100. In
other examples, the position sensor 28 may include a perception based system, or may use other
systems such as lasers, sonar, or radar to determine all or some aspects of the position of
machine 10.
[0033]      The position sensing system 27 may also be used to determine a ground speed of
machine 10. Other sensors or a dedicated ground speed sensor may alternatively be used to
determine the ground speed of the machine 10. In addition, the position sensing system 27 may
also be used to determine the position of the work surface upon which the machine 10 is moving.
More specifically, based upon known dimensions of the machine 10 and the position of the
machine at the work site 100, the position of the work surface may also be determined. As a
result, the position sensing system 27 may operate as either or both of a machine position sensing
system and a work surface position sensing system. Similarly, the position sensor 28 may
operate as either or both of a machine position sensor and a work surface position sensor. Other
sensors or a dedicated work surface position sensor may alternatively be used to determine the
position of the work surface.
[0034]      Sensors may be provided to monitor the operating conditions of the engine 13 and
drivetrain such as an engine speed sensor 29 and a torque converter speed sensor 30. Other
sensors necessary or desirable for operating the machine 10 may be provided.
[0035]      The control system 45 may include an additional system such as a change in terrain
detection system 31 shown generally by an arrow in Fig. 2 indicating association with the
machine 10. One type of change in terrain detection system 31 that may be used to sense a crest
at the work site 100 may be an implement load monitoring system 32 shown generally by an
arrow in Fig. 2. The implement load monitoring system 32 may include any of a variety of
different types of implement load sensors depicted generally by an arrow in Fig. 2 as an
implement load sensor system 33 to measure the load on the ground engaging work implement
or blade 16. For example, as blade 16 of machine 10 moves material over a crest, the load on the
blade will be reduced. Accordingly, the implement load sensor system 33 may be utilized to
measure or monitor the load on the blade 16 and a decrease in load may be registered by the
controller 46 as a change in terrain due to the machine 10 being adjacent the crest. In other
instances, an increase in load may indicate an incline or the machine 10 encountering a pile of

                                                 -10
16-1910
material. In other words, the controller 46 may determine a change in terrain based at least in
part upon a change in the load on blade 16.
[0036]     In one embodiment, the implement load sensor system 33 may embody one or more
pressure sensors 34 for use with one or more hydraulic cylinders, such as second hydraulic
cylinders 22, associated with blade 16. Signals from the pressure sensor 34 indicative of the
pressure within the second hydraulic cylinders 22 may be monitored by controller 46. Upon
receipt of a signal indicating a substantial reduction in pressure within the second hydraulic
cylinders 22, the controller 46 may determine that the load on blade 16 has been substantially
reduced due to the material having been pushed over a crest. Other manners of determining a
reduction in cylinder pressure associated with a reduction in the load on blade 16 are
contemplated, including other manners of measuring the pressure within second hydraulic
cylinders 22 and measuring the pressure within other cylinders associated with the blade. An
increase in pressure indicative of an increase in load may be determined in a similar manner.
[0037]     In another embodiment, the implement load sensor system 33 may embody sensors for
measuring a difference between output from the engine 13 and the output from a torque
converter (not shown). More specifically, the engine speed sensor 29 may be utilized to generate
a signal indicative of the speed or output of the engine 13 and the torque converter speed sensor
30 may be utilized to monitor the output speed of the torque converter. During an operation such
as moving material with blade 16, the engine output speed indicated by engine speed sensor 29
and the torque converter output speed indicated by torque converter speed sensor 30 may be
relatively constant. Upon moving material over a crest with blade 16, the load on the blade will
be substantially reduced and thus cause a change in the relative speeds between the engine 13
and the torque converter. Similarly, an opposite change in relative speeds may also be used to
determine an incline. Accordingly, by monitoring the difference between the engine speed and
the torque converter speed, changes in incline may be determined.
[0038]     Other manners of measuring differences between prime mover output and other
components within the propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms that are reflective of a change in
load on the implement are also contemplated. Still further, in alternate embodiments in which the
machine propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms are hydrostatic or electric, the implement load
sensor system may embody other sensors that detect a difference between output from the prime

                                                  -11
16-1910
mover and other aspects of the propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms that may be used by the
controller 46 to detect a change in load on the blade 16.
[0039]      In still another embodiment, implement load sensor system 33 may embody an
acceleration sensor such as a three-axis accelerometer 35 for providing an acceleration signal
indicative of the acceleration of the machine 10. Upon moving a load of material past a crest, the
machine 10 may accelerate due to the reduction in load on the blade 16. Similarly, deceleration
of the machine 10 may indicate that the machine 10 has encountered an incline. Controller 46
may utilize acceleration of the machine 10 to determine a change in terrain.
[0040]      In addition to the implement load monitoring systems 32 described above, other
change in terrain detection systems may be used either alone or in combination with more than
one change in terrain detection system. For example, a change in terrain detection system may
use other sensors as a change in terrain sensor for determining a change in terrain. In one
example, a pitch angle, as indicated by a pitch angle sensor 36, that exceeds a threshold pitch
angle or is outside of an expected range of pitch angles may indicate that the machine 10 is
adjacent a crest or an incline. In another example, a change in pitch rate as indicated by a pitch
rate sensor 37 that exceeds a threshold rate may indicate that the machine 10 is adjacent a crest
or an incline.
[0041]      Still further, additional systems and sensors may be used to determine a change in
terrain or proximity of machine 10 to a crest or an incline. For example, a perception system 38
may also be used to detect the physical location of a crest or an incline. The perception system
38 may be mounted on or associated with the machine, as shown generally by an arrow in Fig. 2
indicating association with the machine. The perception system 38 may include one or more
systems such as a radar system, a SONAR system, a LIDAR system, a camera vision system,
and/or any other desired system that operate with associated perception sensors 39. Perception
sensors 39 may generate data that is received by the controller 46 and used by the controller to
determine the position of the work surface upon which the machine 10 is operating including the
presence and position of obstacles within the range of the sensors. If desired, the perception
system 38 may be used to generate an electronic map and/or images of the environment around
machine 10 and the environment analyzed for changes in terrain.

                                                   -12
16-1910
[0042]      In addition or the alternative, the perception system 38 may include one or more
perception sensors 39 movably associated with the machine 10 such as sensors mounted on a
mobile machine or device including a drone or unmanned aerial vehicle (not shown).
[0043]      Machine 10 may incorporate any or all of the change in terrain detection systems
disclosed herein and may incorporate other systems that perform similar functions, if desired.
[0044]      Machine 10 may be configured to move material at the work site 100 according to one
or more material movement plans along a path from an initial location such as the first work area
110 to a spread or dump location such as the second work area 111. The material movement
plans may include, among other things, forming a plurality of spaced apart channels or slots that
are cut into the work surface to assist in moving material from the initial location to the spread or
dump location.
[0045]      As stated above, when moving material or overburden from the first work area 110, the
upper layer 105 of material may be divided into a plurality of relatively smaller layers 120-125.
Each smaller layer 120-125 of material may be removed from the first work area 110 by
performing a plurality of cut and carry operations. More specifically, referring to Fig. 3, the blade
16 of machine 10 may be positioned at a desired cut location 126 and the machine 10 operated so
that the blade passes through one of the smaller layers 120-125 to a carry surface that may be
defined by the next layer of material. The machine 10 with the load of material may travel along
the carry surface to a dump or spread location such as the second work area 111. The machine 10
may be moved through a series of sequential cuts 127 at cut locations 126, which are spaced apart
lengthwise along each layer 120-125 of material, until the lower layer 102 of material is exposed.
When operating autonomously or semi-autonomously, the controller 46 may be configured to
guide the machine 10 to execute each cut operation and carry the material along the carry surface
to the second work area 111.
[0046]      Referring to Fig. 4, a process for spreading or dumping material at the second work
area 111 involves pushing the material or overburden along the work surface until reaching a
desired end of travel location. Upon reaching the desired end location, the machine 10 is
operated in reverse which leaves a pile 131 of material on the work surface along which the

                                                  -13
16-1910
machine is operating. The machine 10 is moved in reverse along the path of operation until
reaching the next cut location and the next sequential material moving operation is performed.
[0047]      In one embodiment, subsequent end of travel locations may be identified when the
material being pushed by blade 16 engages the previously deposited pile 131 of material.
Systems such as those used to monitor a change in terrain may detect when the material being
pushed engages a previous pile 131 of material. More specifically, engagement or interaction of
material being pushed with a previous pile 131 of material may be monitored by a change in load
on the machine 10 and/or blade 16, deceleration of the machine, and/or a change in pitch angle
of the machine. Other systems such the perception system 38 may be used in addition or instead.
[0048]      In another embodiment, a planning system 47 of the control system 45 may, in
addition or in the alternative, calculate or determine a plurality of end locations at which the
machine 10 should cease forward movement and back up. The end locations may be determined
so that the machine 10 leaves the piles 131 of material in the desired location upon generating a
reversing command or instructions.
[0049]      Upon reaching a desired position at which the layer of material should end, a new
layer (indicated in dashed line at 117) of piles 131 of material may be begun and the process
repeated. In some instances, the machine 10 may be used to smooth the surface of the piles 131
of material to create a generally uniform surface, such as the dashed line 117, prior to beginning
a new layer of piles. The process of reversing the machine 10 to form layers of material by
leaving sequential piles 131 of material as described above may sometimes be referred to as
backstacking.
[0050]      Each of the processes for cutting, carrying, and spreading or dumping the material
may be performed autonomously, semi-autonomously, or manually, if desired. Other manners of
spreading or dumping material at the second work area 111 are contemplated.
[0051]      Control system 45 may include a module or planning system 47 for determining or
planning various aspects of a material moving plan. The planning system 47 may determine the
depth and location of each of the layers 120-125. In addition, the planning system 47 may
determine the sequential cut locations 126 along each layer as well as the shape of the cuts 127

                                                -14
16-1910
or loading profile through each layer. The planning system 47 may receive and store the
characteristics of the material to be moved (e.g., density, moisture content, compactability, angle
of repose) that may be used in the planning process.
[0052]     The planning system 47 may also be operative to plan other aspects of a material
moving plan such as the manner in which the material moved from the first work area 110 is
dumped or spread at the second work area 111. In doing so, the planning system 47 may
determine the amount of material to be moved from the first work area 110 in order to expose the
lower layer 102 of material. The planning system 47 may organize or group the material to be
moved so that it is dumped or spread at the second work area 111 as a plurality of layers or
sections. As depicted in Fig. 5, layers 120-123 (Fig. 1) have been moved from the first work area
110 to the second work area 111 to fill the void 112 with material 140. Material from layers 124
125 may be moved from the first work area 110 to the second work area 111 and positioned on
top of the material 140 such as with a backstacking process.
[0053]     When utilizing a backstacking process at the second work area 111, the planning
system 47 may determine an optimal or desired distal end dump location that will result in the
lowest cost associated with carrying out each backstacking layer. For example, referring to Fig.
5, an example of a first layer to be formed by a back stacking process is depicted at 145. The first
layer 145 is formed by utilizing a distal end dump location depicted at 150 and a proximal end
dump location depicted at 151.
[0054]     To determine the lowest cost structure for a backstacking layer, the proximal end
dump location 151 and a configuration of the backstacking layer (i.e., the height and shape) may
be determined, set or stored within controller 46 in any desired manner. Based upon the position
of the proximal end dump location 151 and the configuration of the backstacking layer, the
planning system 47 may evaluate a plurality of potential distal end dump locations and the
material movement process associated with each distal end dump location to determine which
potential distal end dump location of the current layer will result in the lowest cost solution for
moving the material from the first work area 110 to the second work area 111.
[0055]     When evaluating each distal end dump location, the planning system 47 may not only
evaluate the process of moving material to form the first layer 145 of material to be positioned

                                                  -15
16-1910
on the work surface, but also evaluate the processes of moving material to form all of the
subsequent layers of material that will be sequentially positioned on top of the first layer 145.
The subsequent or additional layers are depicted at 146-148 in Fig. 5.
[0056]      To evaluate a distal end dump location, the planning system 47 may evaluate, such as
by simulation, a material moving process in which material is moved from the first work area
110 along the work surface to its desired location at the second work area 111. It should be noted
that while the planning system 47 may also evaluate the most efficient or cost-effective manner
of cutting and carrying material at the first work area 110, such process is not described herein.
While evaluating the material movement process at the second work area 111, the planning
system 47 may evaluate each anticipated material movement or dump cycle with each cycle
resulting in depositing a pile 131 (Fig. 4) of material along the work surface as part of a back
stacking operation. As discussed in further detail below, the planning system 47 may evaluate a
plurality of factors in determining the material movement cost such as the amount of fuel used,
the length of time for the material moving process, whether the machine 10 is traveling on a
slope, and usage costs of the machine.
[0057]      The planning system 47 may further evaluate the costs associated with the movement
of material from the first work area 110 to the second work area 111 to form the additional layers
146-148. In one example, for each additional layer 146-148, the planning system 47 may
evaluate or simulate additional material movement cycles to form the additional layers based
upon a desired or estimated proximal end dump location, a desired or estimated distal end dump
location, and a desired backstacking layer configuration (i.e., the height and shape). The desired
or estimated proximal end dump location and desired or estimated distal dump may be set in any
manner. In an example, the distal end dump location of an additional layer may be set at a
position a predetermined distance closer to the first work area 110 as compared to the distal end
dump location of the previous or next lower layer. For example, in Fig. 5, the distal end dump
location 152 of the layer 146 is closer to the first work area 110 than the distal end dump location
150 of the first layer 145. By setting each distal end dump location a predetermined distance
closer to the first work area 110 as compared to that of a previous layer, the material moved to
the second work area 111 may have a distal surface 153 sloped at a desired angle. The slope of
the distal surface 153 may be modified by modifying the distance between the distal end dump
locations between layers.

                                                -16
16-1910
[0058]     During the evaluation or analysis process, an initial distal end dump location may be
selected and the planning system 47 may determine a cost associated with that distal end dump
location. The cost may be determined by adding the costs associated with each expected material
movement cycle to move the material to the second work area 111 based upon a specified
configuration at the second work area.
[0059]     The planning system 47 may then move the distal end dump location by a
predetermined analysis distance or increment and repeat the evaluation process. The planning
system 47 may repeat this process as desired until all possible distal end dump locations have
been evaluated. In one embodiment, the planning system 47 may begin its evaluation process at a
potential distal end dump location farthest from the first work area 110 and each new evaluation
process includes moving the distal end dump location closer to the first work area by a distance
equal to the predetermined analysis increment.
[0060]     When determining which material movement process or configuration will result in
the lowest cost solution, the planning system 47 may analyze a plurality of factors. Each of the
factors may be stored as part of a look-up table or other data associated with the controller 46. As
an example, one factor that may be analyzed or evaluated is the amount of fuel anticipated to be
used by the machine for the material movement process. When estimating fuel usage, the
planning system 47 may estimate the load on the machine 10 based upon the volume of material
being moved and determine an amount of fuel used per hour at that load. The fuel usage may
also take into account the anticipated gear in which the machine 10 will be operating. The cost
associated with the amount of fuel anticipated to be used may be readily determined based upon
expected fuel costs. As an example, the fuel costs or fuel factor may be expressed in terms of
dollars per gallon of fuel used.
[0061]     A second factor that may be analyzed or evaluated is the amount of time required to
move the material from the first work area 110 to the second work area 111. A cost may be
associated with the length of time of operation of the machine 10. Such time cost may include
expenses associated with an operator, management personnel, other personnel at the work site
100, and any other desired expenses. As an example, a time or usage factor may be expressed in
terms of dollars per hour of machine operation.

                                                 -17
16-1910
[0062]     A third factor that may be analyzed or evaluated is the distance and angle of any slope
along which the machine 10 will be traveling. Inefficiencies and additional wear on the machine
10 caused by operating the machine on a slope may also be considered while evaluating potential
distal end dump locations. As an example, a slope or incline factor may be expressed in terms of
dollars per distance climbed or descended. The slope cost or factor may also take into account
the degree of slope as a greater slope may result in less efficient operation and higher wear on the
machine 10. In some instances, there may be a first slope cost for a first portion of the path along
which the machine 10 travels having a first slope and a second slope cost for a second portion of
the path along which the machine 10 travels having a second slope.
[0063]     A fourth factor that may be analyzed or evaluated is the machine usage cost or "wear
and tear" on the machine 10. In some instances, the machine cost may be factored into the usage
factor and the slope factor discussed above. As an example, machine usage factor may be
expressed in terms of dollars per hour of machine operation.
[0064]     In addition to evaluating or simulating the movement of each pile 131 of material at
the second work area 111, other manners of estimating costs are contemplated. For example, the
cost of moving the material may be estimated based upon an analysis of the movement of only
some of the material In one embodiment, the cost of moving a layer of material may be estimated
based upon the cost of moving only some of the piles of material that form that layer of material.
For example, the cost of moving an entire layer of material may be calculated by determining the
number of piles of material to be moved in the layer and further determining an average per pile
cost based upon the cost of moving one or more piles of material that will be located near the
center of that layer. In another example, the cost of moving an entire layer of material may be
calculated by determining the number of piles of material to be moved in the layer and further
determining an average per pile cost based upon an average of the cost of moving one or more
piles of material to a location near the proximal end dump location of the layer and the cost of
moving one or more piles of material to a location near the distal dump end position of the layer.
[0065]     To perform a material moving operation, the controller 46 may evaluate the cost
associated with all of the potential distal end dump locations of the next layer of material and the
layers above the next layer, the controller 46 may determine the lowest cost distal end dump

                                                 -18
16-1910
location. The controller 46 may then generate command signals to move the machine 10 to the
desired cut location at the first work area 110 and subsequently perform the desired cut and carry
operation to move material from the first work area to the second work area 111. Upon reaching
the selected lowest-cost distal end dump location, the controller 46 may generate reversing
commands to move the machine 10 to the next desired cut location at the first work area 110.
The material movement process may be repeated until the layers of material at the second work
area 111 are completed and the last pile of material for that layer is dumped or spread at the
proximal end dump location. If desired, after all of the desired piles of material that will form the
layer of material have been dumped or spread at the second work area 111, the machine 10 may
operate to smooth the piles of material to shape the desired layer of material.
[0066]      The planning system 47 may then repeat the planning process to determine the lowest
cost distal end dump location for the next layer of material that is to be dumped or spread on top
of the previously formed layer of material and the controller may generate the desired or
necessary propulsion commands to move the material from the first work area 110 to the second
work area 111. This process may be repeated until all of the material at the first work area 110 is
moved to the second work area 111 or the process is otherwise terminated.
[0067]      By adjusting the time factor and slope factor within the planning system 47, the shape
or configuration of the material moved to the second work area 111 (e.g., the length and height)
may be modified as desired. For example, Fig. 6 depicts an alternate embodiment for the
configuration of the material at the second work area 211. In Fig. 6, the second work area 211
includes a first layer 160 with a distal end dump location 166 and a proximal end dump location
167. Additional layers 161-165 are sequentially formed on top of the first layer 160. As may be
observed by comparing Fig. 5 to Fig. 6, the distal end dump location 166 of the first layer 160 at
the second work area 211 is closer to the first work area 110 than the distal end dump location
150 of the first layer 145 at the second work area 111. To compensate for the reduced horizontal
length of the layers 160-165 at the second work area 211 in Fig. 6, the second work area 211
includes one additional layer of material and has a steeper slope as compared to the second work
area 111 in Fig. 5. In other words, in order for the configuration at the second work area 211 to
have the same amount of material as the second work area 111, the second work area 211 must
include an additional layer of material.

                                                 -19
16-1910
[0068]     Although the proximal end dump location 151 in Fig. 5 is depicted as being in the
same location for each of the layers 145-148, the proximal end dump locations do not need to be
in the same position. Referring to Fig. 7, material from layers 124-125 (Fig. 1) is depicted after
having been moved from the first work area 110 to the second work area 311 and positioned on
top of the material 140 in a third configuration using a backstacking process. As depicted, a
plurality of layers 170-173 of material are stacked on the material 140. Each layer 170-173
includes a distinct distal end dump location and a distinct proximal end location. More
specifically, layer 170 has a distal end dump location 175 and a proximal end dump location 180,
layer 171 has a distal end dump location 176 and a proximal end dump location 181, layer 172
has a distal end dump location 177 and a proximal end dump location 182, and layer 173 has a
distal end dump location 178 and a proximal end dump location 183. The layers 170-173 are
horizontally shorter than the layers 145-148 of Fig. 1 but have a greater vertical height so that the
layers 145-148 and layers 170-173 may contain the same amount of material.
Industrial Applicability
[0069]     The industrial applicability of the system described herein will be readily appreciated
from the forgoing discussion. The foregoing discussion is applicable to systems in which a
plurality of machines 10 are operated autonomously, semi-autonomously, or manually at a work
site 100 where it is desirable to move material from a first work area 110 to a second work area
111. Such systems may be used at a mining site, a landfill, a quarry, or any other area in such
movement of material is desired. The system is applicable to work sites in which machine 10 are
provided to move an upper layer 105 of material from a first work area 110 to expose a lower
layer 102 of material to be mined.
[0070]     Referring to Fig. 8, a process is depicted for determining the lowest cost distal end
dump location. The illustrated process utilizes an iterative approach but could be performed by
analyzing a plurality of distal end dump locations and selecting the lowest cost location. At stage
50, the final design plane may be set or entered into the controller 46. The final design plane may
correspond to the position of the lower layer 102 of material, a contour or plane slightly above
the lower layer, or any other desired position. In one embodiment, the final design plane may be
entered by an operator or some other personnel.

                                                  -20
16-1910
[0071]      At stage 51, the operating characteristics of the machine 10 may be set or entered into
controller 46. These operating characteristics may include a desired maximum load on the
machine 10 and dimensions of the machine including those of blade 16. In an alternate
embodiment, a desired maximum load on the blade 16 may be used rather than the maximum
load on the machine 10. The dimensions of blade 16 may be used by controller 46 to determine
the volume of material moved by the machine 10. The operating characteristics may also include
fuel consumption characteristics as well as desired gear settings for different operating
conditions. If desired, estimates of characteristics of the material to be moved may also be set or
entered into the controller 46. The planning system 47 may utilize the characteristics of the
material to be moved together with the operating characteristics of the machine 10 to more
accurately plan the material moving operations.
[0072]      At stage 52, the proximal end dump location of the next layer of material to be formed
at the second work area 111 may be set or stored. In addition, the characteristics of the layers to
be formed such as their height and shape may also be set or stored. At stage 53, the initial distal
end dump location of the layer to be optimized at the second work area 111 may be set or stored.
The analysis increment and the distance by which the distal end dump locations of the additional
layers are to be moved towards the first work area 110 for subsequent layers may be set or stored
at stage 54.
[0073]      At stage 55, the position or configuration of the work surface at the first work area 110
and the second work area 111 may be determined. In one embodiment, the configuration of the
work surface may be determined by moving a mapping vehicle along the work surface to
establish its configuration. In some instances, the machine 10 may act as the mapping vehicle
and be moved along the work surface and the position sensor 28 may provide a plurality of
signals to controller 46 to indicate the position of the machine 10. The controller 46 may
determine the position of the machine 10 within the work site 101 as well as the orientation of
the machine such as its heading, pitch and roll. Based upon the known dimensions of the
machine 10 stored within the controller 46 and the position sensor 28 defining a data or reference
point on the machine, the controller 46 may determine the configuration of the work surface over
which the machine 10 is traveling. In another embodiment, the configuration of the work surface
may be determined by a topographical map of the earth at the work site 101. The relevant portion

                                                  -21
16-1910
of the work site 101 may be mapped in any desired manner such as with unmanned aerial vehicle
or drone (not shown).
[0074]      The controller 46 may perform at stage 56 an analysis of the material movement
process utilizing the distal end dump location, the proximal end dump location, and the desired
characteristics of the layer to be formed as well as the distal end dump locations, proximal end
dump locations, and the desired characteristics of the additional layers. In doing so, the controller
46 may be configured to evaluate the cost associated with moving each pile 131 of material that
will form the layer of material at the second work area 111.
[0075]      At decision stage 57, the controller 46 may determine whether a cost estimate has been
previously stored. If no cost estimate has been previously stored, the controller may store the
cost estimate and the corresponding distal end dump location at stage 58. If a cost estimate has
been previously stored, the controller 46 may compare the new cost estimate to the previously
stored cost estimate at stage 59.
[0076]      At decision stage 60, the controller 46 may determine whether the new cost estimate is
lower than the previously stored cost estimate. If the new cost estimate is lower than the
previously stored cost estimate, the controller 46 may discard at stage 61 the previously stored
cost estimate and its associated distal end dump location and store at stage 58 the new cost
estimate and its associated distal end dump location. If, at stage 60, the new cost estimate is
higher than the previously stored cost estimate, the controller 46 may skip steps 58 and 61 and
continue to store the previously stored cost estimate and its associated distal end dump location.
[0077]      At decision stage 62, the controller 46 may determine whether all or a sufficient
number of the distal end dump locations have been evaluated. In some instances, the controller
46 may be configured to evaluate all of the potential distal end dump locations between the
initial distal end dump location and the proximal end dump location. In other instances, the
controller 46 may be configured to terminate its analysis of additional distal end dump locations
if a predetermined number of distal end dump locations have been analyzed and the estimated
cost of the material movement process is increasing as the potential distal end dump location is
moved.

                                                   -22
16-1910
[0078]      If all or a sufficient number of the distal end dump locations have not been evaluated,
the controller 46 may determine at stage 63 the next distal end dump location and the process of
stages 56-62 repeated to evaluate the cost of the new distal end dump location. In one
embodiment, at stage 63, the distal end dump location may be moved by one analysis increment
closer to the first work area 110. If all or a sufficient number of the distal end dump locations
have been evaluated, the controller 46 may begin at stage 64 the material moving operation and
utilize the last stored distal end dump location as the initial distal end dump location for the
backstacking process.
[0079]      Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand
method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range, unless otherwise
indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were
individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order
unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
[0080]      Accordingly, this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject
matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover, any
combination of the above-described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by
the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

                                                  -23
16-1910
Claims
1. A system for determining a lowest cost distal end dump location for moving material with a
ground engaging work implement of a machine along a work surface from a first work area to a
second work area, the system comprising:
                a position sensor for generating position signals indicative of a position of the
work surface; and
                a controller configured to:
                        store a final design plane;
                        store a proximal end dump location along the work surface at the second
       work area;
                        receive position signals from the position sensor;
                        determine the position of the work surface based upon the position signals;
                        determine an amount of material to be moved from the first work area to
       the second work area based upon the final design plane and the position of the work
       surface;
                        determine a plurality of distal end dump locations along the work surface
       at the second work area, a distance between the proximal end dump location and each of
       the plurality of distal end dump locations defining a plurality of potential first layers of
       material;
                        for each of the plurality of potential first layers of material, determine a
       plurality of additional layers of material above the potential first layer of material, each
       potential first layer of material plus the plurality of additional layers above the potential
       first layer of material being equal to the amount of material to be moved and defining a
       second work area material configuration;
                        determine a cost associated with moving the amount of material at the
       second work area to form each second work area material configuration; and
                        select a lowest cost distal end dump location corresponding to a lowest
       cost second work area material configuration.
2.   The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to:
                determine a first cut location at the first work area;

                                                   -24
16-1910
                 generate a propulsion command to move the machine loaded with material from
the first cut location to the lowest cost distal end dump location;
                 upon reaching the lowest cost distal end dump location, moving the machine in a
reverse direction;
                 perform an additional material moving operation, each additional material moving
operation including:
                         determining an additional cut location at the first work area;
                         generating a propulsion command to move the machine loaded with
         material from the additional cut location towards the lowest cost distal end dump
         location;
                         upon reaching an end of travel position, generating a reverse command to
         move the machine in a reverse direction; and
                         repeating the additional material moving operation until reaching the
        proximal end dump location.
3.    The system of claim 2, further comprising an implement load sensor and the controller is
further configured to determine the end of travel position based upon signals from the implement
load sensor indicative of a change in load on the ground engaging work implement.
4.    The system of claim 2, further comprising a machine position sensor and the controller is
further configured to generate a desired end of travel position, determine a machine position
based upon signals from the machine position sensor, and generate the reverse command upon
the machine position matching the desired end of travel position.
5.    The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine for each second
work area material configuration a length of time used to move the amount of material at the
second work area and generate a time cost associated with the length of time.
6.    The system of claim 5, wherein the cost associated with the length of time includes an
operator cost and a machine usage cost.

                                                  -25
16-1910
7.    The system of claim 5, wherein the controller is further configured to determine for each
second work area material configuration an amount of fuel used to move the amount of material
at the second work area and generate a fuel cost associated with the amount of fuel.
8.    The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to determine for each
second work area material configuration an amount of fuel used to move the amount of material
at the second work area and generate a fuel cost associated with the amount of fuel.
9.    The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine for each second
work area material configuration a slope cost based upon a slope along at least a portion of the
second work area.
10.    The system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to determine for each
second work area material configuration a first slope cost along a first portion of the second work
area and a second slope cost along a second portion of the second work area.
11.    The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to store characteristics
of a potential first layer and each additional layer of material.
12.    A controller-implemented method for determining a lowest cost distal end dump location
for moving material with a ground engaging work implement of a machine along a work surface
from a first work area to a second work area, the method comprising:
                 storing a final design plane;
                 storing a proximal end dump location along the work surface at the second work
area;
                 receiving position signals from a position sensor;
                 determining a position of the work surface based upon position signals from the
position sensor;
                 determining an amount of material to be moved from the first work area to the
second work area based upon the final design plane and the position of the work surface;
                 determining a plurality of distal end dump locations along the work surface at the
second work area, a distance between the proximal end dump location and each of the plurality
of distal end dump locations defining a plurality of potential first layers of material;

                                                   -26
16-1910
                 for each of the plurality of potential first layers of material, determining a
plurality of additional layers of material above the potential first layer of material, each potential
first layer of material plus the plurality of additional layers above the potential first layer of
material being equal to the amount of material to be moved and defining a second work area
material configuration;
                 determining a cost associated with moving the amount of material at the second
work area to form each second work area material configuration; and
                 selecting a lowest cost distal end dump location corresponding to a lowest cost
second work area material configuration.
13.     The method of claim 12, further including:
                 determining a first cut location at the first work area;
                 generating a propulsion command to move the machine loaded with material from
the first cut location to the lowest cost distal end dump location;
                 upon reaching the lowest cost distal end dump location, moving the machine in a
reverse direction;
                 performing an additional material moving operation, each additional material
moving operation including:
                         determining an additional cut location at the first work area;
                         generating a propulsion command to move the machine loaded with
         material from the additional cut location towards the lowest cost distal end dump
         location;
                         upon reaching an end of travel position, generating a reverse command to
         move the machine in a reverse direction; and
                         repeating the additional material moving operation until reaching the
         proximal end dump location.
14.     The method of claim 13, further including determining the end of travel position based
upon signals from an implement load sensor indicative of a change in load on the ground
engaging work implement.
15.     The method of claim 13, further including generating a desired end of travel position,
determining a machine position based upon signals from a machine position sensor, and

                                                  -27
16-1910
generating the reverse command upon the machine position matching the desired end of travel
position.
16.    The method of claim 12, further including determining for each second work area material
configuration a length of time used to move the amount of material at the second work area and
generating a time cost associated with the length of time.
17.    The method of claim 16, further including determining for each second work area material
configuration an amount of fuel used to move the amount of material at the second work area
and generating a fuel cost associated with the amount of fuel.
18    The method of claim 12, further including determining for each second work area material
configuration a slope cost based upon a slope along at least a portion of the second work area.
19.    The method of claim 18, further including determining for each second work area material
configuration a first slope cost along a first portion of the second work area and a second slope
cost along a second portion of the second work area.
20.    A machine comprising:
                a prime mover;
                a ground engaging work implement for engaging a work surface to move material
from a first work area to a second work area;
                a position sensor for generating position signals indicative of a position of the
work surface; and
                a controller configured to:
                        store a final design plane;
                        store a proximal end dump location along the work surface at the second
        work area;
                        receive position signals from the position sensor;
                        determine the position of the work surface based upon the position signals;
                        determine an amount of material to be moved from the first work area to
        the second work area based upon the final design plane and the position of the work
        surface;

                                                  -28
16-1910
                        determine a plurality of distal end dump locations along the work surface
       at the second work area, a distance between the proximal end dump location and each of
       the plurality of distal end dump locations defining a plurality of potential first layers of
       material;
                        for each of the plurality of potential first layers of material, determine a
       plurality of additional layers of material above the potential first layer of material, each
       potential first layer of material plus the plurality of additional layers above the potential
       first layer of material being equal to the amount of material to be moved and defining a
       second work area material configuration;
                        determine a cost associated with moving the amount of material at the
       second work area to form each second work area material configuration; and
                        select a lowest cost distal end dump location corresponding to a lowest
       cost second work area material configuration.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1910
                           1/8

                                                     <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                            38
                                                                                200
                                                    201                                          16-1910
                 27
                                        39           10
               36
                           24
          37
     45
47
                                               29   13         21        33 32 31
                      28
                46         25           30
               35
           12                                                                   16
                                                                                           2/8
                                                    34
                                 14
                                                          18        22
               15                     FIG. 2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1910
                           3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1910
                           4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1910
                           5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1910
                           6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1910
                           7/8

              16-1910
                         8/8
<removed-date>
                                    50
                                     51
                                     52
<removed-apn>
                                         53
                                         54
                                               63
                                          55
                                          56
                                57
                               59
                               60
                               61
                               58
                               62
                                    64
                        FIG. 8

