                                         ABSTRACT
A genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein the non-human animal
expresses an antibody repertoire capable of pH dependent binding to antigens upon
immunization. A genetically modified non-human animal is provided that expresses a single
light chain variable domain derived from a single rearranged light chain variable region gene
in the germline of the non-human animal, wherein the single rearranged light chain variable
region gene comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine encoding codon with a
histidine encoding codon. Methods of making non-human animals that express antibodies
comprising a histidine-containing universal light chain are provided.

   HISTIDINE ENGINEERED LIGHT CHAIN ANTIBODIES AND GENETICALLY MODIFIED
                     NON-HUMAN ANIMALS FOR GENERATING THE SAME
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application from Australian Patent
Application No. 2013204579, both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their
entireties. Australian Patent Application No. 2013204579 claims benefit under 35 U.S.C.
§119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/611,950, filed March 16, 2012, and U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/736,930, filed December 13, 2012, both also incorporated by
reference herein in their entireties.
                                       FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002]      A genetically modified non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) is
provided that expresses antibodies capable of binding to an antigen in a pH dependent
manner. A method for making modifications to immunoglobulin light chain variable region
sequence of a non-human animal is provided, wherein the modifications include the
mutagenesis of residues within the light chain variable region gene, e.g., nucleotides that
encode one or more amino acids within a complementary determining region (CDR), to
facilitate in vivo expression of antibodies comprising light chain domains that exhibit pH
dependent binding to antigens. Methods for making antibodies with pH-dependent antigen
binding are also provided.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      Antibodies typically comprise a homodimeric heavy chain component, wherein
each heavy chain monomer is associated with an identical light chain. Antibodies having a
heterodimeric heavy chain component (e.g., bispecific antibodies) are desirable as
therapeutic antibodies. But making bispecific antibodies having a suitable light chain
component that can satisfactorily associate with each of the heavy chains of a bispecific
antibody has proved problematic.
[0004]       In one approach, a light chain might be selected by surveying usage statistics for all
light chain variable domains, identifying the most frequently employed light chain in human
antibodies, and pairing that light chain in vitro with the two heavy chains of differing
specificity.
[0005]       In another approach, a light chain might be selected by observing light chain
sequences in a phage display library (e.g., a phage display library comprising human light
chain variable region sequences, e.g., a human scFv library) and selecting the most
commonly used light chain variable region from the library. The light chain can then be tested
on the two different heavy chains of interest.
                                                  1

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
[0006]        In another approach, a light chain might be selected by assaying a phage display
library of light chain variable sequences using the heavy chain variable sequences of both
heavy chains of interest as probes. A light chain that associates with both heavy chain
variable sequences might be selected as a light chain for the heavy chains.
[0007]        In another approach, a candidate light chain might be aligned with the heavy
chains' cognate light chains, and modifications are made in the light chain to more closely
match sequence characteristics common to the cognate light chains of both heavy chains. If
the chances of immunogenicity need to be minimized, the modifications preferably result in
sequences that are present in known human light chain sequences, such that proteolytic
processing is unlikely to generate a T cell epitope based on parameters and methods known
in the art for assessing the likelihood of immunogenicity (i.e., in silico as well as wet assays).
[0008]       All of the above approaches rely on in vitro methods that subsume a number of a
priori restraints, e.g., sequence identity, ability to associate with specific pre-selected heavy
chains, etc. There is a need in the art for compositions and methods that do not rely on
manipulating in vitro conditions, but that instead employ more biologically sensible
approaches to making human epitope-binding proteins that include a common light chain.
[0009]        In addition, therapeutic antibodies, e.g., bispecific therapeutic antibodies, have
some limitations in that they often require high doses to achieve desired efficacy. This is
partly due to the fact that antibody-antigen complexes are internalized into the endosome,
and are targeted for lysosomal degradation in a process called target-mediated clearance.
Thus, there is a need in the art for methods and compositions that lead to more efficient
antibody recycling, e.g., bispecific antibody recycling, and prevent degradation of the
antibody by promoting dissociation of antibody-antigen complexes in the endosomal
compartment without compromising the specificity and affinity of the antibody toward the
antigen.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0010]        In one aspect, a biological system is provided for generating an antibody or an
antibody variable domain that binds a target antigen at a neutral pH but exhibits reduced
binding of the same antigen at an acidic pH (e.g., pH 5.0-6.0). The biological system
comprises a non-human animal, e.g., a rodent (e.g, a mouse or rat) that has a rearranged
light chain sequence (e.g., a rearranged V-J) that comprises one or more histidine
modifications. In various aspects, the one or more histidine modifications are in the light
chain CDR3 codon. In various aspects, the non-human animal comprises a human or
humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin locus. In various aspects, the non-human animal
comprises a replacement of endogenous non-human heavy chain variable gene segments
                                                   2

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
 with one or more human heavy chain VH, DH, and       JH segments, wherein the human
 segments are operably linked to a non-human immunoglobulin constant region. In various
 aspects, non-human animals with universal light chains comprising light chain variable
 domains with substitutions of non-histidine residues for histidine residues are provided. In
 various aspects these histidine-modified universal light chain non-human animals (e.g.,
 rodents, e.g., mice) are referred to as histidine-universal light chain mice, histidine-ULC
 mice, or HULC mice.
 [0011]     Thus, in one aspect, provided herein is a genetically modified non-human animal
that comprises in its germline an immunoglobulin light chain locus that comprises a single
 rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence comprising
 human VL and JL segment sequences, wherein the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprises a substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one embodiment, the single rearranged
human immunoglobulin variable region sequence is operably linked to an immunoglobulin
light chain constant region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin light
chain constant region gene sequence is a non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant
region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the non-human immunoglobulin light chain
constant region gene sequence is an endogenous immunoglobulin light chain constant
region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the non-human animal lacks a functional
unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region. In one embodiment, the
immunoglobulin light chain locus is at an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin light
chain locus.
[0012]      In one embodiment, the animal further comprises in its germline an
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus that comprises an unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy
chain variable region gene sequence comprising human        VH,   DH, and JH segments operably
linked to an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence. In one
embodiment, the immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence is a non
human heavy chain constant region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the non-human
heavy chain constant region gene sequence is an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
constant region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus
is at an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
[0013]      In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a
histidine codon is in the nucleotide sequence encoding a complementary determining region
(CDR). In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a
histidine codon is in the nucleotide sequence encoding a CDR3. In one embodiment, the
substitution is of one, two, three, four, or more CDR3 codons. In one aspect, the single
                                                  3

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprised at the
immunoglobulin light chain locus is derived from a human VK1-39 or VK3-20 gene segment.
In one embodiment, the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region
is derived from a rearranged VO1-39/JK5 or VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence. In one
embodiment, the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region is
derived from a rearranged VK1-39/JK5 gene sequence, and the VK1-39/JK5 gene sequence
comprises a replacement of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon designed
to express a histidine at a position selected from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination
thereof. In another embodiment, the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain
variable region is derived from a rearranged VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence, and the VK3
20/JK1 gene sequence comprises a replacement of at least one non-histidine codon with a
histidine codon designed to express a histidine at a position selected from 105, 106, 107,
109, and a combination thereof.
[0014]       In one aspect, the non-human animal described herein comprises a population of
B cells in response to an antigen of interest that is enriched for antibodies that exhibit a
decrease in dissociative half-life (t1 /2 ) at an acidic pH as compared to neutral pH of at least
about 2-fold, at least about 3-fold, at least about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about
10-fold, at least about 15-fold, at least about 20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at least about
30-fold. In one embodiment, the decrease in t1/2 at an acidic pH as compared to a neutral
pH is about 30 fold or more.
[0015]       In one embodiment, the animal expresses an antibody comprising a human
immunoglobulin light chain variable domain with a substitution of at least one non-histidine
residue with a histidine residue at an amino acid position encoded by the at least one codon
substituted in the immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence. In one
embodiment, the animal expresses an antibody that retains a substitution of at least one
non-histidine residue with a histidine residue in an expressed human immunoglobulin light
chain variable domain, despite somatic hypermutations.
[0016]       In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mammal. In one embodiment,
the mammal is a rodent, e.g., a rat or a mouse. In one embodiment, the non-human animal
is a mouse. Thus, in one aspect, also provided herein is a genetically modified mouse
comprising in its germline an immunoglobulin light chain locus that comprises a single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence comprising
human VL and JL segment sequences, wherein the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprises a substitution of at least one
                                                    4

     WO 2013/138680                                                        PCT/US2013/031823
 non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one embodiment, the mouse lacks a
functional unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region.
 [0017]      In one embodiment, the single rearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable
region gene sequence in the germline of the mouse is operably linked to an immunoglobulin
light chain constant region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin light
chain constant region gene sequence is selected from a rat or a mouse immunoglobulin light
chain constant region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin light chain
constant region gene sequence is a mouse sequence. In one embodiment, the
immunoglobulin light chain locus is at an endogenous mouse immunoglobulin light chain
locus.
[0018]       In a further embodiment, the mouse also comprises in its germline an
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus that comprises an unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy
chain variable region sequence comprising human      VH, DH, and JH segments operably linked
to an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence. In one aspect, the
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence is a rat or a mouse heavy
chain constant region gene sequence. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin heavy chain
constant region gene sequence is a mouse sequence. In one embodiment, the
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is at an endogenous mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus.
[0019]       In one aspect, the mouse comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine
codon with a histidine codon wherein the substitution is in the nucleotide sequence encoding
a CDR. In one embodiment, the substitution is in a CDR3 codon, e.g., in one, two, three,
four, or more CDR3 codons. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin light chain locus of
the mouse comprises the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable
region sequence derived from a human V1 -39 or Vx3-20 gene segment, e.g., the single
rearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is derived from a
rearranged VK1-39/JK5 or VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence. In one embodiment, the single
rearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is derived from a
rearranged VK1-39/JK5 gene sequence and the VK1-39/JK5 sequence comprises a
replacement of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon designed to express a
histidine at a position selected from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, such replacement is designed to replace histidines at positions 105, 106, 108,
and 111. In another embodiment, such replacement is designed to replace histidines at
positions 106, 108, and 111.
                                                5

    WO 2013/138680                                                              PCT/US2013/031823
[0020]       In another embodiment, the single rearranged immunoglobulin light chain
variable region sequence is derived from a rearranged VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence and the
VK3-20/JK1 sequence comprises a replacement of at least one non-histidine codon with a
histidine codon designed to express a histidine at a position selected from 105, 106, 107,
109, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, such replacement is designed to
replace histidines at positions 105, 106, 107, and 109. In another embodiment, such
replacement is designed to replace histidines at positions 105, 106, and 109.
[0021]       In one embodiment, the mouse described herein comprises a population of B
cells in response to an antigen of interest that is enriched for antibodies that exhibit a
decrease in dissociative half-life (t1/2 ) at an acidic pH as compared to neutral pH of at least
about 2-fold, at least about 3-fold, at least about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about
10-fold, at least about 15-fold, at least about 20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at least about
30-fold. In one embodiment, the decrease in        t1/ 2 at an acidic pH as compared to a neutral
pH is about 30 fold or more.
[0022]       In one embodiment, the mouse described herein expresses a population of
antigen-specific antibodies in response to an antigen of interest wherein all antibodies
comprise (a) immunoglobulin light chain variable domains derived from the same single
rearranged human light chain variable region gene sequence which comprises a substitution
of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, and (b) immunoglobulin heavy
chains comprising heavy chain variable domains derived from a repertoire of human heavy
chain V, D, and J segments.
[0023]       Also provided herein is a non-human locus, e.g., mouse locus, comprising a
single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence
comprising human VL and JL segment sequences, wherein the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence comprises a substitution of at
least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one embodiment, the locus is
comprised in the germline of a non-human animal. In one embodiment, the locus comprises
the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence
derived from a human VO1-39 or VK3-20 gene segment, e.g., derived from a rearranged
Vx1-39/JK5 or VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence. In one embodiment, wherein the single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence present in the
locus is derived from the rearranged Vx1-39/JK5 sequence, the substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon with a histidine codon is designed to express a histidine at a position
selected from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination thereof. In another embodiment,
wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene
                                                    6

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
sequence present in the locus is derived from the rearranged VK3-20/JK1 sequence, the
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon is designed to express
a histidine at a position selected from 105, 106, 107, 109, and a combination thereof. In
various embodiments, the non-human loci described herein may be generated using
methods described below for making a genetically modified non-human animal.
[0024]       In yet another aspect, provided herein is a method for making a non-human
animal that comprises a genetically modified immunoglobulin light chain locus in its
germline, wherein the method comprises modifying a genome of a non-human animal to
delete or render non-functional endogenous immunoglobulin light chain V and J segments in
an immunoglobulin light chain locus, and placing in the genome a single rearranged human
light chain variable region gene sequence comprising a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one embodiment, such method results in a
genetically modified non-human animal that comprises a population of B cells enriched for
antibodies exhibiting pH-dependent binding to the antigen of interest. In one embodiment,
the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence placed in
the genome is derived from a human VK1-39 or VK3-20, e.g., a rearranged VK1-39/JK5 or
VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence. Thus, in the embodiment wherein the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is derived from a rearranged VK1
39/JK5, the substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon is designed
to express a histidine at a position selected from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination
thereof. In an embodiment wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain
variable region sequence is derived from a rearranged V3-20/JR1, the substitution of at
least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon is designed to express a histidine at a
position selected from 105, 106, 107, 109, and a combination thereof.
[0025]       In another aspect, provided herein is a method of generating an antibody that
exhibits pH-dependent binding to an antigen of interest comprising (a) generating a mouse
described herein (e.g., a mouse that comprises in its germline an immunoglobulin light chain
locus that comprises a single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region
sequence comprising human VL and JL segment sequences and a substitution of at least
one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon in its rearranged light chain variable region
sequence), (b) immunizing the mouse with an antigen of interest, and (c) selecting an
antibody that binds to the antigen of interest with a desired affinity at a neutral pH while
displaying reduced binding to the antigen at an acidic pH. In one embodiment, the method
results in a generation of an antibody that exhibits t1 /2 at acidic pH and 37'C of about 2
minutes or less. In one embodiment, the method results in a generation of an antibody that
displays a decrease in dissociative half-life (t1 2) at an acidic pH as compared to neutral pH
                                                 7

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
of at least about 2-fold, at least about 3-fold, at least about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at
least about 10-fold, at least about 15-fold, at least about 20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at
least about 30-fold.
[0026]        In other aspects, provided herein are additional methods of generating an
antibody that exhibits pH-dependent binding to an antigen of interest. One such method
comprises (a) selecting a first antibody that binds to an antigen of interest with a desired
affinity, (b) modifying an immunoglobulin light chain nucleotide sequence of the first antibody
to comprise a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, (c)
expressing an immunoglobulin heavy chain of the first antibody and the modified
immunoglobulin light chain in a cell, and (d) selecting a second antibody expressed in the
cell that retains a desired affinity for the antigen of interest at neutral pH and displays
reduced binding to the antigen of interest at an acidic pH. In one embodiment, the
immunoglobulin light chain nucleotide sequence of the first antibody comprises a single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence. In one
embodiment, the first antibody is generated in a non-human animal, e.g., a mouse,
comprising an immunoglobulin light chain sequence derived from a single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence, and the modification of the
immunoglobulin light chain is made in the single rearranged human immunoglobulin variable
region sequence. In one embodiment, the first antibody is generated in a non-human
animal, e.g., a mouse, further comprising an immunoglobulin heavy chain sequence derived
from a repertoire of human    VH,  DH, and  JH segments. In one embodiment, the single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is selected from
Vx1-39/JK5 and VK3-20/JK1 gene sequence. In an embodiment, wherein the single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is Vx1-39/JK5, the
modification in the immunoglobulin light chain nucleotide sequence of the first antibody is
made in the CDR3 codon at a position selected from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination
thereof. In an embodiment wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain
variable region sequence is Vx3-20/Jx1, the modification in the immunoglobulin light chain
nucleotide sequence of the first antibody is made in the CDR3 codon at a position selected
from 105, 106, 107, 109, and a combination thereof.
[0027]        In one embodiment, the method of generating an antibody that exhibits pH
dependent binding to an antigen of interest described herein results in an antibody that
displays a decrease in dissociative half-life (t112) at an acidic pH as compared to neutral pH
of at least about 2-fold, at least about 3-fold, at least about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at
least about 10-fold, at least about 15-fold, at least about 20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at
                                                   8

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
least about 30-fold. In one embodiment, the method of generating the antibody results in an
antibody that exhibits a  t1/ 2 at acidic pH and 370C of about 2 minutes or less.
[0028]      Any of the embodiments and aspects described herein can be used in
conjunction with one another, unless otherwise indicated or apparent from the context.
Other embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the
ensuing description.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0029]      FIG. 1 illustrates an amino acid alignment of human V1-39-derived light chains
from various antigen-specific antibodies (A-K antibodies). Histidine (H) residues located
within each light chain sequence are in bold. Various light chain regions (Framework and
CDR) are indicated above the alignment.
[0030]      FIG. 2 illustrates the combinations and locations of histidine residues engineered
in the CDR3 region of human VK1-39-derived light chains by mutagenesis. Corresponding
nucleic acid sequences are included. Histidine residues introduced through mutagenesis
and corresponding nucleic acid residues are shown in bold. Amino acid positions (105, 106,
etc.) are based on a unique numbering described in Lefranc et al. (2003) Dev. Comp.
Immunol. 27:55-77, and can also be viewed on www.imgt.org.
[0031]      FIG. 3 illustrates the level of antibody expression in ng/mL detected in the
supernatants of CHO cells transfected with nucleic acids encoding five (1-5) different heavy
chains and VK1-39-derived light chains having histidine residues engineered at indicated
locations (see Y axis) in the CDR3.
[0032]      FIG. 4 is a western blot showing expression of selected antigen-specific human
antibodies containing histidine engineered light chains in CHO cell supernatants.
[0033]      FIGs. 5A-5E show the binding kinetics for selected heavy chains (1-5) from
antigen-specific antibodies paired with various histidine engineered light chains at a neutral
(7.4) and acidic (5.75) pH. Various kinetic parameters including ka,    kd, KD, and t1/2 are
shown. NB=no binding.
[0034]      FIG. 6 shows kinetic parameters (KD and t1/2 ) for antibodies comprising parental
universal light chain or histidine-modified universal light chain paired with indicated heavy
chains (2, 3, and 6). Histidine substitutions lead to strong pH dependence in several
antibodies. Histidine substitutions were made in CDR3 to convert the sequence
   QQSYSTP111 (SEQ ID NO:3) to 1o5HHSYSTH 1 1 (SEQ ID NO:5). Note that NB = no
10 5
binding detected (KD > 10 micromolar).
                                                   9

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
[0035]      FIG. 7 shows the sequence and properties (%GC content, N, % mismatch, Tm)
of selected mutagenesis primers used to engineer histidine residues into CDR3 of a
rearranged human VK1-39/JK5 light chain sequence. SEQ ID NOs for these primers used in
the Sequence Listing are included in the Table below. F=forward primer, R=reverse primer.
[0036]      FIGs. 8A - 8B show a general strategy for construction of targeting vectors for
engineering of histidine residues into a rearranged human light chain variable region
sequence derived from Vx1-39/JK5 variable region for making a genetically modified mouse
that expresses antibodies containing the modified human light chain. FIGs. 8C-8D show
introduction of the targeting vector for ULC-H1 05/106/108/111 substitutions into ES cells and
generation of heterozygous mice from the same; while FIGs. 8E-8F show introduction of the
targeting vector for ULC-H106/108/111 substitutions into ES cells and generation of
heterozygous mice from the same. The diagrams are not presented to scale. Unless
indicated otherwise, filled shapes and solid lines represent mouse sequence, empty shapes
and double lines represent human sequence.
[0037]      FIG. 9 shows antiserum titers against immunogen from mice heterozygous for
histidine universal light chain (HULC) (with 4 His substitutions - HULC 1927 mice; with 3 His
substitutions - HULC 1930 mice) and wild type animals in a second bleed.
[0038]      FIG. 10 is a comparison of the number of total antigen positive clones and the
number of antigen positive clones displaying pH sensitive antigen binding obtained from
hybridoma fusions from heterozygous HULC (1927 vs 1930) and WT mice. Figure includes
data for two mice for each mouse type ("mouse 1" and "mouse 2").
[0039]      FIGs. 11 A- 1C show sensorgrams from surface plasmon resonance binding
experiments in which monoclonal antibodies (AA, BB, CC, DD, HH, GG, NN, and 00) from
either heterozygous HULC or WT mice were allowed to associate with the immunogen at
neutral pH (pH 7.4) followed by a shift to a buffer with pH of either 7.4 or 6.0 for the
dissociation phase. The individual lines in each graph represent the binding responses at
different concentrations of the respective antibodies. All experiments were carried out at
250C. Dissociative half-life values (t%) are noted above the respective sensorgrams, and
fold change in t% is included to the right of each sensorgram. Antibodies AA, BB, CC, DD,
HH, and GG were from heterozygous HULC 1927 mice using His-substituted light chain, NN
is from heterozygous HULC 1927 mouse using WT light chain, and 00 is from a WT mouse
(See Table 4 for clarification).
[0040]      FIG. 12 shows positions of histidine residues engineered in the CDR3 region of
human VO3-20-derived light chains by mutagenesis. Histidine residues introduced through
mutagenesis and corresponding nucleic acid residues are shown in bold. Amino acid
                                                10

    WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
positions (105, 106, etc.) are based on a unique numbering described in Lefranc et al.
(2003) Dev. Comp. Immunol. 27:55-77, and can also be viewed on www.imgt.org.
[0041]      FIG. 13 shows the sequence and properties (%GC content, N, % mismatch, Tm)
of selected mutagenesis primers used to engineer histidine residues into CDR3 of a
rearranged human VK3-20/JK1 light chain sequence. SEQ ID NOs for these primers used in
the Sequence Listing are included in the Table below. F=forward primer, R=reverse primer.
[0042]      FIGs. 14A - 14B show a general strategy for construction of targeting vectors for
the engineering of histidine residues into a rearranged human light chain variable region
sequence derived from V3-20/Jw1 light chain variable region for making a genetically
modified mouse that expresses antibodies containing the modified human light chain. FIG
14C shows introduction of the targeting vector for ULC-Q105H/Q106H/Y107H/S109H
substitutions into ES cells and generation of heterozygous mice from the same; while FIG.
14D shows introduction of the targeting vector for ULC-Q105H/Q106H/S109H substitutions
into ES cells and generation of heterozygous mice from the same. The diagrams are not
presented to scale. Unless indicated otherwise, filled shapes and solid lines represent
mouse sequence, empty shapes and double lines represent human sequence.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION
Definitions
[0043]      The present invention provides genetically modified non-human animals (e.g.,
mice, rats, rabbits, hamsters, etc.) that comprise in their genome, e.g., in their germline,
nucleotide sequence(s) encoding human antibody molecules that exhibit pH-dependent
antigen binding, e.g., a nucleotide sequence of immunoglobulin light chain comprising
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence encoding antibodies
that exhibits pH-dependent antigen binding; embryos, cells, and tissues comprising the
same; methods of making the same; as well as methods of using the same. Unless defined
otherwise, all terms and phrases used herein include the meanings that the terms and
phrases have attained in the art, unless the contrary is clearly indicated or clearly apparent
from the context in which the term or phrase is used.
[0044]      The term "antibody", as used herein, includes immunoglobulin molecules
comprising four polypeptide chains, two heavy (H) chains and two light (L) chains inter
connected by disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain comprises a heavy chain variable domain
and a heavy chain constant region (CH). The heavy chain constant region comprises three
domains, CH1 , CH2 and CH3    . Each light chain comprises a light chain variable domain and a
light chain constant region (CL). The heavy chain and light chain variable domains can be
further subdivided into regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity determining
                                                11

    WO 2013/138680                                                               PCT/US2013/031823
regions (CDR), interspersed with regions that are more conserved, termed framework
regions (FR). Each heavy and light chain variable domain comprises three CDRs and four
FRs, arranged from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following order: FR1, CDR1,
FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4 (heavy chain CDRs may be abbreviated as HCDR1, HCDR2
and HCDR3; light chain CDRs may be abbreviated as LCDR1, LCDR2 and LCDR3). The
term "high affinity" antibody refers to an antibody that has a KD with respect to its target
epitope about of 10-9 M or lower (e.g., about 1 x 10-9 M, 1 x 10~1 M, 1 x 10-1 M, or about 1 x
1012  M). In one embodiment, KD is measured by surface plasmon resonance, e.g.,
BIACORE TM; in another embodiment, KD is measured by ELISA.
[0045]       The phrase "bispecific antibody" includes an antibody capable of selectively
binding two or more epitopes. Bispecific antibodies generally comprise two nonidentical
heavy chains, with each heavy chain specifically binding a different epitope-either on two
different molecules (e.g., different epitopes on two different immunogens) or on the same
molecule (e.g., different epitopes on the same immunogen). If a bispecific antibody is
capable of selectively binding two different epitopes (a first epitope and a second epitope),
the affinity of the first heavy chain for the first epitope will generally be at least one to two or
three or four or more orders of magnitude lower than the affinity of the first heavy chain for
the second epitope, and vice versa. Epitopes specifically bound by the bispecific antibody
can be on the same or a different target (e.g., on the same or a different protein). Exemplary
bispecific antibodies include those with a first heavy chain specific for a tumor antigen and a
second heavy chain specific for a cytotoxic marker, e.g., an Fc receptor (e.g., FcyRI, FcyRII,
FcyRIlil, etc.) or a T cell marker (e.g., CD3, CD28, etc.). Further, the second heavy chain
variable domain can be substituted with a heavy chain variable domain having a different
desired specificity. For example, a bispecific antibody with a first heavy chain specific for a
tumor antigen and a second heavy chain specific for a toxin can be paired so as to deliver a
toxin (e.g., saporin, vinca alkaloid, etc.) to a tumor cell. Other exemplary bispecific
antibodies include those with a first heavy chain specific for an activating receptor (e.g., B
cell receptor, FcyRI, FcyRilA, FcyRIIA, FccRI, T cell receptor, etc.) and a second heavy
chain specific for an inhibitory receptor (e.g., FcyRilB, CD5, CD22, CD72, CD300a, etc.).
Such bispecific antibodies can be constructed for therapeutic conditions associated with cell
activation (e.g. allergy and asthma). Bispecific antibodies can be made, for example, by
combining heavy chains that recognize different epitopes of the same immunogen. For
example, nucleic acid sequences encoding heavy chain variable sequences that recognize
different epitopes of the same immunogen can be fused to nucleic acid sequences encoding
the same or different heavy chain constant regions, and such sequences can be expressed
in a cell that expresses an immunoglobulin light chain. A typical bispecific antibody has two
                                                    12

    WO 2013/138680                                                               PCT/US2013/031823
heavy chains each having three heavy chain CDRs, followed by (N-terminal to C-terminal) a
CH1   domain, a hinge, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain, and an immunoglobulin light chain
that either does not confer epitope-binding specificity but that can associate with each heavy
chain, or that can associate with each heavy chain and that can bind one or more of the
epitopes bound by the heavy chain epitope-binding regions, or that can associate with each
heavy chain and enable binding of one or both of the heavy chains to one or both epitopes.
[0046]       The term "cell" includes any cell that is suitable for expressing a recombinant
nucleic acid sequence. Cells include those of prokaryotes and eukaryotes (single-cell or
multiple-cell), bacterial cells (e.g., strains of E. coli, Bacillus spp., Streptomyces spp., etc.),
mycobacteria cells, fungal cells, yeast cells (e.g., S. cerevisiae, S. pombe, P. pastoris, P.
methanolica, etc.), plant cells, insect cells (e.g., SF-9, SF-21, baculovirus-infected insect
cells, Trichoplusia ni, etc.), non-human animal cells, human cells, or cell fusions such as, for
example, hybridomas or quadromas. In some embodiments, the cell is a human, monkey,
ape, hamster, rat, or mouse cell. In some embodiments, the cell is eukaryotic and is
selected from the following cells: CHO (e.g., CHO K1, DXB-1 1 CHO, Veggie-CHO), COS
(e.g., COS-7), retinal cell, Vero, CV1, kidney (e.g., HEK293, 293 EBNA, MSR 293, MDCK,
HaK, BHK), HeLa, HepG2, W138, MRC 5, Colo205, HB 8065, HL-60, (e.g., BHK21), Jurkat,
Daudi, A431 (epidermal), CV-1, U937, 3T3, L cell, C127 cell, SP2/0, NS-0, MMT 060562,
Sertoli cell, BRL 3A cell, HT1 080 cell, myeloma cell, tumor cell, and a cell line derived from
an aforementioned cell. In some embodiments, the cell comprises one or more viral genes,
e.g. a retinal cell that expresses a viral gene (e.g., a PER.C6TM cell).
[0047]       The phrase "complementarity determining region," or the term "CDR," includes an
amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid sequence of an organism's immunoglobulin
genes that normally (i.e., in a wild-type animal) appears between two framework regions in a
variable region of a light or a heavy chain of an immunoglobulin molecule (e.g., an antibody
or a T cell receptor). A CDR can be encoded by, for example, a germline sequence or a
rearranged or unrearranged sequence, and, for example, by a naive or a mature B cell or a
T cell. A CDR can be somatically mutated (e.g., vary from a sequence encoded in an
animal's germline), humanized, and/or modified with amino acid substitutions, additions, or
deletions. In some circumstances (e.g., for a CDR3), CDRs can be encoded by two or more
sequences (e.g., germline sequences) that are not contiguous (e.g., in an unrearranged
nucleic acid sequence) but are contiguous in a B cell nucleic acid sequence, e.g., as the
result of splicing or connecting the sequences (e.g., V-D-J recombination to form a heavy
chain CDR3).
[0048]       The term "conservative," when used to describe a conservative amino acid
substitution, includes substitution of an amino acid residue by another amino acid residue
                                                   13

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
having a side chain R group with similar chemical properties (e.g., charge or hydrophobicity).
In general, a conservative amino acid substitution will not substantially change the functional
properties of interest of a protein, for example, the ability of a variable region to specifically
bind a target epitope with a desired affinity. Examples of groups of amino acids that have
side chains with similar chemical properties include aliphatic side chains such as glycine,
alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine; aliphatic-hydroxyl side chains such as serine and
threonine; amide-containing side chains such as asparagine and glutamine; aromatic side
chains such as phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan; basic side chains such as lysine,
arginine, and histidine; acidic side chains such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid; and,
sulfur-containing side chains such as cysteine and methionine. Conservative amino acids
substitution groups include, for example, valine/leucine/isoleucine, phenylalanine/tyrosine,
lysine/arginine, alanine/valine, glutamate/aspartate, and asparagine/glutamine. In some
embodiments, a conservative amino acid substitution can be substitution of any native
residue in a protein with alanine, as used in, for example, alanine scanning mutagenesis. In
some embodiments, a conservative substitution is made that has a positive value in the
PAM250 log-likelihood matrix disclosed in Gonnet et al. (1992) Exhaustive Matching of the
Entire Protein Sequence Database, Science 256:1443-45, hereby incorporated by reference.
In some embodiments, the substitution is a moderately conservative substitution wherein the
substitution has a nonnegative value in the PAM250 log-likelihood matrix.
[0049]       In some embodiments, residue positions in an immunoglobulin light chain or
heavy chain differ by one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In some
embodiments, residue positions in an immunoglobulin light chain or functional fragment
thereof (e.g., a fragment that allows expression and secretion from, e.g., a B cell) are not
identical to a light chain whose amino acid sequence is listed herein, but differs by one or
more conservative amino acid substitutions.
[0050]       The phrase "epitope-binding protein" includes a protein having at least one CDR
and that is capable of selectively recognizing an epitope, e.g., is capable of binding an
epitope with a KD that is at about one micromolar or lower (e.g., a KD that is about 1 x 10~6 M,
1 x 10-7 M, 1 x 10-9 M, 1 x 10-9 M, 1 x 10-1 M, 1 x 10-11 M, or about 1 x 1012 M). Therapeutic
epitope-binding proteins (e.g., therapeutic antibodies) frequently require a KD that is in the
nanomolar or the picomolar range.
[0051]       The phrase "functional fragment" includes fragments of epitope-binding proteins
that can be expressed, secreted, and specifically bind to an epitope with a KD in the
micromolar, nanomolar, or picomolar range. Specific recognition includes having a KD that is
at least in the micromolar range, the nanomolar range, or the picomolar range.
                                                14

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
[0052]       The term "germline" in reference to an immunoglobulin nucleic acid sequence
includes a nucleic acid sequence that can be passed to progeny.
[0053]       The phrase "heavy chain," or "immunoglobulin heavy chain" includes an
immunoglobulin heavy chain sequence, including immunoglobulin heavy chain constant
region sequence, from any organism. Heavy chain variable domains include three heavy
chain CDRs and four FR regions, unless otherwise specified. Fragments of heavy chains
include CDRs, CDRs and FRs, and combinations thereof. A typical heavy chain has,
following the variable domain (from N-terminal to C-terminal), a CH1 domain, a hinge, a      CH 2
domain, and a    CH3  domain. A functional fragment of a heavy chain includes a fragment that
is capable of specifically recognizing an epitope (e.g., recognizing the epitope with a   KD in
the micromolar, nanomolar, or picomolar range), that is capable of expressing and secreting
from a cell, and that comprises at least one CDR. A heavy chain variable domain is
encoded by a variable region gene sequence, which generally comprises         VH, DH, and  JH
segments derived from a repertoire of VH, DH, and     JH segments present in the germline.
Sequences, locations and nomenclature for V, D, and J heavy chain segments for various
organisms can be found in IMGT database, www.imgt.org.
[0054]       The term "identity" when used in connection with sequence, includes identity as
determined by a number of different algorithms known in the art that can be used to
measure nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence identity. In some embodiments described
herein, identities are determined using a ClustalW v. 1.83 (slow) alignment employing an
open gap penalty of 10.0, an extend gap penalty of 0.1, and using a Gonnet similarity matrix
(MACVECTOR       TM 10.0.2, MacVector Inc., 2008). The length of the sequences compared
with respect to identity of sequences will depend upon the particular sequences, but in the
case of a light chain constant domain, the length should contain sequence of sufficient
length to fold into a light chain constant domain that is capable of self-association to form a
canonical light chain constant domain, e.g., capable of forming two beta sheets comprising
beta strands and capable of interacting with at least one CH1 domain of a human or a
mouse. In the case of a CH1 domain, the length of sequence should contain sequence of
sufficient length to fold into a CH1 domain that is capable of forming two beta sheets
comprising beta strands and capable of interacting with at least one light chain constant
domain of a mouse or a human.
[0055]       The phrase "immunoglobulin molecule" includes two immunoglobulin heavy
chains and two immunoglobulin light chains. The heavy chains may be identical or different,
and the light chains may be identical or different.
                                                15

    WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
[0056]      The phrase "light chain" includes an immunoglobulin light chain sequence from
any organism, and unless otherwise specified includes human kappa and lambda light
chains and a VpreB, as well as surrogate light chains. Light chain variable domains typically
include three light chain CDRs and four framework (FR) regions, unless otherwise specified.
Generally, a full-length light chain includes, from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus, a
variable domain that includes FR1-CDR1-FR2-CDR2-FR3-CDR3-FR4, and a light chain
constant region. A light chain variable domain is encoded by a light chain variable region
gene sequence, which generally comprises VL and JL segments, derived from a repertoire of
V and J segments present in the germline. Sequences, locations and nomenclature for V
and J light chain segments for various organisms can be found in IMGT database,
www.imgt.org. Light chains include those, e.g., that do not selectively bind either a first or a
second epitope selectively bound by the epitope-binding protein in which they appear. Light
chains also include those that bind and recognize, or assist the heavy chain with binding and
recognizing, one or more epitopes selectively bound by the epitope-binding protein in which
they appear. Common or universal light chains include those derived from a human Vx1
39Jx5 gene or a human Vx3-20Jx1 gene, and include somatically mutated (e.g., affinity
matured) versions of the same.
[0057]      The phrase "micromolar range" is intended to mean 1-999 micromolar; the
phrase "nanomolar range" is intended to mean 1-999 nanomolar; the phrase "picomolar
range" is intended to mean 1-999 picomolar.
[0058]       The phrase "somatically mutated" includes reference to a nucleic acid sequence
from a B cell that has undergone class-switching, wherein the nucleic acid sequence of an
immunoglobulin variable region (e.g., nucleotide sequence encoding a heavy chain variable
domain or including a heavy chain CDR or FR sequence) in the class-switched B cell is not
identical to the nucleic acid sequence in the B cell prior to class-switching, such as, for
example, a difference in a CDR or framework nucleic acid sequence between a B cell that
has not undergone class-switching and a B cell that has undergone class-switching.
"Somatically mutated" includes reference to nucleic acid sequences from affinity-matured B
cells that are not identical to corresponding immunoglobulin variable region sequences in B
cells that are not affinity-matured (i.e., sequences in the genome of germline cells). The
phrase "somatically mutated" also includes reference to an immunoglobulin variable region
nucleic acid sequence from a B cell after exposure of the B cell to an epitope of interest,
wherein the nucleic acid sequence differs from the corresponding nucleic acid sequence
prior to exposure of the B cell to the epitope of interest. The phrase "somatically mutated"
refers to sequences from antibodies that have been generated in an animal, e.g., a mouse
having human immunoglobulin variable region nucleic acid sequences, in response to an
                                                  16

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
immunogen challenge, and that result from the selection processes inherently operative in
such an animal.
[0059]      The term "unrearranged," with reference to a nucleic acid sequence, includes
nucleic acid sequences that exist in the germline of an animal cell.
[0060]      The phrase "variable domain" includes an amino acid sequence of an
immunoglobulin light or heavy chain (modified as desired) that comprises the following
amino acid regions, in sequence from N-terminal to C-terminal (unless otherwise indicated):
FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4.
[0061]      The term "operably linked" refers to a relationship wherein the components
operably linked function in their intended manner. In one instance, a nucleic acid sequence
encoding a protein may be operably linked to regulatory sequences (e.g., promoter,
enhancer, silencer sequence, etc.) so as to retain proper transcriptional regulation. In one
instance, a nucleic acid sequence of an immunoglobulin variable region (or V(D)J segments)
may be operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence of an immunoglobulin constant region so
as to allow proper recombination between the sequences into an immunoglobulin heavy or
light chain sequence.
[0062]      The term "replacement" in reference to gene replacement refers to placing
exogenous genetic material at an endogenous genetic locus, thereby replacing all or a
portion of the endogenous gene with an orthologous or homologous nucleic acid sequence.
[0063]      "Functional" as used herein, e.g., in reference to a functional polypeptide,
includes a polypeptide that retains at least one biological activity normally associated with
the native protein. In another instance, a functional immunoglobulin gene segment may
include a variable gene segment that is capable of productive rearrangement to generate a
rearranged immunoglobulin gene sequence.
[0064]      "Neutral pH" includes pH between about 7.0 and about 8.0, e.g., pH between
about 7.0 and about 7.4, e.g., between about 7.2 and about 7.4, e.g., physiological pH.
"Acidic pH" includes pH of 6.0 or lower, e.g., pH between about 5.0 and about 6.0, pH
between about 5.75 and about 6.0, e.g., pH of endosomal or lysosomal compartments.
Engineered Histidine Residues In Immunoglobulin Light Chain Genes
[0065]      The inventors have discovered that non-human animals that express antibodies
that are capable of binding to an antigen in a pH dependent manner can be made by making
modifications of an immunoglobulin light chain variable region at one or more positions along
the sequence of the light chain. Methods of making modifications in the germline of a non
human animal so that the animal would express histidines in CDRs of antibodies are
                                                17

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
described. In particular, methods for making modifications in an immunoglobulin light chain
variable sequence in the germline of the mouse are described. Variable region sequence,
e.g., of light chains, typically show somatic hypermutation along the variable region
sequence, and, in some cases, such mutations can result in a substitution of histidine
residues (see, e.g., FIG. 1). Such mutations can even occur in complementary determining
regions (CDRs), which are the regions of variable domains responsible for antigen binding.
In some cases, such mutations can result in antibodies that display pH-dependent antigen
binding, e.g., reduced antigen binding at an acidic pH as compared to antigen binding at a
neutral pH. Such pH-dependent antigen binding is desired because it may enable the
antibody to bind to the antigen outside the cell, and, when internalized into an endosome,
release the antigen and recycle back to the surface to bind another antigen, avoiding target
mediated clearance. Approaches for introducing histidine residues to achieve this effect by
using a random his-scanning mutagenesis to engineer pH-dependent binding properties in
anti-IL-6R antibodies have been reported (US 2011/0111406 Al). However, random
mutagenesis of antibody residues may result in decreased affinity of antibody to the antigen.
A non-human animal genetically modified to express a histidine substitution in antibody
sequence enables generation of high-affinity antibodies in response to an antigen of interest
that, due to histidine modification(s), would also display pH-dependent antigen binding.
[0066]       Thus, in various embodiments, provided herein is a genetically modified non
human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) that comprises in its genome, e.g., in its
germline, a human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprising
modifications that result in the animal expressing antibodies capable of binding to antigens
in a pH-dependent manner. In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises
modifications in the human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence (e.g., VL
and/or JL segment sequence) that comprise substitutions in at least one non-histidine codon
with a histidine codon (in some cases, also may be referred to as "histidine substitution,"
"histidine codon substitution," or the like). In one embodiment, the animal comprises at least
one substitution of a non-histidine codon with a histidine codon in a nucleotide sequence of
a complementary determining region (CDR; e.g., CDR1, CDR2, and/or CDR3) of a human
immunoglobulin light chain. In one embodiment, the substitution is in a CDR3 codon. In one
embodiment, the light chain is a    K light chain. In one embodiment, the animal expresses an
immunoglobulin light chain, e.g., a light chain CDR, e.g., a light chain CDR3, comprising a
substitution of at least one amino acid with a histidine. In another embodiment, the light
chain is a k light chain. In yet another embodiment, the mouse comprises a substitution of
at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon in both  K  and k light chains.
                                                   18

      WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
[0067]       Histidine residue is encoded by two different codons, CAT and CAC
(deoxyribonucleic acid residues). Thus, a non-histidine codon may be substituted with a
CAT or a CAC. The substitution is engineered in a codon that in its germline configuration
(i.e., non-somatically mutated state) does not encode a histidine residue.
[0068]       In one embodiment a light chain is a universal light chain (also termed a common
light chain). As described in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 13/022,759, 13/093,156,
13/412,936 and 13/488,628 (U.S. Application Publication Nos. 2011/0195454,
2012/0021409, 2012/0192300 and 2013/0045492, all incorporated herein by reference), a
non-human animal (e.g., a mouse) that selects a common light chain for a plurality of heavy
chains has a practical utility. In various embodiments, antibodies expressed in a non-human
animal comprising only a common light chain will have heavy chains that can associate and
express with an identical or substantially identical light chain. This is particularly useful in
making bispecific antibodies. For example, such an animal can be immunized with a first
immunogen to generate a B cell that expresses an antibody that specifically binds a first
epitope. The animal (or an animal genetically the same) can be immunized with a second
immunogen to generate a B cell that expresses an antibody that specifically binds the
second epitope. Variable heavy chain regions can be cloned from the B cells and expressed
with the same heavy chain constant region and the same light chain (e.g., a common light
chain) in a cell to make a bispecific antibody, wherein the heavy chain component of the
bispecific antibody has been selected by an animal to associate and express with the same
light chain component. In various embodiments described, the variable regions of the
genetically engineered mice are human variable regions.
[0069]       Thus, a mouse was engineered that is capable of generating immunoglobulin
light chains that will suitably pair with a rather diverse family of heavy chains, including
heavy chains whose human variable regions depart from germline sequences, e.g., affinity
matured or somatically mutated variable regions. In various embodiments, the mouse is
devised to pair human light chain variable domains with human heavy chain variable
domains that comprise somatic mutations, thus enabling a route to high affinity binding
proteins suitable for use as human therapeutics.
[0070]       The genetically engineered mouse, through the long and complex process of
antibody selection within an organism, makes biologically appropriate choices in pairing a
diverse collection of human heavy chain variable domains with a limited number of human
light chain options. In order to achieve this, the mouse is engineered to present a limited
number of human light chain variable domain options in conjunction with a wide diversity of
human heavy chain variable domain options. Upon challenge with an immunogen, the
mouse maximizes the number of solutions in its repertoire to develop an antibody to the
                                                   19

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
immunogen, limited largely or solely by the number or light chain options in its repertoire. In
various embodiments, this includes allowing the mouse to achieve suitable and compatible
somatic mutations of the light chain variable domain that will nonetheless be compatible with
a relatively large variety of human heavy chain variable domains, including in particular
somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domains.
[0071]      The engineered common light chain mouse described in U.S. Application
Publication Nos. 2011/0195454, 2012/0021409, 2012/0192300 and 2013/0045492
comprised nucleic acid sequence encoding a limited repertoire of light chain options, e.g.,
common or universal light chain "ULC" that comprised no more than two VL segments or a
single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence. To achieve
such limited repertoire, a mouse was engineered to render nonfunctional or substantially
nonfunctional its ability to make, or rearrange, a native mouse light chain variable domain.
In one aspect, this was achieved, e.g., by deleting the mouse's light chain variable region
gene segments. As previously described, the endogenous mouse locus can then be
modified by exogenous suitable human light chain variable region gene segments of choice,
operably linked to the endogenous mouse light chain constant domain, in a manner such
that the exogenous human variable region gene segments can combine with the
endogenous mouse light chain constant region gene and form a rearranged reverse
chimeric light chain gene (human variable, mouse constant). In various embodiments, the
light chain variable region is capable of being somatically mutated. In various embodiments,
to maximize ability of the light chain variable region to acquire somatic mutations, the
appropriate enhancer(s) is retained in the mouse. In one aspect, in modifying a mouse K
light chain locus to replace endogenous mouse K light chain gene segments with human K
light chain gene segments, the mouse K intronic enhancer and mouse K 3' enhancer are
functionally maintained, or undisrupted.
[0072]      Thus, provided was a genetically engineered mouse that expresses a limited
repertoire of reverse chimeric (human variable, mouse constant) light chains associated with
a diversity of reverse chimeric (human variable, mouse constant) heavy chains. In various
embodiments, the endogenous mouse K light chain gene segments are deleted and
replaced with a single (or two) rearranged human light chain region, operably linked to the
endogenous mouse CK gene. In embodiments for maximizing somatic hypermutation of the
rearranged human light chain region, the mouse K intronic enhancer and the mouse K 3'
enhancer are maintained. In various embodiments, the mouse also comprises a
nonfunctional k light chain locus, or a deletion thereof or a deletion that renders the locus
unable to make a k light chain.
                                                 20

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
[0073]      The universal light chain mouse generated antibodies in response to various
antigens that were capable of utilizing a diverse repertoire of heavy chain variable region
sequences, comprising a diverse repertoire of VH, DH, and     JH segments. Antibodies
generated in such genetically engineered ULC mouse are useful for designing bispecific
therapeutic antibodies; however, as with any other antibody, each bispecific antibody may
only bind to one target during its lifetime in the plasma; the antibody is internalized into an
endosome and targeted for lysosomal degradation. Studies have shown that MHC-class-l
like Fcy receptor FcRn is capable of rescuing immunoglobulins from lysosomal degradation
by recycling it back to the cell surface from the sorting endosome. Simister and Mostov
(1989) An Fc receptor structurally related to MHC class I antigens. Nature 337: 184-87. As
explained above, to improve efficiency of antibody recycling, further modifications to
antibody sequences, e.g., modifications that result in decreased antigen binding at acidic pH
(e.g., pH of the endosome), while retaining antibody-antigen affinity and specificity at neutral
pH (e.g., physiological pH) are beneficial. The non-human animals described herein,
wherein histidine residues are substituted for non-histidine residues in the a universal light
chain sequence are beneficial because they are capable of producing high-affinity antibodies
based on universal light chain format that also display pH-dependent binding, e.g., display
reduced binding to the antigen at acidic versus neutral pH.
[0074]      Thus, in one embodiment, provided herein is a non-human animal (e.g., a rodent,
e.g., a mouse or a rat) that comprises in its genome, e.g., in its germline, a limited repertoire
of human light chain variable regions, or a single human light chain variable region, from a
limited repertoire of human light chain variable gene segments, wherein the human light
chain variable region(s) comprise at least one substitution of a non-histidine codon for a
histidine codon. In some embodiments, provided non-human animals are genetically
engineered to include a single unrearranged human light chain variable region gene
segment (or two human light chain variable region gene segments) that rearranges to form a
 rearranged human light chain variable region gene (or two rearranged light chain variable
 region genes) that expresses a single light chain (or that express either or both of two light
chains), wherein the light chain variable region gene(s) comprise a substitution of at least
one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. The rearranged human light chain variable
domains encoded by these histidine-substituted light chain variable region gene(s) are
capable of pairing with a plurality of affinity-matured human heavy chains selected by the
 animals, wherein the heavy chain variable regions specifically bind different epitopes. In
various embodiments, the at least one substitution of a non-histidine residue with a histidine
 residue results in a rearranged human light chain that, when expressed with a cognate
 heavy chain, binds to its antigen in a pH-dependent manner.
                                                  21

      WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
 [0075]      Genetically engineered animals are provided that express a limited repertoire of
 human light chain variable domains, or a single human light chain variable domain, from a
 limited repertoire of human light chain variable region gene sequences, wherein the variable
 region gene sequences comprise at least one substitution of a non-histidine codon with a
 histidine codon. In some embodiments, provided animals are genetically engineered to
include a single VIJ human light chain sequence (or two VIJ sequences) that comprises a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon and expresses a
variable region of a single light chain (or that express either or both of two variable regions).
 In one aspect, a light chain comprising the variable sequence is capable of pairing with a
plurality of affinity-matured human heavy chains clonally selected by the animal, wherein the
heavy chain variable regions specifically bind different epitopes. In one embodiment, the
antibody binds to its antigen(s) in a pH-dependent manner. In one embodiment, the single
V/J human light chain sequence is selected from VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1. In one
embodiment, the two VIJ sequences are VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1. In one embodiment,
the VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 sequences are rearranged V/J sequences.
[0076]       In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided that
comprises a single human immunoglobulin light chain VL gene segment that is capable of
rearranging with a human JL gene segment (selected from one or a plurality of JL segments)
and encoding a human variable domain of an immunoglobulin light chain, wherein the single
human immunoglobulin light chain VL gene segment and/or human JL gene segment
comprise a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In another
aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that comprises no more than two human VL
gene segments, each of which is capable of rearranging with a human JL gene segment
(selected from one or a plurality of JL segments) and encoding a human variable domain of
an immunoglobulin light chain, wherein each of the no more than two VL gene segments
and/or the JL gene segment comprise a substitution of at least one non-histidine residue with
a histidine residue.
[0077]       Also provided herein is a genetically modified non-human animal that comprises
in its genome, e.g., in its germline, a single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain
variable region sequence comprising human VL and JL sequences wherein the single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region comprises a substitution of at
least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one aspect, the single rearranged
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is derived from human germline
VL and JL gene sequences, but for the histidine substitution(s). In one embodiment, the
human immunoglobulin light chain is a human immunoglobulin         K chain. Thus, in one
                                                                      39 and VK3- 2 0. In one
embodiment, the human VL gene sequence is selected from VK1-
                                                  22

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
embodiment, the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region
sequence comprises rearranged VK1-39/J orVK3-20/J sequence. In one embodiment, the
human JL gene sequence is selected from JK1, JK2, JK3, JK4, and JK5. In one embodiment
the human JL sequence is selected from JK1 and JK5. In one embodiment, the single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence is selected from
VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 (e.g., but for the histidine substitution(s)). In an alternative
embodiment, the human immunoglobulin light chain is a human k chain.
[0078]       In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one non-histidine codon for a
histidine codon is in the nucleotide sequence encoding a complementary determining region
(CDR) of the light chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon for a histidine codon is in the nucleotide sequence encoding CDR1,
CDR2 or CDR3 of the light chain variable domain. In one specific embodiment, the
substitution is in the nucleotide sequence encoding CDR3.
[0079]       In one aspect, the substitution is of at least one non-histidine codon for a histidine
codon in the CDR3 codon of the human light chain variable region gene sequence. In one
embodiment, the substitution is of one, two, three, four, or more CDR3 codons. In the
embodiment wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable
region is a VK1-39JK5 variable region, the replacement of at least one non-histidine codon
with a histidine codon comprises a replacement at a position in the immunoglobulin light
chain gene sequence encoding CDR3 designed to express a histidine at position selected
from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the replacement is
designed to express histidines at positions 105 and 106. In one embodiment, the
replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105 and 111. In one
embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105 and 108. In
one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105, 108
and 111. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions
105, 106, and 108. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at
positions 106 and 108. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express
histidines at positions 106 and 111. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to
express histidines at positions 108 and 111. In one embodiment, the replacement is
designed to express histidines at positions 106, 108, and 111. In yet another embodiment,
the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 106, 108 and 111. In one
embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105, 106, and
111. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions
105, 106, 108, and 111. The nucleic acid and amino acid sequences of the histidine
substituted CDR3 regions are depicted in sequence alignment of FIG. 2 and set forth in SEQ
                                                 23

     WO 2013/138680                                                        PCT/US2013/031823
 ID NOs: 4-33. Wild type CDR3 nucleic acid and amino acid sequences (depicted in FIG. 2)
are set forth in SEQ ID NOs:2 and 3, respectively.
[0080]       In the embodiment wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light
chain variable region is a VK3-20JK1 variable region, the replacement of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon comprises a replacement at a position in the
immunoglobulin light chain gene sequence encoding CDR3 region that is designed to
express a histidine at position selected from 105, 106, 107, 109, and a combination thereof.
In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105 and
106. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105
and 107. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions
105 and 109. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at
positions 106 and 107. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express
histidines at positions 106 and 109. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to
express histidines at positions 107 and 109. In one embodiment, the replacement is
designed to express histidines at positions 105, 106, and 107. In one embodiment, the
replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 105, 107, and 109. In one
embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions 106, 108, and
111. In one embodiment, the replacement is designed to express histidines at positions
105, 106 and 109. In another embodiment, the replacement is designed to express
histidines at positions 105, 106, 107, and 109. The nucleic acid and amino acid sequences
of exemplary histidine-substituted CDR3 regions are depicted in sequence alignment of FIG.
12 and set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 76-79. Wild type CDR3 nucleic acid and amino acid
sequences (depicted in FIG. 12) are set forth in SEQ ID NOs:74 and 75, respectively.
[0081]      Amino acid positions (105, 106, etc.) are based on a unique numbering described
in Lefranc et al. (2003) Dev. Comp. Immunol. 27:55-77, and can also be viewed on
www.imgt.org.
[0082]       In one embodiment, the human VL gene segment is operably linked to a human
or non-human leader sequence. In one embodiment, the leader sequence is a non-human
leader sequence. In a specific embodiment, the non-human leader sequence is a mouse
VK3-7 leader sequence. In a specific embodiment, the leader sequence is operably linked to
an unrearranged human VL gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the leader sequence
is operably linked to a rearranged human VL/JL sequence. Thus, in one specific
embodiment, the single rearranged VK1 -39/JK5 or VK3-20/JK1 variable region gene
sequence comprising at least one histidine substitution is operably linked to a mouse VK3-7
leader sequence.
                                               24

      WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
 [0083]      In one embodiment, the VL gene segment is operably linked to an
 immunoglobulin promoter sequence. In one embodiment, the promoter sequence is a
 human promoter sequence. In a specific embodiment, the human immunoglobulin promoter
 is a human VK3-15 promoter. In a specific embodiment, the promoter is operably linked to
an unrearranged human VL gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the promoter is
 operably linked to a rearranged human VL/JL sequence. Thus, in one specific embodiment,
the single rearranged Vx1-39/JK5 or Vx3-20/JK1 variable region gene sequence comprising
at least one histidine substitution is operably linked to the human V<3-15 promoter.
 [0084]      In one embodiment, the light chain locus comprises a leader sequence flanked 5'
 (with respect to transcriptional direction of a VL gene segment) with a human
immunoglobulin promoter and flanked 3' with a human VL gene segment that rearranges
with a human JL segment and encodes a variable domain of a reverse chimeric light chain
comprising an endogenous non-human light chain constant region (CL). In a specific
embodiment, the VL and JL gene segments are at the non-human Vx locus, and the non
human CL is a non-human Cx (e.g., mouse CK). In one specific embodiment, the variable
region sequence is operably linked to the non-human constant region sequence, e.g., the
non-human CK gene sequence.
[0085]       In one embodiment, the light chain locus comprises a leader sequence flanked 5'
(with respect to transcriptional direction of a VL gene segment) with a human
immunoglobulin promoter and flanked 3' with a rearranged human variable region sequence
(VL/JL sequence) and encodes a variable domain of a reverse chimeric light chain
comprising an endogenous non-human light chain constant region (CL). In a specific
embodiment, the rearranged human VL/JL sequence is at the non-human kappa (x) locus,
and the non-human CL is a non-human CK. In one specific embodiment, the rearranged
human variable region sequence is operably linked to the non-human immunoglobulin light
chain constant region sequence, e.g., the non-human Cx gene sequence. In one
embodiment, the non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant region sequence is an
endogenous non-human sequence. In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse
and the CK gene sequence is a mouse Cx gene sequence. In one embodiment, the
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprising a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon is at the endogenous
non-human (e.g., mouse) immunoglobulin light chain locus (K locus). Exemplary
embodiments of the locus are presented in FIGs. 8C, 8E, 14C, and 14D.
[0086]       In one embodiment, the genetically modified non-human animal is a mouse, and
the variable region locus of the mouse is a x light chain locus, and the x light chain locus
                                                  25

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
comprises a mouse K intronic enhancer, a mouse K 3' enhancer, or both an intronic
enhancer and a 3' enhancer.
[0087]       In one embodiment, the non-human animal (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a rat or a mouse)
comprises a nonfunctional immunoglobulin lambda (k) light chain locus. In a specific
embodiment, the k light chain locus comprises a deletion of one or more sequences of the
locus, wherein the one or more deletions renders the k light chain locus incapable of
rearranging to form a light chain gene. In another embodiment, all or substantially all of the
VL gene segments of the k light chain locus are deleted. In one embodiment, the non
human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g. mouse or rat) comprises a rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprising a substitution of at least
one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, and lacks a functional unrearranged
immunoglobulin light chain variable region, e.g., endogenous unrearranged light chain
variable region. In one embodiment, the rearranged, histidine-substituted human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence replaces endogenous
unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence.
[0088]       In one embodiment, the animal makes a light chain that comprises a somatically
mutated variable domain derived from a human variable region sequence that comprises a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one embodiment,
the light chain comprises a somatically mutated variable domain derived from a human
variable region sequence that comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon
with a histidine codon, and a non-human CK region. In one embodiment, the non-human
animal does not express a k light chain.
[0089]       One skilled in the art would appreciate that although substitution(s) of at least one
non-histidine residue with a histidine residue is genetically engineered into the human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region, due to somatic hypermutations, not all antibodies
that are generated in the genetically modified non-human animal will harbor that histidine
residue(s) at engineered position(s). However, generation of a wide repertoire of antibodies
in the non-human animal will allow to select for in vivo generated antigen-specific antibodies
that display high affinity for an antigen of interest while retaining histidine modifications
introduced into the germline and, preferably, exhibiting pH-dependent antigen binding.
[0090]      Thus, in one embodiment, the animal retains at least one histidine amino acid
introduced by substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon in its
variable region gene. In one embodiment, the animal retains all or substantially all histidine
substitutions in its somatically mutated light chain variable domain that were introduced into
its variable region gene.
                                                  26

     WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
[0091]       In one embodiment, the genetically modified non-human animal described herein
also comprises in its genome, e.g., in its germline, an unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy
chain variable region comprising   VH, DH, and JH gene segment sequences. In one
embodiment, the VH, DH, and    JH gene segment sequences are human VH, DH, and        JH gene
segment sequences, and the unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region is a
human heavy chain variable region. In one embodiment, the human         VH, DH, and JH gene
segment sequences are operably linked to non-human heavy chain constant region
sequence. In one embodiment, the non-human heavy chain constant region sequence is an
endogenous non-human heavy chain constant region sequence. In one embodiment, the
human heavy chain gene segment sequences are at the endogenous non-human
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. In one embodiment, the human immunoglobulin heavy
chain variable region sequence comprised in a non-human animal also comprises a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon for a histidine codon.
[0092]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal described herein expresses an
immunoglobulin light chain that comprises a non-human light chain constant region
sequence. In one embodiment, the non-human animal expresses an immunoglobulin light
chain that comprises a human light chain constant region sequence.
[0093]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal described herein expresses an
immunoglobulin heavy chain that comprises a non-human sequence selected from a CH1
sequence, a hinge sequence, a CH2 sequence, a CH3 sequence, and a combination thereof.
[0094]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal expresses an immunoglobulin heavy
chain that comprises a human sequence selected from a CH1 sequence, a hinge sequence,
a CH2 sequence, a CH3 sequence, and a combination thereof.
[0095]      In the embodiment where the animal comprises a single rearranged
immunoglobulin light chain variable region comprising a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon, the rearranged immunoglobulin light chain sequence
in the germline of the animal is at an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin light chain
locus. In a specific embodiment, the rearranged immunoglobulin light chain sequence
comprising a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon in the
germline of the animal replaces all or substantially all endogenous non-human light chain V
and J segment sequences at the endogenous non-human immunoglobulin light chain locus.
[0096]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of
endogenous     VH gene segments with one or more human       VH gene segments, wherein the
human   VH gene segments are operably linked to a non-human CH region gene, such that the
non-human animal rearranges the human       VH gene segments and expresses a reverse
                                               27

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
chimeric immunoglobulin heavy chain that comprises a human          VH   domain and a non-human
CH.  In one embodiment, 90-100% of unrearranged non-human             VH  gene segments are
replaced with at least one unrearranged human       VH  gene segment. In a specific
embodiment, all or substantially all (e.g., 90-100%) of the endogenous non-human         VH  gene
segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged human          VH  gene segment. In one
embodiment, the replacement is with at least 19, at least 39, or at least 80 or 81
unrearranged human      VH gene segments. In one embodiment, the replacement is with at
least 12 functional unrearranged human      VH gene segments, at least 25 functional
unrearranged human      VH gene segments, or at least 43 functional unrearranged human        VH
gene segments. In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all
non-human      DH and JH segments with at least one unrearranged human         DH segment and at
least one unrearranged human      JH  segment. In one embodiment, the non-human animal
comprises a replacement of all non-human       DH and   JH  segments with all unrearranged
human    DH  segments and all unrearranged human       JH  segments.
[0097]       A non-human animal, e.g., a mouse, comprising in its genome, e.g., in its
germline, a limited repertoire of human immunoglobulin light chain variable regions, e.g., a
single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region (e.g., VK1-39/JK5 or
VK3-20/JK1), with a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon
and a diverse repertoire of unrearranged human       VH,  DH, and JH  segments is capable of
generating antigen binding proteins encoded by heavy chain variable region sequences
derived from various permutations of unrearranged human         VH,  DH, and  JH segments,
wherein the VH, DH, and    JH segments present in the heavy chain variable sequences are
derived from all or substantially all functional human VH, DH, and     JH  segments present in the
genome of the animal. Various available possibilities for heavy chain variable domain
sequences expressed in the cells, e.g., B cells, of the genetically modified animals described
herein (i.e., derived from combinations of various functional human V, D, and J segments)
are described in U.S. Application Publication Nos. 2011/0195454, 2012/0021409,
2012/0192300 and 2013/0045492, all incorporated herein by reference. In various
embodiments, the rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence
comprising substitution(s) of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon and the
unrearranged human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region sequence are comprised
in the germline of the non-human animal.
[0098]        In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises one copy of one or both of
the rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprising
substitution(s) of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon and the
unrearranged human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region sequence. In another
                                                 28

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
embodiment, the non-human animal comprises two copies of one or both of the rearranged
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprising substitution(s) of at
least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon and the unrearranged human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region sequence. Thus, the non-human animal may
be homozygous or heterozygous for one or both the rearranged human immunoglobulin light
chain variable region sequence comprising substitution(s) of at least one non-histidine codon
with a histidine codon and the unrearranged human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable
region sequence.
[0099]       In addition to genetically modified non-human animals comprising in their
genome an immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence (e.g., a single
rearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence) comprising
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon (e.g., in CDR3 of the
light chain), also provided herein are genetically modified non-human animals comprising an
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence with one or more
additions/insertions of histidine codon(s), such that the expressed variable domain
comprises an additional amino acid(s) which, if not subject to somatic hypermutation, is a
histidine.
[00100]      The genetically modified non-human animal comprising a human immunoglobulin
light chain variable region gene sequence with a substitution of at least one non-histidine
codon with a histidine codon described herein may be selected from a group consisting of a
mouse, rat, rabbit, pig, bovine (e.g., cow, bull, buffalo), deer, sheep, goat, chicken, cat, dog,
ferret, primate (e.g., marmoset, rhesus monkey). For the non-human animals where suitable
genetically modifiable ES cells are not readily available, methods distinct from those
described herein are employed to make a non-human animal comprising the genetic
modification. Such methods include, e.g., modifying a non-ES cell genome (e.g., a fibroblast
or an induced pluripotent cell) and employing nuclear transfer to transfer the modified
genome to a suitable cell, e.g., an oocyte, and gestating the modified cell (e.g., the modified
oocyte) in a non-human animal under suitable conditions to form an embryo.
[00101]      In one aspect, the non-human animal is a mammal. In one aspect, the non
human animal is a small mammal, e.g., of the superfamily Dipodoidea or Muroidea. In one
embodiment, the genetically modified animal is a rodent. In one embodiment, the rodent is
selected from a mouse, a rat, and a hamster. In one embodiment, the rodent is selected
from the superfamily Muroidea. In one embodiment, the genetically modified animal is from
a family selected from Calomyscidae (e.g., mouse-like hamsters), Cricetidae (e.g., hamster,
New World rats and mice, voles), Muridae (true mice and rats, gerbils, spiny mice, crested
rats), Nesomyidae (climbing mice, rock mice, with-tailed rats, Malagasy rats and mice),
                                                 29

     WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
Platacanthomyidae (e.g., spiny dormice), and Spalacidae (e.g., mole rates, bamboo rats,
and zokors). In a specific embodiment, the genetically modified rodent is selected from a
true mouse or rat (family Muridae), a gerbil, a spiny mouse, and a crested rat. In one
embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is from a member of the family Muridae. In
one embodiment, the animal is a rodent. In a specific embodiment, the rodent is selected
from a mouse and a rat. In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse.
[00102]     In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal is a rodent that is a mouse of a
C57BL strain selected from C57BL/A, C57BL/An, C57BL/GrFa, C57BL/KaLwN, C57BL/6,
C57BL/6J, C57BL/6ByJ, C57BL/6NJ, C57BL/10, C57BL/10ScSn, C57BL/1OCr, and
C57BL/Ola. In another embodiment, the mouse is a 129 strain selected from the group
consisting of a strain that is 129P1, 129P2, 129P3, 129X1, 129S1 (e.g., 129S1/SV,
129S1/SvIm), 129S2, 129S4, 129S5, 129S9/SvEvH, 129S6 (129/SvEvTac), 129S7, 129S8,
129T1, 129T2 (see, e.g., Festing et al. (1999) Revised nomenclature for strain 129 mice,
Mammalian Genome 10:836, see also, Auerbach et al (2000) Establishment and Chimera
Analysis of 129/SvEv- and C57BL/6-Derived Mouse Embryonic Stem Cell Lines). In a
specific embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is a mix of an aforementioned 129
strain and an aforementioned C57BL/6 strain. In another specific embodiment, the mouse is
a mix of aforementioned 129 strains, or a mix of aforementioned BL/6 strains. In a specific
embodiment, the 129 strain of the mix is a 129S6 (129/SvEvTac) strain. In another
embodiment, the mouse is a BALB strain, e.g., BALB/c strain. In yet another embodiment,
the mouse is a mix of a BALB strain and another aforementioned strain.
[00103]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a rat. In one embodiment, the rat
is selected from a Wistar rat, an LEA strain, a Sprague Dawley strain, a Fischer strain, F344,
F6, and Dark Agouti. In one embodiment, the rat strain is a mix of two or more strains
selected from the group consisting of Wistar, LEA, Sprague Dawley, Fischer, F344, F6, and
Dark Agouti.
[00104]     Thus, in one embodiment, the genetically modified non-human animal is a rodent.
In one embodiment, the genetically modified non-human animal is a rat or a mouse. In one
embodiment, the animal is a mouse. Thus, in one embodiment, provided herein is a
genetically modified mouse comprising in its genome, e.g., in its germline, a single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region comprising human VL and JL
gene sequences, wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable
region comprises a substitution of at least non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one
embodiment, the mouse lacks a functional unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable
region (e.g., lacks functional unrearranged V and J gene segment sequences). In one
                                               30

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
 embodiment, the rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region with histidine
 codon substitution(s) is VK1-39/JK or VK3-20/JK variable region. In one embodiment the J
 segment sequence is selected from JK1, JK2, Jx3, JK4, and JK5. In one embodiment the J
 segment sequence is JK1 or JK5. In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one non
 histidine codon with a histidine codon is in the nucleotide sequence encoding a CDR3
 region. In one embodiment, wherein the rearranged variable region sequence is VK1-39/JK5
sequence, the histidine substitution(s) is designed to express at a position selected from
 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination thereof. In another embodiment, wherein the
 rearranged variable region sequence is VK3-20/JK1 sequence, the histidine substitution(s) is
designed to express at a position selected from 105, 106, 107, 109, and a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, the rearranged immunoglobulin light chain variable region with
substituted histidine codon(s) is operably linked to an endogenous mouse immunoglobulin
constant region gene sequence (e.g., Cx gene sequence). In one embodiment, the mouse
further comprises in its genome, e.g., in its germline, an unrearranged immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region comprising human        VH, DH, and JH segments. In one
embodiment, human       VH, DH, and JH segments are operably linked to an endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence. In various embodiments, the
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprising
substitution(s) of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon and the
unrearranged human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region sequence are comprised
in the germline of the mouse.
[00105]      Also provided herein are targeting vectors for generating genetically modified
non-human animals, e.g., mice, described herein. In one aspect, provided is a targeting
vector comprising, from 5' to 3' in transcriptional direction with reference to the sequences of
the 5' and 3' mouse homology arms of the vector, a 5' mouse homology arm, a human or
mouse immunoglobulin promoter, a human or mouse leader sequence, a human variable
region selected from a rearranged human VxKl-39Jx5 or a rearranged human VK3-20JK1
and comprising a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, and
a 3' mouse homology arm. In one embodiment, the 5' and 3' homology arms target the
vector to a sequence 5' with respect to an enhancer sequence that is present 5' and
proximal to the mouse Cx gene. In another embodiment, the targeting vector comprises a 5'
mouse homology arm followed by a selection cassette flanked by recombination sites,
human or mouse immunoglobulin promoter, human or mouse leader sequence, a human
variable region selected from a rearranged human Vx1-39JK5 or a rearranged human Vx3
20JK1 and comprising a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine
                                                 31

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
codon, followed by the 3' mouse homology arm that comprises mouse enhancers and
constant region (CK) sequences.
[00106]      A selection cassette is a nucleotide sequence inserted into a targeting construct
to facilitate selection of cells (e.g., ES cells) that have integrated the construct of interest. A
number of suitable selection cassettes are known in the art. Commonly, a selection cassette
enables positive selection in the presence of a particular antibiotic (e.g., Neo, Hyg, Pur, CM,
Spec, etc.). In addition, a selection cassette may be flanked by recombination sites, which
allow deletion of the selection cassette upon treatment with recombinase enzymes.
Commonly used recombination sites are loxP and Frf, recognized by Cre and Flp enzymes,
respectively, but others are known in the art.
[00107]       In one embodiment, the promoter is a human immunoglobulin variable region
gene segment promoter. In a specific embodiment, the promoter is a human VK3-15
promoter. In one embodiment, the leader sequence is a mouse leader sequence. In a
specific embodiment, the mouse leader sequence is a mouse VK3-7 leader sequence.
Exemplary embodiments of the targeting vectors are presented in FIGs. 8B and 14B.
[00108]       In one aspect, a targeting vector is provided as described above, but in place of
the 5' mouse homology arm the human or mouse promoter is flanked 5' with a site-specific
recombinase recognition site (SRRS), and in place of the 3' mouse homology arm the
human VL region is flanked 3' with an SRRS.
[00109]      Also provided herein are methods of making genetically modified non-human
animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., mice or rats) described herein. In one aspect, the method for
making a genetically modified non-human animal described herein utilizes a targeting vector,
made using VELOCIGENE@ technology, introducing the construct into ES cells, and
introducing targeted ES cell clones into a mouse embryo using VELOCIMOUSE@
technology, as described in the Examples. Histidine modifications may be introduced into
the targeting vector using a variety of molecular biology techniques, e.g., site directed
mutagenesis or de novo DNA synthesis. Upon completion of gene targeting, ES cells of
genetically modified non-human animals are screened to confirm successful incorporation of
exogenous nucleotide sequence of interest or expression of exogenous polypeptide.
Numerous techniques are known to those skilled in the art, and include (but are not limited
to) Southern blotting, long PCR, quantitative PCT (e.g., real-time PCR using TAQMAN@),
fluorescence in situ hybridization, Northern blotting, flow cytometry, Western analysis,
immunocytochemistry, immunohistochemistry, etc. In one example, non-human animals
(e.g., mice) bearing the genetic modification of interest can be identified by screening for
loss of mouse allele and/or gain of human allele using a modification of allele assay
                                                    32

    WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
described in Valenzuela et al. (2003) High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome
coupled with high-resolution expression analysis, Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659. Other
assays that identify a specific nucleotide or amino acid sequence in the genetically modified
animals are known to those skilled in the art.
[00110]      Thus, in one embodiment, the method of generating genetically modified non
human animals comprises replacing an immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene
sequence in the animal with a human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene
sequence (comprising human VL and JL gene segments) wherein the human
immunoglobulin variable region gene sequence comprises a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon with a histidine codon is in the nucleotide sequence encoding a CDR
region, e.g., a CDR3 region.
[00111]      In one embodiment, the method of generating genetically modified non-human
animals described herein comprises replacing an immunoglobulin light chain variable region
gene sequence in the animal with a single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain
variable region gene sequence comprising human VL and JL gene segment sequences,
wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin variable region gene sequence
comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon. In one
embodiment, the substitution is in a CDR codon. In one embodiment, the substitution is of
one, two, three, four, or more CDR3 codon(s). In one embodiment, the single rearranged
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence is based on the human
germline rearranged light chain variable region sequence selected from VK1-39JK5 and VK3
20Jx1. Thus, in one embodiment, where the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light
chain variable region gene sequence is derived from VK1-39JK5, replacement of at least one
non-histidine codon with histidine codon is designed to express a histidine at positions
selected from 105, 106, 108, 111, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, where
the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence is
derived from VK3-20x1, replacement of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine
codon is designed to express a histidine at position selected from 105, 106, 107, 109, and a
combination thereof.
[00112]      In another embodiment, the method of generating a non-human animal described
herein (i.e., comprising a genetically modified immunoglobulin light chain locus described
herein) comprises modifying a genome of a non-human animal to delete or render non
functional endogenous immunoglobulin light chain V and J segments in an immunoglobulin
light chain locus, and placing in the genome a single rearranged human light chain variable
                                               33

     WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
region gene sequence comprising a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a
histidine codon. In one embodiment, the method results in a genetically modified non
human animal that comprises a population of B cells enriched for antibodies exhibiting pH
dependent binding to an antigen of interest.
[00113]     In some embodiments, the methods of generating genetically modified non
human animals described herein comprise replacing an immunoglobulin light chain variable
region gene sequence with human immunoglobulin light chain variable gene region
sequence comprising substitution(s) of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine
codon in the animal that also comprises a replacement of endogenous non-human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene sequence with a human immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region gene sequence comprising at least one of each or a repertoire
of human VH, DH, and    JH sequences, as described above. In one embodiment, in order to
generate a non-human animal comprising a replacement of endogenous immunoglobulin
light chain variable region gene sequence human light chain variable region gene sequence
comprising a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon and a
replacement of endogenous non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene
sequence with a human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene sequence, the
animal with replacement of light chain variable region gene sequence is bred to an animal
with replacement of heavy chain variable region gene sequence.
[00114]     Inventors presently provide genetically engineered non-human animals (e.g.,
rodents, e.g., rats or mice) that express antigen-binding proteins, e.g., antibodies, that
comprise a universal light chain, e.g., a human universal light chain (e.g., a light chain
derived from a single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region) that
comprises one or more histidine modifications, wherein the antigen-binding proteins exhibit a
pH-dependent antigen binding of a target antigen. The animals are genetically engineered
to include a light chain CDR3 that comprises one or more histidine modifications. In various
embodiments, the light chain CDR3 comprises two, three, or four or more histidine residues
in a cluster.
[00115]      In one embodiment, provided herein is a genetically engineered non-human
animal (e.g., a mouse or a rat) that comprises a population of B cells characterized by
enhanced presence of histidines in immunoglobulin light chains, e.g., immunoglobulin
variable domains, e.g., immunoglobulin CDRs, compared to a wild type animal. In one
embodiment, enhancement of histidine presence is about 2 to 4 fold. In one embodiment,
enhancement of histidines is about 2 to 10 fold.
                                               34

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
[00116]     In one embodiment, provided herein is a genetically engineered non-human
animal that comprises a population of antigen-specific antibodies that express histidine
residue(s) as a result of codon modifications in the light chain variable region gene
sequence, and display pH-dependent binding of target antigen. In one embodiment, these
animals comprise a population of B cells that are enriched for antibodies, e.g., antigen
specific antibodies, that display pH-dependent binding properties (e.g., decreased
dissociative half-life (t1 2), at acidic pH vs neutral pH) as compared to a population of antigen
specific antibodies generated in animals that do not comprise a substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon with a histidine codon in immunoglobulin light chain variable region
described herein. In one embodiment, the enrichment of antigen-specific antibodies
displaying pH-dependent antigen binding properties generated in the genetically engineered
animals described herein as compared to similar animals that do comprise histidine
substitutions in light chain variable region is greater than about 2 fold, e.g., greater than
about 5 fold, e.g., greater than about 10 fold. Thus, the genetically modified animals of the
invention are enriched for antibodies with improved antibody recycling properties, which is
desired in order to reduce target-mediated clearance as well as to reduce the dose and/or
dosing frequency of a therapeutic antigen-binding protein developed based on such in vivo
generated antibody format.
[00117]     Thus, provided herein is an antigen-binding protein, generated in genetically
modified non-human animals described herein, wherein the antigen-binding protein displays
pH-dependent antigen binding. In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein is an
antibody, e.g., antigen-specific antibody. In one embodiment, the antibody comprises a light
chain which comprises a human light chain variable domain derived from a rearrangement of
human immunoglobulin light chain variable gene segments where at least one non-histidine
codon was substituted for a histidine codon in the germline gene sequence, and wherein the
antibody retains at least one histidine substitution in its expressed human light chain variable
domain. In one embodiment, the antibody comprises a light chain which comprises a human
light chain variable domain derived from a single rearranged human light chain variable
region gene sequence, wherein the single rearranged light chain variable region gene
sequence comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon,
and wherein the antibody retains at least one histidine substitution in its expressed light
chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the antibody comprises a light chain derived
from a human VK1-39JK5 or VK3-20JK1 rearrangement, wherein the human VK1-39JK5 or
VK3-20JK1 gene sequence comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with
a histidine codon, and wherein the antibody retains at least one histidine substitution in its
expressed light chain variable domain. In some embodiments, the antibody retains all or
                                                   35

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
substantially all histidine substitutions in its expressed light chain variable domain. In one
embodiment, the substitution is of three non-histidine codons with three histidine codons in
the nucleotide sequence encoding CDR3 of the light chain variable region gene sequence,
and the antibody retains all three histidine substitutions in its expressed light chain variable
domain. In one embodiment, the substitution is of four non-histidine codons with four
histidine codons in the nucleotide sequence encoding CDR3 of the light chain variable
region gene sequence, and the antibody retains three or four histidine substitutions in its
expressed light chain variable domain.
[00118]     In one embodiment, the light chain of the antibody further comprises a non
human light chain constant region amino acid sequence, e.g., endogenous light chain
constant region amino acid sequence. In addition, the antibody, e.g., antigen-specific
antibody, generated in a genetically modified non-human animal described herein also
comprises a heavy chain which comprises a human heavy chain variable domain derived
from a rearrangement of human heavy chain V, D, and J segments. Human heavy chain V,
D, and J segments may be selected from a repertoire of human heavy chain segments
present at the endogenous non-human heavy chain locus, e.g., at least one functional V, at
least one functional D, and at least one functional J segment, e.g., up to a complete
repertoire of functional human V, D, and J segments. Exemplary possible rearrangements
of human heavy chain variable segments may be gleaned from a listing of functional human
V, D, and J segments in IMGT database, and from U.S. Application Publication Nos.
2011/0195454, 2012/0021409, 2012/0192309, and 2013/0045492, incorporated herein by
reference. Furthermore, in one embodiment, the heavy chain of the antibody comprises a
non-human heavy chain constant region amino acid sequence, e.g., an endogenous non
human heavy chain constant region amino acid sequence. In one embodiment, the non
human heavy chain constant region comprises CH1 , hinge, OH2 , and OH 3 domains. In one
embodiment, the antibody is an IgG, IgE, IgD, IgM, or IgA isotype.
[00119]     Thus, in one embodiment, provided herein is a binding protein generated in the
genetically modified non-human animals described herein, wherein the binding protein
comprises a reverse chimeric light chain comprising (a) a light chain variable domain derived
from a human VK1-39JK5 rearrangement comprising a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon, wherein the light chain retains at least one histidine
substitution in its expressed light chain variable domain and (b) a non-human, e.g., a mouse,
light chain constant region amino acid sequence, wherein the light chain is associated with a
reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (a) a heavy chain variable domain derived from a
rearrangement of human V, D, and J segments, wherein the V, D, and J segments are
selected from a repertoire of human V, D, and J segments present in the animal, and (b) a
                                                   36

     WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
non-human, e.g., mouse, heavy chain constant region amino acid sequence. In one
embodiment, the repertoire of human V, D, and J segments comprises at least one
functional V, at least one functional D, and at least one functional J segment, e.g., up to a
complete repertoire of functional human V, D, and J segments. In one embodiment, the
heavy and the light chain constant domains are endogenous heavy and light chain constant
regions. In one embodiment, the heavy and light chain variable domains are somatically
mutated domains. In one embodiment, the somatically mutated light chain domain retains at
least one histidine substitution introduced into the germline sequence. In some
embodiments, the somatically mutated light chain domain retains all or substantially all
histidine substitutions introduced into the germline sequence. In one embodiment, the
antigen-binding protein displays pH-dependent antigen binding properties.
[00120]     In another embodiment, provided herein is a binding protein generated in the
genetically modified non-human animals described herein, wherein the binding protein
comprises a reverse chimeric light chain comprising (a) a light chain variable domain derived
from a human VK3-20JK1 rearrangement comprising a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon, wherein the light chain retains at least one histidine
substitution in its expressed light chain variable domain and (b) a non-human, e.g., a mouse,
light chain constant region amino acid sequence, wherein the light chain is associated with a
reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (a) a heavy chain variable domain derived from a
rearrangement of human V, D, and J segments, wherein the V, D, and J segments are
selected from a repertoire of human V, D, and J segments present in the animal, and (b) a
non-human, e.g., mouse, heavy chain constant region amino acid sequence. In one
embodiment, the repertoire of human V, D, and J segments comprises at least one
functional V, at least one functional D, and at least one functional J segment, e.g., up to a
complete repertoire of functional human V, D, and J segments. In one embodiment, the
heavy and the light chain constant regions are endogenous heavy and light chain constant
regions. In one embodiment, the heavy and light chain variable domains are somatically
mutated domains. In one embodiment, the somatically mutated light chain domain retains at
least one histidine substitution introduced into the germline sequence. In some
embodiments, the somatically mutated light chain domain retains all or substantially all
histidine substitutions introduced into the germline sequence. In one embodiment, the
antigen-binding protein displays pH-dependent antigen binding properties.
[00121]     In one embodiment, also provided herein is a B cell of the genetically modified
animal described herein, that comprises in its germline a histidine-modified human light
chain variable region sequence, e.g., a histidine-modified single rearranged human light
chain variable region sequence, described herein, and expresses an antigen-binding protein
                                                37

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
described herein. In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein, e.g., an antibody,
expressed in the B cell retains at least one histidine residue introduced into the germline,
and displays pH-dependent antigen-binding properties. In some embodiments, the antigen
binding protein, e.g., an antibody, expressed in the B cell retains all or substantially all
histidine residues introduced into the germline, and displays pH-dependent antigen-binding
properties.
[00122]     In various embodiments, the genetically modified non-human animal described
herein comprises a human light chain variable region gene sequence, e.g., a single
rearranged human light chain variable region gene sequence (e.g., Vx1-39JK5 or VK3-20JK1
sequence) that comprises a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine
codon (or an addition of a histidine codon into the germline sequence). These additions or
substitutions result in a non-human animal that comprises a population of B cells enriched
for antigen-binding proteins with pH dependent binding properties for their antigens. In one
embodiment, antigen-binding proteins, e.g., antibodies, generated in the non-human animals
described herein in response to antigen stimulation display pH dependent antigen binding
while exhibiting high affinity for the antigen at neutral pH, e.g., pH between about 7.0 and
about 8.0, e.g., pH between about 7.0 and about 7.4, e.g., between about 7.2 and about 7.4,
e.g., physiological pH. In one embodiment, the affinity of the antigen-binding protein to its
antigen, expressed as a dissociation constant (KD) at a neutral pH is less than 10~6 M, e.g.,
less than 10~8 M, e.g., less than 10-9 M, e.g., less than 1010 M, e.g., less than 1011 M, e.g.,
less than 1012 M.
[00123]     In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein, e.g., an antibody, generated in
the genetically modified non-human animal described herein, exhibits reduced binding to its
antigen in acidic pH (e.g., pH of 6.0 or lower, e.g., pH between about 5.0 and about 6.0, pH
between about 5.75 and about 6.0, e.g., pH of endosomal or lysosomal compartments) as
compared to neutral pH. In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein, e.g., the antibody,
generated in the genetically modified non-human animal described herein, exhibits no
binding to the antigen in acidic pH, while retaining binding to the antigen at neutral pH. In
one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein generated by the genetically modified non
human animal described herein, has a decrease in dissociative half-life (t1 2 ) at an acidic pH
as compared to the dissociative half-life (t112) of the antigen-binding protein at a neutral pH of
at least about 2-fold, at least about 3-fold, at least about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least
about 10-fold, at least about 15-fold, at least about 20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at least
about 30-fold. In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein expressed by the genetically
modified non-human animal described herein has a t1/ 2 at an acidic pH and 37*C of about 2
min or less. In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein expressed by the genetically
                                                  38

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
modified non-human animal described herein has a        t1/ 2 at an acidic pH and 37*C of less than
about 1 min. In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein expressed by the genetically
modified non-human animal described herein has a t1/2 at an acidic pH and 25 0 C of about 2
min or less. In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein expressed by the genetically
modified non-human animal described herein has a t1/ 2 at an acidic pH and 25 0 C of less than
about 1 min.
[00124]     Kinetic parameters, such as equilibrium dissociation constants (KD) and
dissociative half-lives (t,/) can be calculated from kinetic rate constant as: KD (M)    = kd  k;a
and ty, (min) = In2/(60*kd).
[00125]      In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein, e.g., an antibody, generated in
the genetically modified non-human animals described herein, exhibits increased binding to
FcRn molecule. As described above, FcRn is a receptor present inside the endosomal
compartment that is capable of binding immunoglobulins at an acidic pH and recycling them
back to the surface. Screening antibody molecules in the genetically modified non-human
animals described herein presents a unique opportunity to select for antibodies with three
beneficial parameters: high affinity for an antigen, pH-dependent antigen binding (with
weaker antigen binding at acidic pH) and increased binding to FcRn.
[00126]      In one embodiment, a genetically modified non-human animal described herein
comprises a population of B cells in response to an antigen that produces and is enriched for
antigen-binding proteins, e.g., antibodies, that, when reformatted into therapeutics, exhibit
increased serum half life upon administration of a therapeutic dose to a subject over an
equivalent B cell population produced in response to the same antigen in non-human
animals that do not comprise histidine modification(s) in their human light chain variable
region gene sequences. Thus, in one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein, e.g., an
antibody, produced in response to an antigen of interest in a genetically modified non-human
animal described herein, when reformatted into a therapeutic, exhibits increased serum half
life upon administration of a therapeutic dose to a subject over a serum half life of an
antigen-binding protein (when reformatted into a therapeutic and administered at the same
therapeutic dose) that was produced in response to the same antigen in a non-human
animal that does not comprise histidine modification(s) in its human light chain variable
region gene sequence. In some embodiments, the increase in serum half life is about 2 fold,
e.g., about 5 fold, e.g., about 10 fold, e.g., about 15 fold, e.g., about 20 fold, or greater.
 [00127]     In one aspect, a pluripotent, induced pluripotent, or totipotent cell derived from a
non-human as described herein is provided. In a specific embodiment, the cell is an
embryonic stem (ES) cell.
                                                  39

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
[00128]      In one aspect, a tissue derived from a non-human animal as described herein is
provided. In one embodiment, the tissue is derived from spleen, lymph node or bone
marrow of a non-human animal as described herein.
[00129]      In one aspect, a nucleus derived from a non-human animal as described herein is
provided. In one embodiment, the nucleus is from a diploid cell that is not a B cell.
[00130]      In one aspect, a non-human cell is provided that is isolated from a non-human
animal (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) as described herein. In one embodiment, the
cell is an ES cell. In one embodiment, the cell is a lymphocyte. In one embodiment, the
lymphocyte is a B cell. In one embodiment, the B cell expresses a chimeric heavy chain
comprising a variable domain derived from a human gene segment; and a light chain
derived from a rearranged human VK1-39/J sequence with a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with histidine codon, rearranged human VK3-20/J sequence with a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with histidine codon, or a combination thereof
and further comprising a substitution of at least one amino acid encoded in the germline for
a histidine; wherein the heavy chain variable domain is fused to a non-human or a human
heavy chain constant region and the light chain variable domain is fused to a non-human or
a human light chain constant region.
[00131]      In one aspect, a hybridoma is provided, wherein the hybridoma is made with a B
cell of a non-human animal as described herein. In a specific embodiment, the B cell is from
a mouse as described herein that has been immunized with an immunogen comprising an
epitope of interest, and the B cell expresses a binding protein that binds the epitope of
interest, the binding protein has a somatically mutated human variable heavy chain domain
and a mouse CH, and has a human variable light chain domain derived from a rearranged
human VK1-39JK5 with a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with histidine codon
or a rearranged human VK3-20JK1 with a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon
with histidine codon and a mouse CL, wherein the human light chain domain comprises a
substitution of at least one amino acid encoded in the germline with a histidine.
[00132]      Also provided is a cell expressing an antigen-binding protein generated in the
non-human animals described herein. In one embodiment, the cell is selected from CHO,
COS, 293, HeLa, and a retinal cell expressing a viral nucleic acid sequence (e.g., a
PERC.6    TM cell).
[00133]      In one aspect, a non-human embryo is provided, wherein the embryo comprises
a donor ES cell that is derived from a non-human animal as described herein.
                                                40

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
 [00134]     The non-human animals described herein are useful to generate B cells that
express antibodies having histidines in a CDR3. An animal that places histidines in a CDR3
is useful for making antibodies in general, and in particular useful for developing antibodies
that bind a target with sufficient affinity at or around a neutral pH, but that either do not bind
or that bind weaker to the same target at an acidic pH.
 [00135]     The non-human animal is useful to generate variable regions of antibodies that
can be used to make, e.g., human therapeutic binding proteins that bind their targets by
human immunoglobulin variable domains that comprise the histidines in a CDR3. The
altered binding at a lower pH will in some circumstances allow faster turnover because the
therapeutic will bind a target on a cell's surface, be internalized in an endosome, and more
readily or more rapidly dissociate from the target in the endosome, so that the therapeutic
can be recycled to bind yet another molecule of target (e.g., on another cell or the same
cell). In some circumstances, this will result in the ability to dose the therapeutic at a lower
dose, or dose the therapeutic less frequently. This is particularly useful where it is not
desirable to dose frequently, or to administer above a certain dosage, for safety or toxicity
reasons. As a result, the serum half life of the antibody therapeutic when administered to a
subject will be increased.
[00136]      The non-human animal, e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat, is useful in a method for
increasing the number of B cells in an animal that exhibit an antibody variable region having
a CDR3 with one or more histidines in it. The non-human animal is useful for generating
antibody sequences that will exhibit pH-dependent antigen binding. The non-human animal
is useful for generating a greater number of antibody sequences, resulting from a single
immunization, wherein the antibodies will exhibit a pH-dependent antigen binding.
Antigen-Binding Proteins and Methods of Generating the Same
[00137]      In one aspect, also provided herein are methods for generating human antigen
binding proteins, e.g., antibodies, which exhibit pH-dependent antigen binding, from the
genetically modified non-human animals described herein with standard methods used in
the art.
 [00138]     Several techniques for producing antibodies have been described. For example,
in various embodiments chimeric antibodies are produced in mice as described herein.
Antibodies can be isolated directly from B cells of an immunized mouse (e.g., see U.S.
2007/0280945A1) and/or the B cells of the immunized mouse can be used to make
hybridomas (Kohler and Milstein, 1975, Nature 256:495-497). DNA encoding the antibodies
(human heavy and/or light chains) from non-human animals as described herein is readily
isolated and sequenced using conventional techniques. Hybridoma and/or B cells derived
                                                   41

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
 from non-human animals as described herein serve as a preferred source of such DNA.
 Once isolated, the DNA may be placed into expression vectors, which are then transfected
 into host cells that do not otherwise produce immunoglobulin protein, to obtain the synthesis
 of monoclonal antibodies in the recombinant host cells. The DNA also may be modified, for
 example, by substituting the coding sequence for human heavy and light chain constant
 domains in place of the non-human sequences. Thus, once nucleic acid sequences of
 antibodies with desired characteristics, e.g., affinity, epitope, pH-dependent antigen binding,
etc., are determined, the non-human constant region gene sequences are replaced with a
 desired human constant region sequences to generate a fully human antibody containing a
 non-IgM isotype, for example, IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4.
 [00139]     Thus, in one embodiment provided herein is a method of generating an antibody
that exhibits pH-dependent antigen binding properties comprising generating a non-human
animal (e.g., a mouse) as described herein, immunizing a mouse with an antigen of interest,
allowing a non-human animal to mount an immune response to the antigen, and selecting in
the non-human animal an antigen-specific antibody that exhibits pH dependent antigen
binding properties, e.g., weaker binding to the antigen at an acidic than at neutral pH.
[00140]      Also provided herein are methods of making multi-specific antigen binding
proteins, e.g., bispecific antigen-binding proteins. These are molecules capable of binding
more than one epitope with high affinity. Advantages of the invention include the ability to
select suitably high binding (e.g., affinity matured) heavy chain immunoglobulin chains each
of which will associate with a single light chain. In addition, advantages of the invention
include the ability to generate a multi-specific, e.g., a bispecific, antigen-binding protein that
exhibits pH-dependent antigen binding.
[00141]      Because of the dual nature of bispecific antibodies (i.e., may be specific for
different epitopes of one polypeptide or may contain antigen-binding domains specific for
more than one target polypeptide, see, e.g., Tutt et al., 1991, J. Immunol. 147:60-69; Kufer
et al., 2004, Trends Biotechnol. 22:238-244), they offer many useful advantages for
therapeutic application. For example, the bispecific antibodies can be used for redirected
cytotoxicity (e.g., to kill tumor cells), as a vaccine adjuvant, for delivering thrombolytic agents
to clots, for converting enzyme activated prodrugs at a target site (e.g., a tumor), for treating
infectious diseases, targeting immune complexes to cell surface receptors, or for delivering
immunotoxins to tumor cells.
[00142]      The bispecific antibodies described herein can also be used in several
therapeutic and non-therapeutic and/or diagnostic assay methods, such as, enzyme
immunoassays, two-site immunoassays, in vitro or in vivo immunodiagnosis of various
                                                   42

      WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
diseases (e.g., cancer), competitive binding assays, direct and indirect sandwich assays,
and immunoprecipitation assays. Other uses for the bispecific antibodies will be apparent to
those skilled in the art.
[00143]       Several techniques for making bispecific antibody fragments from recombinant
cell culture have been reported. However, synthesis and expression of bispecific binding
proteins has been problematic, in part due to issues associated with identifying a suitable
light chain that can associate and express with two different heavy chains, and in part due to
isolation issues. In various embodiments, compositions and methods described herein
provide the advantage of full length bispecific antibodies that do not require special
modification(s) to maintain traditional immunoglobulin structure by increasing
stability/interaction of the components. In various embodiments, such modification(s) has
proven cumbersome and served as an obstacle to development of bispecific antibody
technology and their potential use in treating for human disease. Thus, in various
embodiments, through providing a natural immunoglobulin structure (i.e., full length) having
the added property of multiple specificities, full length bispecific antibodies maintain their
critical effector functions that previous bispecific fragments lacked, and further provide
therapeutics that demonstrate the important pharmacokinetic parameter of a longer half-life.
[00144]       Methods and compositions described herein allow for a genetically modified
mouse to select, through otherwise natural processes, a suitable light chain that can
associate and express with more than one heavy chain, including heavy chains that are
somatically mutated (e.g., affinity matured), wherein the light chain further confers upon the
antigen-binding protein its pH-dependent antigen binding property. Human heavy and light
chain variable region sequences from suitable B cells of immunized mice as described
herein that express affinity matured antibodies having reverse chimeric heavy chains (i.e.,
human variable and mouse constant) can be identified and cloned in frame in an expression
vector with a suitable human constant region gene sequence (e.g., a human IgG1). Two
such constructs can be prepared, wherein each construct encodes a human heavy chain
variable domain that binds a different epitope. One of the human light chain variable regions
(e.g., human VK1-39JK5 or human Vx3-20Jx1), comprising a substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, can be fused in frame to a suitable human light
chain constant region gene (e.g., a human       K constant gene). These three fully human heavy
and light constructs can be placed in a suitable cell for expression. The cell will express two
major species: a homodimeric heavy chain with the identical light chain, and a
heterodimeric heavy chain with the identical light chain. To allow for a facile separation of
these major species, one of the heavy chains is modified to omit a Protein A-binding
determinant, resulting in a differential affinity of a homodimeric binding protein from a
                                                   43

     WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
heterodimeric binding protein. Compositions and methods that address this issue are
described in USSN 12/832,838, filed 25 June 2010, entitled "Readily Isolated Bispecific
Antibodies with Native Immunoglobulin Format," published as US 2010/0331527A1, hereby
incorporated by reference. Once the specie comprising heterodimeric heavy chain with an
identical light chain is selected, this bi-specific antigen binding protein can be screened to
confirm the retention of its pH-dependent antigen binding property.
[00145]      In one aspect, an epitope-binding protein as described herein is provided,
wherein human light chain and heavy chain variable region sequences are derived from
animals described herein that have been immunized with an antigen comprising an epitope
of interest.
[00146]      In one embodiment, an epitope-binding protein is provided that comprises a first
and a second polypeptide, the first polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a
first epitope-binding region that selectively binds a first epitope, followed by a constant
region that comprises a first CH3 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG4, and
a combination thereof; and, a second polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal,
a second epitope-binding region that selectively binds a second epitope, followed by a
constant region that comprises a second       CH3  region of a human IgG selected from IgG1,
IgG2, IgG4, and a combination thereof, wherein the second         CH3  region comprises a
                                                                      3
modification that reduces or eliminates binding of the second      CH    domain to protein A.
Various such modifications are described in, e.g., U.S. Application Publication Nos.
2010/0331527 and 2011/0195454, incorporated herein by reference.
[00147]      One method for making an epitope-binding protein that binds more than one
epitope and exhibits pH-dependent epitope binding property is to immunize a first mouse in
accordance with the invention with an antigen that comprises a first epitope of interest,
wherein the mouse comprises (1) an endogenous immunoglobulin light chain variable region
locus that does not contain an endogenous mouse light chain variable region gene
sequence that is capable of rearranging and forming a light chain, wherein at the
endogenous mouse immunoglobulin light chain variable region locus is a single rearranged
human light chain variable region operably linked to the mouse endogenous light chain
constant region gene, and the rearranged human light chain variable region is selected from
a human VK1-39JK5 and a human VK3-20JK1 comprising a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine condon, and (2) the endogenous mouse VH gene segments
have been replaced in whole or in part with human        VH gene segments, such that
immunoglobulin heavy chains made by the mouse are solely or substantially heavy chains
that comprise human variable domains and mouse constant domains. When immunized,
such a mouse will make a reverse chimeric antibody, comprising only one of two human light
                                                   44

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
chain variable domains (e.g., one of human VK1-39JK5 or human VK3-20JK1, e.g.,
comprising a substitution of at least one amino acid with a histidine). Commonly, at least
some of the substituted histidine residues introduced into the germline sequence will be
retained in the reverse chimeric antibody. Once a B cell is identified that encodes a heavy
chain variable domain that binds the epitope of interest and expresses an antibody that
exhibits pH-dependent antigen binding properties, the nucleotide sequence of the heavy
chain variable region (and, optionally, the light chain variable region) can be retrieved (e.g.,
by PCR) and cloned into an expression construct in frame with a suitable human
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region sequence. This process can be repeated to
identify a second heavy chain variable domain that binds a second epitope, and a second
heavy chain variable region gene sequence can be retrieved and cloned into an expression
vector in frame to a second suitable human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region
sequence. The first and the second immunoglobulin constant domains encoded by the
constant region gene sequence can be the same or different isotype, and one of the
immunoglobulin constant domains (but not the other) can be modified as described herein or
in US 2010/0331527A1, and epitope-binding protein can be expressed in a suitable cell and
isolated based on its differential affinity for Protein A as compared to a homodimeric epitope
binding protein, e.g., as described in US 2010/0331527A1.
[00148]      Thus, in various embodiments, following isolation of the DNA and selection of the
first and second nucleic acid sequences that encode the first and second human heavy
chain variable domains having the desired specificities/affinities, and a third nucleic acid
sequence that encodes a human light chain domain (a germline rearranged sequence or a
light chain sequence isolated from a non-human animal as described herein) and comprises
a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, the three nucleic
acids sequences encoding the molecules are expressed to form the bispecific antibody
using recombinant techniques which are widely available in the art. Often, the expression
system of choice will involve a mammalian cell expression vector and host so that the
bispecific antibody is appropriately glycosylated (e.g., in the case of bispecific antibodies
comprising antibody domains which are glycosylated). However, the molecules can also be
produced in the prokaryotic expression systems. Normally, the host cell will be transformed
with DNA encoding both the first human heavy chain variable domain, the second human
heavy chain variable domain, the human light chain domain on a single vector or
independent vectors. However, it is possible to express the first human heavy chain variable
domain, second human heavy chain variable domain, and human light chain domain (the
bispecific antibody components) in independent expression systems and couple the
expressed polypeptides in vitro. In various embodiments, the human light chain domain is
                                                  45

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
derived from a germline sequence but for the substitution of at least one non-histidine codon
with a histidine codon, e.g., in a CDR codon. In various embodiments, the human light chain
domain comprises no more than one, no more than two, no more than three, no more than
four, or no more than five somatic hypermutations within the light chain variable sequence of
the light chain domain. In some embodiments, the somatic hypermutations do not alter the
presence of at least one histidine residue introduced into the germline sequence of the light
chain variable region.
[00149]      In various embodiments, the nucleic acid(s) (e.g., cDNA or genomic DNA)
encoding the two heavy chains and single human light chain with a substitution of at least
one non-histidine with a histidine is inserted into a replicable vector for further cloning
(amplification of the DNA) and/or for expression. Many vectors are available, and generally
include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: a signal sequence, an origin of
replication, one or more marker genes, an enhancer element, a promoter, and a
transcription termination sequence. Each component may be selected individually or based
on a host cell choice or other criteria determined experimentally. Several examples of each
component are known in the art.
[00150]      Expression and cloning vectors usually contain a promoter that is recognized by
the host organism and is operably linked to the nucleic acid sequences that encode each or
all the components of the bispecific antibody. A large number of promoters recognized by a
variety of potential host cells are well known. These promoters are operably linked to
bispecific antibody-encoding DNA by removing the promoter from the source DNA by
restriction enzyme digestion and inserting the isolated promoter sequence into the vector.
[00151]      Expression vectors used in eukaryotic host cells (yeast, fungi, insect, plant,
animal, human, or nucleated cells from other multicellular organisms) may also contain
sequences necessary for the termination of transcription and for stabilizing the mRNA. Such
sequences are commonly available from the 5' and, occasionally 3', untranslated regions of
eukaryotic or viral DNAs or cDNAs. These regions contain nucleotide segments transcribed
as polyadenylated fragments in the untranslated portion of the mRNA encoding the
bispecific antibody components. Suitable expression vectors for various embodiments
include those that provide for the transient expression in mammalian cells of DNA encoding
the bispecific antibody. In general, transient expression involves the use of an expression
vector that is able to replicate efficiently in a host cell, such that the host cell accumulates
many copies of the expression vector and, in turn, synthesizes high levels of a desired
polypeptide encoded by the expression vector. Transient expression systems, comprising a
suitable expression vector and a host cell, allow for the convenient positive identification of
polypeptides encoded by cloned DNAs, as well as for the rapid screening of bispecific
                                                   46

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
antibodies having desired binding specificities/affinities or the desired gel migration
characteristics relative to the parental antibodies having homodimers of the first or second
human heavy chain variable domains.
[00152]      In various embodiments, once the DNA encoding the components of the
bispecific antibody are assembled into the desired vector(s) as described above, they are
introduced into a suitable host cell for expression and recovery. Transfecting host cells can
be accomplished using standard techniques known in the art appropriate to the host cell
selected (e.g., electroporation, nuclear microinjection, bacterial protoplast fusion with intact
cells, or polycations, e.g., polybrene, polyornithine, etc.).
[00153]      A host cell is chosen, in various embodiments, that best suits the expression
vector containing the components and allows for the most efficient and favorable production
of the bispecific antibody species. Exemplary host cells for expression include those of
prokaryotes and eukaryotes (single-cell or multiple-cell), bacterial cells (e.g., strains of E.
coli, Bacillus spp., Streptomyces spp., etc.), mycobacteria cells, fungal cells, yeast cells
(e.g., S. cerevisiae, S. pombe, P. pastoris, P. methanolica, etc.), plant cells, insect cells
(e.g., SF-9, SF-21, baculovirus-infected insect cells, Trichoplusia ni, etc.), non-human animal
cells, human cells, or cell fusions such as, for example, hybridomas or quadromas. In
various embodiments, the cell is a human, monkey, ape, hamster, rat, or mouse cell. In
various embodiments, the cell is eukaryotic cell selected from CHO (e.g., CHO K1, DXB-11
CHO, Veggie-CHO), COS (e.g., COS-7), retinal cell, Vero, CV1, kidney (e.g., HEK293, 293
EBNA, MSR 293, MDCK, HaK, BHK), HeLa, HepG2, W138, MRC 5, Colo205, HB 8065, HL
60, (e.g., BHK21), Jurkat, Daudi, A431 (epidermal), CV-1, U937, 3T3, L cell, C127 cell,
SP2/0, NS-0, MMT 060562, Sertoli cell, BRL 3A cell, HT1 080 cell, myeloma cell, tumor cell,
and a cell line derived from an aforementioned cell. In various embodiments, the cell
comprises one or more viral genes, e.g. a retinal cell that expresses a viral gene (e.g., a
PER.C6 T M cell).
[00154]      Mammalian host cells used to produce the bispecific antibody may be cultured in
a variety of media. Commercially available media such as Ham's F10 (Sigma), Minimal
Essential Medium ((MEM), Sigma), RPMI-1640 (Sigma), and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's
Medium ((DMEM), Sigma) are suitable for culturing the host cells. Media may be
supplemented as necessary with hormones and/or other growth factors (such as insulin,
transferrin, or epidermal growth factor), salts (such as sodium chloride, calcium, magnesium,
and phosphate), buffers (such as HEPES), nucleosides (such as adenosine and thymidine),
                                       TM
antibiotics (such as GENTAMYCIN           ), trace elements (defined as inorganic compounds
usually present at final concentrations in the micromolar range), and glucose or an
equivalent energy source. Any other supplements may also be included at appropriate
                                                    47

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
concentrations as known to those skilled in the art. The culture conditions, such as
temperature, pH, and the like, are, in various embodiments, those previously used with the
host cell selected for expression, and will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
[00155]      The bispecific antibody may be recovered from the culture medium as a secreted
polypeptide, although it also may be recovered from host cell lysate when directly produced
without a secretory signal. If the bispecific antibody is membrane-bound, it can be released
from the membrane using a suitable detergent solution (e.g., Triton-X 100).
[00156]      Following isolation, a bispecific antibody comprising a two human heavy chains
and a single human light chain derived from a rearranged human light chain variable region
gene sequence selected from VO1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 sequences that comprise a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, is screened for its
ability to exhibit pH dependent binding to one, preferably both of its antigens. The ability of
bispecific antibodies to bind its antigens differently at neutral and acidic pH's (e.g., their
ability to demonstrate decreased    t1/ 2 at acidic pH compared to neutral pH) can be
determined by a variety of techniques available in the art and described in the following
examples, e.g., BIACORETM assay.
Additional Methods for Generating Antigen-Binding Proteins with pH-Dependent
Antigen Binding
[00157]      Various methods of generating antigen-binding proteins with pH-dependent
antigen binding properties in genetically modified non-human animals described herein are
provided. Also provided are methods of generating antigen binding proteins with pH
dependent antigen binding properties in vitro. Such methods may involve generating
various components of the antigen-binding proteins in vivo in genetically modified non
human animals, and then modifying them and reassembling them in vitro outside an
organism as protein complexes expressed in mammalian cell culture.
[00158]      In one embodiment, the method of generating antigen-binding proteins with pH
dependent antigen binding properties utilizes an antigen-binding protein sequence, e.g., an
antibody sequence, that is generated in a mouse comprising a limited repertoire of light
chain variable region V and J segments, e.g., human light chain variable region V and J
segments, "universal light chain" or "common light chain" mouse ("ULC" mouse), such as the
mouse described in U.S. Application Publication Nos. 2011/0195454, 2012/0021409,
2012/0192300 and 2013/0045492, all incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment,
the method of generating antigen-binding proteins with pH-dependent antigen binding
properties utilizes an antigen binding protein sequence that is generated in a mouse
comprising a single rearranged human light chain variable region gene sequence. In one
                                                    48

      WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
embodiment, the method utilizes an antigen binding protein generated in a mouse
comprising a single rearranged human light chain variable region gene sequence selected
from human VK1-39JK5 and human VK3-20J1.
[00159]      In one embodiment, the method for generating an antigen-binding protein, e.g.,
an antibody, with pH dependent antigen binding properties comprises selecting a first
antibody that binds to an antigen of interest (e.g., binds to an antigen of interest with a
desired affinity), modifying an immunoglobulin light chain nucleotide sequence of the first
antibody to comprise a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine
codon, expressing an immunoglobulin heavy chain of the first antibody and the modified
immunoglobulin light chain in a cell, and selecting a second antibody expressed in the cell
that retains binding to the antigen of interest (e.g., retains desired affinity for the antigen of
interest) at neutral pH and displays reduced binding to the antigen of interest at an acidic
pH.
[00160]      In one embodiment, the method for generating an antigen-binding protein, e.g.,
an antibody, with pH dependent antigen binding properties comprises selecting an
immunoglobulin heavy chain from an antibody (e.g., obtained from a non-human animal,
e.g., a mouse, e.g., a ULC mouse) that comprises an immunoglobulin light chain having a
single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence wherein the
antibody binds to an antigen of interest (e.g., binds to an antigen of interest with a desired
affinity); modifying the nucleic acid sequence of the immunoglobulin light chain such that the
single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprises a
substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon; expressing the
selected immunoglobulin heavy chain and the immunoglobulin light chain comprising the
substitution of at least one amino acid with a histidine in its variable domain; and selecting
an antibody that retains binding to the antigen of interest at a neutral pH (e.g., retains
desired affinity to the antigen of interest) while displaying reduced binding to the antigen of
 interest at an acidic pH. In various embodiments, the immunoglobulin heavy chain is
derived from a rearrangement of human heavy chain variable gene segments (human V, D,
and J segments).
 [00161]      In one embodiment, the method for generating an antigen-binding protein, e.g.,
 an antibody, with pH-dependent antigen binding properties comprises (1) immunizing a non
 human animal, e.g., a mouse, comprising a single rearranged human light chain variable
 region gene sequence and a repertoire of unrearranged human heavy chain variable gene
segments (V, D, and J segments) with an antigen of interest and allowing a mouse to mount
 an immune response to said antigen, (2) selecting in the non-human animal, e.g., in the
 mouse, an antibody that binds to the antigen of interest with a desired affinity, (3) isolating
                                                  49

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
from the non-human animal, e.g., from the mouse, a nucleotide sequence of an
immunoglobulin heavy chain of the antibody that binds to the antigen of interest with a
desired affinity, (4) determining the nucleotide sequence of said heavy chain, (5) modifying a
nucleotide sequence of an immunoglobulin light chain containing the single rearranged
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region to comprise a substitution of at least one
non-histidine codon with a histidine codon, (6) expressing the immunoglobulin heavy chain
of the antibody that binds to the antigen of interest with desired affinity and the
immunoglobulin light chain comprising the histidine modification in a cell, and (7)
determining whether the antibody expressed in the cell retains binding to the antigen at a
neutral pH while displaying reduced binding at an acidic pH. In one embodiment, the
antibody expressed in the cell exhibits desired affinity to the antigen at neutral pH. In
various embodiments, the immunoglobulin heavy chain is derived from a rearrangement of
human heavy chain variable gene segments (human V, D, and J segments).
[00162]     In one embodiment, the mouse comprising a single rearranged human light chain
variable region gene sequence is a universal light chain or common light chain "ULC" mouse
described in, e.g., U.S. Application Publication Nos. 2011/0195454, 2012/0021409,
2012/0192300 and 2013/0045492. In one embodiment, the single rearranged human light
chain variable region gene sequence is selected from human VK1-39JK5 and human VK3
20JK1 sequence.
[00163]     In one embodiment, the antigen of interest is selected from a soluble antigen, a
cell surface antigen (e.g., a tumor antigen) and a cell surface receptor. In a specific
embodiment, the cell surface receptor is an immunoglobulin receptor. In a specific
embodiment, the immunoglobulin receptor is an Fc receptor.
[00164]     In one embodiment, the desired affinity of an antibody for an antigen expressed
as a dissociation constant (KD) at a neutral pH is less than 10-6 M, e.g., less than 108 M, e.g.,
less than 109 M, e.g., less than 10-10 M, e.g., less than 1011 M, e.g., less than 1012 M.
[00165]     As explained above, the ULC mice, in one embodiment, comprise a single
rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable gene sequence, and express
antibodies in response to the antigen where the affinity of antibodies to the antigen is
primarily mediated through the heavy chains of their antibodies. These mice comprise a
repertoire of human heavy chain variable (V, D, and J) segments, that rearrange to encode a
human heavy chain variable domain of an antibody that also comprises the light chain
derived from the single rearranged human light chain variable sequence. In one
embodiment, upon antigen exposure, these mice utilize the diverse repertoire of human
heavy chain variable (V, D, and J) segments to generate an antibody with affinity to and
                                                50

      WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
specificity for the antigen. Thus, upon exposure to the antigen, the nucleotide sequence of
an immunoglobulin heavy chain of the antibody generated in the ULC mice may be isolated
and utilized to generate a desired binding protein also comprising an immunoglobulin light
chain derived from the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region
sequence (e.g., the single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region
sequence with a substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a histidine codon).
[00166]      In one embodiment of the ULC mice, 90-100% of unrearranged non-human          VH
gene segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged human        VH  gene segment. In a
specific embodiment, all or substantially all (e.g., 90-100%) of the endogenous non-human
VH   gene segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged human       VH  gene segment. In
one embodiment, the replacement is with at least 19, at least 39, or at least 80 or 81
unrearranged human       VH gene segments. In one embodiment, the replacement is with at
least 12 functional unrearranged human     VH  gene segments, at least 25 functional
unrearranged human       VH gene segments, or at least 43 functional unrearranged human    VH
gene segments. In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all
non-human      DH and JH  segments with at least one unrearranged human     DH  segment and at
least one unrearranged human      JH segment. In one embodiment, the non-human animal
comprises a replacement of all non-human      DH  and  JH segments with all unrearranged
human    DH  segments and all unrearranged human      JH segments. Thus, the ULC mouse
utilizes a diverse repertoire of human variable region gene segments (V, D, and J segments)
to generate an antibody in response to the antigen of interest.
[00167]      Once the heavy chain of the antibody that binds to the antigen of interest with the
desired affinity is determined, the nucleotide sequence of the heavy chain is isolated and
sequenced. The sequence is cloned into a vector for expression in suitable host cells, e.g.,
eukaryotic cells, e.g., CHO cells. In one embodiment, the sequence of a human heavy chain
constant region is cloned downstream of the human heavy chain variable region sequence
isolated from the mouse (e.g., from the ULC mouse).
[00168]      In one embodiment, the method of generating an antigen-binding protein with pH
dependent antigen-binding properties comprises modifying a nucleotide sequence of the
immunoglobulin light chain, particularly the sequence of the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region, to comprise a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon. Various techniques for modifying a nucleotide
sequence are known in the art, e.g., site directed mutagenesis. In addition, a nucleotide
sequence comprising the desired histidine substitution may be synthesized de novo.
                                                 51

    WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
[00169]     In one embodiment, the substitution of at least one non-histidine codon with a
histidine codon comprises a substitution resulting in expression of one, two, three, four, or
more histidine residues. In one embodiment, the substitution(s) results in expression of
three or four histidine residues. In one embodiment, the substitution(s) is in the
immunoglobulin light chain variable region. In one embodiment, the substitution(s) is in the
CDR codon, e.g., CDR1, CDR3, and/or CDR3 codon. In one embodiment, the
substitution(s) is in the CDR3 codon.
[00170]     In one embodiment, wherein the immunoglobulin light chain nucleic acid
sequence comprises VK1-39Jx5 gene sequence, and the substitution(s) is in the CDR3
codon, the substitution results in expression of a histidine at position selected from 105, 106,
108, 111, and combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in
expression of histidines at positions 105, 106, 108, and 111. In one embodiment, the
substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 105 and 106. In one embodiment,
the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 105 and 108. In one
embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 105 and 111. In
one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 106 and
108. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 106
and 111. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions
108 and 111. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at
positions 105, 106, and 108. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of
histidines at positions 105, 106, and 111.    In one embodiment, the substitutions result in
expression of histidines at positions 105, 108, and 111. In one embodiment, the
substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 106, 108, and 111. Amino acid
and nucleic acid sequences of Vx1-39JK5 CDR3 regions comprising various histidine
substitutions are depicted in FIG. 2 and included in the sequence listing.
[00171]     In one embodiment, wherein the immunoglobulin light chain nucleic acid
sequence comprises VK3-20JK1 gene sequence, and the substitution(s) is in the CDR3
codon, the substitution results in expression of a histidine at position selected from 105, 106,
107, 109, and combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in
expression of histidines at positions 105, 106, 107, and 109. In one embodiment, the
substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 105 and 106. In one embodiment,
the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 105 and 107. In one
embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 105 and 109. In
one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 106 and
107. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 106
and 109. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions
                                                 52

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
107 and 109. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of histidines at
positions 105, 106, and 107. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in expression of
histidines at positions 105, 106, and 109. In one embodiment, the substitutions result in
expression of histidines at positions 105, 107, and 109. In one embodiment, the
substitutions result in expression of histidines at positions 106, 107, and 109. Selected
amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of VK3-20JK1 CDR3 regions comprising various
histidine substitutions are depicted in FIG. 12 and included in the sequence listing.
[00172]      Once the sequence of immunoglobulin light chain, e.g., human immunoglobulin
light chain variable domain, is modified to include histidine residues at desired positions, the
nucleotide sequence of the light chain is cloned into a vector for expression in suitable host
cells, e.g., eukaryotic cells, e.g., CHO cells. In one embodiment, the sequence of a human
light chain constant region is cloned downstream of the modified nucleotide sequence of
human variable region.
[00173]      In one embodiment, vectors comprising nucleotide sequence encoding modified
human immunoglobulin light chain and selected human immunoglobulin heavy chain are co
expressed in a suitable host cell, e.g., eukaryotic host cell, e.g., CHO cell, to generate an
antigen-binding protein. Various host cells that can be used for expression are known in the
art and are mentioned throughout this specification.
[00174]      An antigen-binding protein, e.g., an antibody, generated in the host cell may be
secreted into cell supernatant, which is screened for proper expression and affinity for the
original antigen at neutral pH. The antigen-binding protein may also be recovered from cell
lysate, or, if membrane bound, released from the membrane using a suitable detergent (e.g.,
Triton-X). The antigen-binding protein with desired characteristics may be purified.
[00175]      In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein comprising histidine
modification(s) retains the affinity to the antigen that is comparable to the affinity to the
antigen of the same (original) antigen-binding protein that does not comprise histidine
modification(s). In one embodiment, the affinity of the histidine-modified antigen-binding
protein for the antigen of interest expressed as a dissociation constant (KD) at a neutral pH is
less than 10-6 M, e.g., less than 10-'M, e.g., less than 10~9 M, e.g., less than 10-10 M, e.g.,
less than 10-11 M, e.g., less than   10-12 M.
[00176]      In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein, e.g., an antibody, comprising
histidine modifications described herein exhibits pH dependent antigen binding properties.
In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein comprising histidine modifications
possesses enhanced pH dependent properties over an equivalent antigen-binding protein
without the histidine modifications (antigen-binding protein of the same amino acid sequence
                                                  53

     WO 2013/138680                                                              PCT/US2013/031823
but for the histidine modifications). In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein
described herein retains binding to the antigen at neutral pH (e.g., retains desired affinity for
the antigen at neutral pH) while displaying reduced binding at an acidic pH. In one
embodiment, the antigen-binding protein, e.g., the antibody, described herein, exhibits no
binding to the antigen in acidic pH, while retaining binding to the antigen at neutral pH. In
one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein described herein, has a decrease in
dissociative half-life (t1/2 ) at an acidic pH as compared to the dissociative half-life (t 2) of the
antigen-binding protein at a neutral pH of at least about 2-fold, at least about 3-fold, at least
about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, at least about 15-fold, at least about
20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at least about 30-fold. In one embodiment, an antigen
binding protein described herein has a       t1/ 2 at an acidic pH and 370C of about 2 min or less.
In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein described herein has a t1 /2 at an acidic pH
and 370C of less than about 1 min. In one embodiment, an antigen-binding protein
described herein has a t1/2 at an acidic pH and 250C of about 2 min or less. In one
embodiment, an antigen-binding protein described herein has a t1 /2 at an acidic pH and 250C
of less than about 1 min.
[00177]      In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein e.g., the antibody, comprising
histidine modifications described herein, exhibits increased serum half life upon
administration of a therapeutic dose to a subject as compared to a serum half life upon
administration of an equivalent therapeutic dose of antigen-binding protein that does not
comprise histidine modifications (e.g., the original antigen-binding protein that does not
comprise histidine modifications). In some embodiments, the increase in serum half life
upon administration of a dose of the antigen-binding protein comprising histidine
modifications described herein over a serum half life upon administration of the same dose
of the antigen-binding protein not comprising histidine modifications is about 2 fold, e.g.,
about 5 fold, e.g., about 10 fold, e.g., about 15 fold, e.g., about 20 fold, or greater. In one
embodiment, serum half-life is at least about 1 day, e.g., at least about 2 days, e.g., at least
about 7 days, e.g., at least about 14 days, e.g., at least about 30 days, e.g., at least about
60 days.
[00178]      In addition to the in vitro methods for generating antigen-binding proteins with pH
dependent antigen binding properties described above, also provided herein are antigen
binding proteins, e.g., antibodies, generated by said method. In addition, said method may
be utilized to generate multi-specific, e.g., bispecific, antigen-binding proteins, by selecting
two different human immunoglobulin heavy chains that bind to a common (universal) light
chain in a mouse, determining nucleotide sequences of the heavy chains, modifying
universal light chain to comprise histidine substitutions as described above, and co
                                                      54

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
expressing two human heavy chains with a single histidine-modified universal light chain in a
host cell. Various steps for generating an antigen-binding protein described above may be
applicable to the method of generating a bispecific antigen-binding protein. Bispecific
antigen binding protein, confirmed to possess desired affinity for the antigen(s) and pH
dependent antigen binding properties may be purified. Thus, bispecific antibodies
comprising two human heavy chains and a single human light chain comprising a human
light chain variable domain sequence encoded by a human variable region gene, e.g., Vx1
39JK5 or VK3-20JK1 variable region gene comprising a substitution of at least one non
histidine codon with a histidine codon, is provided.
[00179]     Also provided are constructs utilized in making an antigen-binding protein
comprising human immunoglobulin heavy chain and human immunoglobulin light chain
comprising histidine substitutions. Host cells expressing antigen-binding proteins, e.g.,
antibodies, described herein are also provided.
                                            EXAMPLES
[00180]     The following examples are provided so as to describe to those of ordinary skill in
the art how to make and use methods and compositions of the invention, and are not
intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Efforts have been
made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts, temperature, etc.)
but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. The Examples do not
include detailed descriptions of conventional methods that would be well known to those of
ordinary skill in the art (molecular cloning techniques, etc.). Unless indicated otherwise,
parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is average molecular weight, temperature is
indicated in Celsius, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
Example 1. Identification of histidine residues in antigen-specific human light chains
[00181]     Generation of a common light chain mouse (e.g., VK1-     39 or VK3-20 common light
chain mouse) and antigen-specific antibodies in those mice is described in U.S. Patent
Application Nos. 13/022,759, 13/093,156, and 13/412,936 (Publication Nos. 2011/0195454,
2012/0021409, and 2012/0192300, respectively), incorporated by reference herein in their
entireties. Briefly, rearranged human germline light chain targeting vector was made using
VELOCIGENE@ technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela et al. (2003)
High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution expression
analysis, Nature Biotech. 21(6): 652-659) to modify mouse genomic Bacterial Artificial
Chromosome (BAC) clones, and genomic constructs were engineered to contain a single
rearranged human germline light chain region and inserted into an endogenous K light chain
locus that was previously modified to delete the endogenous K variable and joining gene
                                                 55

     WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
segments. Targeted BAC DNA was then used to electroporate mouse ES cells to create
modified ES cells for generating chimeric mice that express a rearranged human germline
VK1-39Jw5 or VW3-20J1 region. Targeted ES cells were used as donor ES cells and
introduced into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see, e.g.,
US Pat. No. 7,294,754 and Poueymirou et al. (2007) FO generation mice that are essentially
fully derived from the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing immediate phenotypic analyses
Nature Biotech. 25(1): 91-99). VELOCIMICE@ independently bearing an engineered human
germline Vl-39Jw5 or VW3-20J1 light chain region were identified by genotyping using a
modification of allele assay (Valenzuela et al., supra) that detects the presence of the unique
rearranged human germline light chain region.
[00182]     Mice bearing an engineered human germline light chain locus (ULC mice) were
bred with mice that contain a replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable
gene locus with the human heavy chain variable gene locus (see US 6,596,541; the
VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.).
[00183]     VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse containing a single rearranged human germline light
chain region is challenged with an antigen of interest and antibodies comprising a universal
light chain (e.g., Vx1-39Jw5) are isolated and sequenced. Amino acid sequences of
selected light chains (A-K) from antigen-specific human antibodies generated in a common
Vx1-39JK5 light chain mouse were aligned. Histidine mutations in the CDRs of human VK1
39-derived light chains for a selected number of antigen-specific human antibodies were
identified (FIG. 1). The partial amino acid sequence of germline VK1-39Jw5 variable domain
is shown above the alignments and set forth in SEQ ID NO:1, the complete variable domain
amino acid sequence is set forth in SEQ ID NO:80.
Example 2. Engineering and Characterization of Histidine-Substituted Human
Universal Light Chain Antibodies
Example 2. 1. Engineering of Histidine Residues into a Germline Human Rearranged Light
Chain
[00184]      Histidine residues were engineered into a rearranged human VK1-39JK5 light
chain using site directed mutagenesis primers specifically designed to introduce engineered
histidine residues at Q105, Q106, Y108, and P111 positions of the human Vw1-39Jw5 light
chain. Site directed mutagenesis was performed using molecular techniques known in the
art (e.g., QuikChange il XL Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit, Agilent Technologies). Locations
of the engineered residues in the CDR3 are shown in FIG. 2, the nucleic acid sequences of
histidine-substituted CDR3's depicted in FIG. 2 are set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 4, 6, 8, 10, 12,
14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, and 32 (corresponding amino acid sequences are set forth
                                               56

    WO 2013/138680                                                            PCT/US2013/031823
in SEQ ID NOs: 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, and 33). The nucleic acid
and amino acid sequences of germline rearranged VK1-39JK5 CDR3 are set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 2 and 3, respectively.
Example 2.2. Construction and Expression of Histidine Engineered Light Chains
[00185]      Human VK1-39-derived light chains containing germline engineered histidine
residues made according to Example 2 were constructed and paired with various human
heavy chains (labeled 1-5), specific for a human cell surface receptor, to analyze expression
in CHO cells. The five human heavy chains specific for a human cell surface receptor that
were paired with histidine-substituted VK1-39-derived light chains were obtained from mice
that have a single rearranged human light chain (a human VK1-39/JK5 rearranged light
chain; see US2011/0195454A1).
[00186]      Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent assay (ELISA): Antibody secretion from CHO
cells was detected using an Fc ELISA, for light chains with indicated histidine modifications
with five different heavy chains. The light and heavy chain sequences (but for the
modifications) were generated in mice that have a single rearranged human light chain (e.g.,
a human VK1-39/JK5 rearranged light chain; see US2011/0195454A1).             Capture antibody
was goat anti-human IgG and detection antibody was goat anti-human (Fc gamma-specific)
HRP. The results are shown in FIG. 3. ULC + heavy: specific heavy chain and unmodified
human VK1-39-derived light chain. As shown in FIG. 3, expression was detected in about all
mutants.
[00187]      Protein Immunoblot. Expression in supernatants of CHO cells of paired antigen
specific heavy chains with histidine engineered light chains was further analyzed by western
blot. Samples were run on a 4-12% tris-glycine gel. Results using a selected heavy chain
(heavy chain 3) are shown in FIG. 4. ULC refers to a rearranged human VK1-39-derived
light chain (as described above).
Example 2.3. Determination of Binding Affinity of Histidine Engineered Light Chains
[00188]      Equilibrium dissociation constants (KD), dissociative half-lives (t1/2), and other
kinetic parameters for selected antibody supernatants were determined by SPR (Surface
Plasmon Resonance) using a BIACORETM T200 instrument (GE Healthcare). Kinetics were
measured at pH 7.4 and at pH 5.75. Results are shown in FIGs. 5A - 5E.
[00189]      Numerical values for the kinetic binding properties (e.g., ka, kd, KD, t%, etc.) of
antibodies binding to immunogen at neutral pH (pH 7.4) and at acidic pH (pH 5.75) were
obtained using a real-time surface plasmon resonance biosensor (Biacore T200.) A Biacore
CM5 sensor chip was derivatized with a mouse anti-human Fc antibody to capture
                                                57

     WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
antibodies from the supernatant. A single concentration (50nM) of immunogen was then
injected over the antibody-captured surface at a flow rate of 30 pl/min. Antibody-antigen
association was monitored for 2.5 minutes and then the dissociation of antigen from the
captured antibody was monitored for 8 minutes. Kinetic association (ka) and dissociation
(kd) rate constants were determined by processing and fitting the data to a 1:1 binding with a
mass transport model using Biacore T200 Evaluation software version 1.0. Equilibrium
dissociation constants (KD) and dissociative half-lives (t%) were calculated from the kinetic
rate constants as: KD (M) = kd / ka; and t%(mi) = (1n2/(60*kd).
[00190]      As shown in FIG. 5, in a binding assay of antibody to a cell surface receptor, two
out of five antibodies with histidine-modified common light chains (histidine modified CDR3's
of VK1-39/JK5 light chains) that were paired with the antigen-specific human heavy chains,
exhibited binding to the antigen (e.g., to a cell surface receptor) with different affinities at pH
7.4 and pH 5.75. Antibodies with histidine modifications that retain binding at pH 7.4, but
that exhibit a low binding or no detectable binding at pH 5.75, are desirable. Antibodies with
histidine modification that exhibit reduced t1 /2 at pH 5.75 as compared to pH 7.4 are
desirable.
[00191]      Antigen binding data for three antibodies comprising histidine-modified common
light chains and three antigen-specific heavy chains (labeled 2, 3, and 6) at different pHs is
summarized further in FIG. 6. These antibodies exhibited significant drop in antigen binding
at pH 5.75 in comparison to pH 7.4, as demonstrated, e.g., by reduction in      t1/ 2 or no binding
detected at pH 5.75.
Example 3. Engineering and Characterization of Genetically Modified Mouse
Comprising a Histidine-Substituted Vxi-39Jx5 Universal Light Chain
Example 3.1. Constructing of Targeting Vector for Engineering Histidine Residues in a
Rearranged Human Light Chain Variable Region
[00192]      A genetically modified mouse containing a rearranged human light chain gene
having histidine residues engineered into a CDR region of the human light chain is made
using targeting vectors made by standard molecular cloning techniques known in the art.
[00193]      Briefly, various rearranged human germline light chain targeting vectors are
made using VELOCIGENE@ technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela
et al. (2003) High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution
expression analysis, Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659) to modify mouse genomic Bacterial
Artificial Chromosome (BAC) DNA to contain a single rearranged human germline light chain
region and inserted into an endogenous K light chain locus that was previously modified to
                                                  58

    WO 2013/138680                                                           PCT/US2013/031823
delete the endogenous      x variable and joining gene segments. The rearranged human
germline light chain region is modified at one or more nucleotide positions within the
sequence of the light chain to encode histidine residues that are not normally present at the
respective locations of the germline sequence. The targeting vectors are electroporated into
mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells and confirmed using a quantitative PCR assay (e.g.,
TAQMAN     TM).
[00194]     Specifically, a strategy for constructing these targeting vectors is shown in FIGs.
8A - 8F. A plasmid used for generating a targeting vector for common (universal) light chain
mouse ("ULC mouse," described in, e.g., US2011/0195454A1), containing pBS + FRT-Ub
Hyg-FRT + mouse V3-7 leader +human VK1-39JK5 was modified by site directed
mutagenesis (QuickChange 11XL Kit) to replace Q1 05, Q1 06, Y1 08 and P111 or Q1 06,
Y1 08 and P111 with histidine residues in the CDR3 region using site-directed mutagenesis
primers shown in FIG. 7 (See FIG. 8A for this engineering step). Resultant vectors
(H105/106/108/111 and H106/108/111) were modified further and ligated into a vector
comprising mouse Igx constant region, mouse enhancers, a mouse 3' homology arm and a
SPEC cassette (FIG. 8B). Further modification involved ligation into a vector carrying 5'
mouse arm and comprising Frt-Ub-NEO-Frt cassette (FIG. 8B). Resultant targeting vectors
were electroporated into ES cells comprising deletion of the mouse IgK variable locus
(comprising    x variable and joining gene segments) (FIGs. 8C-8F).
[00195]     Positive ES cell clones were confirmed by using a modification of allele assay
(Valenzuela et al.) using probes specific for the engineered VK1-39JK5 light chain region
inserted into the endogenous K light chain locus. Primers and probes used in the assay are
shown in Table 1 below and set forth in the Sequence Listing; the locations of the probes are
depicted in FIGs. 8C-8F.
Table 1: Primers and Probes Used for ES Cell Screening
Probe Name         Assay             Probe Sequence        5' Primer             3' Primer
 Neo                GOA               TGGGCACAACA           GGTGGAGAGG            GAACACGGCGG
                                     GACAATCGGCTG          CTATTCGGC             CATCAG
                                     (SEQ ID NO:38)        (SEQ ID NO:39)        (SEQ ID NO:40)
 ULC-m1             GOA               CCATTATGATGC          AGGTGAGGGT            TGACAAATGCCC
                                     TCCATGCCTCTC          ACAGATAAGTG           TAATTATAGTGAT
                                                  59

     WO 2013/138680                                                       PCT/US2013/031823
 Probe Name       Assay            Probe Sequence       5' Primer            3' Primer
                                   TGTTC                TTATGAG              CA
                                   (SEQ ID NO:41)       (SEQ ID NO:42)       (SEQ ID NO:43)
  1633h2           GOA             ATCAGCAGAAAC          GGGCAAGTCA           TGCAAACTGGAT
                                   CAGGGAAAGCCC         GAGCATTAGCA          GCAGCATAG
 (VK1-39JK5-
specific)                          CT(SEQID             (SEQ ID NO:45)       (SEQ ID NO:46)
                                   NO:44)
mIgKd2            Retention        GGCCACATTCCA         GCAAACAAAAA          CTGTTCCTCTAAA
                                   TGGGTTC              CCACTGGCC           ACTGGACTCCAC
                                                        (SEQ ID NO:48)      AGTAAATGGAAA
                                   (SEQ ID NO:47)
                                                                             (SEQ ID NO:49)
mIgKp15           Retention        GGGCACTGGATA         CACAGCTTGTG         AGAAGAAGCCTG
                                   CGATGTATGG           CAGCCTCC            TACTACAGCATCC
                                   (SEQ ID NO:50)       (SEQ ID NO:51)      GTTTTACAGTCA
                                                                            (SEQ ID NO:52)
[00196]     The NEO selection cassette introduced by the targeting constructs was deleted
by transfecting ES cells with a plasmid that expresses FLP (FIGs. 8C and 8E). Optionally,
the neomycin cassette may be removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase
(e.g., US 6,774,279). Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
[00197]     Targeted ES cells described above were used as donor ES cells and introduced
into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see, e.g., US Pat. No.
7,294,754 and Poueymirou et al. (2007) FO generation mice that are essentially fully derived
from the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing immediate phenotypic analyses Nature
Biotech. 25(1):91-99. VELOCIMICE@ independently bearing an engineered human light
chain gene that contains histidine residues mutated into one or more positions along the
sequence were made from the targeted ES cells described above.
[00198]     Pups were genotyped and pups heterozygous for the engineered histidine
modified human light chain were selected for characterizing expression of the light chain and
                                               60

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
binding capabilities of the expressed antibodies. Primers and probes for genotyping of mice
specifically comprising a universal light chain gene with either three (H1 06/108/111; "1930")
or four (H105/105/108/111; "1927") histidine modifications are listed in Table 2 below and
set forth in the Sequence Listing. Mice containing histidine modification in their universal
light chains are referred herein as "HULC" mice (histidine universal light chain mice).
Table 2: Primers and Probes Used for Genotyping
Probe Name         Assay             Probe Sequence         5' Primer          3' Primer
 1927jxn3           GOA 1927 (4       ACCATAGTCACAGT         AGCAGTCTGCAA      CCCTTGGCCGAAGG
                   His) mouse-       ACCCA                  CCTGAAGATTr        TGAT
                   specific          (SEQ ID NO:53)         (SEQ ID NO:54)      (SEQ ID NO:55)
1930jxn3            GOA 1930 (3       ATAGTCACAGTACC         AGTCTGCAACCT      CCCTTGGCCGAAGG
                   His) mouse-       CATCC                  GAAGATTTTGC        TGAT
                   specific          (SEQ ID NO:56)         (SEQ ID NO:57)     (SEQ ID NO:58)
Example 3.2. Analysis of Immune Response to Antigen in Mice with Histidine-Substituted
Universal Light Chains
[00199]      Cell surface receptor ("Antigen A") was used as the immunogen to immunize
mice that were either heterozygous for expression of a pre-arranged human kappa light
chain utilizing Vk1-39 and Jk5 that has 4 histidine substitutions in CDR3 (hereinafter "HULC
1927") or heterozygous for expression of a pre-arranged human kappa light chain utilizing
Vk1 -39 and Jk5 that has 3 histidine substitutions in CDR3 (hereinafter "HULC1930"), or
homozygous WT mice. Pre-immune serum was collected from the mice prior to the initiation
of immunization. The immunogen was administered at 2.35 pg of protein for the initial
priming immunization mixed with 10 pg of CpG oligonucleotide as an adjuvant (Invivogen) in
a volume of 25 pl via footpad (f.p.). Subsequently, mice were boosted via the same route
with 2.35 pg of Antigen A along with 10 pg of CpG and 25 pg of Adju-Phos (Brenntag) as
adjuvants on days 3, 6, 11, 13, 17, 20 for a total of 6 boosts. The mice were bled on days
15 and 22 after the   4 th and 6th boost, respectively. Their antiserum was assayed for antibody
titers to Antigen A.
[00200]      Antibody serum titers against immunogen were determined by a standard ELISA.
To perform the ELISA, 96-well microtiter plates (Thermo Scientific) were coated at 2 pg/ml
                                                   61

    WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
with Antigen A in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, Irvine Scientific) overnight at 40C. The
next day, plates were washed with phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% Tween 20
(PBS-T, Sigma-Aldrich) four times using a plate washer (Molecular Devices). Plates were
then blocked with 250 pl of 0.5% bovine serum albumin (BSA, Sigma-Aldrich) in PBS and
incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were then washed four times with
PBS-T. Sera from immunized mice and pre-immune sera were serially diluted three-fold in
0.5% BSA-PBS starting at 1:300 or 1:1000, added to the blocked plates in duplicate, and
then incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The last two wells were left blank to be used
as a secondary antibody control (background control). The plates were again washed four
times with PBS-T in a plate washer. Goat anti-mouse IgG-Fc- Horse Radish Peroxidase
(HRP) conjugated secondary antibody (Jackson Immunoresearch) was then added to the
plates at 1:5000/1:10,000 dilution and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. Plates
were then washed eight times with PBS-T and developed using TMB/H 20 2 as substrate.
The substrate was incubated for 20 min and the reaction was stopped with 2 N sulfuric acid
(H2 SO 4 , VWR, cat# BDH3500-1) or 1 N phosphoric acid (JT Baker, Cat# 7664-38-2). Plates
were read on a spectrophotometer (Victor, Perkin Elmer) at 450nm. Antibody titers were
computed using Graphpad PRISM software.
[00201]      The immune response induced in mice to the injected immunogen is represented
as antibody titers, which is defined as the reciprocal of the highest serum dilution at which
antigen binding absorbance is two-fold higher over background. Therefore, the higher the
number, the greater the humoral immune response to the immunogen. Antibody titers
induced to the immunogen were very high in both strains of HULC mice and in the WT mice,
with no significant differences observed among the strains (FIG. 9).
Example 3.3. Generation of pH-Sensitive Monoclonal Antibodies
[00202]      When a desired immune response to the immunogen was achieved in both
strains of HULC mice and in the WT mice, splenocytes from each mouse strain were
harvested and fused with mouse myeloma cells to generate hybridoma cells, which were
allowed to grow in 96-well plates. After 10 days of growth, supernatants from each
hybridoma cell-containing well were screened via immunogen-specific ELISA to identify
positive antigen binding samples. For the ELISA, 96 well micro-titer plates were coated with
1ug/mL of an anti-myc polyclonal antibody (Novus Biologicals, #NB600-34) overnight at 40C
to immobilize the myc-tagged antigen, followed by blocking with a solution of 0.5% (w/v)
BSA in PBS. The plates were washed, the antigen solutions were added to the plates at a
concentration of 1 1 g/mL and allowed to bind to the coated plate for 1 hour at room
temperature. Subsequently, supernatants from hybridoma cells were added to the wells at
1:50 dilution and allowed to bind for 1 hour at room temperature. The plate bound
                                                62

     WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
 antibodies were detected using an anti-mouse IgG polyclonal antibody conjugated with HRP
 (Jackson Immunoresearch, #115-035-164). TMB substrates were added to the plates (BD
 Biosciences, # 51-2606KC/51-2607KC) and colorimetric signals were developed according
to manufacturer recommended protocol. The absorbance was recorded at 450nm on a
Victor Wallac plate reader. Antigen positive samples defined as having an OD equal to or
greater than 0.5 (with the baseline having OD of about 0.1) were subject to affinity screening
 using a real-time surface plasmon resonance biosensor (Biacore 4000).
 [00203]     Kinetic binding parameters (e.g., ka, kd, Ko, t/, etc.) for antibody binding to the
 immunogen at neutral pH (pH 7.4) and at acidic pH (pH 6.0) were recorded. A Biacore CM4
sensor chip was derivatized with a polyclonal goat anti-mouse Fc antibody to capture
antibodies from the supernatant. A single concentration (100nM) of immunogen was then
injected over the antibody-captured surface at a flow rate of 30 pl/min. Antibody-antigen
association was monitored for 1.5 minutes and then the dissociation of antigen from the
captured antibody was monitored for 2.5 minutes. Kinetic association (ka) and dissociation
(kd) rate constants were determined by processing and fitting the data to a 1:1 binding with a
mass transport model using Biacore 4000 Evaluation software version 1.0. Equilibrium
dissociation constants (Ko) and dissociative half-lives (t%) were calculated from the kinetic
rate constants as: Ko (M) = kd / ka; and t% (min) = In2/(60*kd). A set of samples that
displayed decreased binding at pH 6.0 as compared to that at pH 7.4 (pH sensitive) as well
as a set of control samples that displayed no significant rate changes between the pH 7.4
and pH 6.0 (pH insensitive controls) were selected to be produced clonally. FIG. 10 depicts
comparison of the number of total antigen positives and the number of antigen positives
displaying pH-sensitive antigen binding from HULC and WT mice.
[00204]     Among the antigen positives, 18 and 7 clones isolated from two heterozygous
HULC1927 mice and two HULC1930 respectively, and 1 clone from the WT mouse, were
made monoclonal. Supernatants of the monoclonal hybridomas were subject to neutral and
low pH antigen dissociation rate (off-rate) analysis and cell pellets were used for light chain
variable domain DNA sequencing.
Example 3.4. Sequencing and Somatic Hypermutations in CDR3 Region of VKI-39JK5
based Histidine Universal Light Chain Mice
[00205]     Cell pellets from monoclonal hybridomas from HULC and WT mice were used for
light chain variable domain DNA sequencing. From the 26 clones made monoclonal (see
Example 3.3 above) and subjected to sequencing, 15 were confirmed as using either a
HULC or WT mouse light chain (MM and NN, see Table 4). 14 clones were derived from
                                                63

     WO 2013/138680                                                        PCT/US2013/031823
HULC heterozygous mice (1927 or 1930 mice) and 1 was derived from a WT mouse (00,
see Table 4).
[00206]     From the 14 antigen positive samples derived from HULC heterozygous mice, 12
of the monoclonal antibodies utilized their corresponding HULC light chain, while 2 utilized a
WT mouse light chain. All but one of the HULC utilizing antibodies retained all of the
introduced histidine mutations as shown in Table 3 (italicized antibody).  Sequencing of
clone AA produced 2 different HULC sequences, which is reflected by two entries in Table 3.
Table 3: Number of conserved histidine insertions and somatic hypermutations in
light chain sequences from clones utilizing the HULC light chain
                                          Light Chain Sequences from mice utilizing HULC
                                 # Conserved His         # Somatic                 # Somatic
                    Mouse          Mutations in      Hypermutations in    Hypermutations in CDRs
   Clone Name       Strain           CDR3               Framework
 AA                  1927               4                    3
 (Sequence 1)                                                                          0
 AA                  1927               4                    1
 (Sequence 2)                                                                          1
 BB                  1927               4                    3                         3
 cc                  1927               4                    0                         0
 DD                  1927               3                    1                         1
 EE                  1927               4                    2                         2
 FF                  1927               4                    0                         1
 GG                  1927               4                    1                         1
 HH                  1927               4                    2                         0
 11                  1930               3                    1                         1
 JJ                  1930               3                    4                         5
 KK                  1930               3                    1                         2
 LL                  1930               3                    1                         0
Example 3.5. pH-Dependent Binding of Monoclonal Antibodies Generated in VK1-39JK5
based Histidine Universal Light Chain Mice
[00207]     In order to further assess the pH-dependent binding characteristics of the
monoclonal antibodies isolated from HULC and WT mice, binding experiments were carried
out in which the antibody/antigen association phase was observed at neutral pH and the
antibody/antigen dissociation phase was observed at either neutral or acidic pHs.
[00208]    A Biacore CM4 sensor chip was derivatized with a polyclonal rabbit anti-mouse
Fc antibody. Monoclonal antibody supernatants were captured onto the anti-mouse Fc
sensor surface. Two concentrations, 50 nM (in duplicate) and 16.7 nM, of the immunogen
                                                64

       WO 2013/138680                                                             PCT/US2013/031823
were injected over the monoclonal antibody captured surface at a flow rate of 30 pl/min.
Antibody-antigen association was monitored at pH 7.4 for 4 minutes and then the
dissociation of antigen from the captured monoclonal antibody was monitored for 15 minutes
at either pH 7.4 or 6.0. Dissociation (kd) rate constants were determined by processing and
fitting the data using Scrubber version 2.0 curve fitting software and are shown in Table 4.
Dissociative half-lives (t1 2 ) were calculated from the dissociation rate constants as: t1/2 (min)
= (In2/kd)/60, and are shown in Table 4. Sensorgrams depicting the association/dissociation
characteristics of several antibodies listed in Table 4 under the various pH conditions are
shown graphically in FIG 11. The individual lines in each graph represent the binding
responses at different concentrations of the respective antibodies. All experiments were
carried out at 25 0 C. Dissociative half-life values (t%) are noted above the respective
sensorgrams. Response is measured in RU.
Table 4. Dissociation (kd) rate constants and dissociative half-lives (t1 2 ) of monoclonal
HULC or WT antibodies binding to their immunogen at neutral and low pH.
                          pH 7.4 Association/pH 7.4             pH 7.4 Association/pH 6.0          pH
                                  Dissociation                         Dissociation               ratio
                     neutral      5OnM                       low      50n M
             Light   nal        immuno-                       o     immuno-              t1/
  Name                 cap-           n    k (1/s)   mn)    cap-     bound        (1m/s)m)      kd     t%2
             used      ture        (RU)                     ture          u )
                                           (RU)                        (RU)
    AA      (17         129          70     5.60E-   206     122         73     2.18E-   53    3.9     0.3
     BB      HUL        350         165     6.OOE-     1903 378
            (1927)                            04       19               185     2.20E-     5   3.7     0.3
    CC      (1927)     611          251     2.03E-     57   545         226     6.68E-    2   33.0     0.0
                                              04                                  03                    3
     DD     (1927)      182          75     3.55E-     33    168         74     6.44E-   18    1.8     0.6
                                              04                                  04
    HH      (1927)     268           92     1.36E-     85   251          91     5.39E-   21    4.0     0.3
                                              04    ___04
    GG      (1927)      353         110     2.78E-
                                              04       42   328         102     8.97E-
                                                                                  04     13    3.2     0.3
     FF     (127       334
                              (192)202     405E-
                                              0505   241    364         220    6.90E-   167    1.4     0.7
            HLO                             5.08E-                             4.66E
     EE                339          124       04       23   299         120      4      25     0.9     1.1
      II    (1930)     387          174     1.22E-
                                              04       95   334         147    2.14E-   54     1.8     0.6
                                                                                  04_____
     JJ                363           14     9.83E-     12   333          12     5.30E-  22     0.5     1.9
            (1930)                            04                                  04
                                                   65

     WO 2013/138680                                                                   PCT/US2013/031823
                              pH 7.4 Association/pH 7.4            pH 7.4 Association/pH 6.0              pH
                                     Dissociation                         Dissociation                   ratio
                          neutral . 5OnM                         low   . 5OnM
  Clone       Light        mAb                                         immuno-                t%
  Name       chain         cap-       gen      kd(1/s)     min) cap-       gen     kd  (1/s)          kd      t%
              used         ture     bound                       ture     bound
                                      (RU)                                (RU)
    KK                     490         303     741E-       156  484        295      1.29E-     90     1.7     0.6
             (1930)                              05                                    04
    LL       HULC          636          41     3.09E-       37   597        36      5.77E-    20      1.9     0.5
             (1930)                              04                                    04     20      NA      NA
               WT
   MM         (from        245           6       NA        NA   203          6         NA    NA       NA      NA
               1927
            mouse)
               WT
   NN         1927m         394        231       046E      22   378        231      9.5E       12     1.8     0.6
                                  1927           0404
            mouse)
   00          WT          413          89     2.94E-       39  400         83      3.57E-    32      1.2     0.8
             ______ _  _ _  _ _ _   _   _  _ _   04     __    _  _  _   _   _  _ _     04    _    _ _ _   _
*kd and t1 /2 values could not be detennined due to low antigen binding signal
Example 4. Engineering of Genetically Modified Mouse Comprising a Histidine
Substituted Vx3-20Jx1 Universal Light Chain
[00209]        A mouse comprising a common VK3-20JK1 light chain was generated as
described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Application Nos. 13/022,759, 13/093,156, 13/412,936, and
 13/488,628 (Publication Nos. 2011/0195454, 2012/0021409, 2012/0192300, and
2013/0045492, respectively), and in Example 1 above. The amino acid sequence of the
germline universal VK3-20JK1 light chain variable domain is set forth in SEQ ID NO:59.
[00210]        Histidine substitutions were introduced into the VK3-20JK1 universal light chain
targeting vector and mice generated from the same using a similar strategy to the one
described above in Example 3 for VK1-39JK5 histidine modified universal light chain mice
(HULC 1927 and 1930).
[00211]        Briefly, the strategy for generating a histidine-modified VK3-20JK1 universal light
chain targeting vector is summarized in FIGs. 14A-14D. A plasmid used for generating a
targeting vector for common (universal) light chain mouse ("ULC mouse," described in, e.g.,
US2011/0195454A1), containing pBS + FRT-Ub-Hyg-FRT + mouse VK3-7 leader +human
VK3-20JK1 was modified by site directed mutagenesis (QuickChange Lightning Kit) to
replace Q105, Q106, Y107 and S109 or Q105, Q106 and S109 (see alignment in FIG. 12)
with histidine residues in the CDR3 region using site-directed mutagenesis primers shown in
                                                       66

    WO 2013/138680                                                        PCT/US2013/031823
FIG. 13 (See FIG. 14A for this engineering step). Resultant vectors (H105/106/107/109 and
H105/106/109) were modified further and ligated into a vector comprising mouse Igx
constant region, mouse enhancers, a mouse 3' homology arm and a SPEC cassette (FIG.
14B). Further modification involved ligation into a vector carrying 5' mouse arm and
comprising Frt-UB-NEO-Frt cassette (FIG. 14B). Resultant targeting vectors were
electroporated into ES cells comprising deletion of the mouse IgK variable locus (comprising
K variable and joining gene segments) (FIGs. 14C-14D).
[00212]     Positive ES cell clones were confirmed by using a modification of allele assay
(Valenzuela et al.) using probes specific for the engineered VK3-20KJ1 light chain region
inserted into the endogenous K light chain locus. Primers and probes used in the assay are
shown in Table 5 below and set forth in the Sequence Listing; the locations of the probes are
depicted in FIGs. 14C-14D.
Table 5: Primers and Probes Used for ES Cell Screening
Probe Name        Assay            Probe Sequence        5' Primer           3' Primer
 Neo               GOA              TGGGCACAACA           GGTGGAGAGG          GAACACGGCGG
                                   GACAATCGGCTG          CTATTCGGC           CATCAG
                                   (SEQ ID NO:38)        (SEQ ID NO:39)      (SEQ ID NO:40)
ULC-m1             GOA             CCATTATGATGCT          AGGTGAGGGT          TGACAAATGCCC
                                   CCATGCCTCTCT          ACAGATAAGTG         TAATTATAGTGAT
                                   GTTC                  TTATGAG             CA
                                   (SEQ ID NO:41)        (SEQ ID NO:42)      (SEQ ID NO:43)
1635h2            GOA             AAAGAGCCACCC           TCCAGGCACCC         AAGTAGCTGCTG
                                  TCTCCTGCAGGG           TGTCTTTG            CTAACACTCTGAC
(Vic3-20JK1
                                                                             T
specific)                          (SEQ ID NO:65)        (SEQ ID NO:66)
                                                                             (SEQ ID NO:67)
mIgKd2            Retention        GGCCACATTCCA          GCAAACAAAAA         CTGTTCCTCTAAA
                                  TGGGTTC                CCACTGGCC           ACTGGACTCCAC
                                                         (SEQ ID NO:48)      AGTAAATGGAAA
                                   (SEQ ID NO:47)
                                                67

     WO 2013/138680                                                         PCT/US2013/031823
 Probe Name        Assay           Probe Sequence         5' Primer            3' Primer
                                                                               (SEQ ID NO:49)
mIgKp15            Retention       GGGCACTGGATA           CACAGCTTGTG          AGAAGAAGCCTG
                                   CGATGTATGG             CAGCCTCC             TACTACAGCATCC
                                   (SEQ ID NO:50)         (SEQ ID NO:51)       GTTTTACAGTCA
                                                                               (SEQ ID NO:52)
[00213]      The NEO selection cassette introduced by the targeting constructs is deleted by
transfecting ES cells with a plasmid that expresses FLP (FIGs. 14C and 14D). Optionally,
the neomycin cassette may be removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase
(e.g., US 6,774,279). Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
[00214]      Targeted ES cells described above are used as donor ES cells and introduced
into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see, e.g., US Pat. No.
7,294,754 and Poueymirou et al. (2007) FO generation mice that are essentially fully derived
from the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing immediate phenotypic analyses Nature
Biotech. 25(1):91-99). VELOCIMICE@ independently bearing an engineered human light
chain gene that contains histidine residues mutated into one or more positions along the
sequence are made from the targeted ES cells described above.
[00215]      Pups are genotyped and pups heterozygous for the engineered histidine-modified
human light chain are selected for characterizing expression of the light chain and binding
capabilities of the expressed antibodies. Primers and probes for genotyping of mice
specifically comprising a universal light chain gene with either three (H105/106/109; "6183")
or four (H105/105/108/111; "6181") histidine modifications are listed in Table 6 below and
set forth in the Sequence Listing. Mice containing histidine modification in their universal
light chains are referred herein as "HULC" mice (histidine universal light chain mice).
Table 6: Primers and Probes Used for Genotyping
Probe Name        Assay            Probe Sequence        5' Primer            3' Primer
hV1494-1           GOA 6181 (4    CTGTCATCACCATG         GCAGACTGGAGC         CCGAACGTCCAAGG
                   His) mouse-    G                      CTGAAGATTTT          TGAGTG
                                                68

     WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
                  specific         (SEQ ID NO:68)          (SEQ ID NO:69)       (SEQ ID NO:70)
hV1495-1          GOA 6183 (3      TACTGTCATCACTAT         GCAGACTGGAGC         CCGAACGTCCAAGG
                  His) mouse-      GG                      CTGAAGATTT          TGAGTG
                  specific         (SEQ ID NO:71)          (SEQ ID NO:72)       (SEQ ID NO:73)
[00216]      Mice are immunized with antigen of interest and tested for ability to generate
antibodies with pH-dependent binding.
Example 5. Breeding of Mice Comprising a Histidine-Substituted Single Rearranged
Human Universal Light Chain Mouse (HULC)
[00217]     This Example describes several other genetically modified mouse strains that can
be bred to any one of the HULC mice described herein to create multiple genetically
modified mouse strains harboring multiple genetically modified immunoglobulin loci.
[00218]      Endogenous /gA Knockout (KO). To optimize the usage of the engineered light
chain locus, any one of the HULC animals described above (e.g., comprising VK1-39JK5 or
VK3-20JK1 histidine-substituted universal light chain) may be bred to another mouse
containing a deletion in the endogenous k light chain locus. In this manner, the progeny
obtained will express, as their only light chain, the rearranged histidine-substituted human
germline light chain region as described in Examples 3 and 4 above. Breeding is performed
by standard techniques recognized in the art and, alternatively, by a commercial breeder
(e.g., The Jackson Laboratory). Mouse strains bearing an engineered histidine-substituted
light chain locus and a deletion of the endogenous k light chain locus are screened for
presence of the unique light chain region and absence of endogenous mouse k light chains.
[00219]      Humanized Endogenous Heavy Chain Locus. Mice bearing an engineered
human germline light chain locus (HULC mice) are bred with mice that contain a
replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable gene locus with the human
heavy chain variable gene locus (see US 6,596,541; the VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse,
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). The VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse comprises a genome
comprising human heavy chain variable regions operably linked to endogenous mouse
constant region loci such that the mouse produces antibodies comprising a human heavy
chain variable domain and a mouse heavy chain constant region in response to antigenic
stimulation.
[00220]      Mice bearing a replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable
region locus with the human heavy chain variable region locus and a histidine-substituted
single rearranged human light chain variable region at the endogenous K light chain locus
                                                 69

    WO 2013/138680                                                          PCT/US2013/031823
are obtained. Reverse chimeric antibodies containing somatically mutated heavy chains
(human heavy chain variable domain and mouse CH) with a histidine-substituted single
human light chain (HULC, human light chain variable domain and mouse CL) are obtained
upon immunization with an antigen of interest. pH-dependent human antibodies generated
in such mice are identified using antibody isolation and screening methods known in the art
or described above. Variable light and heavy chain region nucleotide sequences of B cells
expressing the antibodies, e.g., pH-sensitive antibodies, are identified, and fully human
antibodies are made by fusion of the variable heavy and light chain region nucleotide
sequences to human CH and CL nucleotide sequences, respectively, in a suitable expression
system.
Equivalents
[00221]    Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
routine experimentation, many equivalents of the specific embodiments of the invention
described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following
claims.
[00222]    Entire contents of all non-patent documents, patent applications and patents cited
throughout this application are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
                                                70

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A genetically modified non-human animal comprising in its germline an
immunoglobulin light chain locus that comprises a single rearranged human immunoglobulin
light chain variable region gene sequence comprising human VL and JL segment sequences,
        wherein the human VL and JL segment sequences of the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene sequence comprise at least one histidine
codon that is not encoded by corresponding human germline VL and JL gene sequences.
2.      The animal of claim 1, wherein the single rearranged human immunoglobulin variable
region sequence is operably linked to an immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene
sequence.
3.      The animal of claim 2, wherein the immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene
sequence is a non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene sequence.
4.      The animal of claim 3, wherein the non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant
region gene sequence is an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant
region gene sequence.
5.      The animal of claim 1, further comprising in its germline an immunoglobulin heavy
chain locus that comprises an unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region
gene sequence comprising human VH, DH, and       JH segments operably linked to an
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence.
6.      The animal of claim 5, wherein the immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene
sequence is a non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region gene sequence.
7.      The animal of claim 6, wherein the non-human heavy chain constant region gene
sequence is an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin constant region gene sequence.
8.      The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal lacks a functional unrearranged
immunoglobulin light chain variable region.
9.      The animal of claim 1, wherein the immunoglobulin light chain locus is at an
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin light chain locus.
                                               71

10.      The animal of claim 5, wherein the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is at an
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
11.      The animal of claim 1, wherein the at least one histidine codon is in the nucleotide
sequence encoding a complementary determining region (CDR) 3.
12.      The animal of claim 11, wherein the at least one histidine codon is one, two, three, or
four CDR3 codon(s).
13.      The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal comprises a population of B cells in
response to an antigen of interest that is enriched for antibodies that exhibit a decrease in
dissociative half-life (t1 2) at an acidic pH as compared to neutral pH of at least about 2-fold,
at least about 3-fold, at least about 4-fold, at least about 5-fold, at least about 10-fold, at least
about 15-fold, at least about 20-fold, at least about 25-fold, or at least about 30-fold.
14.      The animal of claim 13, wherein the decrease in dissociative half-life (t1/2) at an acidic
pH as compared to neutral pH is about 30 fold or more.
15.      The animal of claim 1-14, wherein the animal is a rodent.
16.      The rodent of claim 15, wherein the rodent is a rat.
17.      The rodent of claim 15, wherein the rodent is a mouse.
18.      The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal expresses an antibody comprising a human
immunoglobulin light chain variable domain comprising at least one histidine residue at an
amino acid position encoded by the at least one histidine codon in the immunoglobulin light
chain variable region gene sequence.
19.      A genetically modified mouse comprising in its germline an immunoglobulin light chain
locus that comprises a single rearranged human immunoglobulin light chain variable region
gene sequence comprising human VL and          JL segment  sequences,
         wherein the human VL and JL segment sequences of the single rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable region sequence comprise at least one histidine codon
that is not encoded by corresponding human germline VL and JL gene sequences, and
                                                   72

         wherein the mouse lacks a functional unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain
variable region.
20.      The mouse of claim 19, wherein the single rearranged immunoglobulin light chain
variable region gene sequence is operably linked to an immunoglobulin light chain constant
region gene sequence.
21.      The mouse of claim 24, wherein the immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene
sequence is selected from a rat or a mouse immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene
sequence.
22.      A method of generating an antibody that exhibits pH-dependent binding to an antigen
of interest comprising:
         immunizing the non-human animal of any one of claism 1-21 with an antigen of
interest; and
         selecting an antibody that binds to the antigen of interest with a desired affinity at a
neutral pH while displaying reduced binding to the antigen of interest at an acidic pH.
23.      The method of claim 2, wherein the antibody exhibits a dissociative half-life (t1 /2) at
acidic pH and 370C of about 2 minutes or less.
                                                 73

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
