                                         ABSTRACT
        A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a processing device
and from a client device associated with a requesting user, a request to provide a health
grade rating for a medical service provider who is associated with a health care entity;
accessing, in response to the request, an authentication rules engine that restricts
submission of health grade ratings to authenticated users of the health care entity;
determining, based on execution of the authentication rules engine, that the requesting user
is an authenticated user of the health care entity; and in response to determining that the
requesting user is authenticated, transmitting, to the client device, information for a
graphical user interface that enables the requesting user to submit the health grade rating
for the medical service provider.

         1/10
   0
         4-a
          00
          00
                  CO)O) .5 co
             4-a)
0    -0)4-
o>

                                                                                      P/00/01I
                                                                                 Regulation 3.2
                                       AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                       ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        UNIVERSAL RESEARCH SOLUTIONS LLC
Actual Inventor:          HUSSUM Ali Adel
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2, Level     1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North,
                         Victoria 3104, Australia
Invention Title:          RESTRICTING RATINGS OF MEDICAL SERVICE
                          PROVIDERS TO AUTHENTICATED USERS
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to the Applicant:
                                              1

   Restricting Ratings of Medical Service Providers to Authenticated
                                               Users
  [0001]     The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
5 Application No. 2014308745. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No.
  2014308745 and the corresponding International Patent Application PCT/US2014/052122,
  are incorporated herein by reference.
                                      CLAIM OF PRIORITY
  [0002]     This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S.
) Patent Application No. 13/973,568, filed August 22, 2013. The entire contents of the
  prior-filed application are hereby incorporated by reference.
                                         BACKGROUND
  [0003]      Social networks and other on-line communities provide different outlets for
  users of the respective social networks to interact and provide information about what is
5 happening in the life of particular users of the respective social networks.
                                            SUMMARY
  [0004]     In general, a health care entity is described. In an example, the health care
  entity can be a system, such as an online patient community, that allows users whom either
  are contemplating a medical procedure or have already undergone a medical procedure to
0 locate other users that are similarly situated. In an example, a user that has undergone a
  hip-replacement surgery can locate other users that have undergone the same surgery. The
  health care entity also allows users of the health care entity to provide one or more ratings
  about one or more medical service providers that have provided one or more medical
  services to a particular user. In a particular example, particular users are authenticated
5 before they are allowed to provide the one or more ratings about the one or more medical
  service providers. These ratings can then be seen by other users of the health care entity
  (both authenticated and non-authenticated) and the ratings may aid the other users of the
  health care entity in selecting a service provider for a similar medical procedure. In
  general, by restricting ratings to only those users that have been authenticated, the quality
                                                  2

   of ratings can be increased and the other users of the health care entity may be more
   inclined to use the one or more ratings as part of their decision when selection from
   multiple medical service providers.
   [0005]     In one aspect of the present disclosure, a computer-implemented method
 5 includes receiving, by a processing device and from a client device associated with a
   requesting user, a request to provide a health grade rating for a medical service provider
   who is associated with a health care entity; accessing, in response to the request, an
   authentication rules engine that restricts submission of health grade ratings to
   authenticated users of the health care entity; determining, based on execution of the
 ) authentication rules engine, that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the health
   care entity; and in response to determining that the requesting user is authenticated,
   transmitting, to the client device, information for a graphical user interface that enables the
   requesting user to submit the health grade rating for the medical service provider. A
   system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or
 5 actions by virtue of having software, firmware, hardware, or a combination of them
   installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the actions.
   One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or
   actions by virtue of including instructions that, when executed by data processing
   apparatus, cause the apparatus to perform the actions.
 ) [0006]     Implementations of the disclosure may include one or more of the following
   features. In some implementations, the health care entity comprises an online patient
   community for generating social connections between users of the online patient
   community; and wherein determining that the requesting user is an authenticated user of
   the online patient community promotes an increase in a quality of health grade ratings,
5  relative to a quality of health grade ratings that would be provided by unauthenticated
   users. The medical service provider is a first medical service provider, and wherein the
   method further comprises: accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a
   second medical service provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the
   health grade ratings for the second medical service provider being provided by first
0  authenticated users who are associated with the health care entity; accessing information
   indicative of health grade ratings for a third medical service provider who is associated
   with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings for the third medical service
                                                   3

   provider being provided by second authenticated users who are associated with the health
   care entity; and generating, based on a comparison of the health grade ratings for the
   second medical service and the health grade ratings for the third medical service, an
   evaluation of the second medical service provider relative to the third medical service
 5 provider, with the evaluation specifying strengths of the second medical service provider
   relative to strengths of the third medical service provider, with the specified strengths
   being based on the health grade ratings for the second medical service and the health grade
   ratings for the third medical service. The health grade rating comprises one or more of a
   patient review, a patient recommendation, a satisfaction rating and an outcome rating;
 ) wherein the outcome rating is indicative of a strength of an assessment of one or more of a
   pre-operative condition, an operative procedure, and a post-operative condition. The
   health care entity comprises an online patient community, wherein the online patient
   community comprises medical service providers and users, and wherein the method
   further comprises: restricting access for submission of health grade ratings for medical
 5 service providers who are members of the online patient community to users who are
   members of the online patient community.
   [0007]      In some implementations, the client device comprises a first client device, and
   wherein the method further comprises: receiving, from a second client device of a
   searching user, a request to search for a medical service provider associated with one or
 ) more predefined attributes that are specified by the searching user as defining an
   acceptable medical service provider; identifying, in response to the request to search, a
   medical service provider that is associated with at least one of the one or more predefined
   attributes; identifying, for the identified medical service provider, one or more health
   grade ratings, with the identified one or more health grade ratings being provided by
5  authenticated users of the health care entity; and transmitting, to the second client device,
   information identifying the identified medical service provider and the identified one or
   more health grade ratings. The health care entity comprises a hospital, and wherein
   determining, based on execution of the authentication rules engine, that the requesting user
   is an authenticated user of the hospital comprises: accessing a data repository that is
0  associated with the hospital; and identifying, in data base records that are accessed through
   the data repository, information specifying that the requesting user is a patient of the
   hospital.
                                                   4

  [0008]     In still another aspect of the present disclosure, one or more machine-readable
  hardware storage devices storing instructions that are executable by one or more
  processing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a client device
  associated with a requesting user, a request to provide a health grade rating for a medical
5 service provider who is associated with a health care entity; accessing, in response to the
  request, an authentication rules engine that restricts submission of health grade ratings to
  authenticated users of the health care entity; determining, based on execution of the
  authentication rules engine, that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the health
  care entity; and in response to determining that the requesting user is authenticated,
) transmitting, to the client device, information for a graphical user interface that enables the
  requesting user to submit the health grade rating for the medical service provider. This
  aspect of the disclosure may include one or more of the foregoing features.
  [0009]     In yet another aspect of the present disclosure, an electronic system includes one
  or more processing devices and one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices
5 storing instructions that are executable by the one or more processing devices to perform
  operations comprising: receiving, from a client device associated with a requesting user, a
  request to provide a health grade rating for a medical service provider who is associated
  with a health care entity; accessing, in response to the request, an authentication rules
  engine that restricts submission of health grade ratings to authenticated users of the health
) care entity; determining, based on execution of the authentication rules engine, that the
  requesting user is an authenticated user of the health care entity; and in response to
  determining that the requesting user is authenticated, transmitting, to the client device,
  information for a graphical user interface that enables the requesting user to submit the
  health grade rating for the medical service provider. This aspect of the disclosure may
5 include one or more of the foregoing features.
  [0010]     All or part of the foregoing may be implemented as a computer program product
  including instructions that are stored on one or more non-transitory machine-readable
  storage media, and that are executable on one or more processing devices. All or part of
  the foregoing may be implemented as an apparatus, method, or electronic system that may
0 include one or more processing devices and memory to store executable instructions to
  implement the stated functions.
                                                  5

   [0011]     The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying
   drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages will be
   apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 5 [0012]     FIG. 1 is a block diagram of components of a health care entity.
   [0013]     FIGS. 2-8 are screen images of graphical user interfaces generated by an
   application that can be used to interface with the online patient community system.
   [0014]     FIG. 9 shows a hand held device executing an application that generates the
   graphical user interfaces that can be used to interface with the online patient community
 ) system.
   [0015]     FIG. 10 is a flow chart of an example process that can be used to prevent
   unauthenticated users from authoring ratings of medical service providers.
   [0016]     Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5 [0017]     In general, a health care entity is described. In an example, the health care
   entity can be a system, such as an online patient community, that allows users whom either
   are contemplating a medical procedure or have already undergone a medical procedure to
   locate other users that are similarly situated. In an example, a user that has undergone a
   hip-replacement surgery can locate other users that have undergone the same surgery. The
0  health care entity also allows users of the health care entity to provide one or more ratings
   about one or more medical service providers that have provided one or more medical
   services to a particular user. In a particular example, particular users are authenticated
   before they are allowed to provide the one or more ratings about the one or more medical
   service providers. Generally, an authenticated user includes a user with a confirmed
5  association with the health care entity. There are various types of associations between the
   user and the health care entity. One type of association is based on the user having an
   account with the health care entity, e.g., by having an online account. Another type of
   association is the user being socially connected (e.g., in a social networking environment)
   to the health care entity and/or to a provider of the health care entity. These ratings can
                                                   6

   then be seen by other users of the health care entity (both authenticated and non
   authenticated) and the ratings may aid the other users of the health care entity in selecting
   a service provider for a similar medical procedure. In general, by restricting ratings to
   only those users that have been authenticated, the quality of ratings can be increased and
 5 the other users of the health care entity may be more inclined to use the one or more
   ratings as part of their decision when selection from multiple medical service providers.
   [0018]     In an example, the medical service providers may be associated with the health
   care entity. In an example, a health care entity can be a hospital, an online patient
   community, or some combination of the two, such as an online patient community that is
 ) operated by a particular hospital.
   [0019]     In a particular example, the medical service providers may be associated with a
   particular health care entity as preferred or otherwise recommended medical service
   providers. In an example where the health care entity is an online patient community,
   particular medical service providers may be associated with the particular online patient
 5 community by having a presence on the particular online patient community, such as being
   a user of the particular online patient community, providing content on the particular
   online patient community, and so forth.
   [0020]     In an example where the health care entity is a hospital, the medical service
   providers have been retained or are otherwise allowed to see patients at the particular
 ) hospital. In an example, one or more of the medical service providers may exclusively
   provide their medical services at the particular hospital. In another example, one or more
   of the medical service providers may provider their medical services at multiple hospitals.
   [0021]     In an example, the health care entity, such as some combination of an online
   patient community and a hospital, may include one or more health grade ratings for the
5  service providers that are associated with the health care entity. In a particular example,
   the health care entity may include an authentication rules engine that can be used to
   authenticate at least some of users of the online community. Generally, an authentication
   rules engine includes a series of instructions specifying that only authenticated users are
   enabled (e.g., allowed) to submit health grade ratings. In general, only authenticated users
0  can provide health grade ratings. In an example, the health care entity may cause
                                                   7

   graphical user interfaces to be presented on an application that interacts with the health
   care entity when a particular user operating the application is authenticated.
   [0022]     In general, FIGS. 1-9 are described in relation to the collection and use of
   certain personal medical information of one or more users. The processes and procedures
 5 used by health care entity described herein for the collection and use of the personal
   medical information are compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and
   Accountability Act (HIPPA) and any other relevant regulations for the protection of
   personal medical information and other information. In addition, in some
   implementations, aspects of some or all of the information that is collected by the health
 ) care entity can be anonymized to add additional privacy protections for the users of the
   online patient community system.
   [0023]     FIG. 1 is a block diagram of components of a health care entity system 100 that
   can be operated by a health care entity. A health care entity can be a hospital, an online
   patient community, a hospital operating an online patient community, or other
 5 combinations. In FIG. 1, client devices 102, 108 can be any sort of computing devices
   capable of taking input from a user and communicating over network 110 with server 112
   and/or with other client devices. For example, client devices 102, 108 can be mobile
   devices, desktop computers, laptops, cell phones, personal digital assistants ("PDAs"),
   servers, embedded computing systems, and so forth.
 ) [0024]     In an example, the client devices 102 and 108 are configured to present one or
   more graphical users interfaces to their respective users. In a particular example, the client
   devices 102 and 108 have been installed with an application or other executable code. The
   application or executable code can cause presentation of the graphical user interfaces
   when the application or executable code is executed, e.g., by a processing device 148.
5  These graphical user interfaces allow users to enter information and interact with other
   users of the health care entity system 100 and to provide ratings of one or more medical
   providers that are associated with the health care entity. Particular examples of graphical
   user interfaces are described in more detail below.
   [0025]     Server 112 can be any of a variety of computing devices capable of receiving
0  data, such as a server, a distributed computing system, a desktop computer, a laptop, a cell
                                                  8

  phone, a rack-mounted server, and so forth. Server 112 may be a single server or a group
  of servers that are at a same location or at different locations.
  [0026]     In general, the server 112 can serve as platform for the health care entity system
   100 whereby users can connect with each other and share information related to their
5 recovery status and/or provide ratings and recommendations regarding particular medical
  service providers. In an example, each of the client devices 102 and 108 can communicate
  with the server 112 and provide data indicative of a recovery log or other status updates to
  the server 112.
  [0027]     The illustrated server 112 can receive data from client devices 102, 108 via
) input/output ("I/0") interface 140. 1/0 interface 140 can be any type of interface capable
  of receiving data over a network, such as an Ethernet interface, a wireless networking
  interface, a fiber-optic networking interface, a modem, and so forth. Server 112 also
  includes a processing device 148 and memory 144. A bus system 146, including, for
  example, a data bus and a motherboard, can be used to establish and to control data
5 communication between the components of server 112.
  [0028]     The illustrated processing device 148 may include one or more microprocessors.
  Generally, processing device 148 may include any appropriate processor and/or logic that
  is capable of receiving and storing data, and of communicating over a network (not
  shown). Memory 144 can include a hard drive and a random access memory storage
) device, such as a dynamic random access memory, or other types of non-transitory
  machine-readable storage devices. Memory 144 stores computer programs (not shown)
  that are executable by processing device 148 to perform the techniques described herein.
  In a particular example, the memory can store an authentication rules engine that restricts
  submission of health grate ratings to authenticated users of the health care entity system
5  100.
  [0029]     In an example, server 112 generates and implements an online patient
  community, e.g., a social networking platform that enables individual users to establish
  social connections with other users of the social networking platform. The social
  connections formed between individual users within a social networking platform may be
0 represented in the form of a graph, where users are represented by nodes and social
  connections between users are represented by edges connecting the nodes. These social
                                                  9

  connections between users may reflect relationships between the underlying human users
  who correspond to the users. For example, a social connection between two users within
  the online patient community may reflect a social friendship (e.g., developed through
  physical interaction in the real-world and/or through on-line interaction in the cyber
5 world) or a professional relationship between the underlying human users who correspond
  to the users. This social friendship may be based on the two users having similar medical
  issues, similar prescribed therapies, being interested in similar medical topics, and so
  forth.
  [0030]     In an example, a user of the online patient community may be able to
) unilaterally form a social connection with another user of the online patient community,
  e.g., based on the two users having a same or a similar medical condition. In this example,
  the online patient community may enable a first user to form a connection to a second user
  by specifying a desire to form a social connection to the second user and without requiring
  approval of the connection by the second user. In another example, the formation of social
5 connections between two users may be a bilateral process. In this example, when a first
  user specifies a desire to form a connection to a second user, the online patient community
  may establish the connection only after the second user approves the formation of the
  connection between the first user and the second user.
  [0031]     A user of the online patient community may form an online patient community
) within the social networking platform by forming social connections to other users of the
  social networking platform. In some cases, the online patient community of a particular
  user of a social networking platform may be defined as the group of other users to whom
  the particular user is directly connected. Alternatively, in other cases, the online patient
  community of a particular user of a social networking platform may be defined to include
5 a group of other users that are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the
  particular user. In an example, a graph or other data structure may be maintained by the
  social networking platform to describe the degrees of separation between a particular users
  and other users.
  [0032]     Referring now to FIGS. 2-8, server 112 can generate information for one or
0 more graphical user interfaces that provide information to a user of the health care entity
  system 100 (FIG. 1). In general, this information can be indicative of various things to aid
  the user in making informed decisions with respect to their respective medical care. In an
                                                 10

  example, the information can be indicative of a profile of one or more users of the health
  care entity system 100 who have undergone a similar procedure. In another example, the
  information can be indicative of physicians or other service providers that perform the
  particular procedure. In yet another example, the information can be indicative of a
5 recovery log for a particular user of the health care entity system 100.
  [0033]      In general, the graphical user interfaces can be rendered by an application
  installed on a client device 102 or 108 (FIG. 1) as part of execution of the application. In
  an example, the graphical user interfaces can be rendered by an application that when
  executed generates the graphical user by loading graphical resources stored on the client
) device 102 or 108 and installed as part of the installation of the application. In another
  example, the graphical user interfaces can be generated by a browser-based application
  that generates that graphical user interfaces by receiving and interpreting information
  indicative of one or more web pages provided by the health care entity system 100.
  [0034]      Referring now to FIG. 2, a screen image of a graphical user interface 200 is
5 shown that may be presented as a home screen or other initial landing screen. In an
  example, the graphical user interface 200 can be presented when a user first executes an
  application that can interface with the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1). In another
  example, the graphical user interface 200 can be presented when a user navigates to a web
  page that is provided by the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) using a browser-based
) application.
  [0035]      In a particular example, the graphical user interface 200 includes a quick search
  region 210, a patient-to-patient region 220, and a patient-to-doctor region 230. The
  particular example of the graphical user interface 200 also includes "find care" user
  interface control 212 and a "login" user interface control 214.
5 [0036]      The quick search region 210 allows a user to enter certain search criteria related
  to doctors, locations, and specialties into respective fields of the quick search region 210
  to identify medical service providers that match the provide search criteria. A user need
  not enter information into all fields of the quick search region 210 to obtain search results.
  In an example, a user can search for doctors by last name only without providing a
0 location or a specialty in the quick search region 210. As a result of providing the search
  criteria, the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) can perform a search to locate one or
                                                  11

  more medical service providers, such as doctors, hospitals, physical therapists, and other
  medical service provides that are response to the search request.
  [0037]      The patient-to-patient region 220 presents useful information about the health
  care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) to a user. This may entice or otherwise convince a user to
5 register with the health care entity system 100. In a particular example, the user may
  register with the health care entity system 100 using he "login" user interface control 214.
  [0038]      In some implementations, when a user selects the "login" user interface control
  214, the application may generate another graphical user interface that allows the user to
  login into the online patient community system using various login credentials. An
) example of a graphical user interface that can be used for this purpose is described in more
  detail in reference to FIG. 5.
  [0039]      The doctor-to-patient region 230 presents useful information to users who are
  searching for medical service providers. In addition, the doctor-to-patient region 230
  presents user interface controls 231, 232, and 233 that when selected perform a particular
5 targeted search. In an example, if a user selects the user interface control 231, the user can
  perform a search to find a specific doctor. In another example, if a user selects the user
  interface control 232, the user can perform a search to find a specific location in which to
  have a medical procedure performed.
  [0040]      In some implementations, when a user selects the "find care" user interface
) control 212, the application may generate another graphical user interface that allows the
  user to search for search for medical care by providing one or more pieces of information.
  [0041]      FIGS. 3-8 are now described. In general, FIGS. 3-8 show screen images of
  graphical user interfaces for an application in communication with the health care entity
  system 100 (FIG. 1). In a particular example, the graphical user interfaces shown in FIGS.
5 3-8 illustrate aspects of an online patient community system that pertain to the features of
  the health care entity system 100 that relate to patient-to-doctor searching and
  communication.
  [0042]      Referring now to FIG. 3, a screen image of a graphical user interface 300 is
  shown that may be presented to a user allowing the user to perform one or more searches
                                                 12

   for service providers. The graphical interface 300 includes the quick search region 210, a
   search activity indicator 305, and a second search region 310.
   [0043]     The search activity indicator 305 can provide one or more user interface
   elements with respect to a particular user's search activity. The search activity indicator
 5 305 is shown in multiple of the graphical interfaces 300, 400, and 500. In some
   implementations, when a user selects one of the user interface elements, a respective
   graphical user interface changes so that a selected activity is presented in a different
   graphical user interface. Additional examples of the search activity indicator are described
   in more detail elsewhere in this specification.
 ) [0044]     The second search region 310 allows the user to perform a more refined search
   that the quick search region 210 by allowing the user to provide additional information for
   a particular kind of search to find information for which the user is searching. In the
   depicted example, the second search region 310 allows a user to search for service
   providers based on profile information that is stored by the health care entity system 100
 5 (FIG. 1). Examples of providing profile information are described in more detail
   elsewhere in this specification. In some implementations, the search region 310 may
   allow for other kinds of searching, such as searching by doctor, searching by location,
   searching by specialty, and so forth. In general, second search region 310 is populated
   with various user input controls based on the type of search to be performed.
 ) [0045]     In an example, because the second search region 310 is being used to search by
   profile, one or more user input controls 312-320 can be presented to relate to profile
   information that pertains to one or more users of the health care entity system 100 (FIG.
    1). In general, a user can provide input into one or more of the user input controls 312
   320 to search the profiles of the users of the health care entity system 100 according to the
5  search criteria provided by the user.
   [0046]     In a particular example, the user input control 314 can be used to search users of
   the health care entity system 100 based on the respective ages of the users of the health
   care entity system 100. In other particular examples, a user can provide an outcome rating
   range into the user input control 316, symptoms into the user input control 318, and
0  procedures into the user input control 320. These and other aspects of profile information
   stored in the health care entity system 100 are described elsewhere in this specification. In
                                                  13

  this example, the outcome rating that is provided by a user is used to search outcome
  ratings that have been provided by authenticated users only. Other ratings can also be
  provided as described elsewhere in this specification. Determining when a user is an
  authenticated user is described in more detail below.
5 [0047]     In an example, controls in second search region 310 can be automatically
  populated with values that are included in a user profile. In this example, server 112,
  accesses information indicative of a patient profile of the user. Server 112 determines,
  based on contents of the user profile, one or more symptoms of the user. In this example,
  server 112 pre-populates user input control 318 with the determined one or more
) symptoms of the user. In this example, a user profile is being used to drive identification
  of a medical service provider who is qualified to address at least one of the one or more
  symptoms of the user. In this example, user input control 318 includes a visual
  representation of the determined one or more symptoms.
  [0048]     Referring now to FIG. 4, a screen image of a graphical user interface 400 is
5 shown that can be used to provide search results. In a particular example, the graphical
  user interface 400 provides search results according to a search conducted by a user to
  identify one or more doctors. A similar interface may also be provided when the search is
  for other users in the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) or other searches such as
  location searches, specialty searches, and so forth.
) [0049]     In general, the graphical user interface 400 includes the quick search region 210,
  the search activity indicator 305, and a detailed search results region 410. In the depicted
  example, the search activity indicator 305 includes user interface elements 305a and 305b.
  The user interface element 305b represents the current search activity of providing search
  results. If, for example, a user were to select user interface element 305a, the graphical
5 user interface 400 would change so that a user could provide search criteria, similar to the
  manner in which a user can provide search criteria using graphical user interface 300.
  [0050]     In general, the detailed search results region 410 can be organized in a table-like
  fashion to provide information about one or more doctors, where the information is
  responsive to a search request or other request for information. In a particular example,
0 the detailed search results region 410 includes one or more rows 412a-412e and one or
  more columns, 414a-414d.
                                                 14

  [0051]     Each of the rows 412a-412e provides information about each of the particular
  doctors whose information matched or was otherwise responsive to a particular search
  request or other request for information. Column 414a presents personal information
  about a particular doctor in each of the respective rows 412a-412e. In an example, the
5 column 414a can present a picture of the doctor, their name, and any of their specialties. In
  a particular example, column 414a for row 412a indicates that the doctor's name is "Dr.
  Matthew J. Smith, MD" with specialties in orthopedic surgery and shoulder and elbow
  surgery.
  [0052]     Column 414b shows a graphical representation of the doctor's outcome rating.
) In an example, this can be shown as an overall rating, as a trend, and combinations of
  these. In addition, in an example, the outcome rating may be shown for pre-op care,
  surgical care, and follow-up care. In a particular example, column 414b for row 412
  indicates that the doctor's overall outcome rating is 89.9. Outcome ratings are described
  in more detail elsewhere in this specification.
5 [0053]     In general, the outcome ratings shown in column 414b are provided by
  authenticated users only. In an example, a graphical user interface shown in FIG. 8 can be
  presented to authenticated users that allow a particular authenticated user to provide an
  outcome rating to the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1). As a result, all users of the
  health care entity system 100 (both authenticated and unauthenticated users) may have a
) higher degree of confidence about the presented outcome ratings than if unauthenticated
  users are allowed to provide outcome ratings.
  [0054]     Column 414c provides additional user-selectable elements that can be viewed to
  provide additional information about a particular doctor. In an example, the column 414c
  can provide links to patient reviews and recommendations. That is, if a user selects a link
5 corresponding to either the patient reviews or the recommendations, the graphical user
  interface 400 may change to present the selected reviews or recommendations. In
  addition, the user-selectable elements may include a number that indicates a number of
  patient reviews or recommendations. In a particular example, column 414c indicates for
  row 412a that there are 18 patient reviews and 23 recommendations.
0 [0055]     In general, the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) can limit the authoring of
  reviews and recommendations to authenticated users only. In an example, a graphical user
                                                 15

  interface can be presented to authenticated users that allow a particular authenticated user
  to provide a review or recommendation to the health care entity system 100. As a result,
  users of the health care entity system 100 may have a higher degree of confidence about
  the presented reviews and recommendations than if unauthenticated users are allowed to
5 provide reviews or recommendations.
  [0056]      Column 414d provides location information about particular doctors. In some
  implementations, the location information is the particular hospital or clinic where the
  doctor practices. In other implementations, the location information is a particular group
  in which the doctor belongs. In these and other implementation, there may be multiple
) locations in which the doctor practices. In a particular example, where a particular doctor
  is affiliated with multiple locations, a user interface control 416 can be presented that
  when selected presents the other locations to the user.
  [0057]      In some implementations, one or more portions of the rows 412a-412e and the
  columns 414a-414d are user selectable. In response, the graphical user interface 400 may
5 change to present additional information that corresponds to the selection. In a particular
  example, if a user selects a representation in column 414a, the user interface 400 may
  change to provide more detailed information about the selected doctor.
  [0058]      Referring now to FIG. 5, a screen image of a graphical user interface 500 is
  shown that can be used to present additional information about a selected doctor. In some
) implementations, the graphical user interface 500 can be shown when a user selects
  elements of the detailed search region 410 (FIG. 4), such as particular columns 414a-414d
  in any of the rows 412a-412e. In general, the graphical user interface includes the quick
  search region 210, the search activity indicator 305, and a doctor information region 510.
  [0059]      In the depicted example, the search activity indicator 305 includes user interface
5 elements 305a, 305b, and 305c. The user interface element 305c represents the current
  search activity of providing additional information about the selected doctor. If, for
  example, a user were to select the user interface element 305a, the graphical user interface
  500 would change so that a user could provide search criteria, similar to the manner in
  which a user can provide search criteria using graphical user interface 300.
0 [0060]       Similarly, if the user where to select the use interface element 305b, the
  graphical user interface 500 would change so that a user could review particular search
                                                   16

  results, similar to the manner in which the user can review search results using graphical
  user interface 400.
  [0061]     The doctor information region 510 includes information about the selected
  doctor. In a particular example, the doctor information region 510 can include a picture of
5 the doctor, a description of the doctor's particular specialties, a satisfaction rating indicator
  512, an outcome rating indicator 514, a map region 516, and one or more additional
  components 518-524 that can be selected to provide additional information about the
  doctor. In general, the satisfaction rating indicator 512 and the outcome rating indicator
  514 present information provided by authenticated users of the health care entity system
)  100 (FIG. 1) only. That is, in an example the health care entity system 100 prevents
  unauthenticated users from providing information that the health care entity system 100
  can use to generate information indicative of a satisfaction rating or an outcome rating.
  [0062]     The satisfaction ratings indicator 512 can show how particular patients, such as
  authorized users of the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1), have rated the particular
5 doctor. In a particular example, the satisfaction rating indicator 512 is a graph or chart this
  includes positive ratings, negative ratings, and neutral ratings. In addition, these positive
  ratings, negative ratings, and neutral ratings can be used by the health care entity system
   100 to compute an over satisfaction rating for the particular doctor. Various techniques
  can be used by the health care entity system 100 to determine the overall rating of the
) doctor, including computing an average rating based on one or more rating scores
  provided by users of the health care entity system 100.
  [0063]     The outcome ratings indicator 514 may be similar to the information presented
  in column 414b of the detailed search results region 410 (FIG. 4). In some
  implementations, the outcome ratings indicator 514, however, may be enlarged or include
5 additional information not able to be presented in the detailed search results region 410.
  In the depicted example, the outcome ratings indicator 514 presents an average outcome
  rating. In general, an outcome rating is based on some amount of information provided by
  a physician about an expected outcome and determining whether the actual outcome was
  in-line with the expectations.   In an example, the outcome rating is based on a collection
0 of patient outcome-based data. Generally, patient outcome-based data includes data
  collected by the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) to evaluate the capacity of a
  medical procedure and/or process to function at a pre-defined level. In a particular
                                                 17

   example, if a procedure has an average recovery of 8 weeks, the outcome rating can be
   based on a number of patients that are treated by the particular doctor that recover more
   quickly than average, recovery less quickly than average, and recover on average with the
   pre-defined recover level.
 5 [0064]     In some implementations, the outcome ratings can be subdivided into pre-op
   expectation ratings 514a, surgical expectation ratings 514b, and follow-up expectation
   ratings 514c. In an example, the outcome rating can be based different ratings for each of
   pre-op expectation ratings 514a, surgical expectation ratings 514b, and the follow-up
   expectation ratings 514c.
 ) [0065]     The map region 516 can present a location of doctor in a surrounding area. In
   some implementations, the map region 516 can be zoomed-in or zoomed-out to provide
   addition views of the location and surrounding area. The one or more additional
   components 518-528 that can be selected by user based on the wanting to view other
   information about the doctor. As an example, the user can select the additional component
 5 518 to view more information about the doctor's education and background based on
   information that is stored on the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1). As another
   example, components 526 and 528 can be selected by a user to view patient reviews and
   recommendations, respectively, provided by authorized users of the health care entity
   system 100. That is, component 526 is indicative of patient reviews (by authenticated
 ) users) for medical service provider 307. In this example, component 526 is a link,
   selection of which causes a display of individual reviews for service provider 307.
   [0066]     Referring now to FIG. 6, a screen image of a graphical user interface 600 is
   shown that can be used as a login page, landing page, or other home page for users of the
   health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1). In general, the graphical user interface 600
5  includes a user credential region 610 that allows a user to provide at least a username and
   password. The health care entity system 100 can verify the provided username and
   password to grant access to the health care entity system 100.
   [0067]     In some implementations, providing the user credentials in region 610 may
   serve to authenticate the user. In an example, when a user provides a username and
0  associated password in the user credential region 610. In this example, an authentication
   rules engine can compare the provided user name and password against one or more
                                                 18

  entries in a user credential database or other data store. In this example, when a username
  matches a password provided by the user, the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) may
  consider the particular user an authenticated user.
  [0068]      In some implementations, additional steps may be performed by the health care
5 entity system 100 (FIG. 1) to authenticate a particular user. In an example, information
  provided by the particular user in their respective profile can be compared with one or
  more pieces of information stored by the health care entity system 100. In a particular
  example, one or more aspects of a particular user's profile pertaining to their medical
  condition and treatments can be compared with medical records that are stored by the
) health care entity system 100 to authenticate a particular user. In some implementations
  medical professionals visited, procedures undergone, and so forth in the particular user's
  medical records can be compared with information in the particular user's profile to verify
  that the particular user is who they claim to be. Other authentication techniques are also
  possible, including performing a callback or other follow-up communication with a
5 particular user based on information provided in their profile, validation and/or visual
  inspection of the information provided by the particular user by operators of the health
  care entity system 100, and so forth.
  [0069]      In some implementations, the additional authentication techniques-such as
  checking one or more aspects of a particular user's profile against medical records stored
) by the health care entity system 100-are performed by the health care entity system 100
  initially to authenticate the particular user. Then, the health care entity system 100 can
  authenticate the user on subsequent visits to the health care entity system 100 when the
  particular user provides a username and password in the user credential region 610, as
  described above.
5 [0070]      Referring now to FIG. 7, a screen image of a graphical user interface 700 is
  shown that can be used as a welcome page and/or profile page for a particular user of the
  health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1). In general, the graphical user interface 700 is
  provided to authenticated users only. In an example, the graphical user interface 700 can
  be presented to a user once the health care entity system 100 has verified the username and
0 password provided the user in the user credential region 610 (FIG. 6).      In general, the
  graphical user interface 700 provides one or more graphical user components that allow a
  user to manage their patient profile on the health care entity system 100, track their
                                                  19

  recovery progress relative to other users of the health care entity system 100, search for
  other user of the health care entity system 100 based on similar procedures performed or
  other search criteria, and provide ratings pertaining to medical professionals, to name few
  examples. In a particular example, the graphical user interface 700 includes a profile
5 region 710, an appointment region 720, and an information region 730.
  [0071]     The profile region 710 includes graphical representations indicative of certain
  information about a particular user's recovery or general health. In a particular example,
  the profile region 710 includes a picture of the user, an outcome score region 712, a
  nutrition region 714, and a therapy region 714. In general, the graphical representatives in
) the profile region 710 are indicative of different aspects of the user's recovery that are
  determined from information that the particular user enters into a recovery log or other
  aspect of the particular user's profile.
  [0072]     In general, the outcome score region 712 includes an outcome score for one or
  more procedures that the particular user has undergone. In some implementations, the
5 outcome score region 710 may be subdivided into a pre-operative outcome score region,
  an operative outcome score region, and a follow-up outcome score region, similar to the
  subdivisions described in reference to FIG. 5. In an example, the outcome score presented
  in the outcome score region 712 for the particular user can be based on their respective
  progress relative to all other users of the health care entity system 100 that have undergone
) a similar procedure. In another example, the outcome score presented in the outcome
  score region 712 for the particular user can be based on their respective progress relative
  to only those users of the health care entity system 100 to which the users are acquainted
  or otherwise connected, e.g., through a friending processes or other similar process that is
  supported by social networks in general. A particular example of connecting with other
5 users of the health care entity system 100 is described in more detail elsewhere in this
  specification.
  [0073]     In general, the nutrition and health region 714 includes an indication of the
  particular user's health rating. In some implementations, the health rating can be based on
  nutrition information that is entered by the user and compared with a nutritional database
0 and/or compared to one or more users of the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1). In an
  example, the health rating presented in the nutrition and health region 714 for the
  particular user can be based on their respective health and nutrition information relative to
                                                 20

  all other users of the health care entity system 100 that have undergone a similar
  procedure. In another example, the health rating presented in the nutrition and health
  region 714 for the particular user can be based on their respective health and nutrition
  information relative to only those users of the health care entity system 100 to which the
5 users are acquainted or otherwise connected, e.g., through a friending processes or other
  similar process that is supported by social networks in general.
  [0074]      In general, the therapy region 716 includes an indication of the particular user's
  progress in a therapy regimen. In general, the indication can be based on the particular
  user's current timetable with respect to their medical procedure. In an example, the
) therapy regimen may be a pre-operative regimen. In another example, the therapy
  regimen may be a post-operative regimen. In some implementations, the indication in the
  therapy region 716 can be based on a calendar other appointment schedule that a user of
  the health care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) can provide physical therapy appointments. In a
  particular example, the therapy region 716 indicates that the particular user of the health
5 care entity system 100 is on their seventh week of a ten-week therapy regimen. In some
  implementations, the therapy region 716 also provides a user interface component that
  allows a particular user to track or otherwise compare their respective therapy progress
  relative to other users of the health care entity system 100. In an example, therapy
  comparison for the particular user can be based on their respective progress relative to all
) other users of the health care entity system 100 that have undergone a similar procedure
  and/or therapy regimen. In another example, the comparison for the particular user can be
  based on their respective progress relative to only those users of the health care entity
  system 100 to which the users are acquainted or otherwise connected, e.g., through a
  friending processes or other similar process that is supported by social networks in
5 general.
  [0075]      In general, the appointment region 720, can allow a particular user to track
  important or other relevant appointments relative to a user's medical care. In general, the
  appointment region 720 may be populated with information that is collect from the user or
  on behalf of the user. In an example, the appointment region 720 may be populated by
0 referencing medical information stored on a computer at a hospital or other location in
  which the health care entity system 100 can communicate. In another example, the
  appointment region 720 may be populated with information that is entered by the
                                                  21

  particular user, e.g., in a recovery log or other aspects of the particular user's profile. In
  some implementations, the appointment region 720 allows a user to confirm or change a
  particular scheduled appointment using various user interface components.
  [0076]      In general, the information region 730 presents information to the particular user
5 that is indicative of various aspects of their user profile. In addition, the information
  region 730 may provide one or more user interface components that allow a particular user
  to enter information that pertains to the particular user's recovery.
  [0077]      In an example, the information region 730 includes a profile edit button 732 and
  one or more selectable user interface tabs 734, 736, and 738. In general, the profile edit
) button 732 allows the particular user to make changes to their respective profile
  information. In general, the one or more selectable user interface tabs 734, 736, and 738
  that allow a user to present different information in the information region 730 and
  perform various activities that edit or otherwise affect the contents of the user's profile.
  Editing profile information and performing a number of other activities are described
5 elsewhere in this specification.
  [0078]      In some implementations, the information region 730 may include other
  selectable user interface components that allow an authenticated user to provide one or
  more different ratings about a particular medical professional. In some implementations,
  when a user selects one of these other user selectable user interface components, the health
) care entity system 100 (FIG. 1) may determine whether the user is an authenticated user.
  If the user is determined to be an authenticated user, the health care entity system 100
  (FIG. 1) may cause the application that is presenting graphical user interface 700 to
  present a graphical user interface 800 that allows a user to submit or otherwise provide
  information that pertains to a health grade rating for a particular medical service provider.
5 [0079]      Referring now to FIG. 8, a screen image of a graphical user interface 800 is
  shown that can be used by an authenticated user to submit one or more health grade
  ratings for a particular medical service provider. In some implementations, the health
  grade ratings can be one of a patient review, a patient recommendation, a satisfaction
  rating and an outcome rating. In a particular example, the graphical user interface 800
0 includes the quick search region 210 and a ratings region 810, although other regions are
  also possible.
                                                  22

   [0080]     The ratings region 810 can present one or more user input controls 812-820 that
   enable an authorized user to provide on or more health care ratings for a particular
   physician. In the depicted example of FIG. 8, the ratings region 810 includes a physician
   user input control 812, a procedure user input control 814, a satisfaction rating user input
 5 control 816, an outcome rating user input control 818, and a submission button 820,
   although other user input controls such as a recommendation user input control and a
   review user input control are also possible.
   [0081]      Once a user is satisfied with the health care rating information entered into one
   or more of the user input controls 812-818, the user may select the submission button 820
 ) to submit their rating of the particular medical service provider to the health care entity
   system 100 (FIG. 1). In response, the health care entity system 100 may add the health
   care rating information received from the user to the other health care rating information
   for the particular medical service provider. In an example, a database or other data store
   may store one or more records of health care rating information that pertains to a particular
 5 medical service provider. In this example, upon receipt of a new health care rating for the
   particular medical service provider, the health care entity system 100 can generate and
   store one or more values in the database or data store that reflect the received health rating
   information from the authenticated user.
   [0082]     Referring now to FIG. 9, a screen image of a graphical user interface 900 is
 ) being shown as part of an application loaded on a client device 102 or 108, such as a
   handheld device 910. In the depicted example, the graphical user interface 900 is similar
   to the graphical user interface 200 (FIG. 2) that provides a landing screen or home screen
   to a particular application that can be used to communicate with the health care entity
   system 100 (FIG. 1). The graphical user interface 900, however, may be customized to fit
5  a smaller screen of the handheld device 910 relative to other client device 102 or 108, such
   as a desktop computer, laptop computer, and so forth.
   [0083]     In addition, if a user selects either of the "find care" user interface control 212
   or the "login" user interface control 214, the application can present additional graphical
   user interfaces described elsewhere in this specification that satisfy the user selection. In
0  an example, if a user selects the "login" user interface control 214, the user may be
   presented with a graphical user interface that is similar to the graphical user interface 600
   (FIG. 6), e.g., for the purposes of the authenticating the particular user. In some
                                                   23

  implementations, however, the user interface may also be customized to fit a small screen
  of the handheld device 910.
  [0084]     FIG. 10 is a flow chart of an example process 1000 that can be used to ensure
  that health grade ratings are provided by authenticated users only. In general, a rules
5 authentication engine can be used to determine whether a particular user is authenticated
  on unauthenticated and permit or restrict the particular user from providing health grade
  ratings, accordingly. In general, the process 900 is described in relation to a server 112
  (FIG. 1) that is configured to perform the process 900, although other systems may be
  configured to perform the process 900.
) [0085]     In operation, the server 112 receives (1010), by a processing device and from a
  client device associated with a requesting user, a request to provide a health grade rating
  for a medical service provider who is associated with a health care entity.
  [0086]     In some implementations, the health grade rating may be a combination of one
  or more of a patient review, a patient recommendation, a satisfaction rating and an
5 outcome rating. In such implementations, the outcome rating is indicative of a strength of
  an assessment of one or more of a pre-operative condition, an operative procedure, and a
  post-operative condition, e.g., as described elsewhere in this specification.
  [0087]     The server 112 accesses (1020), in response to the request, an authentication
  rules engine that restricts submission of health grade ratings to authenticated users of the
) health care entity. In an example, the authentication rules engine compares provided user
  credentials with information stored by the server 112 to restrict submission of health grade
  ratings. In another example, authentication rules engine can perform a validation process,
  such as comparing information in a particular user's profile of with medical records
  accessible by the system to restrict the submission of health grade ratings to authenticated
5 users.
  [0088]     The server 112 determines (1030), based on execution of the authentication
  rules engine, that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the health care entity. In
  an example, when the server matches a received username and password with a stored
  username and password of an authenticated user, the server 112 determines that the
0 requesting user is an authenticated user. In another example, server 112 determines that
  the requesting user is an authenticated user based on identifying a social connection
                                                24

  between the requesting user and the health care entity, e.g., in a social networking
  platform. In this example, server 112 sends a request, e.g., to the social networking
  platform, for information indicative of a social connection between the health care entity
  and the requesting user (and/or between the requesting user and a service provider
5 associated with the health care entity). In response, the social networking platform
  determines whether a social connection exists between the requesting user and the health
  care entity (e.g., if the health care entity itself has an account and/or is a user of the social
  networking platform). If the social networking platform identifies that such a connection
  exists, then the social networking platform transmits - to the server 112 - information
) specifying the existence of the social connection. Upon receipt of this information, server
   112 authenticates the requesting user as an authenticated user.
  [0089]      In another example, the social networking platform determines whether a social
  connection exists between the requesting user and a service provider associated with the
  health care entity (e.g., a physician who works for the health care entity). If the social
5 networking platform identifies that such a connection exists, then the social networking
  platform transmits - to the server 112 - information specifying the existence of the social
  connection. Upon receipt of this information, server 112 authenticates the requesting user
  as an authenticated user. In still another example, the social networking platform
  determines whether a social connection exists between the requesting user and another
) user who is connected to a service provider associated with the health care entity (e.g., a
  physician who works for the health care entity). If the social networking platform
  identifies that such a connection exists, then the social networking platform transmits - to
  the server 112 - information specifying the existence of the social connection. Upon
  receipt of this information, server 112 authenticates the requesting user as an authenticated
5 user.
  [0090]      In some implementations, the health care entity is an online patient community
  for generating social connections between users of the online patient community. In such
  implementations, determining that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the
  online patient community promotes an increase in a quality of health grade ratings,
0 relative to a quality of health grade ratings that would be provided by unauthenticated
  users.
                                                   25

   [0091]      If the server determines that the requesting user is authenticated (1040), the
   server 112 transmits (1050), to the client device, information for a graphical user interface
   that enables the requesting user to submit the health grade rating for the medical service
   provider. In an example, the server 112 (FIG. 1) can cause an application executing on a
 5 client device 102 or 108 (FIG. 1) to present graphical user interface 800 (FIG. 8), upon the
   determining that the requesting user is an authenticated user. In this example, server 112
   prevents graphical user interface 800 from being displayed to a user, e.g., until the user is
   authenticated as an authorized user. In some implementations, the medical service
   provider is a first medical service provider. In such implementations, the server 112 can
 ) access information indicative of health grade ratings for a second medical service provider
   who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings for the second
   medical service provider being provided by first authenticated users who are associated
   with the health care entity. In an example, the server 112 can access information
   indicative of health grade ratings for the second medical service provider based on a
 5 similarity between the first medical service provider and the second medical service
   provider. In a particular example, the second medical service provider may be provided
   because they perform similar procedures, have a similar outcome rating, have a similar
   satisfaction rating, or have other similarities.
   [0092]      The server 112 may also access information indicative of health grade ratings
 ) for a third medical service provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the
   health grade ratings for the third medical service provider being provided by second
   authenticated users who are associated with the health care entity. In an example, the
   server 112 can access information indicative of health grade ratings for the third medical
   service provider based on a similarity between the either of the first medical service
5  provider or the second medical service provider with the third medical service provider. In
   a particular example, the third medical service provider may be provided because they
   perform similar procedures, have a similar outcome rating, have a similar satisfaction
   rating, or have other similarities.
   [0093]      The server 112 may also generate, based on a comparison of the health grade
0  ratings for the second medical service and the health grade ratings for the third medical
   service, an evaluation of the second medical service provider relative to the third medical
   service provider, with the evaluation specifying strengths of the second medical service
                                                    26

  provider relative to strengths of the third medical service provider, with the specified
  strengths being based on the health grade ratings for the second medical service and the
  health grade ratings for the third medical service. In an example, the server 112 may
  provide a side-by-side comparison of at least some information included in the outcome
5 rating for the first medical service provider, the second medical service provider, and the
  third medical service provider, including pre-operative outcome scores, procedure
  outcome scores, and follow-up outcome scores.
  [0094]      In some implementations, the health care entity may be an online patient
  community. In such implementations, the online patient community may include medical
) service providers and users. As a result, the server 112 can restrict access for submission
  of health grade ratings for medical service providers who are members of the online
  patient community to users who are members of the online patient community.
  [0095]      In some implementations, the client device includes a first client device, and the
  server 112 can receive, from a second client device of a searching user, a request to search
5 for a medical service provider associated with one or more predefined attributes that are
  specified by the searching user as defining an acceptable medical service provider. In such
  implementations, the server 112 can also identify, in response to the request to search, a
  medical service provider that is associated with at least one of the one or more predefined
  attributes. The sever 112 can also identify, for the identified medical service provider, one
) or more health grade ratings, with the identified one or more health grade ratings being
  provided by authenticated users of the health care entity. The server 112 can also transmit,
  to the second client device, information identifying the identified medical service provider
  and the identified one or more health grade ratings.
  [0096]      In some implementations, the health care entity may be a hospital. In such
5 implementations, when the server 112 determines, based on execution of the
  authentication rules engine, that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the hospital,
  the server 112 may access a data repository that is associated with the hospital. The server
   112 may also identify, in data base records that are accessed through the data repository,
  information specifying that the requesting user is a patient of the hospital. In an example,
0 the server 112 can compare medical record information with profile information
  maintained by the server to determine that requesting user is a patient of the hospital.
                                                 27

   [0097]      Embodiments can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in computer
   hardware, firmware, software, or in combinations thereof. An apparatus can be
   implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied or stored in a machine
   readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor; and method actions
 5 can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to
   perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The embodiments
   described herein, and other embodiments of the invention, can be implemented
   advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable
   system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and
 ) instructions from, and to transmit data and instructions to, a data storage system, at least
   one input device, and at least one output device. Each computer program can be
   implemented in a high-level procedural or object oriented programming language, or in
   assembly or machine language if desired; and in any case, the language can be a compiled
   or interpreted language.
 5 [0098]      Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way of
   example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more
   processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally, a processor will receive instructions
   and data from a read-only memory or a random-access memory or both. The essential
   elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more
 ) memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include,
   or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more
   mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto optical disks, or optical
   disks. Computer readable media for embodying computer program instructions and data
   include all forms of non-volatile memory, including by way of example semiconductor
5  memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks,
   e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto optical disks; and CD ROM and
   DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or
   incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry. Any of the foregoing can be supplemented
   by, or incorporated in, ASICs (application-specific integrated circuits).
0  [0099]      To provide for interaction with a user, embodiments can be implemented on a
   computer having a display device, e.g., a LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor, for
   displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device, e.g., a mouse or a
                                                  28

   trackball, by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can
   be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to
   the user can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or
   tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic,
 5 speech, or tactile input.
   [0100]      Embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back
   end component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an
   application server, or that includes a front end component, e.g., a client computer having a
   graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an
 ) implementation of embodiments, or any combination of such back end, middleware, or
   front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form
   or medium of digital data communication, e.g., a communication network. Examples of
   communication networks include a local area network (LAN) and a wide area network
   (WAN), e.g., the Internet.
 5 [0101]      The system and method or parts thereof may use the "World Wide Web" (Web
   or WWW), which is that collection of servers on the Internet that utilize the Hypertext
   Transfer Protocol (HTTP). HTTP is a known application protocol that provides users
   access to resources, which may be information in different formats such as text, graphics,
   images, sound, video, Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), as well as programs. Upon
 ) specification of a link by the user, the client computer makes a TCP/IP request to a Web
   server and receives information, which may be another Web page that is formatted
   according to HTML. Users can also access other pages on the same or other servers by
   following instructions on the screen, entering certain data, or clicking on selected icons. It
   should also be noted that any type of selection device known to those skilled in the art,
5  such as check boxes, drop-down boxes, and the like, may be used for embodiments using
   web pages to allow a user to select options for a given component. Servers run on a
   variety of platforms, including UNIX machines, although other platforms, such as
   Windows 2000/2003, Windows NT, Sun, Linux, and Macintosh may also be used.
   Computer users can view information available on servers or networks on the Web
0  through the use of browsing software, such as Firefox, Netscape Navigator, Microsoft
   Internet Explorer, or Mosaic browsers. The computing system can include clients and
   servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact
                                                   29

  through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue
  of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server
  relationship to each other.
  [0102]     Other embodiments are within the scope and spirit of the description claims.
5 For example, due to the nature of software, functions described above can be implemented
  using software, hardware, firmware, hardwiring, or combinations of any of these. Features
  implementing functions may also be physically located at various positions, including
  being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical
  locations. The use of the term "a" herein and throughout the application is not used in a
) limiting manner and therefore is not meant to exclude a multiple meaning or a "one or
  more" meaning for the term "a." Additionally, to the extent priority is claimed to a
  provisional patent application, it should be understood that the provisional patent
  application is not limiting but includes examples of how the techniques described herein
  may be implemented.
5 [0103]     Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
  used in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated
  features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or
  addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
  [0104]     A number of exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described.
) Nevertheless, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that various
  modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
                                                  30

          The claims defining the invention are as follows:
           1.     A computer-implemented method, comprising:
          receiving, by a processing device and from a client device associated with a
  requesting user, a request to provide a health grade rating for a medical service provider
5 who is associated with a health care entity;
          accessing, in response to the request, an authentication rules engine that restricts
  submission of health grade ratings to authenticated users of the health care entity;
          determining, based on execution of the authentication rules engine, that the
  requesting user is an authenticated user of the health care entity; and
)         in response to determining that the requesting user is authenticated,
                  transmitting, to the client device, information for a graphical user interface
          that enables the requesting user to submit the health grade rating for the medical
          service provider.
5         2.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the health care
  entity comprises an online patient community for generating social connections between
  users of the online patient community; and
          wherein determining that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the online
  patient community promotes an increase in a quality of health grade ratings, relative to a
) quality of health grade ratings that would be provided by unauthenticated users.
          3.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the medical service
  provider is a first medical service provider, and wherein the method further comprises:
          accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a second medical
5 service provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings
  for the second medical service provider being provided by first authenticated users who
  are associated with the health care entity;
          accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a third medical service
  provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings for the
0 third medical service provider being provided by second authenticated users who are
  associated with the health care entity; and
          generating, based on a comparison of the health grade ratings for the second
  medical service and the health grade ratings for the third medical service, an evaluation of
                                                 31

  the second medical service provider relative to the third medical service provider, with the
  evaluation specifying strengths of the second medical service provider relative to strengths
  of the third medical service provider, with the specified strengths being based on the
  health grade ratings for the second medical service and the health grade ratings for the
5 third medical service.
          4.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the health grade
  rating comprises one or more of a patient review, a patient recommendation, a satisfaction
  rating and an outcome rating;
)          wherein the outcome rating is indicative of a strength of an assessment of one or
  more of a pre-operative condition, an operative procedure, and a post-operative condition.
           5.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the health care
  entity comprises an online patient community, wherein the online patient community
5 comprises medical service providers and users, and wherein the method further comprises:
          restricting access for submission of health grade ratings for medical service
  providers who are members of the online patient community to users who are members of
  the online patient community.
)          6.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the client device
  comprises a first client device, and wherein the method further comprises:
         receiving, from a second client device of a searching user, a request to search for a
  medical service provider associated with one or more predefined attributes that are
  specified by the searching user as defining an acceptable medical service provider;
5        identifying, in response to the request to search, a medical service provider that is
  associated with at least one of the one or more predefined attributes;
         identifying, for the identified medical service provider, one or more health grade
  ratings, with the identified one or more health grade ratings being provided by
  authenticated users of the health care entity; and
0        transmitting, to the second client device, information identifying the identified
  medical service provider and the identified one or more health grade ratings.
           7.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the health care
  entity comprises a hospital, and wherein determining, based on execution of the
                                                 32

  authentication rules engine, that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the hospital
  comprises:
         accessing a data repository that is associated with the hospital; and
     identifying, in data base records that are accessed through the data repository,
5    information specifying that the requesting user is a patient of the hospital.
          8.      One or more machine-readable hardware storage devices storing
  instructions that are executable by one or more processing devices to perform operations
  comprising:
)         receiving, from a client device associated with a requesting user, a request to
  provide a health grade rating for a medical service provider who is associated with a health
  care entity;
          accessing, in response to the request, an authentication rules engine that restricts
  submission of health grade ratings to authenticated users of the health care entity;
5         determining, based on execution of the authentication rules engine, that the
  requesting user is an authenticated user of the health care entity; and
          in response to determining that the requesting user is authenticated,
                  transmitting, to the client device, information for a graphical user interface
          that enables the requesting user to submit the health grade rating for the medical
)         service provider.
          9.      The one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices of claim 8,
  wherein the health care entity comprises an online patient community for generating social
  connections between users of the online patient community; and
5         wherein determining that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the online
  patient community promotes an increase in a quality of health grade ratings, relative to a
  quality of health grade ratings that would be provided by unauthenticated users.
           10.    The one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices of claim 8,
0 wherein the medical service provider is a first medical service provider, and wherein the
  operations further comprise:
          accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a second medical
  service provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings
                                                 33

  for the second medical service provider being provided by first authenticated users who
  are associated with the health care entity;
          accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a third medical service
  provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings for the
5 third medical service provider being provided by second authenticated users who are
  associated with the health care entity; and
          generating, based on a comparison of the health grade ratings for the second
  medical service and the health grade ratings for the third medical service, an evaluation of
  the second medical service provider relative to the third medical service provider, with the
) evaluation specifying strengths of the second medical service provider relative to strengths
  of the third medical service provider, with the specified strengths being based on the
  health grade ratings for the second medical service and the health grade ratings for the
  third medical service.
5          11.     The one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices of claim 8,
  wherein the health grade rating comprises one or more of a patient review, a patient
  recommendation, a satisfaction rating and an outcome rating;
          wherein the outcome rating is indicative of a strength of an assessment of one or
  more of a pre-operative condition, an operative procedure, and a post-operative condition.
)
           12.     The one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices of claim 8,
  wherein the health care entity comprises an online patient community, wherein the online
  patient community comprises medical service providers and users, and wherein the
  operations further comprise:
5         restricting access for submission of health grade ratings for medical service
  providers who are members of the online patient community to users who are members of
  the online patient community.
           13.     The one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices of claim 8,
0 wherein the client device comprises a first client device, and wherein the operations
  further comprises:
         receiving, from a second client device of a searching user, a request to search for a
  medical service provider associated with one or more predefined attributes that are
  specified by the searching user as defining an acceptable medical service provider;
                                                34

         identifying, in response to the request to search, a medical service provider that is
  associated with at least one of the one or more predefined attributes;
         identifying, for the identified medical service provider, one or more health grade
  ratings, with the identified one or more health grade ratings being provided by
5 authenticated users of the health care entity; and
         transmitting, to the second client device, information identifying the identified
  medical service provider and the identified one or more health grade ratings.
           14.     The one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices of claim 8,
) wherein the health care entity comprises a hospital, and wherein determining, based on
  execution of the authentication rules engine, that the requesting user is an authenticated
  user of the hospital comprises:
           accessing a data repository that is associated with the hospital; and
          identifying, in data base records that are accessed through the data repository,
5 information specifying that the requesting user is a patient of the hospital.
           15.     An electronic system comprising:
           one or more processing devices; and
           one or more machine-readable hardware storage devices storing instructions that
) are executable by the one or more processing devices to perform operations comprising:
                   receiving, from a client device associated with a requesting user, a request
           to provide a health grade rating for a medical service provider who is associated
          with a health care entity;
                   accessing, in response to the request, an authentication rules engine that
5         restricts submission of health grade ratings to authenticated users of the health care
           entity;
                   determining, based on execution of the authentication rules engine, that the
          requesting user is an authenticated user of the health care entity; and
                   in response to determining that the requesting user is authenticated,
0                  transmitting, to the client device, information for a graphical user interface
           that enables the requesting user to submit the health grade rating for the medical
           service provider.
                                                  35

           16.    The electronic system of claim 15, wherein the health care entity comprises
  an online patient community for generating social connections between users of the online
  patient community; and
           wherein determining that the requesting user is an authenticated user of the online
5 patient community promotes an increase in a quality of health grade ratings, relative to a
  quality of health grade ratings that would be provided by unauthenticated users.
           17.    The electronic system of claim 15, wherein the medical service provider is
  a first medical service provider, and wherein the operations further comprise:
)          accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a second medical
  service provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings
  for the second medical service provider being provided by first authenticated users who
  are associated with the health care entity;
           accessing information indicative of health grade ratings for a third medical service
5 provider who is associated with the health care entity, with the health grade ratings for the
  third medical service provider being provided by second authenticated users who are
  associated with the health care entity; and
           generating, based on a comparison of the health grade ratings for the second
  medical service and the health grade ratings for the third medical service, an evaluation of
) the second medical service provider relative to the third medical service provider, with the
  evaluation specifying strengths of the second medical service provider relative to strengths
  of the third medical service provider, with the specified strengths being based on the
  health grade ratings for the second medical service and the health grade ratings for the
  third medical service.
5
           18.     The electronic system of claim 15, wherein the health grade rating
  comprises one or more of a patient review, a patient recommendation, a satisfaction rating
  and an outcome rating;
           wherein the outcome rating is indicative of a strength of an assessment of one or
0 more of a pre-operative condition, an operative procedure, and a post-operative condition.
           19.     The electronic system of claim 15, wherein the health care entity comprises
  an online patient community, wherein the online patient community comprises medical
  service providers and users, and wherein the operations further comprise:
                                                36

           restricting access for submission of health grade ratings for medical service
  providers who are members of the online patient community to users who are members of
  the online patient community.
5          20.      The electronic system of claim 15, wherein the client device comprises a
  first client device, and wherein the operations further comprises:
          receiving, from a second client device of a searching user, a request to search for a
  medical service provider associated with one or more predefined attributes that are
  specified by the searching user as defining an acceptable medical service provider;
)         identifying, in response to the request to search, a medical service provider that is
  associated with at least one of the one or more predefined attributes;
          identifying, for the identified medical service provider, one or more health grade
  ratings, with the identified one or more health grade ratings being provided by
  authenticated users of the health care entity; and
5         transmitting, to the second client device, information identifying the identified
  medical service provider and the identified one or more health grade ratings.
                                                  37

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
