           PLASMA HEATED FURNACE FOR IRON ORE PELLET INDURATION
                                          ABSTRACT
In the present pelletizing apparatus, the induration of iron ore concentrate pellets is achieved
in a tunnel furnace heated by plasma torches, wherein the generation of C02 by the
conventional iron ore pelletizing processes is reduced by using electricity powered plasma
torches instead of burning natural gas, heavy oil or pulverized coal in burners, thereby
reducing considerably industrial pollution of the atmosphere.

          3/5
       10        .21 22
12            n7
   14t

                                       1
TITLE OF THE INVENTION
PLASMA HEATED FURNACE FOR IRON ORE PELLET INDURATION
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]             This Application claims priority on U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/566,403, now pending, filed on December 2, 2011, which is herein
incorporated by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]             The present invention relates to the induration of iron ore
concentrate pellets.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]             In the face of shrinking world reserves of high-grade iron ore,
low-grade ores are used, which must be concentrated before further processing.
The concentrated iron ore fines obtained cannot be used as such, for example in a
blast furnace to produce pig iron or to produce sponge iron in a direct reduction
iron plant (DRI).
[0004]             The fines have first to be mixed with additives such as bentonite
or other binders such as described for example in U.S. Patent No. 5,685,893
issued to Field et al., and then shaped into small lumps, the pellets, which are then
hardened by firing in a furnace at temperature up to 1350   0C.

                                         2
[00051                The total world production of such iron pellets is about 400
million metric tonnes per year, which corresponds to about 20% of the total iron
ore production.
[0006]                The most commonly employed method of heat-hardening, such
as described for example in U.S. Patent No. 3,947,001 issued to Leighton, is of
disposing the iron ore pellets on a travelling grate to carry the pellets through a
tunnel-like enclosure where they are progressively subjected to drying, preheating,
firing, after-firing and cooling. An alternative technology, as described for example
in U.S. Patent No. 4,168,951 issued to Drugge, or as proposed by Metso, is to use
a rotary kiln for the firing zone of the process instead of a moving grate.
[0007]               The initial step of drying is carried out at moderate temperature
to allow a gradual release of the moisture in the pellets. After drying, the pellets
are fired at the required temperature to cause the pellets to fuse.
[0008]               The process heat is provided by fuel burners, such as proposed
by companies such as Metal7, located on the side of the tunnel-like furnace
enclosure. However, it has been reported, for example in aforementioned U.S.
Patent No. 3,947,001, that direct exposure of the radiant heat from the burning fuel
flame has to be avoided as it could cause overheating of the top layer of pellets.
To overcome this possibility, it was proposed to install each burner in a small port
extension located on the furnace tunnel, as illustrated in Fig. 1 of U.S. Patent No.
3,947,001, thus shielding the pellets from the radiant heat from the burners.
[0009]               As again illustrated in Fig. 1 of U.S. Patent No. 3,947,001,

                                        3
Leighton proposed two different burner installations: on the right of this figure, the
burner is installed in a vertical shaft, while on the left of the figure, the burner is
horizontal. In both cases the pellets are shielded from the burner flame radiant
heat.
[0010]              In the case of the processing of pellets fired in a kiln, such as, for
example in a Metso plant, it is not possible to prevent exposure of the pellets to
the radiant heat from the flame of the kiln single burner installed on the kiln axis,
although tumbling of the pellets in the rotating kiln may minimize overheating.
[0011]               The combustion, in the burners, of natural gas, heavy oil and/or
pulverized coal results, unfortunately, in the production of very important amounts
of C02. For example, a typical pellet plant producing annually 10 million metric
tonnes of pellets emits about one million metric tonnes of CO 2 ; therefore, the total
world pellet production of 400 million metric tonnes of pellets corresponds to the
production of about 40 million metric tonnes of C02 per year.
[0012]              Once the very hot combustion gases have gone through the bed
of pellets being fired, they are used to preheat and dry the green oncoming pellets
before being released to the atmosphere. The released gas temperature being
about 350 0C, the process energy efficiency would be of only about 80%.
[0013]              Furthermore, the combustion gases, which are used to dry the
ore pellets, are, in addition to C02, composed of water vapor, which is not an
optimal composition as a drying gas.

                                         4
 [0014]             Because of the important release of green-house gases, of the
 low energy efficiency of the heating process and of the fact that a wet gas (that is
a combustion gas containing water vapor in addition to carbon dioxide and
nitrogen) is used in the drying zone of the furnace, there is a need for an improved
technology for the induration of iron ore concentrate pellets.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015]              It is therefore an aim of the present invention to provide a novel
process and apparatus to reduce the generation of CO 2 by iron ore pelletizing
processes.
[0016]              Therefore, in accordance with the present invention, there is
provided a pelletizing apparatus comprising a firing chamber, a travelling grate for
sequentially transporting ore pellets in drying, firing and cooling zones and at least
one plasma torch for providing the air, heated at very high temperature, required
for indurating the dried pellets in the firing chamber and drying the green pellets
fed into the furnace.
[0017]              More specifically, recuperated air from the pellet cooling zone of
the apparatus is introduced in a chamber, where it is mixed with the extremely hot
air from the plasma torch, prior to entering the pellet firing chamber.
[0018]              As the process air is heated, not by fuel combustion, but by the
torch electric arc, the hot air is very dry as it enters the pellet drying zone providing
significant drying efficiency.

                                        5
[0019]             Also in accordance with the present invention, there is provided
a pelletizing apparatus, comprising a firing chamber, a traveling grate for
sequentially transporting ore pellets in drying, firing and cooling zones, and at least
one plasma torch for providing a heat required for indurating the ore pellets in the
firing chamber.
[0020]             Further in accordance with the present invention, there is
provided a pelletizing method, wherein ore pellets are fed sequentially through
drying, firing and cooling zones, and wherein heat required for the process is
provided by at least one plasma torch.
[0021]             Still further in accordance with the present invention, there is
provided a firing device in a pelletizing apparatus, comprising a firing chamber for
ore pellets being transported through the pelletizing apparatus, and at least one
plasma torch for providing a heat required for indurating the ore pellets in the firing
chamber.
[0022]             Still further in accordance with the present invention, there is
provided a plasma torch for use in a firing device of an iron ore pelletizing
apparatus, comprising at least two electrodes, namely one cathode and one
anode, an electric arc being sustained between the two electrodes, a vortex ring
for injecting compressed gas, such as air, between the two electrodes and for
spinning the gas at high speed, an electrical insulator placed between the two
electrodes, a jet of hot plasma gas exiting the torch for use in heating air before it
reaches a firing chamber of the firing device.

                                       6
[0023]             Other objects, advantages and features of the present invention
will become more apparent upon            reading of the following      non-restrictive
description of embodiments thereof, given by way of example only with reference
to the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]             Reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings,
showing by way of illustration an illustrative embodiment of the present invention,
and in which:
[0025]             Fig. 1 is a schematic transverse vertical cross-sectional view of a
conventional firing chamber construction;
[0026]             Fig. 2 is a graphic representation of the dependence of the
energy transfer efficiency on the off-gas temperature for a fuel or gas burner and a
plasma torch;
[0027]             Fig. 3 is a schematic transverse vertical cross-sectional view of a
firing chamber of an induration tunnel furnace showing the location of the plasma
torch, in accordance with the present invention;
[0028]             Fig. 4 is a schematic vertical cross-sectional view of the plasma
torch; and
[0029]             Fig. 5 is a schematic transverse vertical cross-sectional view of a

                                         7
firing chamber of an induration tunnel furnace, in accordance with another
embodiment of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
[0030]              The present pelletizing apparatus uses a plasma heated furnace
to reduce, or even eliminate, the generation of CO 2 in an iron ore pelletizing
process, to increase the energy transfer efficiency of the pellet heating process,
and to provide a dry gas (air) in the green pellets drying section. Plasma torches
are used to heat the induration furnace in place of the conventional natural gas,
heavy oil or/and pulverized coal burners and, in doing so, to contribute to reducing
considerable pollution of the atmosphere and saving energy.
[0031]              For a conventional burner section of the firing zone equipped, for
example a 3.75 MW Metal7 burner, the required combustion air consumption
would be about 3500 Nm3/h. By contrast, given both the facts that no combustion
air is required and the higher heat transfer efficiency of the substitute plasma
torch, as illustrated in Fig. 2, the air flow required would be only about 430 Nm3 /h
with the present plasma heated furnace.
[0032]              In the induration tunnel, the green pellets are charged onto a
grate; with the grate moving, the pellets sequentially pass through drying, preheat,
firing and cooling zones.
[0033]              With reference to Fig. 1, a transverse vertical cross-section of a
conventional firing zone is therein shown with two possible and different burner

                                        8
 arrangements: on the left of Fig. 1, a burner 42 is horizontal while on the right of
 Fig. 1, a burner 52 is in a vertical position. Depending on the arrangement
 considered, hot recuperated air is conveyed from the pellet cooling zone of the
 tunnel furnace, via conduit 40 and downcomer pipe 41, or conduit 51, to be heated
 by the flame from the fuel burner 42, or burner 52, and the heated air being
 directed horizontally into a firing chamber 43 via a laterally extending tunnel 44, or
 a shaft 50.
 [0034]             Green pellets 45 distributed on pallets 46 and previously dried
and preheated, are then heat-hardened in the firing chamber 43.
[0035]             In a typical pelletizing plant such as that shown in Fig. 1, a
plurality of downcomers 41 or conduits 51, burners 42 or 52 and laterally
extending tunnels 44 or shaft 50, are employed at spaced intervals along the firing
chamber 43.
[0036]             Now referring to Fig. 3, a transverse vertical cross-section of the
firing zone of the present pelletizing apparatus is shown with two possible
locations for the installation of a plasma torch: on the left of Fig. 3, a plasma torch
12 is horizontal while on the right, a plasma torch 22 is mounted vertically.
Depending on the arrangement considered, hot recuperated air is conveyed from
the pellet cooling zone of the tunnel furnace, via conduit 10 and downcomer 11, or
conduit 21, to be mixed with extremely hot air heated by plasma torch 12, or 22.
The hot air mixture is then directed towards a firing chamber 13 via a conduit 14,
or a shaft 24.

                                         9
 [0037]              Green pellets 15, uniformly distributed onto a grate 16 and
 previously dried and preheated, are then heat-hardened in the firing chamber 13.
 [0038]              In a plasma fired iron ore induration furnace, from conduit 10
 providing hot recuperated air from the pellet cooling zone, there would be a
 plurality of downcomers 11, or conduits 21, leading to the laterally extending
tunnels 14, or shafts 24, where the hot recuperated air would be mixed with the
 extremely hot air heated by the plasma torches 12, or 22, before entering the firing
 chamber 13. Such a plurality of downcomers 11, conduits 21, plasma torches 12
and 22, laterally extending tunnels 14 and shafts 24 would, as required by the
process, be employed at spaced intervals along the length of the firing chamber
 13.
[0039]              It is important to notice that, in both proposed arrangements for
the installation of the torches 12 and 22, the pellets are shielded from exposure to
the plasma flame intense radiant heat, thus preventing local pellet overheating.
[0040]              The plasma torches 12 and 22 each use electricity to heat air to
very high temperatures (5000 -10000 Kelvin). No fossil fuels are used to generate
the heat. Other gases can be heated by the plasma torch such as nitrogen or
argon.
[0041]              As seen in Fig. 4, the plasma torches 12 and 22 can each
comprise at least two electrodes: one cathode 23 and one anode 26. An electric
arc 18 is sustained between the two electrodes 23 and 26. Compressed air (or
another gas) is injected between the two electrodes through a vortex ring 20 that

                                        10
 spins the air at high speed, limiting point erosion on the anode. An electrical
 insulator 25 made of ceramic or other electrically insulating material is placed
 between the two electrodes. In order to attain high power, multiple anodes and
 vortexes are used to increase arc length and volume of hot gas. The internal parts
 of the torch are mounted inside a water cooled shell 27 that keeps the electrodes
 cool relative to the hot process environment. A jet of hot plasma gas 28 exits the
 torch and is used to heat the air in the downcomer pipe 11.
 [0042]               Fig. 5 shows another embodiment, similar to that of Fig. 3, but
wherein there is only the plasma torch 12. Hot recuperated air is conveyed from
the pellet cooling zone of the tunnel, via the conduit 10 and the downcomer pipe
 11, such that it can be heated to a higher temperature by the mixing thereof with
the extremely hot air heated by the plasma torch 12. The heated air is directed
 horizontally into the firing chamber 13 via the laterally extending tunnel 14. The
 pellets 15, distributed onto the grate 16 and previously dried and preheated, are
then heat-hardened in the firing chamber 13.
[0043]                Although the invention has herein been described in detail with
reference to a preferred embodiment, many variations may be made by those
skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. For example,
the placement of the plasma torch may vary. In addition, although the invention
has been       illustrated with reference    to a straight-line type   of pelletizing
apparatuses, it is equally applicable to a pelletizing apparatus having a circular
configuration.
[0044]                Finally, although the present invention has been described

                                    11
hereinabove by way of embodiments thereof, it may be modified, without departing
from the nature and teachings of the subject invention as described herein.

                                         12
CLAIMS:
1. A pelletizing apparatus, comprising a firing chamber, a traveling grate for
sequentially transporting ore pellets in drying, firing and cooling zones, and at
least one plasma torch for providing a heat required for indurating the ore
pellets in the firing chamber.
2. A pelletizing apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein means are provided
for conveying air heated by the plasma torch to the drying zone for drying green
pellets located upstream of the firing zone.
3. A pelletizing apparatus according to Claims 1 and 2, wherein means are
provided for introducing air recuperated from the pellet cooling zone in at least
one chamber, where it is mixed with the extremely hot air from the plasma
torch, prior to entering the pellet firing chamber.
4. A pelletizing apparatus according to Claims 1 to 3, wherein there are
provided two plasma torches.
5. A pelletizing method, wherein ore pellets are fed sequentially through drying,
firing and cooling zones, and wherein heat required for the process is provided
by at least one plasma torch.
6. A pelletizing method according to Claim 5, wherein the ore pellets are
transported by a traveling grate through the drying, firing and cooling zones.
7. A pelletizing method according to Claims 5 and 6, wherein recuperated air
from the cooling zone is introduced in at least one chamber, where it is mixed

                                        13
with the extremely hot air from the plasma torch, prior to entering the pellet
firing chamber.
8. A pelletizing method according to Claims 5 to 7, wherein air heated by the
plasma torch is used in the drying zone for drying green pellets located
upstream of the firing zone.
9. A firing device in a pelletizing apparatus, comprising a firing chamber for ore
pellets being transported through the pelletizing apparatus, and at least one
plasma torch for providing a heat required for indurating the ore pellets in the
firing chamber.
 10. A firing device according to Claim 9, wherein at least one conduit is
 provided to convey hot air from a cooling zone of the pelletizing apparatus to
the plasma torch, where the hot air from a cooling zone is mixed with very hot
 air heated by the plasma torch, a resulting hot air mixture being directed to the
 firing chamber.
 11. A firing device according to Claims 9 and 10, wherein there are provided
 two plasma torches, each being fed via conduits with hot air from the cooling
 zone.
 12. A firing device according to Claim 11, wherein a common main conduit is
 provided for conveying hot air from the cooling zone to the at least one conduit
 associated with each plasma torch.
  13. A plasma torch for use in a firing device of an iron ore pelletizing apparatus,
 comprising at least two electrodes, namely one cathode and one anode, an
 electric arc being sustained between the two electrodes, a vortex ring for

                                       14
injecting compressed gas, such as air, between the two electrodes and for
spinning the gas at high speed, an electrical insulator placed between the two
electrodes, a jet of hot plasma gas exiting the torch for use in heating air before
it reaches a firing chamber of the firing device.
14. A plasma torch according to Claim 13, wherein multiple anodes and
vortexes are used to increase arc length and volume of hot gas.
15. A plasma torch according to Claims 13 and 14, wherein internal parts of the
torch are mounted inside a water cooled shell for keeping the electrodes cool
relative to the hot process environment.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
