FLOOR SCRUBBER DRY SWEEP APPARATUS
ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
An industrial floor scrubber (12) includes a solution tank (22) and delivery system for applying
the solution to the floor, and one or more rotating brushes for removing dust and debris from the
floor and respectively directing same to a squeegee and to a debris hopper. The trailing
squeegee (44) removes the remaining solution from the floor and, in combination with a vacuum
system, directs the recovered solution to a cleaning solution recovery tank (24) in the scrubbing
mode of operation. In a sweeping mode of operation, the use of a dust filter is eliminated as the
dust-laden air is directed past the debris hopper and onto the upraised squeegee which confines
and directs the dust-laden air into a spray of fine water particles which adhere to and transport
the dust-bearing water particles to the recovery tank via an applied vacuum. The heavy dust
bearing water particles drop into the recovery tank, while a demister removes the remaining
water vapor with the dry air discharged to the atmosphere via a vacuum impeller (56).

              1/3
     ro        _
LO                  14
           CN     N
    k o                    OD£
                        ~~Lo
V,                     I'I
   co
        QD

                                                   1
FLOOR SCRUBBER DRY SWEEP APPARATUS
Field of the Invention
[0001]    This invention relates generally to apparatus and a method for maintaining and
conditioning a generally flat surface, and is particularly directed to the scrubbing and sweeping
of a floor surface using a single apparatus which is easily converted between a wet
scrubbing/sweeping mode of operation, and a dry sweeping operation without changing or
replacing any components or systems.
Background of the Invention
[0002]    Industrial floor scrubbers typically include a cleaning solution tank, a solution delivery
system to apply the cleaning solution to the floor in front of one or more rotating cylindrical or
disc scrub brushes for cleaning the floor, a squeegee located aft of the scrub brushes for drying
the floor, a vacuum system for reclaiming the cleaning solution, and a recovery tank for holding
the reclaimed cleaning solution. In addition, floor scrubbers that employ cylindrical scrub
brushes are frequently provided with a debris hopper located aft of the scrub brushes to catch
wet debris swept from the floor by the typically counter-rotated scrub brushes. One advantage
of this system is that it prevents debris from getting caught in the rear squeegee which would
degrade drying of the floor by the squeegee.
[0003]    Floor scrubber utility has recently been enhanced so as to provide the scrubber with a
dry sweep capability, as opposed to merely scrubbing the floor using a water solution. To that
end, dry sweep systems have been developed for use in some floor scrubbers. These dry sweep
systems typically incorporate rubber skirts, or baffles, disposed around the perimeter of the floor
engaging scrub brushes for the purpose of containing dust produced during the dry sweep
operation. These modified floor scrubbers also sometimes include a dust filter mounted to an
upper portion of a debris hopper, and a second separate vacuum impeller system to vacuum the
debris hopper and draw the dust-laden air through the dust filter, as well as an intermittently
operated filter shaker for shaking the filter clean. This system is very similar in operation to a
standard dedicated floor sweeper.

                                                   2
[0004]    Field use has demonstrated that there is a basic problem with this type of dry sweep
system. When operating this type of machine as a floor scrubber, a large amount of water is
swept, along with any collected debris, into the debris hopper. Most of this liquid is suctioned
away from the debris hopper using a small vacuum hose that taps into a main rear squeegee
vacuum hose. The dry sweep dust filter, even though not used when scrubbing and not
transmitting air during scrubbing operations, becomes saturated and clogged with moisture and
wet debris primarily due to its close proximity to the debris hopper. As a result, the saturated
dry filter becomes ineffective when needed as a dry dust filter. It is then necessary for the
operator to remove, wash, dry and replace the dust filter, or to replace the dust filter with a new
filter before attempting to dry sweep.
[0005]    Due to the relatively small debris hopper volume and other considerations, scrubbers
used as dry sweepers are not intended to be as effective as a dedicated floor sweeper. If the
floor environment is considered to be severe, or "out of control", due to the presence of large
amounts of dust and/or debris, then the use of a dedicated floor sweeper is typically
recommended to bring the environment under control before scrubbing or scrubber dry
sweeping is attempted.
OBJECTS AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]    Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a combination floor
scrubber and dry sweeper which eliminates the need for a dry filter for removing and confining
dust recovered from the floor.
[0007]    It is another object of the present invention to use a squeegee and vacuum arrangement
in a combined floor scrubber and sweeper to direct, collect and confine dust removed from the
floor during the sweeping operation in a solution recovery tank.
[0008]    A further object of the present invention is to replace in a combined mobile floor
sweeper and scrubber the use of a dry filter currently used to remove dust from the air flow in
the sweeping mode of operation, and to eliminate the problems arising from the use of a water
solution with a dry filter by using a water spray system, wherein the dust adheres to fine water
particles which are directed into and confined within a solution recovery tank.

                                                    3
[0009]    A still further object of the present invention is to position in a combined floor sweeper
and scrubber apparatus a debris hopper for recovering floor debris in a manner which prevents
(1) debris from getting caught in a rear squeegee, and (2) degradation in the floor cleaning and
drying process.
[0010]    Yet another object of the present invention is to increase mobile machine floor
sweeping reliability and efficiency by reducing operation interruptions and the extent of
required servicing arising from the use of a dry dust filter in a water usage and wet debris
environment.
[0011]    Still another object of the present invention is to provide an integrated dual mode floor
scrubber and dry sweeper capable of operating in either mode as a scrubber/sweeper, or solely
as a dry sweeper, where operating mode changes are accomplished without adding to or
removing any components from the floor scrubber and sweeper.
[0012]    The present invention incorporates various improvements in combined wet floor
scrubber and drysweeper machines which removes and stores dust and debris removed from the
floor using a solution application system and a squeegee arrangement for removing dust and
recovering used solution from the floor and eliminating problems associated with the use of a
dry dust filter with a solution applied to, and recovered from, the floor. Plural flexible skirts, or
baffles, are positioned around the periphery of a scrub head having a pair of closely spaced,
counter-rotating scrub brushes to confine and channel dust removed from the floor. The brushes
direct dust and debris removed from the floor rearwardly and upwardly into a debris hopper as
in the typical scrubbing operation. The dust is directed rearwardly by the skirts to a channel
formed by a lower surface of the debris hopper and the floor, with the dust then directed to an
aft squeegee disposed in a slightly raised position above the floor. Coupled to the squeegee is a
generally vertical squeegee vacuum hose which is also coupled to a vacuum fan, or impeller, for
drawing the dust upwardly to a solution recovery tank. Water in the form of a mist is directed
onto the dust drawn upwardly through the squeegee vacuum hose, with the water particles
adhering to and depositing the dust particles in the solution recovery tank. A demister disposed
in, or adjacent to, an upper portion of the recovery tank separates the remaining water vapor
from the air, and the dry air is drawn through the vacuum impeller for discharge from the
scrubber/sweeper combination into the atmosphere.

                                                   4
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0013]    The appended claims set forth those novel features which characterize the invention.
However, the invention itself, as well as further objects and advantages thereof, will best be
understood by reference to the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment taken
in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, where like reference characters identify like
elements throughout the various figures, in which:
[0014]    FIG. 1 is a simplified longitudinal sectional view taken along the length of the
inventive floor scrubber dry sweep apparatus of the present invention;
[0015]    FIG. 2 is an aft, generally planar view of the inventive floor scrubber dry sweep
apparatus; and
[0016]    FIG. 3 is a perspective view of the bottom portion of a scrub head incorporated in the
inventive floor scrubber and dry sweep apparatus which includes a pair of rotating cylindrical
scrub brushes and a surrounding skirt arrangement for directing and confining the dust removed
from the floor.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0017]    Referring to FIG. 1, there is shown a vertical cross sectional view of a combination
floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12 in accordance with the present invention taken along
the length of the apparatus. FIG. 2 is an aft, generally planar view of the inventive floor
scrubber dry sweep apparatus 12, while FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a bottom portion of the
apparatus illustrating a scrub head 21 including first forward and a second aft rotating scrub
brushes 26a and 28a.The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12 includes a
chassis 14 which incorporates the various components and systems described in the following
paragraphs. For example, the apparatus includes a steering wheel 14a, plural wheels, where one
of the front wheels as shown as element 20a which is disposed upon and engages a floor 17. In
addition, the combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12 further includes an engine 16
for displacing the floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus over the floor 17, as well as a radiator
18 coupled to the engine for controlling the engine's operating temperature.

                                                  5
[0018]    Disposed in a lower portion of the floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus's chassis 14 is
a scrub head 21 which includes a first forward cylindrical rotating scrub brush 26a and a second
aft cylindrical rotating scrub brush 28a. Forward cylindrical scrub brush 26a rotates in the
direction of arrow 26b, while the aft cylindrical scrub brush 28a counter-rotates in the direction
of arrow 28b. The forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a and 26a are disposed in contact
with the floor 17 and with one another so that the outer peripheral portions of their respective
bristles are in contact with one another.
[0019]    The inventive floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12 further includes a solution tank
22 containing a cleaning solution 22a. A solution delivery system is coupled to the solution
tank 22 and includes a water pump 66 and a hose system for distributing the solution. More
specifically, the solution distribution system includes a first hose section 22b, and second and
third hose sections 65 and 67. When scrubbing, solution is delivered from the solution tank 22
via the first hose section 22b through a valve 32 to a first forward solution delivery tube 68a to a
portion of the floor 17 immediately forward of the first cylindrical scrub brush 26a. When dry
sweeping, the valve 32 is closed and by means of water pump 66, solution is provided from the
solution tank 22 via the third hose section 67 to a second aft spray nozzle 68b.
[0020]    Also disposed in a lower portion of the floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 14 and aft
of the scrub head 21 is a debris hopper 30. A forward, upper portion of the debris hopper 30
includes an aperture 30a which is adapted to receive debris removed from the floor 17 and
displaced rearwardly by the forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a and 28a. When dry
sweeping, dust removed from the floor 17 is displaced rearwardly by the forward and aft
cylindrical scrub brushes 26a, 28a into a channel 63 defined by a lower portion of the debris
hopper 30 and the floor 17. Rearward displacement of the dust causes the dust to engage a
raised rear squeegee 44, which is preferably disposed approximately six inches above the floor
17. Squeegee 44 is coupled to the lower end of a rear squeegee vacuum hose 46, which is
attached to an aft portion of the chassis 14 and is oriented generally vertically. An upper end of
the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46 is coupled to an upper portion of a solution recovery tank 24.
Also coupled to the upper end portion of the recovery tank 24 by means of an air duct 52 is a
vacuum impeller, or fan, 56 for drawing clean dry air from the recovery tank 24 for discharge to
the atmosphere.

                                                  6
[0021]    When dry sweeping, the solution is directed via the second hose section 65 to water
pump 66 which directs the water via the third hose section 67 to aft spray nozzle 68 coupled to
the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46 for discharge of the cleaning solution in the form of water
droplets onto the dust particles lifted by the vacuum impeller 56 within the rear squeegee
vacuum hose in an upward direction. This fine water spray encapsulates the dust particles as
they travel up the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46 and into the recovery tank 24. Within the
recovery tank 24 most of the now wet dust particles are separated from the air flow within the
recovery tank by gravity. Any remaining moisture is removed from the airflow by means of a
demister 48 disposed within, or adjacent to, an upper portion of the recovery tank 24. The dry
air is then drawn from recovery tank 24 via air duct 52 by the vacuum impeller 56 for discharge
to the atmosphere. The rear squeegee vacuum hose 46 includes a lower vacuum hose 46a and
an upper vacuum hose 46b.
[0022]    The debris hopper 30 is coupled to a lower portion of the rear squeegee vacuum hose
46 via a suction hose 77. When scrubbing a partial vacuum created by the vacuum fan 56 draws
moisture from the debris deposited with the debris hopper 30, with this withdrawn moisture then
travelling up the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46 to recovery tank 24 for recovery of the used
solution and separation of the dry air for discharge to the atmosphere via vacuum fan 56.
[0023]    Referring to FIG. 2, there is shown an aft planar view of the floor sweeper and scrubber
apparatus 12 of the present invention. A rear bumper 70 is disposed above the rear squeegee 44
and extends substantially the entire width of the inventive floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus
12, as does the rear squeegee 44. The lower rear squeegee vacuum hose 46a extends upwardly
from the rear squeegee 44 and is attached to a vacuum hose manifold 74. Rear squeegee 44 is
shown in the upraised dry sweep position. The lower end portion of the rear squeegee vacuum
hose 46 is coupled to the rear squeegee 44, while the upper portion 46b of the rear squeegee
vacuum hose is coupled to an upper portion of solution recovery tank 24. The vacuum hose
manifold 74 is used to connect the upper and lower portions of the rear squeegee vacuum hose
46 as well as the suction hose 77 extending from an aft portion of the debris hopper 30 to the
rear squeegee vacuum hose 46. Suction hose 77 provides recovered cleaning solution particles
from the debris hopper 30 to the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46 for attachment to the dust
particles traveling upward in the squeegee vacuum hose 46.

                                                   7
[0024]    With reference also to FIG. 3, the operation and structure of the scrub head 21 which
includes the forward and aft rotating scrub brushes 26a and 28a will now be described in detail.
Forming respective left and right lateral portions of scrub head 21 are a left scrub head door 88
and a right scrub head door which is not shown in the figure for simplicity, where the scrub head
travels in the direction of arrow 85 during operation. Attached to a lower portion of the left
scrub head door 88 is a left side door skirt 86 and a left side skirt 87. Attached to adjacent lower
portions of the right scrub head door is a right side door skirt 84 and a right side skirt 83. Each
of the left and right scrub head doors includes a pair of handles 90a and 90b adapted for manual
engagement so as to be able to open and close the attached scrub head door so as to provide
access to the forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a and 28a for replacement of, or
maintenance for, the two scrub brushes disposed within scrub head 21. Also disposed on the
open lower portion of the scrub head 21 are a front dust skirt 60, a front recirculating skirt 82,
and an aft dust recirculating skirt 61. The aforementioned skirts help to contain within the scrub
head 21 dust removed from the floor 17 by the forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a and
28a during dry sweeping. The rotary motion of the two cylindrical brushes 26a, 28b tends to
slightly pressurize the air within the scrub head 21 so that the dust-laden air directed rearwardly
takes the path of least resistance in response to this pressure differential within the scrub head
21 and travels through the open space between the top of the aft dust recirculating skirt 61 and
the front lower edge of the debris hopper 30 and then through channel 63. Channel 63 is formed
by the lower portion of debris hopper 30 and floor 17 in conjunction with the side walls formed
by the rear wheels (not shown) and their associated support structure (also not shown). Channel
63 extends substantially to the aft end of the floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12. The
vacuum created by the vacuum impeller 56 draws the dust-laden air through channel 63 and
raised squeegee 44, and then up through the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46.
[0025]    Scrub head 21 further includes a generally rectangular frame coupled to and disposed
about the forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a and 28a. Forward and aft cylindrical
scrub brushes 26a, 28a are pivotally mounted within the scrub head 21 so as to freely rotate
therein under the influence of a rotary drive system which is not shown in the figures for
simplicity. Forming the right and left lateral portions of the scrub head 21 are left and right
scrub head doors, where the left scrub head door is shown as element 88 in FIG. 3, and the right
scrub head door is not shown in the figure for simplicity. As described above, front dust skirt 60
confines dust removed from the floor 17 within the scrub head 21 prior to its displacement into
channel, or tunnel, 63 leading to the rear squeegee 44. Similarly, as also described above, the

                                                    8
aft dust recirculating skirt 61 directs the dust so that it is discharged into the aforementioned
channel 63 formed partially by floor 17. The front recirculating skirt 82 is also disposed
immediately forward of the forward cylindrical scrub brush 26a for confining and directing the
dust in a rearward direction as described above. Left and right side skirts 87 and 83 are
respectively disposed on forward portions of the left side door skirt 86 and the right side door
skirt (not shown). Each of the left and right scrub head doors includes a respective pair of
handles 90a and 90b to facilitate pivotally displacing the left and right scrub head doors
outwardly from the scrub head 21 to facilitate access to the forward and aft cylindrical scrub
brushes 26a and 28a, as well as access to other system components within the scrub head 21.
[0026]    During the dry sweeping mode of operation, floor debris is swept into the debris hopper
30 by the forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a and 28a. Dust-laden air is directed
below the debris hopper 30 via channel 63, and is drawn via vacuum fan 56 into the cleaning
solution recovery tank 24. Solution 22a from the solution tank 22 is sprayed into the rear
squeegee vacuum hose 46 via aft spray nozzle 68b. The water spray particles encapsulate the
dust removed from the floor 17 as the dust-laden air is drawn up within the rear squeegee
vacuum hose 46 to the recovery tank 24. The resulting dirty solution, e.g., tap water, is then
retained within the recovery tank 24 until discharged therefrom.
[0027]    The floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12 incorporates an electrical system which
interrupts power to a hydraulic solenoid valve that controls the raising and lowering of the rear
squeegee 44 relative to floor 17 so that the squeegee remains raised during dry sweep operation
of the inventive floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus 12. A dry sweep rocker switch is also
used to interrupt power to the solution delivery solenoid valves to prevent water flow to the
floor forward of the forward and aft cylindrical scrub brushes 26a, 28a also during the dry sweep
mode of operation. Electrical power is applied to the dry sweep solution pump 66 for delivering
water to the aft spray nozzle 68b attached to the rear squeegee vacuum hose 46. The electrical
system interrupts delivery of electric power from a 3-position rotary switch to the scrub head
floor pressure controller. The electrical controller then receives two "OFF" binary signals
which activate the electrical controller for applying a "low floor pressure" signal to the scrub
head 21. Application of the "low floor pressure" signal to the scrub head 21 prevents the
operator from choosing the medium and heavy brush pressure settings when in the dry sweep
mode of operation. The low floor pressure setting is preferred when dry floor sweeping. In

                                                   9
addition, a "low solution" liquid level switch is wired so as to cut off dry sweep operation when
the cleaning tank 22 is empty.
[0028]    While particular embodiments of the present invention have been described, it will be
obvious to those skilled in the relevant arts that changes and modifications may be made without
departing from the invention in its broader aspects. Therefore, the aim in the appended claims is
to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the
invention. The matter set forth in the foregoing description and accompanying drawings is
offered by way of illustration only and not as a limitation. The actual scope of the invention is
intended to be defined in the following claims when viewed in their proper prospective based on
the prior art.

                                                  10
CLAIMS
1.    A combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus comprising:
      plural rotating scrub brushes for engaging and cleaning the floor, including removing
debris from the floor and displacing dust on the floor in a rearward direction relative to the
direction of travel of the apparatus during operation;
       a solution storage tank and delivery system for applying a cleaning solution to the floor;
       a solution recovery tank;
       a debris hopper disposed aft of said rotating scrub brushes and adapted to receive and store
debris removed from the floor;
       a squeegee disposed aft of said debris hopper, and in spaced relation to the floor;
       an air displacement arrangement for drawing dust-laden air from said rotating scrub
brushes past said debris tank and into engagement with said squeegee, said air displacement
arrangement including a first elongated vacuum hose coupling said squeegee to said solution
recovery tank; and
       a second elongated delivery hose coupling said solution storage tank to said first elongated
vacuum hose for delivering fine water particles to the dust-laden air in said first elongated
vacuum hose, wherein said fine water particles adhere to the dust particles for deposit in said
solution recovery tank.
2.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rotating
scrub brushes are disposed within a substantially closed scrub head.
3.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 2, wherein said scrub
head includes a substantially open lower portion adjacent the floor to provide floor contact for
the scrub brushes.
4.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1, wherein said plural
scrub brushes include first and second closely spaced cylindrical brushes in counter-rotation.
5.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 4, wherein said first and
second cylindrical brushes are aligned generally parallel with the floor and are disposed so as to
displace dirt from the floor upwardly between the two brushes.

                                                  11
6.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 3, wherein said scrub
head includes plural skirts disposed adjacent the open lower portion thereof to restrain and direct
the dust-laden air rearwardly into engagement with said squeegee.
7.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1, wherein said air
displacement arrangement draws the dust-laden air aft from said rotating scrub brushes into a
channel formed between the floor and a lower portion of said debris tank in the direction of said
squeegee.
8.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1 including first forward
and second aft cylindrical scrub brushes in lengthwise mutual alignment and aligned generally
transverse to the direction of travel of said apparatus during operation.
9.     The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 8, wherein said first and
second cylindrical scrub brushes are counter-rotating with debris on the floor directed generally
upward in a space disposed intermediate said first and second scrub brushes.
10.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 6, wherein said plural
skirts are disposed completely about the open lower portion of said scrub head.
11.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 2, wherein said rotating
scrub brushes slightly pressurize the dust-laden air within said scrub head.
12.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 11, wherein the
pressurized dust-laden air within said scrub head takes a path of least resistance in exiting the
scrub head and passing between the top of a rear skirt disposed on said scrub head and front
lower edge of said debris hopper.
13.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 12, wherein a spaced
formed between said debris hopper, the floor and plural transport wheels mounted to said
apparatus and their associated support structure form a channel for directing the dust-laden air
from said scrub head to said squeegee.

                                                   12
14.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a
water pump coupled to said solution storage tank and to said delivery system for distributing the
solution throughout the floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus.
15.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1, wherein said air
displacement arrangement includes a vacuum impeller coupled to said recovery tank for
drawing the dust-laden air and water droplets into said recovery tank, wherein said dust-laden
water droplets are deposited in said recovery tank and dust-free dry air is drawn from said
recovery tank for discharge to the atmosphere by said vacuum impeller.
16.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a
demister disposed within or adjacent to said cleaning solution recovery tank and coupled to said
air displacement arrangement for removing moisture from the dust-laden air provided to said
recovery tank and providing dry air to said vacuum impeller for discharge to the atmosphere.
17.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a
third suction hose coupling said debris hopper to said first elongated vacuum hose for removing
moisture from debris provided to said debris hopper.
18.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 1, wherein said solution
delivery system includes a fourth hose coupled to said solution storage tank for delivery of
solution to the floor immediately forward of said plural rotating scrub brushes.
19.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a
fifth hose coupling said debris hopper to said first elongated vacuum hose for removal of
moisture from said debris hopper.
20.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 3, wherein said scrub
head further includes movable lateral panels to facilitate access to said cylindrical brushes for
maintenance and/or replacement of said brushes.
21.    The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 6, wherein said skirts
include a first front skirt for confining the debris within said scrub head prior to the scrub
brushes directing the dust-laden air and debris rearwardly from said scrub head.

                                                  13
22.   The combination floor sweeper and scrubber apparatus of claim 6, wherein said skirts
include a second rear skirt for directing air-laden dust through a channel formed by the floor and
a lower portion of said debris hopper.
                                  Minuteman International, Inc.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

