    ABSTRACT
    A method and device (10) for gaming, in which an initial game is played toward an
    ultimate winning outcome, but with several intermediate winning outcomes possibles
    before achieving the ultimate winning outcome. Several of these games may be played
  5 concurrently on the same 5 device (10) in pursuit of the ultimate winning outcome.
    Achieving the ultimate winning outcome may result in an award or in a subsequent
    gaming event. Play of a single gaming session need not take place in one sitting; the
    state of the current session may be saved, dispensed to the player in a physical form,
    and resumed at a later time.
10

                                                -1
                                   Gaming Device and Method
                                          Technical Field
   The following invention is generally related to instrumentalities and methodologies in
 5 gaming devices. More specifically, the instant invention is directed to a gaming device
   having an ultimate winning outcome which allows the player to receive an award or to
   participate in a subsequent gaming event, and several intermediate winning outcomes in
   which the player is eligible for an award. Such a gaming device may be utilized as a
   single-player or a tournament play device. Most specifically, the instant invention is
10 directed to such a gaming device which may engage in several gaming sessions at once,
   on which the state of play may be saved and dispensed to the player, play to be
   continued at a later time.
                                         Background Art
15 Several games exist in the prior art that allow a player to play a game toward an
   ultimate winning outcome. These games, however, are quick to stagnate, as the player
   tires of repeatedly engaging in the same gaming proposition. In addition, such games
   are often over quickly, which does little to retain the player's interest. Games also exist
   in which a secondary gaming proposition is offered to the player if certain conditions
20 are met. These may help to retain interest, but the duration of these games continues to
   be rather short. Players are more likely to walk away from such a game than if a game
   were long enough for a player to realize that more of a personal stake in gaming were
   involved.
25 Summary of the Invention
   In at least one embodiment, a device and method for gaming is provided in which a
   player is rewarded not only for an ultimate winning outcome, but also for any of several
   possible interim winning outcomes. In this way, the player is potentially rewarded
   multiple times on the road to the ultimate winning outcome. The reward for the ultimate
30 winning outcome may be an award of credits or a complimentary item or items, or it
   may consist of a subsequent gaming proposition. This method and device is suitable for
   tournament play in addition to a single-player proposition.
           In addition, a player is allowed to engage in several gaming sessions
   concurrently, retaining player interest. Play of the game may be interrupted at any time;
35 the state of play is then saved and the player may resume the same game or set of games

                                                -2
   at a future time. The state of play is saved and dispensed to the player, who may choose
   to continue the session later at that machine, or at any similar machine that allows such
   an event.
           In at least one embodiment, a device and method for gaming are provided in
 5 which a player is rewarded not only for an ultimate winning outcome, but for any of
   several intermediate winning outcomes.
           In at least one embodiment, a device and method provide an award or a
   subsequent gaming proposition if the player achieves the ultimate winning outcome.
           In at least one embodiment, a device and method are provided which allow a
10 player to engage in several gaming sessions concurrently.
           In at least one embodiment, a device and method provide the player with an
   option to save the state of the current game and resume playing at a future time.
           In at least one embodiment, a device and method are provided which may be
   utilized not only as a single-player gaming proposition, but also as a gaming proposition
15 suitable for tournament play.
            In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method for gaming, the steps including:
            initiating play of a first game wherein a plurality of first symbols are selected
   from a first set of available symbols, the first set of available symbols including at least
20 one symbol that is common to a second set of available symbols;
            initiating concurrent plays of a plurality of second games wherein, for each play
   of each of the plurality of second games, a plurality of second symbols are preselected
   from the second set of symbols and allocated to a player;
            comparing the selected first symbols to each of the plurality of preselected and
25 allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second
   games to determine whether an ultimate winning outcome or an intermediate winning
   outcome occurs;
            triggering a third game in response to the ultimate winning outcome occurring;
            awarding credits respectively associated with the ultimate winning outcome or
30 the intermediate winning outcome in response to each winning outcome occurring
   during each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second games;
            repeating plays of the first game to generate subsequent selections of first
   symbols from the first set of available symbols and comparing those selected first
   symbols with the preselected and allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent
35 plays of the plurality of second games until said ultimate winning outcome is produced;
   and

                                                  -3
            saving the current set of selections of first symbols and preselected and allocated
   second symbols on encoded moveable media, said encoded moveable media dispensed
   to the player for later use.
            In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
 5 gaming system arranged to:
            initiate play of a first game wherein a plurality of first symbols are selected from
   a first set of available symbols, the first set of available symbols including at least one
   symbol that is common to a second set of available symbols;
            initiate concurrent plays of a plurality of second games wherein, for each play of
10 each of the plurality of second games, a plurality of second symbols are preselected
   from the second set of symbols and allocated to a player;
            compare the selected first symbols to each of the plurality of preselected and
   allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second
   games to determine whether an ultimate winning outcome or an intermediate winning
15 outcome occurs;
            trigger a third game in response to the ultimate winning outcome occurring;
            award credits respectively associated with the ultimate winning outcome or the
   intermediate winning outcome in response to each winning outcome occurring during
   each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second games;
20          repeat plays of the first game to generate subsequent selections of first symbols
   from the first set of available symbols and comparing those selected first symbols with
   the preselected and allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent plays of the
   plurality of second games until said ultimate winning outcome is produced; and
            save the current set of selections of first symbols and preselected and allocated
25 second symbols on encoded moveable media, said encoded moveable media dispensed
   to the player for later use.
   Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only,
   with reference to the accompanying figures.
30
                                     Brief Description of Drawings
   Figure 1 is a flowchart of the methodology according to the present invention.
   Figure 2 is a depiction of the apparatus associated therewith.
35 Figure 3 is a depiction of the display screen shown in figure 2, depicting a plurality of
   randomly-numbered positions in a row and column (RXC) matrix.
   Figure 4 is a 3D view of the display screen.

                                               -4
                           Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out the Invention
   Considering the drawings, wherein like reference numerals denote like parts throughout
   various drawing figures, reference numeral 10 as shown in FIG. 2 is directed to the
 5 device according to the present invention.
           In its essence, the device 10 includes a housing 16 which supports a visual
   display 2, preferably a video monitor, therewithin. The display 2 may include a window
   8 for special messages or for incrementing counting of credits accumulated by the
   player. The device also includes an LED or other readout 4 for prompting the player
10 and can provide similar verbiage as the window 8 or in lieu thereof, to stimulate the
   player. The device includes an inlet 6 for the reception therein for coins, currency or the
   like to auger in the inception of play. A separate slot 7, capable of accepting and
   dispensing encoded movable media, is also present. A plurality of decision-making
   buttons 12 are located on the face of the apparatus 10, preferable below the display 2
15 and a pull handle 14 can be used to initiate play or as an alternative to supplement the
   decision-making buttons 12. A coin hopper 18 or ticket printer may be included to
   effectuate an output of an award due the player. The device 10 may have a top portion
   32 with a display thereon having a motif correlative with the game to be played and can
   include a paytable. A plurality of speakers 34 may be included on the device for aural
20 interaction with the player. The apparatus also includes a processor P coordinating all
   functions and a random number generator G operatively coupled thereto for generating
   outcomes.
           More specifically, and with reference to FIG. 3, greater details with respect to
   the video display 2 can be explored. In the preferred embodiment, the display 2 features
25 a plurality of randomly-numbered positions 20 in a row and column (RXC) matrix 21.
   Numbers for play appear in box 22 and are randomly generated by random number
   generator G for play on the matrix 21. Preferably, the matrix defines a 5 X 5 array,
   correlative of BINGO, and above row one depicts the letter "BINGO", defining, with
   positions 20 an alpha numeric display. The display could also be three dimensional
30 (3D) (FIG. 4).
           Thus, with BINGO, all positions 20 are initially nominated like a BINGO card.
   As "called" numbers appear in box 22, matches with positions 20 are highlighted.
           Referring to FIG. 1, the flow chart associated with the apparatus of FIGS. 2 and
   3 can be explored. In a single-player embodiment, the player engages in a gaming
35 proposition using the display pictured of FIG.3, on which a matrix 21 composed of
   randomly-numbered positions 20 is present. Randomly-generated numbers 22 appear on
   the display 2 and are compared to the numbers 20 on the matrix 21; if the numbers

                                                 -5
   match, then that position appears bolded, highlighted or "covered" on the matrix 21.
   Each match (or non-match) can be a gaming proposition. The ultimate, maximum
   winning outcome in this embodiment is to cover all of the positions in the matrix.
   Before the entire matrix 21 is filled, there are opportunities to cover positions 20 in
 5 intermediate winning combinations, such as covering a certain number of positions 20
   in a certain orientation, such as all in a row, all in a column, "four corners", etc.
   correlative of BINGO winning orientations. The player is awarded for these
   intermediate winning combinations as well as any match. Randomly-generated numbers
   continue to appear in box 22 on the display 2 until a predetermined number of numbers
10 have been generated or until another preset event occurs, such as the expiration of time
   or predetermined number of wagers. If the player has not filled the matrix 21 at this
   point, the player loses, and has the option to play again, or to quit and cash out.
           If the player succeeds in covering all the spaces in the matrix, an award of
   credits or other complimentary items is given. A player can increase enjoyment by
15 playing multiple BINGO cards simultaneously on the display 2. Alternatively, or in
   addition, the player is then eligible to engage in a subsequent gaming proposition.
   These subsequent gaming propositions may take the form of "racing-style" events such
   as a simulated car or horse race or other gaming simulations such as Keno. The player
   may be awarded further for winning outcomes in these subsequent gaming propositions.
20         Players may save games which are not yet finished by using one of the decision
   making buttons 12 to indicate that saving is desired. The device would then save the
   state of the game in present state of play, preferably via encoded moveable media such
   as a smart card or a card having a readable, writeable magnetic strip, and dispense it to
   the player through the slot 7. The player may take this saved game card and insert it into
25 any compatible device at a future time, which would allow the player to continue the
   saved game at its present state when the player retired.
           In a tournament situation, players would concurrently engage in the initial
   gaming proposition in competition with one another for example, as a function of time
   played or wagers made. Players could be eligible for intermediate prizes in this
30 situation, even if they did not achieve the ultimate winning outcome. If no player in the
   tournament covered the entire BINGO card during the allotted tournament rule set, best
   performance would still be rewarded.
           Moreover, having thus described the invention, it should be apparent that
   numerous structural modifications and adaptations may be resorted to without departing
35 from the scope and fair meaning of the instant invention as set forth hereinabove and as
   described hereinbelow by the claims.

                                                -6
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A method for gaming, the steps including:
           initiating play of a first game wherein a plurality of first symbols are selected
 5 from a first set of available symbols, the first set of available symbols including at least
   one symbol that is common to a second set of available symbols;
           initiating concurrent plays of a plurality of second games wherein, for each play
   of each of the plurality of second games, a plurality of second symbols are preselected
   from the second set of symbols and allocated to a player;
10         comparing the selected first symbols to each of the plurality of preselected and
   allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second
   games to determine whether an ultimate winning outcome or an intermediate winning
   outcome occurs;
           triggering a third game in response to the ultimate winning outcome occurring;
15         awarding credits respectively associated with the ultimate winning outcome or
   the intermediate winning outcome in response to each winning outcome occurring
   during each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second games;
           repeating plays of the first game to generate subsequent selections of first
   symbols from the first set of available symbols and comparing those selected first
20 symbols with the preselected and allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent
   plays of the plurality of second games until said ultimate winning outcome is produced;
   and
           saving the current set of selections of first symbols and preselected and allocated
   second symbols on encoded moveable media, said encoded moveable media dispensed
25 to the player for later use.
   2.      The method of claim 1 wherein said first game includes producing randomly
   generated numbers and said plurality of second games includes producing a respective
   randomly-numbered playfield for each of the plurality of second games, said ultimate
30 winning outcome consisting of matching all of said randomly-generated numbers to at
   least one of said randomly numbered playfields.
   3.      The method of claim 2 wherein a plurality of said intermediate winning
   outcomes are possible by matching a subset of the numbers in at least one of said
35 randomly numbered playfields to said randomly-generated numbers.

                                                 -7
   4.       The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein one outcome of said
   third game results is the awarding of a plurality of complimentary items other than
   credits.
 5 5.       The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein said third game is
   comprised of a subsequent gaming event.
   6.       The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein said third game
   includes simulating a racing event.
10
   7.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein said third game comprises:
            allowing a player to select a subset of outcomes from a set of possible outcomes;
            generating outcomes;
15          comparing the selected subset of outcomes with the generated outcomes; and
            awarding credits according to a paytable for matches between the selected
   subset of outcomes and the generated outcomes.
   8.       The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein only a single player is
20 involved.
   9.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein a plurality of players may
   participate in concurrent gaming sessions in competition with each other.
25 10.      A gaming system arranged to:
            initiate play of a first game wherein a plurality of first symbols are selected from
   a first set of available symbols, the first set of available symbols including at least one
   symbol that is common to a second set of available symbols;
            initiate concurrent plays of a plurality of second games wherein, for each play of
30 each of the plurality of second games, a plurality of second symbols are preselected
   from the second set of symbols and allocated to a player;
            compare the selected first symbols to each of the plurality of preselected and
   allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second
   games to determine whether an ultimate winning outcome or an intermediate winning
35 outcome occurs;
            trigger a third game in response to the ultimate winning outcome occurring;

                                                 -8
            award credits respectively associated with the ultimate winning outcome or the
   intermediate winning outcome in response to each winning outcome occurring during
   each of the concurrent plays of the plurality of second games;
            repeat plays of the first game to generate subsequent selections of first symbols
 5 from the first set of available symbols and comparing those selected first symbols with
   the preselected and allocated second symbols in each of the concurrent plays of the
   plurality of second games until said ultimate winning outcome is produced; and
            save the current set of selections of first symbols and preselected and allocated
   second symbols on encoded moveable media, said encoded moveable media dispensed
10 to the player for later use.
   11.      The system of claim 10, wherein the gaming system is arranged to produce
   randomly-generated numbers during the first game and to produce a respective
   randomly-numbered playfield during each one of the plurality of second games, said
15 ultimate winning outcome consisting of matching all of said randomly-generated
   numbers to at least one of said randomly numbered playfields.
   12.      The system of claim 11, wherein a plurality of said intermediate winning
   outcomes are possible by matching a subset of the numbers in at least one of said
20 randomly numbered playfields to said randomly-generated numbers.
   13.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein one outcome of said third
   game results is the awarding of a plurality of complimentary items other than credits.
25 14.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein said third game is comprised
   of a subsequent gaming event.
   15.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein said third game includes
   simulating a racing event.
30
   16.      The system of any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the gaming system is
   arranged such that during the third game:
            a player is allowed to select a subset of outcomes from a set of possible
   outcomes;
35          outcomes are generated;
            the selected subset of outcomes are compared with the generated outcomes; and

                                              -9
          credits according to a paytable are awarded for matches between the selected
  subset of outcomes and the generated outcomes.
  17.     The system of any one of claims 10 to 16, wherein the gaming system is
5 arranged such that only a single player is involved.
  18.     The system of any one of claims 10 to 16, wherein the gaming system is
  arranged such that a plurality of players are able to participate in concurrent gaming
  sessions in competition with each other.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
