   Abstract
         The present invention relates to a system for buffering
   programs. The system comprises control circuitry configured to
   buffer a first scheduled program currently being received. The
5  circuitry receives a first user request to receive a second
   scheduled program. Based on the first user request, the circuitry
   receives the second scheduled program and buffers the second
   scheduled program in parallel with the buffering of the first
   scheduled program. The circuitry receives a second user request to
0  record the second scheduled program. Based on the second user
   request, the circuitry:  records the second scheduled program on a
   remote server accessible to multiple users outside of a network
   associated with the control circuitry. During the buffering of the
   first scheduled program, the circuitry receives a third user
5  request to pause the second scheduled program at a given time
   point;  pauses the second scheduled program while continuing to
   record the second scheduled program on the remote server;  receives
   a fourth user request to resume the second scheduled program;   and
   based on the fourth user request and the buffering of the second
'0 scheduled program, causes the second scheduled program to be
   continued from the given time point by retrieving the buffered
   second scheduled program while continuing to record the second
   scheduled program on the remote server.

                               -  1
           SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INTERACTIVE PROGRAM
          GUIDES WITH PERSONAL VIDEO RECORDING FEATURES
   Cross-reference to related Applications
 5            This application claims the benefit of United
   States Provisional Application No. 60/270,469, filed
   February 21, 2001, United States Provisional Application
   No. 60/271,809, filed February 27,     2001, United States
   Provisional Application No. 60/284,703, filed on April
10 18, 2001, United States Provisional Application No.
   60/290,709,   filed on May 14,   2001, United States
   Provisional Application No. 60/296,593, filed on June 7,
   2001, and United States Provisional Application No.
   60/301,589, filed on June 28, 2001, which are hereby
15 incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
   Background of the Invention
               Mere reference to background art herein should
   not be construed as an admission that such art
20  constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the
    invention.
               The present invention relates to interactive
    television program guide   ("IPG") systems and personal
    video recording ("PVR") systems, and more particularly to
25  enhanced PVR-IPG features.
               Interactive television systems such as
    interactive television program guide systems are now
    widely available to the general public.      Interactive
    television program guide systems may be used to provide

                                - 2
    interactive television services such as services for
    allowing a user to tune to a program, to set parental
    locks, to record a program, to set reminders, etc.
    Interactive program guide systems are illustratively
  5 described, for example, in Knee et al. U.S. Patent No.
    5,589,892, and Knudson et al. U.S. Patent Application No.
    09/357,941, filed July 16, 1999, which are hereby
    incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
               In recent years, PVRs such as those provided by
10  companies such as Tivo and ReplayTV have become
    available.   Such systems and devices may be used to
    provide interactive television services such as services
    for recording television programs onto a digital medium,
    such as a hard disk.    In one known system, a PVR may use
15  an MPEG encoder to digitize broadcast television and then
    store the digitized broadcast television for later
    retrieval on a hard disk drive.     In such systems, a
    digitized broadcast may be converted to an analog NTSC
    signal for display on a television.
20             In conventional PVRs, a program buffer is
     typically used to allow users to pause, rewind, or
    playback a television broadcast that a user is watching.
    A PVR buffer is typically a circular buffer that stores
     the most recent "n" minutes of programming that was
 25  watched by a user.   One drawback of this buffering
     technique is that the buffer only allows the user to
     pause or rewind up to the last "n" minutes and only on
     the currently tuned channel since it was most recently
     tuned.
 30            Conventional PVR systems may also provide other
     features such as features for allowing users to select to
     record television content.    In such systems, a live
     program is typically recorded from the point at which a

                               -  3
   user requests the program to be recorded.     One drawback
   of such systems is that portions of the live program that
   were previously buffered are typically ignored.
             In such systems, interactive television
 5 services are typically provided to users through the
   presentation of graphics.     One drawback of such systems
   is that the presentation of the graphics may undesirably
   cause a user to miss live television content that the
   user is watching.
10           Another drawback of known PVR systems is that
   such systems do not typically support pay-per-view
   television programming.   Pay-per-view ("PPV") television
   programs are now widely available through cable
   television service providers, but are not typically
15 supported by PVRs for scheduling recordings or providing
   other types of PVR-related functionality.
             Improvements to these IPG and/or PVR systems
   are desirable to alleviate these and other drawbacks and
   to simplify the use of such systems while providing
20 additional functionality to television viewers.
   Accordingly, new systems and methods for interactive
   program guides with personal video recording functions
   are provided.

                                     4
    Summary of the Invention
         According to one aspect of the present invention, there is
    provided a system for buffering programs, the system comprising:
         control circuitry configured to:
 5            buffer a first scheduled program currently being
    received;
              receive a first user request to receive a second
    scheduled program;
              based on the first user request, receive the second
 0  scheduled program and
    buffer the second scheduled program in parallel with the buffering
    of the first scheduled program;
              receive a second user request to record the second
    scheduled program;
 5            based on the second user request, record the second
    scheduled program on a
    remote server accessible to multiple users outside of a network
    associated with the control circuitry;
              during the buffering of the first scheduled program:
 10                receive a third user request to pause the second
    scheduled program
    at a given time point;
                   pause the second scheduled program while continuing
    to record the second scheduled program on the remote server;
25                 receive a fourth user request to resume the second
    scheduled program; and
                   based on the fourth user request and the buffering
    of the second scheduled program, cause the second scheduled program
    to be continued from the given time point by retrieving the

                                     5
    buffered second scheduled program while continuing to record the
    second scheduled program on the remote server.
         Optionally, the first user request to receive a second
    scheduled program is a tuning request.
 5       Optionally, buffering the first scheduled program comprises
    storing a previously received portion of the first scheduled
    program.
         Optionally, the control circuitry is further configured to:
         allocate a first storage space for buffering the first
 0  scheduled program; and
         allocate a second storage space for buffering the second
    scheduled program.
         Optionally, the first storage space and the second storage
    space are on a personal video recorder, wherein the personal video
 5  recorder is included on user equipment.
         Optionally, the first storage space and the second storage
    space are on the remote server.
         Optionally, the control circuitry is further configured to
         allocate a storage space size to the first storage space for
 '0 buffering the first scheduled program, the storage space size being
    determined based on an amount of time remaining in the first
    scheduled program.
         Optionally, the control circuitry is further configured to:
         determine that the second scheduled program is the first
25  scheduled program; and
         combine the second storage space with the first storage space.
         Optionally, the control circuitry is further configured to:
         determine that the second scheduled program is the first
    scheduled program; and

                                     6
         buffer the second scheduled program to the first storage
    space.
         Optionally, the control circuitry is further configured to:
         in response to receiving the second user request, store a
 5  segment of the second scheduled program from the second storage
    space as part of a recording of the second scheduled program on the
    remote server.
         Optionally, the control circuitry is further configured to:
         generate for display an interactive indicator which enables
 0  the user to access a play position in the second scheduled program.
         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is
    provided a method for buffering programs, the method comprising:
              buffering a first scheduled program currently being
    received;
 5            receiving a first user request to receive a second
    scheduled program;
              based on the first user request, receiving the second
    scheduled program and
    buffering the second scheduled program in parallel with the
 '0 buffering of the first scheduled program;
              receiving a second user request to record the second
    scheduled program;
              based on the second user request, recording the second
    scheduled program on a remote server accessible to multiple users
25  outside of a network associated with the control circuitry;
              during the buffering of the first scheduled program:
                   receiving a third user request to pause the second
    scheduled program at a given time point;

                                     7
                   pausing the second scheduled program while
    continuing to record the second scheduled program on the remote
    server;
                   receiving a fourth user request to resume the second
 5  scheduled program; and
                   based on the fourth user request and the buffering
    of the second scheduled program, causing the second scheduled
    program to be continued from the given time point by retrieving the
    buffered second scheduled program while continuing to record the
 0  second scheduled program on the remote server.
         Optionally, the first user request to receive a second
    scheduled program is a tuning request.
         Optionally, buffering the first scheduled program comprises
    storing a previously displayed portion of the first scheduled
 5  program.
         The method may further comprise:
         allocating a first storage space for buffering the first
    scheduled program; and
         allocating a second storage space for buffering the second
 '0 scheduled program.
         Optionally, the first storage space and the second storage
    space are on a personal video recorder, wherein the personal video
    recorder is included on user equipment.
         Optionally, the first storage space and the second storage
25  space are on the remote server.
         The method may further comprise:
         allocating a storage space size to the first storage space for
    buffering the first scheduled program, the storage space size being
    determined based on an amount of time remaining in the first
30  scheduled program.

                                     8
        The method may further comprise:
        determining that the second scheduled program is the first
   scheduled program; and
        combining the second storage space with the first storage
 5 space.
        The method may further comprise:
        determining that the second scheduled program is the first
   scheduled program; and
        buffering the second scheduled program to the first storage
 0 space.
        The method may further comprise:
        in response to receiving the second user request, storing a
   segment of the second scheduled program from the second storage
   space as part of a recording of the second scheduled program on the
 5 remote server.
        The method may further comprise:
        generating for display an interactive indicator which enables
   the user to access a play position in the second scheduled program.
 0 Brief Description of the Drawings
        The principles and advantages of the present invention can be
   more clearly understood from the following detailed description
   considered in conjunction with the following drawings, and in
   which:
25      FIG. 1 shows a diagram of an illustrative interactive
   television program guide system in accordance with one embodiment
   of the present invention;
        FIG. 2A shows a diagram of illustrative user television
   equipment in accordance with the present invention;
30

                           - 9
    FIG. 2B shows a diagram of illustrative user equip
ment that includes a set-top box with an integrated
                [Text continues on page 101

                  - 10
[Pages 10 to 15 are left intentionally blank]

- 11 -
- 12 -
- 13 -
- 14 -
- 15 -
                              - 16
   personal video recorder in accordance with one embodiment
   of the present invention;
              FIG. 2C shows a diagram of illustrative user
   equipment with a remote server for storing recorded
 5 content in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
              FIG. 3 shows a diagram of a remote control in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 4 shows an illustrative process including
10 steps that may be used in accessing PVR-related program
   guide functions from a main menu display screen in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 5 shows an illustrative main menu display
   screen in accordance with one embodiment of the present
15 invention;
              FIG. 6 shows an illustrative process that may
   be used in selecting and configuring a recording of a
   program in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
20            FIG. 7 shows an illustrative search program
   listings display screen in accordance with one embodiment
   of the present invention;
              FIG. 8 shows an illustrative program
   information display screen for a non-PPV and non-VOD
25 program that a user selected to be recorded in accordance
   with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 9 shows an illustrative program recording
   setup display screen for a non-PPV and non-VOD program in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
30            FIG. 10 shows an illustrative series recording
   setup display screen in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention;

                                - 17
               FIG. 11 shows an illustrative series recording
    listings display screen in accordance with one embodiment
    of the present invention;
               FIG. 12 shows an illustrative keyword-based
 5  recording display screen in accordance with one
    embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 13 shows an illustrative sports listings
    display screen in accordance with one embodiment of the
    present invention;
10             FIG. 14 shows an illustrative by channel
    listings display screen in accordance with one embodiment
    of the present invention;
               FIG. 15 shows an illustrative by time listings
    display screen in accordance with one embodiment of the
15  present invention;
                FIG. 16 shows an illustrative browse or flip
    overlay that is displayed over current video in
     accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
                FIG. 17 shows an illustrative process that may
20   be used for setting PVR default setup options in
     accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
                FIG. 18 shows an illustrative PVR setup display
     screen in accordance with one embodiment of the present
     invention;
 25             FIG. 19 shows an illustrative buffer time
     before/after by channel/type display screen in accordance
     with one embodiment of the present invention;
                 FIG. 20 shows an illustrative quality of
     recording by channel/type display screen in accordance
 30  with one embodiment of the present invention;
                 FIG. 21 shows an illustrative buffer time
      conflicts display screen in accordance with one
      embodiment of the present invention;

                                - 18
               FIG. 22 shows an illustrative priority level
     information display screen in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 23 shows an illustrative process that may
 5   be used in selecting and configuring a recording of a PPV
     program in accordance with one embodiment of the present
     invention;
                FIG. 24 shows an illustrative information
     display screen for a PPV program in accordance with one
10   embodiment of the present invention;
                FIG. 25 shows an illustrative PPV recording
     setup display screen for configuring a recording of a PPV
     program to be scheduled in accordance with one embodiment
     of the present invention;
15              FIG. 26 shows an illustrative process that may
     be used in selecting and configuring a recording of a VOD
     program in accordance with one embodiment of the present
     invention;
                FIG. 27 shows an illustrative information
20   display screen for a VOD program in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
                FIG. 28 shows an illustrative VOD recording
      setup display screen for configuring a recording of a VOD
      program to be scheduled in accordance with one embodiment
25    of the present invention;
                 FIG. 29 shows an illustrative process that may
      be used when recording a program in accordance with one
      embodiment of the present invention;
                 FIG. 30 shows an illustrative starting to
 30-  record overlay that is displayed over a video of a
      current program in  accordance with one embodiment of the
      present invention;

                              - 19
              FIG. 31 shows an illustrative cancel recording
   overlay that is displayed over a video of a current
   program in  accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
 5            FIG. 32 shows an illustrative finished
   recording overlay that is displayed over a video of a
   current program in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
              FIG. 33 shows an illustrative live controls
10 overlay that is displayed over a video of a current
   program on a current channel in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 34 shows an illustrative recording
   reminder overlay that is displayed over a video of a
15 current program in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
              FIG. 35 shows an illustrative process that may
   be used in displaying a recording information display
   screen in accordance with one embodiment of the present
20 invention;
              FIG. 36 shows an illustrative PVR recording
   listings display screen in accordance with one embodiment
   of the present invention;
              FIG. 37 shows an illustrative recorded program
25 information display screen for a particular recording of
   a program in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
              FIG. 38 shows an illustrative program delete
   priority setup display screen in accordance with one
30 embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 39 shows an illustrative PVR playback
   video overlay that is displayed over a video of a

                             - 20
   recorded program in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
             FIG. 40 shows an illustrative message overlay
   displayed over a video of a program in accordance with
 5 one embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 41 shows an illustrative process that may
   be used in accessing program guide options during
   playback of a recorded program in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
10           FIG. 42 shows an illustrative process that may
   be used in displaying a scheduled recording information
   display screen in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
             FIG. 43 shows an illustrative scheduled
15 recording listings display screen in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 44 shows an illustrative PPV program
   information display screen for a current PPV program that
   is being recorded in accordance with one embodiment of
20 the present invention;
             FIG. 45 shows an illustrative PPV program
   information display screen for a future PPV program that
   has been scheduled to be recorded in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
25           FIG. 46 shows an illustrative recording setup
   display screen for changing the configuration of a
   scheduled recording of a PPV in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 47 shows an illustrative program
30 information display screen for a current non-PPV and non
   VOD program that is being recorded in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;

                              - 21
             FIG. 48 shows an illustrative recording
   canceled overlay that is displayed on a display screen in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 49 shows an illustrative flow control
 5 overlay that has a. live TV option that is displayed over
   a video of a program playing from a PVR in accordance
   with one embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 50 shows an illustrative live controls
   overlay with pause time left indicator displayed over a
10 paused video of a program in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 51 shows an illustrative delete priority
   setup display screen in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention;
15           FIG. 52 shows an illustrative series recording
   delete priority display screen in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 53 shows an illustrative one-time
   recording delete priority display screen in accordance
20 with one embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 54 shows an illustrative delete priority
   by program type display screen in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 55A shows an illustrative delete priority
25 by broadcast type display screen in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
             FIG. 55B shows an illustrative delete priority
   by channel display screen in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
30           FIG. 56 shows an illustrative process that may
   be used for pushing video advertisements and other
   content to local television equipment of a user in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;

                                - 22
                FIG. 57 shows an illustrative online scheduled
     recordings program guide window in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 58 shows an illustrative process that may
  5  be used to provide the user with the ability to edit
     saved programs in accordance with one embodiment of the
    present invention;
               FIG. 59 shows an illustrative edit saved
     recordings display screen in accordance with one
10  embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 60 shows an illustrative combine with
    other recordings display screen in accordance with one
    embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 61 shows an illustrative remove parts of a
15  recording overlay displayed over video that is playing
    from a PVR in accordance with one embodiment of the
    present invention;
               FIG. 62 shows an illustrative playlist display
    screen in accordance with one embodiment of the present
20  invention;
               FIG. 63 shows an illustrative edit playlist
    display screen in accordance with one embodiment of the
    present invention;
               FIG. 64 shows an illustrative create new
25  playlist overlay displayed over an illustrative playlist
    display screen in accordance with one embodiment of the
    present invention;
               FIG. 65 shows an illustrative mark and recall
    overlay displayed over video of a selected recording in
30  accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 66 shows an illustrative process for
    providing multiple program guides in accordance with one
    embodiment of the present invention;

                              - 23
              FIG. 67 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens that may be displayed to permit login
   into a program guide in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention;
 5            FIG. 68 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens that may be displayed to permit viewing
   of scheduled recordings in different program guides in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 69 shows an illustrative sequence of
10 display screens that may be displayed to permit viewing
   of a user's scheduled recordings using his or her program
   guide in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
              FIG. 70 shows an illustrative sequence of
15 display screens that may be displayed to permit viewing
   of a user's list of recordings using his or her program
   guide in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
              FIG. 71 shows an illustrative process for
20 recording programs based on a user selection in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 72 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens that may be displayed when a user selects
   a program to be recorded in accordance with one
25 embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 73 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens that may be displayed when a user selects
   a program to be recorded from an information display
   screen in accordance with one embodiment of the present
30 invention;
              FIG. 74 shows an illustrative process for
   deleting recordings or recording related information in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;

                              - 24
              FIGS. 75-76 show illustrative sequences of
   display screens that may be displayed when two different
   users are accessing their program guides, which are local
   to the same user equipment, in accordance with one
 5 embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 77 shows an illustrative process for
   notifying users of changes in recorded content in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 78 shows an illustrative sequence of
10 display screens that may be displayed in notifying a user
   that a program is about to be added to the recorded
   content in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
              FIGS. 79-82 show illustrative notification
15 overlays that are displayed over video or graphics in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIGS. 83-86 show illustrative notification e
   mails in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
20            FIG. 87 shows an illustrative process for
   generating and using a global list of recordings in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 88 shows an illustrative process for
   displaying stored video advertisements that may be
25 related to live video advertisements in accordance with
   one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 89 shows an illustrative video
   presentation sequence that may be provided based on the
   illustrative process shown in FIG. 88 in accordance with
30 one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 90 shows an illustrative process for
   displaying stored video advertisements when a user is in

                              - 25
   a program guide in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
              FIG. 91 shows illustrative sequences of events
   for displaying stored video advertisements that may be
 5 provided based on the illustrative process shown in FIG.
   90 in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
              FIG. 92 shows an illustrative sequence of
   events that may be provided based on the illustrative
10 process shown in FIG. 90 in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 93 shows an illustrative process for
   buffering television content in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
15            FIG. 94 shows an illustrative sequence of
   illustrative display screens and illustrative buffers
   that may be provided based on the illustrative process
   shown in FIG. 93 in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
20            FIG. 95 shows an illustrative process for
   allocating space for new buffers in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 96 shows an illustrative process for
   combining separate buffers in accordance with one
25 embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 97 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens and buffers that may be provided based on
   the illustrative process shown in FIG. 96 in accordance
   with one embodiment of the present invention;
30             FIG. 98 shows an illustrative process for
    inserting content between separate buffered portions of a
   program in accordance with one embodiment of the present
    invention;

                               - 26
               FIG. 99 shows illustrative video presentation
     sequences that may be provided based on the illustrative
     process shown in FIG. 98 in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
   5           FIG. 100 shows an illustrative process for
     buffering two programs in parallel in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 101 shows an illustrative sequence of
     display screens and buffers that may be provided based on
 10  the illustrative process shown in FIG. 100 in accordance
     with one embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 102 shows an illustrative process for
     rewinding to move between buffered content in accordance
     with one embodiment of the present invention;
 15
-.             FIG. 103 shows illustrative video presentation
     sequences that may be provided based on the illustrative
     process shown in FIG. 102 in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 104 shows an illustrative process for
 20  fast-forwarding to move between buffered content in
     accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 105 shows illustrative video presentation
     sequences that may be provided based on the illustrative
     process shown in FIG. 104 in accordance with one
  25 embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 106 shows an illustrative process for
     using a skip-forward feature in accordance with one
     embodiment of the present invention;
               FIG. 107 shows an illustrative video
  30 presentation sequence that may be provided based on the
     illustrative process shown in FIG. 106 in accordance with
     one embodiment of the present invention;

                              - 27
              FIG. 108 shows an illustrative process for
   recording a program in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention;
              FIG. 109 shows illustrative sequences of events
 5 that may be provided based on the illustrative process
   shown in FIG. 108 in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention;
              FIG. 110 shows an illustrative process for
   recording a program after it has ended in accordance with
10 one embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 111 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens that may be provided based on the
   illustrative process shown in FIG. 110 in accordance with
   one embodiment of the present invention;
15            FIG. 112 shows an illustrative process for
   assigning a portion of a storage space for buffering a
   program in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
              FIG. 113 shows an illustrative buffer
20 configuration display screen in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention;
              FIG. 114 shows an illustrative process for
   automatically pausing television content in accordance
   with one embodiment of the present invention;
25             FIGS. 115-121 show different illustrative
   sequences of video and/or graphic presentations that may
   be provided based on the illustrative process shown in
   FIG. 114 in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention;
30             FIG. 122 shows an illustrative sequence for
   presenting recorded video when a current program is
   paused in accordance with one embodiment of the present
    invention;

                              - 28
             FIG. 123 shows an illus: ative sequence of
   display screens for sending a recording, a reminder, or a
   recording request in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention; and
 5           FIGS. 124-126 show illustrative techniques by
   which a user may receive a recording, a reminder, or a
   recording request in accordance with one embodiment of
   the present invention.
10 Detailed Description of the Invention
             An illustrative interactive television system
   in accordance with the present invention is shown in FIG.
   1.  For clarity and brevity, the interactive television
   system of FIG. 1 is sometimes primarily discussed in the
15 context of an interactive television program guide
   system.  With reference now to FIG. 1, illustrative
   interactive television program guide system 100 may
   include main facility 102, distribution facility 110, and
   user equipment 122.  Illustrative interactive television
20 program guide system 100 may include multiple main
   facilities 102.  Only one main facility 102, however, is
   illustrated in FIG. 1 to avoid over-complicating the
   drawing.
             Main facility 102 may include server 104 for
25 storing and distributing interactive television program
   guide information from program guide database 106.
   Program guide database 106 may store program guide
   information such as television program listings
   information, service listings information, program
30 related information, pay-per-view ordering information,
   promotional information, or any other suitable program
   guide information.  Main facility 102 may distribute the

                            - 29
   program guide information to distribution facility 110
   via communications path 108.
             Communications path 108 may be any suitable
   communications path, such as a satellite link, a cable
 5 link, a fiber-optic link, a microwave link, a telephone
   network link, an Internet link, or a combination of such
   links.  If it is desired to transmit video signals   (e.g.,
   television programs) over communications path 108 in
   addition to data signals, a relatively high bandwidth
10 link such as a satellite link may be preferable to a
   relatively low bandwidth link such as a telephone line.
   Only one distribution facility 110 is shown in FIG. 1 to
   avoid over-complicating the drawing.   Multiple
   distribution facilities may be involved in implementing
15 interactive services.
             The program guide information or content
   transmitted by main facility 102 to distribution facility
   110 may include television program listings data (such as
   program times, channels, titles, descriptions, program
20 type, genre, actors) or any other suitable data.
             The promotional information transmitted by main
   facility 102 to distribution facility 110 may include
   various promotional banners, promotional ads, promotional
   slogans, promotional advertisements, or any other
25 suitable promotional material.
             Distribution facility 110 may be a television
   distribution facility for broadcast television, a cable
   system headend, a satellite distribution facility, or any
   other suitable distribution facility for distributing
30 signals to viewers.   Distribution facility 110 may
   distribute program guide information (or content) to user
   equipment 122 via communications paths 114.    Distribution
   facility 110 may include server 112 for distributing

                                -  30
    program guide information.     Server 112 may also handle
    communications for distributing television programming,
    music, or any other suitable type of media.      Server 112
    may include a local database 116 for storing various
 5  program guide information.     Server 112 may include
    storage 117 for storing recorded programs remotely.
    Programs and/or related information may be recorded
    and/or stored remotely or locally at user equipment 122.
    A combination of local and remote storage and/or
10  recording may also be used.      Client-server based
    interactive television program guide systems with remote
    recording features are illustratively described, for
    example, in Ellis et al.,    U.S. Patent Application No.
    09/332,244, filed June 11, 1999, which is hereby
15  incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
    Additional techniques for storing programs and program
    information are illustratively described, for example, in
    Hassell et al.,   U.S. Patent Application No. 09/157,256,
    September 17, 1998, which is hereby incorporated herein
20  by reference in its entirety.      In addition, server 112
    may be capable of providing other interactive services
     such as near video-on-demand and video-on-demand.      Server
     112 may include one or more computers.
                If desired, some or all of the information
25   distributed to distribution facility 110 may be provided
     using information sources other than main facility 102.
     For example, distribution facility 110 may receive
     information from wide area network 118     (e.g., the
     Internet) via communications path 120.      Communications
30-  path 120 may be a T1 link, a digital subscriber line
      (DSL) link, a cable modem link, an analog modem link, or
     any other suitable link.

                             -  31
              If desired, data may be provided to user
   equipment 122 using facilities other than main facility
   102 and distribution facility 110.    For example, user
   equipment 122 may receive data directly from wide area
 5 network 118 via communications path 62.    Communications
   path 62 may be a T1 link, a digital subscriber line    (DSL)
   link, a cable modem link, an analog modem link, a radio
   frequency link such as radio frequencies in a paging
   system, or any other suitable link.    In another example,
10 a separate facility such as a satellite broadcasting
   system (not shown) may transmit data to user equipment
   122, which may receive data via a satellite receiving
   system (not shown).
              Communications path 114 may be any suitable
15 type of link that allows distribution facility 110 to
   distribute program guide information, television
   programming, and any other suitable information, data, or
   media to user equipment 122.    There may be more than one
   communications path 114 that couples each user equipment
20 122 to distribution facility 110.    For example, if
   distribution facility 110 is a cable headend, user
   equipment 122 may receive information via a cable link
   and may transmit information to distribution facility 110
   via a digital serial link, a dial-up modem connection, or
25 any other suitable link.    Each of communication paths 114
   may be unidirectional or bi-directional.
              User equipment 122 may be configured to send or
   receive e-mails via communication path 62, communications
   path 114, or communications path 120.    User equipment 122
30 may receive e-mails that were sent by distribution
    facility 110 or by some other facility.
              An interactive television application, in
   accordance with the embodiments described herein, may be

                             - 32
   implemented on user equipment 122 to provide interactive
   services to a user.   Interactive services may enable a
   user to interact with television applications, for
   example, by setting particular channels as favorites, by
 5 changing channels, by ordering PPV movies, by selecting
   programs to be recorded, by playing recorded programs,
   etc.   An interactive television application may be an
   interactive television program guide application, or an
   interactive personal video recorder application that may
10 be used to provide interactive services to users.
              Video capable device 124 may be video equipment
   that is capable of generating or storing video such as a
   video camera, a portable computer, or other suitable
   device.   Video capable device 124 may be connected to
15 user equipment 122 through communications connection 126
    (e.g., a firewire connection, an RS-232 connection, etc.)
   or may be integrated into user equipment 122.    The
   interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to transfer and store video from video
20 capable device 124 to user equipment 122.    Transferred
   video may be stored in a PVR that is part of user
   equipment 122.   Video from video capable device 124 may
   be stored on user equipment 122 and presented to a user
   at a later time.
25            User equipment 122 may be based on a television
   platform and/or a computer platform.    For example, user
   equipment 122 may include user television equipment
    (e.g., a television set, a PVR, and a set-top box),  may
    include user computer equipment  (e.g., a desktop
30  computer, a laptop computer, a handheld computing device
    such as a personal digital assistant or any other small
    personal computing device, etc.), or may include any
    other suitable user equipment for implementing an

                             - 33
   interactive television program guide.   User computer
   equipment may include a computer based receiver having
   integrated set-top box circuitry or a personal computer
   television (PC/TV).   If desired, user television
 5 equipment may include computer equipment for receiving e
   mails.
              FIG. 2A shows illustrative user television
   equipment 200 that is based on a set-top box arrangement.
   User television equipment 200 may include set-top box
10 202, recording equipment 204, display device 206, and
   remote control 212.   FIG. 2A illustrates that set-top box
   202 is connected to recording equipment 204 and that
   recording equipment 204 is connected to display device
   206.   These connections may be wired or wireless
15 connections.   FIG. 2A also shows that remote control 212
   may be able to communicate with set-top box 202,
   recording equipment 204, and display device 206 via a
   wireless link 214.   Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that set-top box 202, recording equipment 204,
20 remote control 212, and display device 206 may be
   interconnected differently than that shown in FIG. 2A and
   that components can be added or removed.   For example,
   recording equipment 204 may be integrated with set-top
   box 202 in a single device (see for example FIG. 2B).
25            Set-top box 202 may receive signals transmitted
   by distribution facility 110 (FIG. 1) (e.g., audio,
   video, or interactive television application data).   Set
   top box 202 may include a storage device (e.g., a hard
   drive) or memory for storing personal user preferences
30 settings, for storing user-selected reminders, or for
   storing other information.   For illustrative purposes,
   the present invention will be described in the context of
   user television equipment 200, which uses set-top box 202

                            - 34
   as its receiver or tuner.   If desired, user television
   equipment 200 may include multiple tuners which may be
   used for simultaneously watching one program and
   recording another.   Illustrative interactive television
 5 program guides with simultaneous watch and record
   capabilities are illustratively described, for example in
   Lemmons et al.,  U.S. Patent Application No. 09/329,850,
   filed June 11, 1999, which is hereby incorporated herein
   by reference in its entirety.
10           Set top box 202 may be connected to recording
   equipment 204.   Recording equipment 204 may include PVR
   208, VCR 210, or any other suitable recording device.
   Recording equipment 204 may include one or both of PVR
   208 and VCR 210.   If the user desires to record a
15 program, set-top box 202 may be manually or automatically
   tuned to a particular channel and control signals may be
   sent to recording equipment 204 to record that program.
             Data link 209 may connect PVR 208 and VCR 210,
   and may be a cable link or any other suitable data link.
20 Data link 209 may be used to transfer audio/video signals
   for programs between PVR 208 and VCR 210.
             Set-top box 202 may send audio/video signals
   and signals that are representative of graphics to
   display device 206 for presentation to the user. If
25 desired, set-top box 202 may route signals to display
   device 206 through recording equipment 204.   If desired,
   set-top box 202, recording equipment 204, and display
   device 206 may be configured in such a way that graphics
   generated by set-top box 202 and volume changes that
30 occur when recording equipment 204 is recording are not
   saved as part of the recording. Display device 206 may
   be a television, a computer monitor, a computer system

                               - 35
    with a monitor and speakers, a flat panel display, or any
    other suitable display device.
               Set-top box 202 may be arranged in a
    client/server relationship with PVR 208.   In one
  5 embodiment of the present invention, set-top box 202 may
    function as a server and PVR 208 may function as a
    client.   All requests for information received from
    remote control 212 or other input devices may be routed
    first through set-top box 202.   If, for example, a user
10  requests PVR information or a PVR recording, the request
    may first be processed by set-top box 202 which may
    communicate with PVR 208 to obtain the information or
    recording.   Set-top box 202 may send audio/video signals
    and signals that are representative of graphics to
15  display device 206 based on communications with PVR 208.
    Other arrangements for establishing communications and
    operations between PVR 208 and set-top box 202 may also
    be used.   Other arrangements for establishing
    communications and operations with display device 206 may
20  also be used.
               Personalization information for one or more
     users may be stored on set-top box 202, on personal video
     recorder 208, on server 112 of FIG. 1, on combinations
     thereof, or on any other suitable equipment.
25   Personalization information may include user profiles,
     preferences, viewing history, recording history, etc.
     Personalization information may be used to automatically
     record programs that match the personalization
     information.   Programs may be recorded when information
 30  related to an upcoming program matches personalization
     information for a user such as a user's preferences or
     may be recorded when information related to an upcoming
     program compares well with stored personalization

                             - 36
   information.   Illustrative interactive television program
   guides having personalization features are shown in
   Thomas et al.,  U.S. Patent Application No. 09/974,646,
   filed October 9, 2001, which is hereby incorporated
 5 herein by reference in its entirety.
             A user may interact with any of the components
   in user television equipment 200 and with an interactive
   television application using one or more input devices,
   such as remote control 212.    Remote control 212 may have
10 various buttons that may be pressed by the user to
   interact with portions of an interactive television
   application such as an interactive television program
   guide.  For illustrative purposes, many aspects of the
   present invention are discussed primarily in the context
15 of an input device that is a remote control.    Other
   suitable input devices such as a conventional keyboard, a
   wireless keyboard, a touch screen display remote, a
   handheld computer, a mouse, a trackball, or a touch pad
   may also be used.
20           An interactive television application such as
   an interactive television program guide application may
   be implemented locally on user equipment 200 or may be
   implemented using a client-server or distributed
   architecture where some of the program guide application
25 is implemented locally on user equipment 200.    Client
   server program guides are illustratively described, for
   example, in Ellis et al., U.S. Patent Application No.
   09/374,043, filed August 13,   1999, which is hereby
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.     If
30 desired, an interactive television application for
   providing the features and functionality discussed herein
   may be partly implemented on PVR 208 and/or set-top box
   202.

                             - 37
             FIG. 2B shows another embodiment of user
   television equipment 9900 in which a personal video
   recorder is integrated with a set-top box.   With
   reference now to FIG. 2B, user equipment 9900 may include
 5 PVR integrated set-top box 9902, display device 9904, and
   remote control 9906.  PVR integrated set-top box 9902 may
   be connected to display device 9904.   If desired, user
   television equipment 9900 may include a recording device
   such as a VCR that is arranged in between set-top box
10 9902 and display device 9904.  Other arrangements for
   connecting set-top box 9902, display device 9904, and a
   recording device may also be used.
             PVR integrated set-top box 9902 may receive
   signals transmitted by distribution facility 110
15 (FIG. 1).  PVR integrated set-top box 9902 may include a
   storage device or memory for storing personal user
   preferences settings, user-selected reminders,
   recordings, program information, or other information.
   If desired, the PVR that is part of set-top box 9902 may
20 be used to store such information.   PVR hardware and/or
   software may be integrated with set-top box hardware
   and/or software to provide set-top box 9902.    If the user
   desires to record a program, set-top box 9902 may tune to
   a particular channel and may record that program using
25 the integrated PVR.  If desired, the interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
   ability to transfer PVR recorded audio/visual signals
   between set-top box 9902 and a recording device that is
   external to set-top box 9902.
30           A user may interact with the components in user
   television equipment 9900 and with an interactive
   television application using one or more input devices,
   such as remote control 9906 through wireless link 9910.

                                - 38
               FIG. 2C shows another arrangement for providing
     personal video recorder services in which a remote server
     is used to provide personal video recorder services.
     With reference now to FIG. 2C, user equipment 9920 may
   5 include set-top box 9922, display device 9926, and remote
     control 9936.   User equipment 9920 may include equipment
     such as set-top box 9922 for communicating with server
     9908.  Server 9908 may be configured to provide personal
     video recorder services to user equipment 9920. Server
  10 9908 may for example automatically record programs for
     user equipment 9920 or may record programs based on user
     selections.   Server 9908 may playback recordings for
     display on display device 9926.   Other PVR related
     features may also be provided.   Server 9908 may be a
-15  server located at a distribution facility such as
     distribution facility 110 of FIG. 1 or may be located at
     some other suitable location.
               If desired, user equipment may include
     recording equipment 9924 which may include one or more
  20 recording devices such as personal video recorder 9928
     and videocassette recorder 9930.   Recording equipment
     9924 may, if desired, provide additional recording
     features and/or capabilities to a user.    For example,
     recording equipment 9924 may be used to record or
  25 transfer programs that are playing from or stored on
     server 9908.   Set-top box 9922 may receive signals
     transmitted by distribution facility 110   (FIG. 1).  Set
     top box 9922 may include a storage device or memory for
     storing personal user preferences settings, user-selected
  30 reminders, or other information.    If desired, server 9908
     or recording device 9924 may also be used for storing
     such information.

                              -  39
              Set-top box 9922 may send audio/video signal
   and signals that are representative of graphics through
   recording equipment 9924 to display device 9926 for
   presentation to the user.    A user may interact with any
 5 of the components in user equipment 9920 and with an
   interactive television application using one or more
   input devices, such as remote control 9936 through
   wireless link 9934.   Remote control 9936 may be used
   interact with server 9908 through set-top box 9922.
10 Examples of these and other options are illustratively
   shown in Rudnick et al.,  U.S. Patent Application No.
   09/330,860, filed June 16, 1998, which is hereby
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
              FIG. 3 shows illustrative remote control 308
15 that may include various function buttons.      Remote
   control 308 may include primary option buttons 302 that
   may provide a user with access to frequently used actions
   in an interactive television application.      Primary option
   buttons 302 may include power button 320, menu button
20 332, info button 310, lock button 322, exit button 324,
   music button 314, and edit button 316.      Menu button 332
   may provide the user with the ability to cause a menu
    display screen to be displayed.     Info button 310 may
   provide the user with the ability to display an
25  information display screen.     Lock button 322 may provide
    the user with the ability to modify access privileges to
    certain programs, channels, or other television content.
    Exit button 324 may provide the user with the ability to
    exit a program guide or other application.      Music button
30  314 may provide the user with the ability to listen to
    music channels that carry audio.     Edit button 316 may
    provide the user with the ability to edit stored program

                                - 40
     content, such as to remove commercials, remove pieces of
     a program, or perform other editing functions.
                Remote control 308 may include alphanumeric
     buttons 304 that may be used for entry of alphanumeric
  5  characters.   Alphanumeric buttons 304 may further include
     last button 334 which may provide the user with the
     ability to return to the last channel that was watched or
     the last screen that was displayed.
               Remote control 308 may include task buttons 306
 10  that may provide means for directing a task to be
    performed by user equipment    (e.g., user equipment 200 of
     FIG. 2A).   Task buttons 306 may include, for example,
    play button 338, pause button 340, stop button 342,
    rewind button 344, fast-forward button 346, record button
15  336, "OK" button 312, or any other suitable task button.
               Remote control 308 may include control buttons
    388 that may include volume control buttons 326,
    navigation buttons 330, and channel control buttons 328.
    Navigation buttons 330 may provide the user with the
20  ability to adjust or move a desired element    (e.g., a
    cursor, a highlight window, etc.)    vertically or
    horizontally in a display screen.     For example, if the
    desired element is a cursor in an interactive television
    application display screen, navigation buttons 330 may be
25  used to move the cursor in the display screen.     "OK"
    button 312 in task buttons 306, in combination-with
    navigation buttons 330, may provide the user with the
    ability to make on-screen selections. Remote control
    buttons are also sometimes referred to herein as remote
30  control keys.
               Personal video recorder features may, for
    example, be accessed through a main menu of an
    interactive television program guide.     FIG. 4 shows

                              - 41
   illustrative process 400 for accessing PVR-related
   functions from a main menu display screen.   With
   reference now to FIG. 4, at step 402,  the interactive
   television application may display a main menu display
 5 screen  (one example of which is shown in FIG. 5).  Step
   402 may be performed for example when a user presses a
   remote control menu button or when the user takes other
   suitable actions.   At step 402, the IPG application may
   provide the user with the ability to access a program
10 listings display screen, a recordings display screen, a
   scheduled recordings display screen, or any other
   suitable screens or options from a main menu display
   screen.
              At step 404, the interactive television
15 application may display a program listings display screen
   when a user for example selects a program listings option
   that is displayed in a main menu display screen.
              Different types of program listings display
   screens may be displayed.   At step 414, the interactive
20 television application may display a by time program
   listings display screen when a user, for example, selects
   a by time program listings option.   At step 416, the
   interactive television application may display a by
   channel program listings display screen when a user, for
25 example, selects a by channel program listings option.
   At step 418, the interactive television application may
   display a by type program listings display screen when a
   user, for example, selects a by type program listings
   option.   At step 420, the interactive television
30 application may display a search program listings display
   screen when, for example, search results from a search
   selected by a user are displayed.   Illustrative display

                              - 42
    screens that may be provided based on steps 414, 416,
    418, and 420 are shown in FIGS. 7 and 13-15.
              At step 405, the interactive television
    application may display a PVR setup display screen when a
 5  user, for example, selects a PVR setup option that is
    displayed in a main menu display screen.   Illustrative
    steps involved in providing step 405 are shown in FIG.
    17.  At step 406, the interactive television application
    may display a recordings display screen when a user for
10  example selects a recordings option that is displayed in
    the main menu display screen.  Illustrative steps
    involved in providing step 406 are shown in FIG. 35.    At
    step 408, the interactive television application may
    display a scheduled recordings display screen when a user
15  for example selects a scheduled recordings option that is
    displayed in the main menu display screen.   Illustrative
    steps involved in providing step 408 are shown in FIG.
    42.  At step 410, the interactive television application
    may display a delete priority display screen when a user
20  for example selects a delete priority option that is
    displayed in the main menu display screen.   At step 412,
    the interactive television application may display a
    priority level information display screen when a user for
    example selects a priority information option that is
25  displayed in the main menu display screen.
              FIG. 5 shows illustrative main menu display
    screen 500 that may be provided by an interactive
    television application.  Display screen 500 may include
    selectable advertisement 502, selectable PPV
30- advertisement 504, and selectable horizontal bar
    advertisement 520.  Display screen 500 may also include
    various menu headings, such as program listings heading
    508, cable showcase heading 510, and viewer services

                             - 43
   heading 512.  Program listings heading 508 may be a
   heading for options for displaying program listings such
   as by time option 509, by channel option 511, sports
   option 513, and search option 514.   Cable showcase
 5 heading 510 may be a heading for options that are
   showcased by the cable provider such as PPV option 516
   and VOD option 517.  Viewer services heading 512 may be a
   heading for options for providing various interactive
   services such as PVR services to a user.   Such options
10 may include recordings option 518, scheduled recordings
   option 524, delete priority option 526, PVR setup option
   528, and priority information option 530.
             Display screen 500 may include highlight window
   522.  An interactive television application may provide a
15 user with the ability to move highlight window 522 within
   display screen 500 using remote control navigation
   buttons.  A user may be provided with the ability to
   select an item on display screen 500 by pressing a data
   entry button, such as a remote control "OK" button when
20 highlight window 522 is positioned over that item.
             If desired, the interactive features that are
   provided in display screen 500 may be accessed through
   other means.
             An interactive television application may
25 permit users to schedule and configure recordings for PPV
   and non-PPV programs from a listings screen, a browse
   overlay, a flip overlay, program video, an advertisement,
   or any other suitable location.   FIG. 6 shows
   illustrative process 600 for selecting and configuring a
30 non-PPV and non-VOD program to be recorded.    At step 612,
   an interactive television application may allow a user to
   select a program to be recorded by selecting a record
   button for a program.  The record button may be selected

                                - 44
     from practically any suitable display screen, overlay, or
    video that a user is watching.     The record button may be
    pressed for a program listed in a program listings
     display screen, in a browse overlay, in a flip overlay,
  5  in a grid, in an advertisement, or in any other suitable
    video or graphic.   A user may select a program to be
    recorded by pressing a record button when a user is
    watching that program.    A user may highlight a program in
    an overlay or display screen and press a record button to
10  select that program to be recorded.     In a display screen
    that does not support the use of highlight windows, a
    user may simply press a record or "OK" button to select
    the.record feature.    An information option may be
    selected for example by moving a highlight window over a
15  program listing and pressing a remote control info
    button.   At step 618,  in response to the user pressing a
    remote control record button for a particular program,
    the interactive television application may schedule that
    program for a one-time recording with default settings.
20             At step 632, a program information display
    screen may be displayed when a user selects an
    information option for a particular program.     The program
    information display screen may include information
    describing that program.    The interactive television
25  application may provide a user with related program guide
    options at step 634.    Related program guide options may
    include last, watch/remind, lock, other air times, and
    other suitable program guide options.     Examples of these
    and other options are illustratively shown in Rudnick et
30  al.,  U.S. Patent Application No. 09/356,268, filed
    July 16, 1999, which is hereby incorporated by reference
    herein in its entirety. At step 638, a record option may
    be displayed in the program information display screen to

                              - 45
   provide the user with the ability to select a record
   option for the program that is described in the
   information display screen.
              If the user selects a record option, the
 5 interactive television application may proceed to step
   606.  At step 606, the interactive television application
   may provide the user with the ability to setup a
   recording.   Step 606 may include steps 646, 648, 650,
   651, 652,  653, 654, 655, 656, and 657.  At step 648, the
10 interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to select the recording quality that
   will be used for the recording.   For example, the user
   may select low quality, medium quality, high quality, or
   any other suitable recording quality.   At steps 652 and
15 654, the interactive television application may provide
   the user with the ability to respectively set the length
   of the recording buffers that will be used before and
   after the scheduled broadcast time of a program that is
   to be recorded.   The length of a recording buffer may,
20 for example, be set to one minute, two minutes, or any
   other suitable length of time.   Examples of interactive
   television program guides that have features for setting
   recording buffers are shown in Ellis et al.,  U.S. Patent
   Application No. 09/821,005, filed March 29, 2001, which
25 is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety.   Other examples of interactive television
   program guides that have features for setting recording
   buffers are shown in Ellis et al.,  U.S. Patent
   Application No. 08/924,239, filed September 5, 1997 which
30 is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety.
              At step 651, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to set

                              - 46
   the recording priority for a program.    The recording
   priority options may, for example, include a can't miss
   priority, an if possible priority, a desired priority, an
   if space available priority, or any other suitable
 5 recording priority.   A can't miss recording priority may
   indicate that the program must be recorded, in preference
   to all other programs airing simultaneously, and
   recordings may be deleted to clear space for the program.
   An if possible priority may indicate that the program
10 should be recorded if at all possible, unless there are
   conflicts with can't miss programs airing simultaneously,
   or unless any can't miss programs that are recorded would
   have- to be deleted.  A desired priority may indicate that
   the user would like the program to be recorded, unless
15 there are conflicts with can't miss priority programs or
   with if possible priority programs, or unless any can't
   miss priority programs or if possible priority programs
   that are recorded would have to be deleted.    An if space
   available priority may indicate that the program should
20 be recorded if there is space to do so and if it does not
   conflict with any higher priority programs.
              At step 650, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   select a series setup option.   A series setup option may
25 only be available if the selected program is part of a
   series.   At step 646, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   select a save option to schedule the currently selected
   program to be recorded and to save the recording settings
30 to be used for that recording.    In response to a
   selection of a save option at step 646, the interactive
   television application may also set a reminder for the
   scheduled recording.

                               - 47
              At step 656, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   cancel and exit to the previous display screen.    At step
   653, the interactive television application may provide
 5 the user with the ability to select an option to not
   record a program if that program is not actually an
   episode of a series that has been selected for a series
   recording.   At step 655, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
10 select an option to not record a particular episode of a
   series that has been selected for series recording, but
   to continue to record other episodes of the series.    At
   step 657, the interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to select to not record
15 any further episodes of a series that was selected to be
   series recorded.
              If the user selects the series setup option,
   the interactive television application may proceed to
   step 608.   At step 608, the interactive television
20 application may provide the user with the ability to
   setup a series recording based on a currently selected
   program.   A series recording allows the user to record a
   series of episodes in a particular program series.    Step
   608 may include steps 662, 664, 666, 668, 670, 672,   674,
25 676, 678, 680, 682, 684,   686, and 688.  At step 664, the
   interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to select a save option to have the
   interactive television application schedule a series of
   recordings and to save the series setup settings that the
30 user selected.   At step 666, the interactive television
   application may provide type of episode options that may
   include steps 680, 682, and 684.    At step 680, the
   interactive television application may provide the user

                             - 48
   with the ability to select whether the interactive
   television application should record programs seen
   before.  At step 682, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
 5 select whether the interactive television application
   should record series programs that are repeats.   At step
   684, the interactive television application may provide
   the user with the ability to select to record syndicated
   episodes, first-run episodes, or both syndicated and
10 first-run episodes for a series recording.
             At step 668, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   choose the maximum number of series episodes to save on a
   PVR.  For example, the user may choose to save one
15 episode, two episodes, three episodes, all episodes, or
   any other suitable number of episodes.  If the user
   selects a specific number of episodes to save, the
   interactive television application may automatically
   delete a previously recorded episode when a new episode
20 is recorded to maintain the total number of saved
   episodes at the number selected by the user.  Previously
   recorded episodes may be deleted based on the age of a
   recording, based on the viewing status with respect to
   one or more users, or based on other criteria.   If the
25 user selects the total number of episodes to be all
   recorded episodes, programs other than episodes in that
   series may be deleted first in order to free storage
   space for recordings.
             At step 670, the interactive television
30 application may provide the user with the ability to
   limit the channels on which programs in a series will be
   recorded.  For example, the user may choose the recording
   channel(s) for a series recording to be the original

                              -  49
   channel from which the current series recording was
   scheduled, to be all possible channels, to be a user
   selected selection of channels, or to be any other
   suitable selection of channels.     At step 672, the
 5 interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to select to view a list of episodes or
   programs in the series.   If the user selects to view the
   list of programs in the series, the interactive
   television application may proceed to step 674 to have
10 the list of programs displayed.
              At step 676, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   limit on which days the program may be recorded.     For
   example, the user may choose to record episodes that air
15 on the same day of the week as the selected episode, that
   air on any day of the week, or that air on some other
   combination of days.   At step 678, the interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
   ability to select at which time of day a program may be
20 recorded.   For example, the user may choose to have a
   program recorded at prime time, late night, early
   morning, day time, same time of day as the selected
   episode  (i.e., episode for which record option was
   selected),  or any other time, or combination of times.
25 At step 686, the interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to exit a series
   recording setup display screen and schedule the program
   as a one-time recording.     At step 688, the interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
30 ability to save the settings for a series recording as a
   series reminder without scheduling any recordings.
              PVR related functionality may be integrated
   into a program listings display screen or any screen that

                              - 50
   shows one or more programs or information about r e or
   more programs.   FIG. 7 shows illustrative program
   listings display screen 700 that may be provided by the
   interactive television application.   Display screen 700
 5 may be displayed in response to the use of a search
   option.   Display screen 700 may include a list of program
   titles that are presented in listing bars 702.    A program
   listing in listing bars 702 may include recorded content
   icon 704 that indicates that a recording for that listing
10 is currently available for playback.   Recorded content
   icon 704 may permit users to distinguish between programs
   that are available for playback from a PVR and programs
   that- will be airing in the future.  Future programs may
   include VOD programs, PPV programs, broadcast television
15 programs, or other programming that is available through
   a source other than a PVR.
              A program listing may include scheduled
   recording icon 706 to indicate that a program that is
   identified in that listing is scheduled to be recorded.
20 Scheduled recording icon 706 may be displayed for a
   particular program for example, when a user has selected
   a record option for that program, or when an interactive
   television application schedules that program to be
   recorded based on user profile information.    A program
25 listing may include a cancelled recording priority icon
   703 to indicate that a program that was scheduled to be
   recorded may not be recorded due to a conflict that the
   interactive television application resolved by canceling
   the scheduled recording based on recording priorities.
30 Priorities are discussed in more detail in connection
   with FIG. 9.   Display screen 700 may include content
   rating icon 708 to indicate program content ratings.

                              - 51
              Display screen 700 may include parental control
   icon 710 to indicate that a program is parentally locked.
   In display screen 700, the program Cosby may be
   parentally locked and may also be scheduled for
 5 recording.   A listing for Cosby includes both parental
   lock icon 710 and scheduled recording icon 706.    Despite
   the lock status of the program, the interactive
   television application may still record the program.     If
   a user desires to watch a locked program while it is
10 being recorded, the user may be required to enter a
   parental control code.   Parental locks may always be
   enforced on playback, in that the parental control code
   may be required for playback of any program that has a
   locked title, rating, or channel.    Examples of parental
15 control locks and other related options are
   illustratively shown in Herrington et al.,   U.S. Patent
   Application No. 09/635,596, filed August 9, 2000, which
   is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety.
20            Series recording icon 714 may be included in a
   listing to indicate that a series recording has been set
    for that particular listing.   Scheduled recordings and
    series recordings may be intermixed with other listings
    in display screen 700.   If there are recorded episodes or
25  upcoming episodes for a particular program or series that
    is listed in display screen 700, only one listing for
    that program or series may be included in display screen
    700.  Selecting that program in display screen 700 may
    cause the display of an information display screen for an
30  oldest recorded episode of that program and may cause the
    display of a times option in the information display
    screen that may allow a user to access information on
    other recorded and upcoming episodes of that program.

                              - 52
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to select a record
   option for a particular program by moving highlight
   window 712 over a listing bar such as listing bar 702 for
 5 a particular program and pressing remote control record
   button.   In response to the selection of the record
   option, the interactive television application may set a
   particular program to be recorded.   The interactive
   television application may schedule a one-time recording
10 for that program using default recording configuration
   settings.   If a user presses a record button a second
   time, the interactive television application may schedule
   a series recording based on a currently highlighted
   program when the currently highlighted program is part of
15 a series.   If a user presses a remote control record
   button a third time, the interactive television
   application may cancel a series recording.   If a
   currently highlighted program is not part of a series,
   pressing a remote control record button may toggle the
20 record setting for that program.
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to select an
   information option for a particular listing by moving
   highlight window 712 over a listing bar such as listing
25 bar 702 and pressing a remote control info button.
   Program information display screen 800 of FIG. 8 may be
   displayed in response to the selection of an information
   option for a particular listing.
              An interactive television application may
30 display program information display screens that are
   configured differently for different programs based on
   whether programs are PPV programs, whether programs are
   available for playback from a PVR, whether programs are

                               -  53
    programs that are scheduled to be recorded, whether
    programs are currently airing, whether programs are VOD
    programs, etc.   FIG. 8 shows illustrative program
    information display screen 800 for a non-PPV program that
  5 may be provided by the interactive television
    application.   With reference now to FIG. 8, display
    screen 800 may include title display bar 806 and may
    include program video 840 for a program that is currently
    airing on a tuned channel.
10             Display screen 800 may include record option
    830.   In response to a selection of record option 830 or
    a user pressing a remote control record button, the
    interactive television application may display program
    recording setup display screen 900 shown in FIG. 9.
15             FIG. 9 shows illustrative program recording
    setup display screen 900 that may be provided by the
    interactive television application.     Display screen 900
    may provide the user with the ability to set or modify
    various recording settings, including the ability to
20  schedule one-time and series recordings.     Save option
     902, quality option 904, series setup option 910, buffer
    time before option 912, buffer time after option 914,
    recording priority option 916, not an episode option 922,
     cancel this episode option 924, and cancel all episodes
25  option 926 may be provided based on illustrative steps
     646, 648, 650,  651, 652, 653,  654, 655, and 657, shown in
     FIG. 6.  Other options may be shown if desired.    Series
     setup option 910, not an episode option 922, cancel this
     episode option 924, and cancel all episodes option 926
 30  may be displayed when display screen 900 is displayed for
     a program that is part of a series or part of a series
     recording.  To schedule a recording for the program for
     which record option 830 of FIG. 8 was selected, a user

                               -  54
   may select save option 902, which will schedule the
   recording with the default recording settings or with any
   recording settings that are selected by the user in
   display screen 900.    If desired, the application may
 5 allow a user to select a record option for a program that
   already has a recording scheduled.     In this case, the
   application may display a screen such as display screen
   900 to allow the user to modify or cancel the recording.
              If desired, the interactive television
10 application may provide the user with the ability to
   schedule a manual recording by specifying a channel,
   date, time, and duration.     Recordings may be scheduled
   for -example for at least two weeks in advance by entering
   the channel, date, time, and duration.     When the
15 interactive television application identifies data
   matching the manual recording, the manual recording may
   be converted to a program-based recording     (a one-time
   recording) .
              An interactive television application may also
20 save content that is related to a program that is being
   recorded.    Related content may include program
   information, Advanced Television Forum ("ATVEF") content,
   Wink Content, Advanced Compatible Television ("ACTV")
    streams, or other video, graphics, software, or text
25  content.  The interactive television application may
    allow a user to record a digital music channel when a
   user is listening to a channel or to record a digital
    music channel by manually selecting a date, time,
    channel, and duration for a recording.     The interactive
30  television application may record the title, track,
    artist and other music information related to the digital
    music recording.

                                - 55
               Series setup option 910 may only be available
    if the selected program is an episode of a series.     The
    interactive television application may not present a
    series setup option for PPV programs, and may not allow a
  5 user to configure series recordings for PPV programs.
    However, if a PPV program is part of a package    (e.g., a
    recurring PPV program),   the interactive television
    application may allow a user to configure a series
    recording for all programs in a package.    To configure a
10  series recording for a PPV package, the interactive
    television application may require a user to purchase a
    package before a series recording may be configured.      If
    desired a package purchase option may be provided to a
    user as part of a recording setup screens.
15             The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 918 over quality option 904 and to scroll through
    quality settings to set the recording quality to be used
     for a recording.   The quality level may be set to low
20  quality, medium quality, high quality, or some other
     suitable quality.   The interactive television application
    may provide the user with the ability to move highlight
     window 918 over buffer time before option 912 or buffer
     time after option 914 and to use remote control
25   navigation buttons to set the recording buffer time
     before and after to be used for a scheduled broadcast
     time of a program that is to be recorded.    The recording
     buffer time may be set to no buffer time, one minute, two
     minutes, or any other suitable duration.
 30             The interactive television application may
     provide the user with the ability to select not an
     episode option 922 by moving highlight window 918 over
     not an episode option 922 and pressing a remote control

                                -  56
    11OK" button.   In response      a selection of not an
    episode option 922, the interactive television
    application records programs that are episodes in a
    series but does not record programs that actually are not
 5  episodes in that series.     For example, in situations
    where a particular program has a title that matches a
    particular series, that program may not be recorded
    because that program may not actually be part of that
    series.   The interactive television application may
10  provide the user with the ability to select cancel this
    episode option 924 by moving highlight window 918 over
    cancel this episode option 924 and pressing a remote
    control "OK" button.    In response to a selection of
    cancel this episode option 924, the interactive
15  television application may provide the user with the
    ability to select to not record this episode of a series,
    but to continue to record other episodes of a series.
    The interactive television application may provide the
    user with the ability to select cancel all episodes
20  option 926 by moving highlight window 918 over cancel all
    episodes option 926 and pressing a remote control "OK"
    button.   In response to a selection of cancel all
    episodes option 926, the interactive television
    application may cancel the recording of any further
25  episodes in a series and may cancel the series recording.
     Save option 902 may be used to schedule a recording and
     save the recording settings that were selected by that
     user.
                The interactive television application may
30. provide the user with the ability to select series setup
     option 910 by moving highlight window 918 over series
     setup option 910 and pressing a remote control "OK"
     button.   The interactive television application may

                              -   57
   display a series recording setup display screen in
   response to the selection of series setup option 910.
   Space available indicator 920 may be shown, and may be
   updated as options are changed on this screen.     Indicator
 5 920 may indicate or estimate how much recording time is
   available for future programs.     If desired, it may be
   based on the priority of the selected program.     For
   example, it may indicate how much space is available for
   recording programs that have the currently specified
10 priority (e.g., a can't miss priority, an if possible
   priority, a desired priority, an if space available
   priority, etc.)  in recording priority option 916.
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
15 window 918 over recording priority option 916 and to
   scroll through recording priority settings to set the
   recording priority for a recording.     Recording priority
   may be set to can't miss priority, if possible priority,
   desired priority, if space available priority, or any
20 other suitable priority.     Recording priority option 916
   may be used to set the recording priority for a specific
   recording or a series recording.
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to select series setup
25 option 910 by moving highlight window 918 over series
    setup option 910 and pressing a remote control "OK"
   button.   The interactive television application may
    display a series recording setup display screen in
    response to the selection of series setup option 910.     A
30  series setup option may only be included in display
    screen 900 when the selected program is part of a series.
    FIG. 10 shows illustrative series recording setup display
    screen 1000 that may be provided by the interactive

                                    - 58
     television application.       Display screen 1000 may provide
     the user with the ability to set or modify settings for
     series recordings.       Save setup option 1002,  number of
     episodes option 1004, channels to record option 1006, see
  5  all episodes option 1008, days to record option 1012,
     time to record option 1014,      record programs seen before
    option 1016, record repeats of programs option 1018,
    episode type option 1020, save as one-time option 1022,
    and save as reminder option 1024 may be provided based on
10  illustrative      steps 664, 668, 670, .672, 676, 678, 680,
    682,      684, 686, and 688 shown in FIG. 6.   Other options
    may be shown if desired.
                   A user may be permitted to configure a series
    recording using display screen 1000.        The interactive
15  television application may provide the user with the
    ability      to move highlight window 1010 over number of
    episodes option 1004 and to scroll       through the numbers to
    set the number of episodes for the series recording to be
    saved on the PVR at one time. The interactive television
20  application may provide the user with the ability        to move
    highlight window 1010 over channels to record option 1006
    and to use remote control navigation buttons to scroll
    through to select which channels are to be used for the
    series recording. The series recording channel
25  selections may include for example the original channel
    for a program that was used to set a series       recording,
    all possible channels, a user-selected selection of
    channels, a specific type of channel such as broadcast or
    premium channel, or any other suitable selection of
30  channels.       In response to a selection of see all episodes
    option 1008 (e.g.,      by moving a highlight window over
    option 1008 and pressing a remote control "OK" key), the
    interactive television application may display a series

                               - 59
    recording listings display screen.   The interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to move highlight window 1010 over days to record
    option 1012 and to use remote control navigation buttons
  5 to scroll to select on which days programs in the series
    are to be recorded.   A user may select a specific day,
    all days, or any other suitable combination of days.   The
    interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to move highlight window 1010 over time
10  to record option 1014 and to use remote control
    navigation buttons to scroll to select at what time
    programs in a series recording will be recorded.   A user
    may select to record the program during prime time, late
    night, early morning, day time, same time of day as the
15  selected episode, or any other time or combination of
    times.  By default if a user does not select a time, the
    interactive television application may choose to only
    record episodes that air during the same time of day as
    the selected program.
20            The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 1010 over record programs seen before option 1016
    and scroll between yes or no to select whether the
    interactive television application should record programs
25  seen by the user before.   The interactive television
    application may maintain a log of all programs viewed by
    a particular user in order to make this determination.
    The interactive television application may provide the
    user with the ability to move highlight window 1010 over
30  record repeat programs option 1018 and scroll between yes
    or no to select if the interactive television application
    should record programs that are repeats.   The interactive
    television application may provide the user with the

                               -  60
     ability to move highlight window 1010 over episode type
     option 1020 and scroll through episode type settings to
     select which episode types should be recorded.   The types
     for episodes in a series recording may include syndicated
  5  episodes, first-run episodes, both syndicated episodes
     and first-run episodes, or any other suitable type of
    episode.   The episode type may also include a
     specification indicating during which season or seasons
    the desired episodes originally aired.
10             The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 1010 over save as one-time option 1022 to exit
    display screen 1000 and schedule the program as a one
    time recording only.   This switch from a series recording
15  to a one-time recording may deselect the series recording
    feature for this program.    The interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to move
    highlight window 1010 over save as reminder option 1024
    to exit display screen 1000 and save the configured
20  settings as a series reminder without scheduling
    recordings.   A user may select save setup option 1002 to
    save the settings that the user selects in display screen
    1000.
               An interactive television application may
25  display a list of all scheduled programs that may be
    episodes in this series.   FIG. 11 shows illustrative
    series listings display screen 1100 that may be provided
    by the interactive television application.    Display
    screen 1100 may be displayed in response to a selection
30  of see all episodes option 1008 in display screen 1000 of
    FIG. 10.   With reference now to FIG. 11, display screen
    1100 may list all programs that are in this series and
    may include upcoming programs, recorded programs, or

                               - 61
    programs that are scheduled to be recorded.   Programs in
     the list that are scheduled to be recorded may have been
     scheduled for recording based on the recording options
    and series options selected by a user in FIGS. 9 and 10.
  5 Examples of interactive television program guides that
    have series recording features are illustratively shown
    in Knudson et al.,  U.S. Patent Application No.
    09/330,792, filed June 11, 1999, which is hereby
    incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
10  Display screen 1100 may include listing bars such as bar
    1102, that may include dates, times, and channels for
    scheduled recordings for episodes in a programs series.
    Icon.1104 may be included in listing bar 1102 to indicate
    that a particular program may have been scheduled to be
15  recorded as a series recording. Display screen 1100 may
    include delete this episode option 1108.   The interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to move highlight window 1106 over delete this
    episode option 1108 to select to delete the particular
20  listed episode that is associated with delete this
    episode option 1108.   Following this selection, the
    scheduled recording for that episode may be deleted.
               The user may also select an individual listing
    to see the program information screen for that episode.
25  The individual episode may be deleted from the series
    recording from that screen.   The user may also select
    episodes that are not scheduled to be recorded, and the
    user may cause the interactive television application to
    schedule them to be recorded as well.   The interactive
30  television application may also display additional
    information on this screen about the highlighted episode,
    or about all episodes on this screen. The information
    may include a series episode title, an episodic

                             -  62
   description, guest actors, or any other information of
   interest.
             FIG. 12 shows illustrative keyword-based
   recording display screen 1150 that may be provided by the
 5 interactive television application.   Display screen 1150
   may provide the user with the ability to add and remove
   keyword-based recordings.   Display screen 1150 may
   include search parameter 1152, add keyword option 1154,
   list of keywords 1156, and remove option 1160.   The
10 interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to use remote control alpha-numeric
   buttons to enter a keyword into search parameter 1152.
             Display screen 1150 may provide the user with
   the ability to select add keyword option 1154 to setup a
15 keyword-based recording based on search parameter 1152.
   In response to an addition of a keyword, the interactive
   television application may automatically schedule
   recordings based on that keyword.   The interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
20 ability to scroll keywords in list 1156 so that keywords
   are positioned in highlight window 1158.   Highlight
   window 1158 may be held stationary while listings in list
   1156 are scrolled.  To remove a current keyword in
   highlight window 1158, a user may press a remote control
25 right navigation button to position highlight window 1158
   over remove option 1160 and then press remote control
   "OK" button.  The interactive television application may
   also allow the user to select a keyword from the keyword
   list and view a list of matching programs from a database
30 of upcoming programs or from a database of recorded
   programs.
             FIG. 13 shows illustrative sports listings
   display screen 230 that may be provided by the

                               - 63
    interactive television application.     Display screen 230
    may be displayed in response to a selection of sports
    option 513 of FIG. 5.   Display screen 230 may be a
    display screen for a sports program type, but the
 5  characteristics described below with respect to display
    screen 230 may also be for listings display screens that
    are displayed for other program types, such as movies,
    children, comedy, PPV, and any other types.      If desired,
    a similar screen may be displayed for a subcategory of
10  programs, such as comedy movies.     Display screen 230 may
    include listing bars, such as listing bar 232.      Highlight
    window 236 may be used to make selections in display
    screen 230.   Listing bar 232 may include recorded content
    icon 234 to indicate that the program identified in
15  listing bar 232 may be available from a PVR.      In listing
    by type display screen 230, recorded programs may be
    included on the list before other programs (e.g., before
    listing upcoming programs).     If desired, the recorded
    programs in the list may be sorted first by priority and
20   then by the date recorded.
               FIG. 14 shows illustrative by channel listings
     display screen 240 that may be provided by the
     interactive television application.     Display screen 240
     may be displayed in response to a selection of by channel
25   option 511 of FIG. 5.   Display screen 240 may display a
     list of programs that are on a particular channel.
     Display screen 240 may include change channel option 242
     that may provide the user with the ability to scroll
     through the different channels provided by a user's
 30  television service provider to view listings on those
     channels.  A list of recorded programs may be a
     particular channel choice that is in the list of channels
     available using channel change option 242.     The list of

                              -  64
    recorded programs may be positioned as a channel choice
   between the highest number channel and the lowest
   numbered channel.   Display screen 240 may list recorded
   programs within listing bars, such as listing bar 244.
 5 The recorded programs may be sorted by priority and then
   by date and time.
              In another embodiment, recorded programs may be
   listed with the listings for the channel that the program
   was recorded from.   Recorded programs may be listed
10 first, followed by current and upcoming programs.
   Highlight window 246 may be used to make selections in
   display screen 240.
              FIG. 15 shows illustrative by time listings
   display screen 250 that may be provided by the
15 interactive television application.    Display screen 250
   may be displayed in response to a selection of by time
   option 509 of FIG. S.   Display screen 250 may display a
   list of programs available to be viewed by the user
                                                         at a
   particular time.   Recorded programs may also be included
20 in this list of programs.    Recorded programs may be
   included in this list between the highest and lowest
   numbered channels.
              Display screen 250 may include change time
   option 252 that may be provide the user with the ability
25 to scroll through listings by time.    Display screen 250
   may include listing bars for recorded programs, such as
   listing bar 254.   Highlight window 259 may be used to
   make selections in display screen 250.    If desired, as
   the user scrolls through different times using change
30 time option 252, the recorded program or programs listed
   may be changed.   Display screen 250 may also include
   listing bars for current or upcoming programs, such as
   program listing bar 258. As shown in display screen 250,

                               -  65
    the recorded programs are listed between the highest and
    lowest numbered channels.    If desired, channel zero may
    be designated for accessing listings of recorded
    programs.   For example, in response to a selection of
 5  channel zero, the interactive television application may
    quickly show listings for recorded programs in display
    screen 250.   If desired, there may be a quick access
    option to provide access to a complete list of all
    recorded programs.   If desired, the by time display
10  screen may show multiple half hours of programming, for
    example in a grid format.
              FIG. 16 shows illustrative browse or flip
    overlay 260 that may be provided by the interactive
    television application.   Examples of interactive
15  television program guides with browse and flip features
    are illustratively shown in Boyer et al.,   U.S. Patent
    Application No. 09/330,793, filed June 11, 1999, which is
    hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
    Overlay 260 may include change channel option 262.    When
20  the interactive television application is in a browse
    mode, the interactive television application may provide
    the user with the ability to scroll through channels
    using change channel option 262.    In response to a change
    of a channel, title 264 may change to be the title of the
25  current program on the new channel.    A title for a
    recorded program may be displayed when a user changes the
    channel to a channel choice that has been designated for
    recorded programs.   Recorded programs may be designated
    between the highest and lowest numbered channel.
30-            In response to pressing a remote control right
    or left arrow keys, the interactive television
    application may display titles, in title 264, for later
    or earlier programs on a currently selected channel when

                               -66
   the currently selected channel is a re     lar television
   channel.   In response to pressing a remote control right
   or left arrow key, when a title of a recorded program is
   being displayed, the interactive television application
 5 may display the title of other recorded programs.     Titles
   of recorded programs may be sorted by priority, date, or
   any other suitable criteria.     In response to pressing a
   remote control "OK" button, when the title of a current
   program on a different channel is displayed, the
10 interactive television application may change to that
   channel.   In response to pressing a remote control "OK"
   button, when the title of a recorded program is displayed
   in title 264, the interactive television application may
   play that recorded program.     In response to pressing a
is remote control info key, the interactive television
   application may display an information display screen for
   a program that is identified in title 264.     The
   information display screen may be displayed for a program
   that is currently airing, upcoming, or recorded.
20            When the interactive television application is
   in a flip mode, a user may change the channel to change
   the current channel that is being displayed and to change
   title 264 of the current. program on that channel in
   overlay 260.   A channel choice for recorded programs may
25 not be available in flip mode.     Alternatively, a channel
   may be available during flip mode to view recorded
   program.   The interactive television application may
   start to play a recorded program when a user flips to the
   recorded program.   If the program had previously been
30 partially viewed, flipping to the recorded program may
   the interactive television application to start to play
   the program from the point at which viewing most recently
   ended.   Flip mode may be made to be available when a user

                                -   67
    is watching a live television program that is playing
    from a buffer for that program.      As used herein, a live
    television program refers to a program that is being
    viewed at the same time it is broadcast.
 5             An interactive television application may
    permit users to set PVR setup options.      FIG. 17 shows
    illustrative process 430 that may be used for setting PVR
    setup options.    At step 432, the interactive television
    application may display a PVR setup display screen.       At
10  step 432, PVR setup options may be provided to the user
    and may include steps 434,     436, 438, 440,  442, 444, 446,
    448, 450, 452,  454, 456, 458, 466, 468,     and 470.
               At step 434, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to edit
15  the recording buffer time that is to be used before and
    after programs that are scheduled to be recorded on a
    particular channel or programs that have a particular
    program type.    If the user selects to edit the recording
    buffer time before and after, the interactive television
20  application may display a recording buffer time
    before/after by channel/type display screen at step 460.
    At step 436, the interactive television application may
     provide the user with the ability to set the default
     quality for a recording.     At step 438, the interactive
25   television application may provide the user with the
     ability to edit the quality of a recording based on the
     program channel or program type.      If the user selects to
     edit the quality of a recording by channel or type, the
     interactive television application may display an edit
 30  quality of recording by channel/type display screen at
     step 462.   At step 440, the interactive television
     application may provide the user with the ability to set
     the quality of a series recording.      At steps 442 and 444,

                               - 68
    the interactive television application may respectively
    provide the user with the ability to set a default for
    the recording buffer time before and the recording buffer
    time after to be used for scheduled recordings.
 5            At step 446, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to set
    the default recording priority for a program.    The
    recording priority option may, for example, include a
    can't miss priority, an if possible priority, a desired
10  priority, an if space available priority, or any other
    suitable priority.  At step 448, the interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to set buffer options, which may include steps
    466, 468, and 470.   It is to be understood that the word
15  buffer is sometimes used herein to refer to a recording
    buffer that will be used to record television content
    before or after a scheduled recording to prevent cutoffs
    due to schedule variations and at some other times to
    refer to buffering live television to allow for features
20  such as pause of live television.
              At step 466, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to set
    the maximum size  (or maximum time) to be used for
    buffering live television.    At step 468, the interactive
25  television application may provide the user with the
    ability to set the quality of a buffer for live
    television.   If desired, the user may choose different
    buffer qualities for different channels, different
    channel types, or different program types.    At step 470,
30. the interactive television application may provide the
    user with the ability to select an option to resolve
    recording buffer time conflicts.    If the user selects to
    resolve recording buffer time conflicts, the interactive

                              -  69
   television application may display a buffer time
   conflicts display screen at step 464.
             At step 450, the interactive television
   application may provide default series recordings options
 5 that may include steps 452, 454, 456, and 458.    At step
   452, the interactive television application may provide
   the user with the ability to select whether, by default,
   the interactive television application should record
   programs that a user has seen before.    At step 454, the
10 interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to select whether the interactive
   television application should, by default, record
   programs that are reruns.    At step 456, the interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
15 ability to select which channels the interactive
   television application should use, by default, to record
   series episodes.  At step 458, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   select, by default, to record syndicated episodes, first
20 run episodes, or both syndicated and first-run episodes
   for a series recording.   All of the options set in this
   process may be stored in memory, and used as defaults
   when a new recording is scheduled.    Any of these settings
   may be overridden when a recording is scheduled.     If
25 desired, individual settings of PVR defaults may be
   entered for each user.
             FIG. 18 shows illustrative PVR setup display
   screen 540 that may be provided by the interactive
   television application.   PVR setup display screen 540 may
30 be displayed when a user selects to configure a specific
   recording or when a user selects to configure default
   recording settings.   Display screen 540 may provide the
   user with the ability to set various settings for a PVR.

                               - 70
    If desired, PVR setup display screen 540 may be displayed
    to include options for configuring a specific recording
    without including options for setting system defaults.
    Conversely, PVR setup display screen 540 may be displayed
 5  to include options for configuring system defaults
    without including options for configuring a specific
    recording.
               Display screen 540 may include buffer time
    before/after by channel/type option 542, default quality
10  option 544, quality by channel/type option 546, series
    recording quality option 548, default buffer time before
    option 550, default buffer time after option 552,
    recording priority option 554, record programs seen
    before option 556, record repeated programs option 558,
15  series recording channel selection option 560, series
    recording type option 562, buffer time conflicts option
    563, size of live TV buffer option 570, and quality of
    live TV buffer option 572, which may be provided based on
     illustrative steps 434, 436, 438, 440, 442, 444, 446,
20   452, 454, 456, 458, 466, 468, and 470 as shown in FIG.
     17.  Other setup options may be provided if desired.
                The interactive television application may
     provide the user with the ability to select buffer time
     before/after by channel/type option 542 by moving
25   highlight window 568 over buffer time before/after by
     channel/type option 542 and pressing a remote control
     "OK" button.   The interactive television application may
     display a buffer time before/after by channel/type
     display screen in response to a selection of buffer time
 30  before/after by channel/type option 542.   The interactive
     television application may provide the user with the
     ability to move highlight window 568 over default quality
     option 544 and to scroll through quality settings to

                               - 71
    select a default recording quality that may be used for
    all recordings except recordings that have been
    specifically configured by a user to have a particular
    quality setting, or unless overridden by options such as
 5  options 546 and 548.   Display screen 1400 of FIG. 25 may,
    for example, be used to set a recording quality for a
    specific recording.   If desired, display screen 540 may
    include an option for setting a recording quality for a
    specific recording.
10             The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to select quality by
    channel/type option 546 by moving highlight window 568
    over quality by channel/type option 546 and pressing a
    remote control "OK" button.    The interactive television
15  application may display an edit quality of recording by
    channel/type display screen in response to a selection of
    quality by channel/type option 546.
               The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
20   window 568 over series recording quality option 548 and
     to scroll through the default quality setting to be used
     for series recordings.   The interactive television
     application may provide the user with the ability to move
     highlight window 568 over default buffer time before
 25  option 550 or default buffer time after option 552 and to
     scroll through available buffer time settings to
     respectively set the default recording buffer time before
     a scheduled recording and the default recording buffer
     time after a scheduled recording.    The interactive
 30  television application may provide the user with the
     ability to move highlight window 568 over recording
     priority option 554 and scroll through the priority
     settings to set the default recording priority to be used

                               - 72
   for recordings.   The recording priority options may
   include,  a can't miss priority, an if   possible priority,
   a desired priority, an if space available priority, and
   other suitable recording priority settings.
 5            If desired, a recording priority that has been
   set for a program may be converted to be a delete
   priority for a recording of that program.     An example of
   this  conversion may be that a program whose recording
   priority was set to be a can't miss priority may be
10 converted to a delete priority of never delete when that
   program is recorded.   The remaining recording priority
   options may also have corresponding delete priority
   options.
              The interactive television application may
15 provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 568 over record programs seen before option 556
   and scroll between yes or no to set a default value for
   whether the interactive television application may record
   programs seen by the user before.     The interactive
20 television application may provide the user with the
    ability to move highlight window 568 over record repeated
   programs option 558 and scroll between yes or no to set a
    default value for whether the interactive television
    application should record programs that are reruns.     The
25  interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to move highlight window 568 over series
    recording channel selection option 560 and scroll through
    series recording channel selection settings to select
    which channels may be used by default for performing
30  series recordings.   The channel  selections may include
    only the original channel,   all possible channels,  a user
    selected selection of channels, or any other suitable
    selection of channels.

                               - 73
               The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 568 over series recording type option 562 and to
    scroll through series episode type settings to set which
  5 type of episodes of a program may be recorded by default.
    The series recording types for episodes may include
    syndicated episodes, first-run episodes, both syndicated
    episodes and first-run episodes, or any other suitable
    type of episode, such as whether to record all seasons,
10  current season only, or other types of episodes.    The
    interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to select buffer time conflict option
    563 by moving highlight window 568 over buffer time
    conflict option 563 and pressing a remote control "OK"
15  button.   The interactive television application may
    display a buffer time conflict display screen in response
    to a selection of buffer time conflict option 563.
    Buffer time conflict option 563 may be used to resolve
    conflicts in recording buffer times.    Save option 564 may
20  be used to save any PVR settings that may have been
    selected by the user in display screen 540.    In response
    to a selection of cancel option 566, the interactive
     television application may exit display screen 540
    without saving any of the selections made by the user and
25  may return the user to a previous display screen.
               The interactive television application may
     provide the user with the ability to move highlight
     window 568 over size of live TV buffer option 570 and
     scroll through size options to set how many hours of
 30  storage space on a PVR may be used to record live
     television.   Size of live TV buffer option 570 may
     include a time element and a percent element that may
     indicate how much storage space on a PVR will be

                             - 74
   designated for buffering live television.   The
   interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to move highlight window 568 over
   quality of live TV buffer option 572 and scroll through
 5 quality options to set the quality of the live television
   buffer that may be used by the PVR to buffer live
   television.
             The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
10 window 568 over activate recompression option 574 and
   scroll between yes or no to set whether to activate
   recompression for recorded programs.   When option 574 is
   selected by a user, the interactive television
   application may recompress recorded programs again
15 through background processing using a more efficient
   digital video compression technique, such as MPEG-4.
   Recompressing a recording may reduce the storage space
   that is consumed for that particular recording.
             If desired, the application may allow the user
20 to choose different buffer sizes based on channel,
   channel type, program type, or other factors.    For
   example, one or more display screens or overlays may be
   displayed that include an option to assign different live
   television buffer sizes to different channels, an option
25 to assign different live television buffer sizes to
   different programs types  (e.g., movies, sports,
   documentary, talk show, new, or other program category or
   genre), an option to assign different live television
   buffer sizes to different channels types (e.g., cable
30 channel, network, broadcast, or other channel type),   or
   an option to assign different buffer sizes to other
   factors.   The interactive television application may
   allow a user to move a highlight window within these

                               - 75
    display screens or overlays to make selections for the
    default settings (e.g. buffer size) for the live
    television buffer.   A display screen, such as that shown
    in FIG. 19 for setting default recording buffer time
 5  before/after, may be used to implement these live
    television buffer settings.    These options may be
    accessed by a user through a PVR setup display screen or
    through other suitable means.
               If desired, the application may allow the user
10  to choose different buffer qualities based on channel,
    channel type, program type, or other factors.     For
    example, one or more display screens or overlays may be
    displayed that include an option to assign different live
    television buffer qualities to different channels, an
15  option to assign different live television buffer
    qualities to different programs types (e.g., movies,
     sports, documentary, talk show, new, or other program
     category or genre), an option to assign different live
     television buffer qualities to different channels types
20   (e.g., cable channel, network, broadcast, or other
     channel type),  or an option to assign different buffer
     qualities to other factors.    The interactive television
     application may allow a user to move a highlight window
     within these display screens or overlays to make
 25  selections for the default settings (e.g. buffer quality)
     for the live television buffer.    A display screen such as
     that shown in FIG. 20 for setting default recording
     quality by content type may be used to implement these
     live television buffer settings.    These options may be
 30  accessed by a user through a PVR setup display screen or
      through other suitable means.
                FIG. 19 shows illustrative buffer time
      before/after by channel/type display screen 720 that may

                              -76
   be provided by the interactive television application.
   Display screen 720 may provide the user with the ability
   to set default recording buffer times before and after
   scheduled recordings of programs on a particular channel
 5 or programs of a particular type.   Examples of
   interactive television program guides that may have
   features for reducing recording cut-offs are
   illustratively shown in Ellis et al.,  U.S. Patent
   Application No. 09/881,005, filed March 29, 2001, which
10 is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety.
             Until a user manually sets the default
   recording buffer before and after a scheduled recording
   by channel or by program type, the interactive television
15 application may set the recording buffer time for a
   program based on options 550 and 552 of FIG. 18 that are
   used to set the recording default buffer time before and
   after programs that are to be recorded.   In display
   screen 720, a user, for example, may set the recording
20 buffer time after sports programs to be 15 minutes to
   account for the tendency of sports program to run longer
   than scheduled.
             The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
25 window 742 over recording buffer time before by channel
   option 722 and to scroll through channels and to select a
   particular channel of interest.   Highlight window 742 may
   be moved over buffer time before time option 724 to
   scroll through a selection of times and to set the
30 recording buffer time to be used before programs on that
   channel.  The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 742 over recording buffer time after by channel

                             -   77
   option 726 and to scroll through channels and to select a
   particular channel of interest.    Highlight window 742 may
   be moved over buffer time after time option 728 to scroll
   through a selection of times and to set the recording
 5 buffer time to be used after programs on that channel.
             The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 742 over recording buffer time before by program
   type option 730 and to scroll through program types to
10 select a particular program type of interest.    Highlight
   window 742 may be moved over buffer time before time
   option 732 to scroll through a selection of times and to
   set the buffer time before to be used for programs of a
   particular program type.   The interactive television
15 application may provide the user with the ability to move
   highlight window 742 over buffer time after program type
   option 734 and to scroll through program types to select
   a particular program type of interest.    Highlight window
   742 may be moved over buffer time after time option 736
20 to scroll through a selection of times and to set the
   buffer time after to be used for all programs of a
   particular program type.    If desired, options 724, 728,
   732, and 736 may each include a "default" setting that
   will set that feature to use a related default setting
25 chosen in options 550 and 552 of FIG. 18.
             The interactive television application may
   allow a user to define the default buffer time before and
   buffer time after based on channel type.     The interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
30 ability to move highlight window 742 over buffer time
   before by channel type option 6912 and to scroll through
   channel types to select a particular channel type of
   interest.  Highlight window 742 may be moved over buffer

                              - 78
   time before time option 6914 to scroll through a
   selection of times and to set the default buffer time
   before to be used for programs on a particular type of
   channel.
 5           The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 742 over buffer time after by channel type option
   6918 and to scroll through channel types to select a
   particular channel type of interest.  Highlight window
10 742 may be moved over buffer time after time option 6920
   to scroll through a selection of times and to set the
   default buffer time after to be used for programs on a
   particular type of channel.
             Save option 738 may be used to save the
15 settings for buffer time before and buffer time after
   that were selected by a user in display screen 720.   In
   response to a selection of cancel option 740, the
   interactive television application may exit display
   screen 720 without saving any of the user selections and
20 may return the user to a previous display screen.
             FIG. 20 shows illustrative quality of recording
   by channel/type display screen 750 that may be provided
   by the interactive television application.  Display
   screen 750 may provide the user with the ability to set
25 default recording qualities for programs on a particular
   channel or program type. Until a user manually sets the
   default recording quality for programs on a particular
   channel or for a particular program type, the interactive
   television application may set each recording quality
30 based on option 544 of FIG. 18, which is a general
   default recording quality option.
             The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight

                               - 79
    window 764 over channel option 752 and to scroll through
     channels to select a particular channel of interest.
    Highlight window 764 may be moved over channel quality
    option 754 to scroll through the recording quality
  5 options and to select a recording quality for that
    channel.   The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 764 over program type option 756 and to scroll
    through program types to select a particular program type
10  of interest.   Highlight window 764 may be moved over
    program type quality option 758 to scroll through the
    recording quality options and to set the recording
    quality for that program type.    If desired, the default
    quality for any channel or program type may be set to
15  "default" in which case programs of that type or on that
    channel will by default use the settings chosen in option
    544 of FIG. 18.   If desired, the default recording
    quality for series recordings   (option 548 of FIG. 18) may
    also be set on screen 750 by setting program type option
20  756 to "series" and using program type quality option 758
    to select a desired recording quality.
               If desired, the interactive television
    application may allow a user to define the default
    recording quality based on channel type.    The interactive
25  television application may provide the user with the
    ability to move highlight window 764 over channel type
    option 6824 and to scroll through channels types    (e.g.,
    sports, movie, network, public access, premium, news,
    etc.) to select a particular channel type of interest.
30  Highlight window 764 may be moved over channel type
    quality option 6826 to scroll through the recording
    quality options and to set the default recording quality
    that will be used based on channel type.

                               - 80
               Save option 760 may be used to save the
    settings for the recording quality that are selected by a
    user.   In response to a selection of cancel option 762,
    the interactive television application may exit display
 5  screen 750 without saving any of the selections made by
    the user and may return the user to a previous display
    screen.
               FIG. 21 shows illustrative buffer time
    conflicts display screen 770 that may be provided by the
10  interactive television application.     Display screen 770
    may provide the user with the ability to select settings
    for resolving recording conflicts between recording
    buffers and programs and also resolve conflicts between
    different recording buffers.    The interactive television
15  application may provide the user with the ability to move
    highlight window 772 over recording buffer priority
    option 774 and to scroll between yes or no to select
    whether recording buffers before and after should have a
    lower priority than programs that are to be recorded.      If
20  the user selects yes for option 774, conflicts between
    programs and recording buffers may be resolved in favor
    of programs.
               The interactive television application may also
    provide the user with the ability to select option 778
25  and option 780 to resolve recording conflicts between
    buffers.   If the user selects   "yes" for option 778, the
    interactive television application may resolve conflicts
    between buffers based on the recording priority of a
    scheduled recording that is associated with each buffer.
30.            If the user selects "no" for option 778, option
    780 may be used to assign different priorities to buffer
    times before and buffer times after.     For example, option
    780 may be used to assign buffer times after to have a

                              -  81
   higher priority than buffer times before.    Save option
   784 and cancel option 786 may be used to either save
   settings selected by a user or to exit without saving the
   settings.
 5            FIG. 22 shows illustrative priority level
   information display screen 870 that may be provided by
   the interactive television application.    Display screen
   870 may display the amount of free memory (total hours)
   remaining on a PVR.   Display screen 870 may also display
10 a list of how much memory remains for use for each
   priority level and indicate when free memory for
   recordings will run out based on recordings that are
   currently scheduled.
              Display screen 870 may include memory usage
15 information section 872.    Memory usage information
   section 872 indicates the total PVR memory space, the
   total memory used, and how much memory remains.    The
   hours available and hours remaining numbers may be based
   on any suitable assumptions about recording quality, such
20 as average recording quality of current recordings, the
   default recording quality, the recording quality for
   upcoming recordings, or any other suitable method.
   Display screen 870 may include priority level information
   list 874.   Priority level information list 874 may
25 include a list of each priority level, an indicator of
   how much memory is currently used for each priority
   level, and information on when the guide may start
   deleting programs to make room for new scheduled
   recordings that have a particular priority level.
30            An interactive television application may be
    implemented to provide PVR features for PPV programming.
   FIG. 23 shows illustrative process 1200 that may be used
    in selecting and configuring a PPV program.    At step

                                    -  82
   1216, the interactive television application may display
   a PPV information display screen for example when a user
   selects an information option for a particular             PPV
   program from a listing       screen or from any other location
 5 at which a user may be allowed to indicate an interest               in
   a particular PPV program.          The interactive television
   application may provide related program guide options at
   step 1218.     Related program guide options may include
   last, order/watch, remind, lock, times, and any other
10 suitable program guide options.            At step 1224,   the
   interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to select a record option to set and/or
   configure a PPV recording.           A record key on a remote
   control may also be used to set a PPV program to be
15 recorded.
              If the PPV program has not previously been
   ordered,  the interactive       television     application may walk
   the user through the ordering process before scheduling
   the recording.     The user may set a recording priority for
20 the PPV program.       A step for setting       a recording priority
   such as step 651 of FIG.        6 may also be included in
   process 1200.     Options or steps that         are related to
   series recordings such as steps 608,            653, 655, and 657
   may also be included in process 1200 for example when a
25  PPV program that is      scheduled to be recorded is         part of a
   package.    If  desired,    some of the series setup options
   may not be offered for PPV packages,            such as first
    run/syndicated.
               If the user chooses to record a PPV program,
30  the interactive television application may require the
    user to order the PPV program before scheduling a
    recording for that program.            If desired,  the interactive
    television application may automatically order a PPV

                              -   83
   program when the user selects to record the PPV program.
   In another embodiment, the interactive television
   application may automatically display the PPV order
   screens as part of the recording setup process.       A
 5 recording may not be scheduled if the user does not
   complete the order for a desired PPV program.       If the PPV
   program is not an impulse order PPV program      (e.g., an
   Automatic Number Identification PPV program),      the
   interactive television application may allow the user to
10 schedule a recording before placing an order for the
   program.
              If the user selects a record option for a PPV
   program, the interactive television application may
   proceed to step 1206.   At step 1206, PPV record related
15 options may be provided to the user.       Step 1206 may
   include steps  1232, 1234,   1236, 1238,   1240, and 1242.  At
   step 1234,  the interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to select when the PPV
   program should be recorded.       For example, the user may
20 select a particular broadcast from a list of PPV
   broadcast times.   At step 1236, the interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
    ability to select the recording quality for the PPV
   program.   At steps 1238 and 1240, the interactive
25  television application may respectively provide the user
    with the ability to set a recording buffer time before
    and a recording buffer time after the scheduled broadcast
    of a desired PPV program.    At step 1232, the interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
30  ability to select a save option to schedule the PPV
    program to be recorded and to save the settings that have
    been selected by the user.     At step 1242, the interactive
    television application may provide the user with the

                              - 84
   ability to cancel and exit to a previous display screen
   without scheduling a recording.
              FIG. 24 shows illustrative program information
   display screen 1300 for a PPV program that has not yet
 5 been scheduled to be recorded.   Display screen 1300 may
   be displayed in response to a selection of a remote
   control info button when, for example, listing bar 702 of
   display screen 700 of FIG. 7 is positioned over a PPV
   program.   With reference now to FIG. 24, display screen
10 1300 may include title display bar 1306.   Display screen
   1300 may include program video 1340 for a program that is
   currently airing on a tuned channel.   Display screen 1300
   may include information on a PPV program that is listed
   in display bar 1306 and may include PPV program related
15 program guide options.
              Display screen 1300 may include record option
   1330.   In response to a user selecting record option
   1330, the interactive television application may display
   PPV recording setup display screen 1400 as shown in FIG.
20 25.
              With reference now to FIG. 25, PPV recording
   setup display screen 1400 may include save option 1402,
    select time option 1410, quality option 1404, buffer time
   before option 1412, buffer time after option 1414, cancel
25  recording option 1416, and recording priority option
    1420.  These options may be provided based on
    illustrative steps 1232, 1234, 1236, 1238, 1240, and 1242
    shown in FIG. 23.   The interactive television application
    may provide the user with the ability to move highlight
30  window 1418 over select time option 1410 and to use
    remote control navigation buttons to scroll through
    scheduled times of a particular PPV program to select a
    recording time.   The interactive television application

                              - 85
   may provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 1418 over quality option 1404 and to use remote
   control navigation buttons to scroll through recording
   quality settings to select a quality for the recording.
 5 The interactive television application may provide the
   user with the ability to move highlight window 1418 over
   buffer time before option 1412 or buffer time after
   option 1414 and to use remote control navigation buttons
   to set the buffer time before and after to be used for a
10 recording.   The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 1418 over recording priority option 1420 and to
   use remote control navigation buttons to set the
   recording priority for a recording.   The selection of
15 save option 1402 may schedule the desired recording and
   related recording settings.   In response to the selection
   of cancel option 1416, the interactive television
   application may exit the current display screen and
   return to a previous display screen without scheduling
20 the PPV program to be recorded, or if desired, cancel
   option 1416 may cancel the scheduled recording of the PPV
   program.   Other suitable options may be provided.  If
   desired, the application may allow a user to select a
   record option for a PPV program that already has a
25 recording scheduled.   In this case, the application may
   display a screen such as display screen 1400 to allow the
   user to modify the recording settings or cancel the
   scheduled recording.   Thus, PVR functionality may be
   provided for PPV programs.
30            An interactive television application may be
   implemented to provide PVR features for VOD programming.
   FIG. 26 shows illustrative process 1250 that may be used
   in selecting and configuring a recording of VOD program.

                              - 86
   At step 1252, the interactive television application may
   display a VOD information display screen for example when
   a user selects an information option for a particular VOD
   program from a listing screen or any other suitable
 5 location in which a user may indicate an interest in a
   VOD program.   The interactive television application may
   provide related program guide options at step 1254.
   Related program guide options may include last, order,
   remind, lock, and any other suitable program guide
10 options.  At step 1256, the interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to
   select a record option, a remote control record button,
   or a record option from a live control overlay to set
   and/or configure a VOD recording.
15            If the user chooses to record a VOD program,
   the interactive television application may require the
   user to order the VOD program before scheduling a
   recording for that program.    If desired, the interactive
   television application may automatically order the VOD
20 program when the user selects to record the VOD program.
   In another embodiment, the interactive television
   application may automatically display VOD order screens
   as part of the recording setup process.    If desired, the
   recording may not be setup if the user does not complete
25 an order for a VOD program.
              If the user selects a record option for a VOD
   program, the interactive television application may
   proceed to step 1258.   At step 1258, VOD record related
   options may be provided to the user.    Step 1258 and may
30  include steps 1260, 1262, 1264, 1266, 1268, and 1270.    At
   step 1262, the interactive television application may
   propose a selection of times at which the VOD program may
   be recorded.   The interactive television application may

                                -  87
    propose a time based on currently scheduled recordings
    and reminders to avoid conflicts in recordings.     The
    interactive television application may propose a
    recording time and allow a user to scroll to other
 5  possible recording times.     At step 1264, the interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to select a recording quality for the VOD
    program.   At steps 1266 and 1268, the interactive
    television application may respectively provide the user
10  with the ability to set a recording buffer time before
    and a recording buffer time after the scheduled recording
    time of a VOD program.    Selecting a buffer time before or
    buffer time after for a recording of a VOD program may be
    beneficial for example in situations where the playback
15  of a VOD program extends beyond the specified duration
    for that program.    The playback of a VOD program may for
    example extend beyond a specified duration when there are
    interruptions in the delivery of the VOD program.
    However, a recording buffer time before or after a VOD
20  program should not typically be necessary.      At step 1260,
     the interactive television application may provide the
     user with the ability to select a save option to schedule
     the VOD program to be recorded and to save the settings
     that have been selected by the user.      The user may set a
25   recording priority for the VOD program.     A step for
     setting a recording priority such as step 651 of FIG. 6
     may also be included in process 1250 to allow a user to
     set a recording priority for a VOD program.     Other
     options from process 600 of FIG. 6 may also be included
 30  as appropriate.   At step 1270, the interactive television
     application may provide the user with the ability to
     cancel and exit to a previous display screen without
     scheduling a recording.

                             - 88
             If a VOD or PPV program is marked as copy
   protected, the interactive television application may
   restrict whether a user can schedule a recording for the
   copyrighted program.  If desired, the interactive
 5 television application may not automatically buffer live
   video of PPV or VOD programs that are copy-protected.
             VOD and PPV programs may be priced to have
   different prices depending on the usage.   For example,
   one price may be for watching a program and another price
10 may be for recording a program.   The price for recording
   a program may be displayed when the user selects to
   record a program.  If desired, VOD and PPV programs may
   be marked with three different prices -  the first two
   prices being the same type of prices as the two prices
15 described above and a third price that is for each
   playback of a recording.  The interactive television
   application may also support pay-per-recording and pay
   per-playback of ordinary content.   The interactive
   television application may also support a system in which
20 the user pays for recording space by the amount of
   storage space used on a remote server (e.g., pay for the
   amount of storage in a remote server that stores personal
   video of a user).
             FIG. 27 shows illustrative program information
25 display screen 1280 for a VOD program that has not yet
   been scheduled to be recorded.  Display screen 1280 may
   be displayed in response to a selection of a remote
   control info button when, for example, listing bar 702 of
   display screen 700 of FIG. 7 is positioned over a VOD
30 program.  With reference now to FIG. 27, display screen
   1280 may include title display bar 1282.   Display screen
   1280 may include information on a VOD program that is

                              - 89
    listed in display bar 1282 and may include VOD program
    related program guide options.
              Display screen 1280 may include record option
    1284.  In response to a user selecting record option
 5  1284, the interactive television application may display
    VOD recording setup display screen 1350 as shown in FIG.
    28.
              With reference now to FIG. 28, VOD recording
    setup display screen 1350 may include save option 1352,
10  proposed recording times option 1362, quality option
    1354, buffer time before option 1356, buffer time after
    option 1358, cancel recording option 1360, and recording
    priority 1366.  These options may be provided based on
    illustrative steps 1260, 1262, 1264, 1266, 1268, and 1270
15  shown in FIG. 26.
              As mentioned above, buffer time before option
    1356 and buffer time after option 1358 may not be
    necessary for recording VOD programs and may not be
    selectable by the user.
20            The interactive television application may
    propose a recording time for a VOD program based on
    currently scheduled recordings and reminders.  The
    interactive television application may also determine
    what recording times are available to record the VOD
25  program and may create a list of proposed recording
    times.
              The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 1364 over proposed recording times option 1362 and
30- to use remote control navigation buttons to scroll
    through proposed times to select a recording time.   The
    proposed times may include the current time in order to
    allow the user to immediately record the VOD program.

                              - 90
   The interactive television application may provide the
   user with the ability to move highlight window 1364 over
   quality option 1354 and to use remote control navigation
   buttons to scroll through recording quality settings to
 5 select the quality for a recording.   The interactive
   television application may provide the user with the
   ability to move highlight window 1364 over recording
   priority option 1366 and to use remote control navigation
   buttons to set the recording priority for a recording.
10 The selection of save option 1352 may schedule the
   desired recording based on the related recording settings
   that have been set by the user.   In response to the
   selection of cancel option 1360, the interactive
   television application may exit the current display
15 screen and return to a previous display screen without
   scheduling the VOD program to be recorded, or if desired,
   cancel option 1360 may be used to cancel the scheduled
   recording of the VOD program.   If desired, display screen
   1350 may be shown if the user selects a record option for
20 a VOD program that already has a recording scheduled, in
   which case the application may allow the user to modify
   recording settings or cancel the scheduled recording.
              While a VOD program is being recorded, the
    interactive television application may provide the user
25 with the ability to only control the playback of the VOD
   program locally using typical PVR flow control options.
    For example, the user may not be permitted to control
   playback from a VOD server when the VOD program is being
    recorded.  However, the user may be permitted to control
30  the playback of the VOD program through the user's local
    PVR.  User playback control for a VOD program may be
    available up to the point in the VOD program that has
    been recorded by the PVR.

                               -  91
              A PVR may be used to record, play, or buffer
   television content.    FIG. 29 shows illustrative process
   1500 that may be involved in using a PVR.     At step 1520,
   the interactive television application may display a
 5 reminder overlay for a scheduled recording that is
   displayed shortly before the scheduled recording.     The
   recording may have been scheduled by the user or by the
   interactive television application.     The reminder overlay
   may include one or more options.     The overlay may allow
10 the user to cancel the recording    (if a series recording
   is configured this would only cancel the recording of a
   single episode) .   The overlay may provide the user with
   the ability hide the overlay so that the user may finish
   watching the current program and start the recording at
15 the scheduled time.    The overlay may allow the user to
   end viewing of the current program and start recording
   the program immediately.     The overlay may allow the user
   to tune to the program but cancel the recording, which
   allows the user to watch the program, but not save a
20 copy.   In response to no activity by the user, the
   overlay may be removed after a predetermined amount of
   time and the interactive television application may tune
   the channel airing the scheduled program, and recording
   may begin.   At step 1510, the interactive television
25 application may start to record a program and may display
   a starting to record overlay.
              At step 1512, following step 1510, the
   interactive television application may display live video
   of a program that is being recorded and may monitor user
30 activity to determine if the user has selected to cancel
   the recording.    For example, the user may be permitted to
    select to cancel a recording by pressing a remote control
    record button or by pressing a different remote control

                               -  92
    button to change the current channel    (the channel that is
    be used for the recording) when the recording is in
    progress.  If the user does not select to cancel the
    recording, the interactive television application may
 5  continue to step 1514.   Otherwise, step 1516 may be
    performed when the user selects to cancel the recording.
    At step 1516, the interactive television application may
    display a cancel recording overlay.    If desired, the
    cancel recording overlay may provide the user with the
10  ability to select to confirm that the recording should be
    canceled.  If the user chooses not to cancel the
    recording, then the interactive television application
    may return to step 1512.    If the user chooses to cancel
    the recording, then the interactive television
15  application may continue to step 1518.     During a
    recording, a user may select to pause, rewind, fast
    forward, or take some other playback control action
    without affecting the recording of the program.      The user
    may fast-forward to the "live" point in the program, the
20  time at which new content is currently being recorded.
    If desired, the application may allow a user to watch a
    previously recorded program while a current program is
    being recorded.
              The interactive television application may
25  continue to step 1518 following step 1514.      At step 1514,
    the interactive television application may display a
    finished recording overlay, which may show a message
    indicating that a recording is complete.      The recording,
    whether completed or partly completed (e.g., partly
30. completed because the user canceled the recording),     may
    be available to the user for playback for example, from a
    recording listings display screen    (see FIG. 36).

                               -  93
              Live television programming may be buffered
   when a recording is canceled or completed.     For example,
   a tuner that was being used for the recording may be used
   for buffering live television program on a PVR when the
 5 recording is canceled or completed.     If desired, the
   system may use multiple tuners to allow multiple programs
   to be recorded simultaneously, or to allow a user to
   watch one program while one or more programs are being
   recorded.    At step 1518, the interactive television
10 application may display and buffer live full screen
   video.   Also, at step 1518, the interactive television
   application may display a live control overlay when the
   user invokes the overlay.     The live control overlay may
   be invoked, for example, by pressing particular remote
15 control buttons such as a play button, a rewind button, a
   pause button, a fast-forward button, or a stop button.      A
   dedicated button for invoking the overlay may also be
   used.   The live control overlay may include PVR-related
   task options such as play, pause, rewind, fast-forward,
20 record, and other suitable task options.     Options in the
   live control overlay may be used to play, rewind, pause,
   or fast-forward live television programming.      The live
   control may be automatically removed if left unused for a
   certain period of time.    The interactive television
25 application may remain at step 1518 until a record option
    is selected for a live television program or until step
    1520.
               Step 1520 may be repeated to start process 1500
   when the interactive television application displays
30 another remind/record overlay for a scheduled recording.
    Step 1510 may be repeated to start process 1500 when for
   example a record option is selected when a user is
   watching a live television program.

                                     -  94
                   If desired, a recording may be made without
       displaying any overlays.      For example, a set-top box may
       be turned off when a recording is scheduled to begin.
       The application may tune to the selected program and
   5   begin recording to local storage without turning on user
       equipment.     Alternatively,   a program may be recorded on a
      remote server without any user notification.
                   A starting to record overlay may be displayed
      when a PVR starts to record a program.        FIG. 30 shows
 10   illustrative starting to record overlay 1602 that may
                                                                   be
      provided by the interactive television application.
      Overlay 1602 may be displayed by the interactive
      television application when the interactive television
      application starts to record a program (e.g. starts to
15    record a program at step 1510 of FIG. 29) . Overlay 1602
     may indicate that a current program is now being
      recorded.     Overlay 1602 may be displayed over video 1604
      for the current program playing in the background.
     Overlay 1602 may be removed from view after        a specified
20   period of time or when the user selects a remote control
     exit button. The interactive television application
                                                                 may
     record the current program without including overlay
                                                                  1602
     as part of the recording.          If desired, television
     programming may be recorded without including display
25   screens and overlays as part of the recording.
                  A user may also be allowed to take other
     actions when a program is being watched and recorded
     without those interactions being reflected in the
     recording.      For example, a user may be permitted to mute
30   or change the volume of a program that is being recorded
     without such changes being included as part of the audio
     of the recorded program. A user may be permitted to
     pause,  rewind,    or perform other program flow control

                               - 95
    options as a program is being recorded, without affecting
    the recording of the program.   A user may be allowed to
    watch a previously recorded program when a new program is
    being recorded, without affecting the recording of the
  5 new program.
               FIG. 31 shows illustrative stop recording
    overlay 1702 that may be provided by the interactive
    television application.   Overlay 1702 may be displayed
    over current video 1704 for a program in response to the
10  user attempting to change a current channel while video
    1704 is being recorded.   Overlay 1702 may be an example
    of step 1516 of process 1500 of FIG. 29.   If desired, the
    application may allow the user to change channels without
    affecting a recording that is in progress, if, for
15  example, the system includes multiple tuners or if the
    program is being recorded on a remote server.
               Overlay 1702 may include "no" option 1706 and
    "yes" option 1708.   The interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to use
20  highlight window 1710 to select "no" option 1706 or "yes"
    option 1708.   In response to a selection of "no" option
    1706, the interactive television application may continue
    to record and display current video 1704 for the current
    program.   In response to a selection of "yes" option
25  1708, the interactive television application may stop the
    recording and allow the user to change the channel.   If
    there is no response to overlay 1702, the interactive
    television application may remove overlay 1702 and
    continue the recording.   If desired, a passive stop
30  recording overlay or cancel recording overlay may be
    displayed when a user selects to cancel a current
    recording.

                             - 96
             FIG. 32 shows illustrative finished recording
   overlay 1804 that may be provided by the interactive
   television application.   Overlay 1804 may be displayed
   when a scheduled recording is completed.   Overlay 1804
 5 may include keep recording option 1806 and delete
   recording option 1808.   The interactive television
   application may provide the user with the ability to move
   highlight window 1810 over keep recording option 1806 to
   select that option.   A user may select option 1806 to
10 remove overlay 1804 and keep the recording of the program
   on the PVR.   The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 1810 over delete recording option 1808 to select
   that option (e.g., by pressing a remote control "OK"
15 button).  A user may select option 1808 to remove overlay
   1804 and delete the recording of the program from the
   PVR.  In response to inactivity by a user after a
   specified period of time the interactive television
   application may automatically select to keep the
20 recording and remove overlay 1804.   Overlay 1804 may be
   displayed over current video 1802 for a particular
   program.  If desired, overlay 1804 may not be displayed
   if, for example, a recording or reminder is scheduled
   immediately following the recording that just completed.
25           A PVR may be used to buffer live television
   program and to control the flow of live television
   programming  (e.g., to pause a live program).  FIG. 33
   shows illustrative live control overlay 1904 that may be
   provided by the interactive television application.
30 Overlay 1904 may be displayed when a user invokes program
   flow control options, for example, by pressing a
   particular remote control button such as a pause button,
   a rewind button, a dedicated button for invoking the

                              -97
   overlay, or another suitable remote control button.
   Overlay 1904 may include options for controlling the flow
   of a live television program.   Overlay 1904 may be
   provided based on step 1518 of process 1500 of FIG. 29.
 5 Overlay 1904 may be displayed over current video 1902 for
   a particular program.   Overlay 1904 may include
   selectable advertisement 1906, rewind option 1908, play
   option 1910, record option 1912, pause option 1914,
   program title 1916, and fast-forward option 1918.
10            In response to a user selecting rewind option
   1908, the interactive television application may display
   buffered video 1902 that is rewinding.    In response to
   the selection of pause option 1914, the interactive    1
   television application may display buffered video 1902 of
15 the current program that is paused.    In response to the
   selection of play option 1910, buffered video 1902 may
   resume playing at normal speed.    Overlay 1904 may also
   provide an option to advance video 1902 frame-by-frame
    (e.g., by repeatedly selecting pause option 1914).    In
20 response to the selection of fast-forward option 1918,
   the interactive television application may display
   buffered video 1902 of the current program in fast
    forward.  In response to the selection of record option
    1912, the interactive television application may record
25  the current program.  Rewind option 1908 and fast-forward
    option 1918 may be used to fast-forward and rewind a
    program at different speeds.   The range of different
    speeds may include a range from different slow motion
    speeds to different fast-forward speeds.    Switching
30  between different speeds may be performed through
    successive selections of the same option (e.g.,
    successive selections of fast-forward option 1908 or
    successive selections of rewind option 1908).    To stop

                              - 98
   recording a current program or to stop playback of a
   recording, the interactive television application may
   require the user to press a remote control stop button
   once or more than once to confirm the desired action.
 5 Stopping a PVR from recording may cancel that scheduled
   recording.   If desired, a stop option may be displayed in
   overlay 1904 when appropriate.
              A remote control stop button may further
   function in the same way as a pause option when a user is
10 watching live television (i.e.,    live television of a
   program that is not being recorded is being buffered.)
              Techniques for buffering and recording programs
   are further discussed below.    Overlay 1904 may also be
   displayed to allow a user to control the flow of a
15 recording that is playing from a PVR.     Overlay 1904 may
   be displayed without including record option 1912 when
   overlay 1904 is being used to control a recording.      See
   for example FIG. 39.
              FIG. 34 shows illustrative recording reminder
20 overlay 2004 that may be provided by the interactive
   television application.   Overlay 2004 may be provided
   based on step 1520 of process 1500 of FIG. 29.      Overlay
   2004 may be displayed over current video 2002 for a
   particular program.   Overlay 2004 may include reminder
25 tab 2008, reminder information 2010, record option 2012,
   hide option 2014, cancel option 2016, and watch and
   cancel option 2018.
              Overlay 2004 may be displayed at a specified
   period of time before a scheduled recording.      The
30 specified period of time may be fixed by the application,
   may be defined by a user in a setup screen, or may be
   configured by the user for an individual recording when
   that recording is scheduled.     Reminder tab 2008 may

                             - 99
   include a list of other reminders for scheduled
   recordings.  In response to a selection of record option
   2012 the interactive television application may end
   viewing of the current program and may start to record
 5 the scheduled recording immediately.  The interactive
   television application may dismiss reminder overlay 2004
   and maintain the recording at the scheduled time in
   response to a selection of hide option 2014.  If desired,
   after hiding reminder overlay 2004 using hide option
10 2014, a user may press a remote control button to cause
   the application to redisplay reminder overlay 2004.   The
   interactive television application may cancel the
   recording in response to a selection of cancel option
   2016.  In response to a selection of watch and cancel
15 option 2018 the interactive television application may
   tune to the program but cancel the recording, allowing
   the user to watch the program, but not save a copy.   In
   response to no activity by the user, overlay 2004 may be
   automatically removed and the interactive television
20 application may tune the channel for the scheduled
   recording and begin recording.  Once a recording that is
   scheduled starts, starting to record overlay 1602 of FIG.
   30 may be displayed to indicate that the program is being
   recorded.
25           The interactive television application may
   display a particular program information display screen
   for programs that are available for playback from a PVR.
   FIG. 35 shows illustrative process 2100 that may be used
   in displaying a PVR recording information display screen.
30 At step 2110, the interactive television application may
   display a PVR recording listings display screen and
   provide a user with the ability to select to play a
   recording that is listed in the listings display screen

                               - 100
     or select an information option for a particular listing.
     If desired, the user may select to play a recording or
     view information about a recorded program from any
     location in which the program is listed such as a program
  5  type listings display screen, a search listings display
     screen, a by time listings display screen, a by channel
     listings display screen, a browse overlay, a flip
     overlay, or any other suitable screen.  If the user
     selects to play a recording for example by pressing a
10   remote control "OK" button or a remote control play
    button, the interactive television application may
    proceed to step 2136.   If the user selects an information
    option for a recording, the interactive television
    application may proceed to step 2120.
15             At step 2120, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to view
    information on a particular recording.   At step 2122, the
    interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to return to the last screen that was
20  displayed.   At step 2124, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to play
    a recording  (e.g., a recorded program).  If the user
    selects to play the recording, the interactive television
    application may play the recording at step 2136.    If
25  desired, there may be multiple play options, for example
    to resume playing from the most recent point at which
    playing ended, or to restart playing from the beginning
    of the recorded program. At step 2125, the interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
30  ability to delete a PVR recording. At step 2126, the
    interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to edit delete priority settings for a
    recording. If the user selects to edit delete priority

                               - 101
    settings, the interactive television application may
    proceed to step 2132.    At step 2132, the interactive
    television application may display a delete priority
    display screen for configuring delete priority settings
  5 for a PVR recording.
               At step 2128, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to
    modify access privileges to a recording    (e.g., lock a
    recording).   At step 2130, a user may be provided with an
10  opportunity to select to have a recording copied to a VCR
    or other external recording device.    The interactive
    television application may display a VCR setup display
    screen at step 2134 when a user selects to copy a PVR
    recording to a VCR.    If desired, at step 2134, the
is  interactive television application may copy a PVR
    recording to a VCR based on user selections in a VCR
    setup display screen.    At step 2135, the interactive
     television application may provide the user with the
     ability to modify series recordings settings if the PVR
20   recording is part of an active series recording.    If the
     PVR recording was not recorded as part of a series
     recording or is not part of a currently active series
     recording, the interactive television application may
     allow a user to schedule a new recording or new series
 25  recordings based on the PVR recording.    A recorded
     program information display screen may also include a
     preview option.   Selecting this option may display a
     partial-screen scaled video version of the program that
     is embedded in the program information display screen.
 30             At step 2136, the interactive television
     application may display full screen video of a recording
     that a user has selected to play.    A PVR control overlay

                                 - 102
      may also be displayed that includes PVR playback-related
      task options.
                 FIG. 36 shows illustrative PVR recording
      listings display screen 2200 that may be provided by the
   5  interactive television application.    Display screen 2200
      may be displayed in response to a selection of recordings
      option 518 in display screen 500 of FIG. 5.    Display
      screen 2200 may include program titles within listing
      bars such as listing bar 2202.    Display screen 2200 may
 10   include delete icon 2206 in a listing bar indicating that
      the program related to delete icon 2206 may be deleted in
      the amount of time specified in icon 2206.    Delete icon
      2206 may appear in display screen 2200 or in any other
      suitable display screen or overlay. If desired, listing
15   bar 2202 may explicitly include a recorded content icon
      (e.g., recorded content icon 704 of FIG. 7) that may
     explicitly indicate that a PVR recording is associated
     with the program listed in listing bar 2202.
                A user may select to play a recording by moving
20   highlight window 2212 over listing    bar 2202 and pressing
     a remote control "OK" button or remote control play
     button. The interactive television application may play
     the recorded program from the beginning or from a current
     playback location, if desired.     In response to the
25   selection of a remote control "OK" button or a remote
     control play button, the interactive television
     application may display a PVR playback video overlay.
     See for example FIG. 39.
                In response to a user moving highlight window
30   2212 over a particular listing of a recording and
     pressing a remote control info button, the interactive
     television application may display a recording
     information display screen.

                             - 103
             A recording, such as the recording in listing
   bar 2202, may have been automatically recorded as part of
   a series recording or as a keyword recording.   If a
   particular recording has been scheduled for recording by
 5 both a series recording and a keyword recording, the
   interactive television application may only save one copy
   of the recording.
             Recordings on this screen may be sorted based
   on any suitable criteria.   This may include, for example,
10 alphabetical, by recording date, by recording priority,
   by delete priority, by viewing status, whether recorded
   automatically or as specified by a user, or any other
   criteria or combination of criteria.
             FIG. 37 shows illustrative recorded program
15 information display screen 2300 that may be provided by
   the interactive television application.   Display screen
   2300 may include title display bar 2306 that may contain
   recorded content icon 2312.   Recorded content icon 2312
   may indicate that a PVR recording is available for the
20 program that is identified in title display bar 2306.
   Playback counter 2314 may indicate up to what position in
   the program a user has viewed.
             Display screen 2300 may include play option
   2326, delete option 2328, delete priority option 2330, to
25 VCR option 2334, series setup option 2336, and times
   option 2338.  These options may have been provided based
   on illustrative steps 2124, 2125, 2126, 2130, and 2135,
   shown in FIG. 35.   In response to a selection of play
   option 2326, the interactive television application may
30 play a recording of the program that is identified in
   title display bar 2306.   If desired, there may be more
   than one play option to allow a user to play a recording
   from the beginning of the recorded program or to play the

                                - 104
      recording from the position of playback counter 2314.
                                                                In
      response to a selection of delete option 2328, the
      interactive television application may delete the
      recording of the program and/or delete information about
   5  that particular recording.   In response to a selection of
      delete priority option 2330, the interactive television
      application may display a delete priority display screen
      and may provide the user with options for configuring
      delete priority settings.
 10             In response to a selection of to VCR option
      2334, the interactive television application-may display
      a to VCR setup display screen and may allow the user
                                                             to
      transfer the recorded program from the PVR to a VCR
                                                            or
     other devices. A to VCR setup display screen may
                                                         provide
15   a user with options for configuring the transfer of
                                                            the
     recorded program from the PVR to a VCR.    In response to a
     selection of series setup option 2336, the interactive
     television application may display a series setup
                                                         display
     screen, such as that shown in FIG. 10.    A series setup
20   display screen may provide the user with the ability
                                                             to
     modify recording settings for an active series recording
     corresponding to the selected program or create a
                                                         new
     series recording if one does not exist for the
                                                      selected
     program. In response to a selection of times
                                                     option
25   2338, the interactive television application
                                                    may display
     a list of other recordings of that program and list
     upcoming episodes of that program. Examples of
     interactive television program guides with interactive
     information display screens are illustratively shown
                                                             in
30   Rudnick et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 09/356,268,
     filed July 16, 1999, which is mentioned above.
               Display screen 2300 may include preview option
     2340. In response to a selection of preview button
                                                            2340,

                              - 105
   the interactive television application may play scaled
   video of the recorded program in video window 2342.     If
   desired, the application may display a control panel with
   control keys to stop, fast-forward, pause, rewind, etc.,
 5 or the user may control the video using keys on the
   remote control.   The control panel may displayed in or
   over display screen 2300.    If desired, a current program
   that was playing in video window 2342 may be
   automatically paused when the recorded program is being
10 previewed.
              An interactive television application may
   automatically delete programs to manage storage space.
   Delete priority settings may be used to manage which
   recordings are deleted by an interactive television
15 application.   FIG. 38 shows illustrative program delete
   priority setup display screen 930 that may be provided by
   the interactive television application.     Display screen
   930 may provide the user with the ability to set delete
   priority settings for a program.    Display screen 930 may
20 be displayed in response to a user selecting delete
   priority option 2330 of FIG. 37.    Display screen 930 may
   include delete preferences option 932 and edit delete
   order option 942.
              The interactive television application may
25 provide the user with the ability to select a delete
   preference for a recording using delete preferences
   option 932.   A user may scroll through different delete
   preference setting using option 932.     A delete preference
   setting that may be set for a recording may include a
30 setting to never delete, a setting to make a recording a
   preferred recording, a setting to delete a recording when
   space is needed, a setting to delete the program after it
   has been viewed, or other settings.     If a never delete

                               - 106
     setting is selected, the interactive television
    application may delete a recording only when a user
     specifically requests that recording to be deleted.  If a
    preferred recording setting is selected, the interactive
  5 television application may delete recordings that do not
    have preferred recording settings before deleting
    recordings that have preferred recording settings.   If a
    delete a recording when space is needed setting is
    selected, the interactive television application may
10  delete the program when space to record a program is
    needed.   If desired, the interactive television
    application may first check the priority of recordings
    and then the age of the recording to determine which
    programs to delete.   If desired, a program may have two
15  delete priorities, one that is used before the program
    has been viewed and one that is used after the program
    has been viewed.
               Delete program on date option 934 may be made
    available to a user when a delete preference other than a
20  never delete setting has been selected for the current
    program.   Delete program on date option 934 may include
    delete on month option 936, delete on day option 938, and
    delete on year option 940. The interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to move
25  highlight window 942 over delete on month option 936,
    delete on day option 938, and delete on year option 940
    and respectively scroll through month, day, and year to
    select the date to delete the program.   When a user
    selects edit delete order option 944, the interactive
30  television application may display a list that shows the
    order in which currently stored recordings may be
    deleted.   See for example display screen 3600 of FIG. 53.

                               - 107
               FIG. 39 shows illustrative PVR playback video
    overlay 2404 displayed over video 2402 of a program that
    the interactive television application is playing from a
    recording on a PVR.    Overlay 2404 may be an example of
 5  step 2136 of process 2100 of FIG. 35.
               Overlay 2404 may be used to control the flow of
    video 2402.    Overlay 2404 may include rewind option 2408,
    play option 2410, fast-forward option 2412, pause option
    2414,  stop option 2416, program title 2418, and playback
10  time 2420.    Playback time 2420 may inform the user of the
    length of the recording and inform the user how much
    video 2402 has been viewed.     Playback video overlay 2404
    and the flow control options contained therein are
    similar to live controls overlay 1904 of FIG. 33 and
15  options contained therein.     Stop option 2416 may function
    in the same way as a pause option while watching live
    television that is not being recorded.     If a recording
    has been scheduled and is being recorded, stop option
     2416 may function to cancel the scheduled recording.
20              If desired, the interactive television
     application may also allow the user to skip video 2402
     forward or back a specified period of time in a recording
     or buffered television program by pressing particular
     remote control buttons such as page up or down buttons
25   that are typically included in remote controls.
                If during the playback of video 2402, a user
     attempts to change the channel, an overlay with a message
     may appear.    FIG. 40 shows illustrative message overlay
     952 displayed over video 950 of a program that the
 30  interactive television application may be playing from a
     recording on a PVR.    Overlay 952 may include an "OK"
     option 954 for selecting to remove overlay 952.     Overlay
     952 may also be removed automatically by the interactive

                             - 108
   television application after a specified period of time.
   The message within overlay 952 indicates that the user
   should press a remote control stop button to cancel the
   playback of the video so that the user can change the
 5 channel.  If desired, video 950 may be automatically
   paused when the user decides to watch another recorded
   program or change to live television.   Video 950 may be
   paused to be resumed at a later time without including an
   overlay in video 950.
10           FIG. 41 shows illustrative process 960 that
   includes steps that may be involved in accessing
   interactive television application options while watching
   a recording.  At step 962, the interactive television
   application may play a recorded program.   At step 964,
15 the interactive television application may provide
   program guide functions, such as browse, menu, guide, or
   other options while a user is watching a recording.    For
   example, the interactive television application may
   provide a user with the ability to press a remote control
20 menu button when video for a recorded program is playing
   in order to view a main menu display screen.    If desired,
   the interactive television application may automatically
   pause the playback of the recording when a user accesses
   a main menu display screen or when other display screens
25 or overlays are displayed.
             A user may be permitted to access or modify
   settings for recording programs that have been scheduled
   to be recorded.  FIG. 42 shows illustrative process 2500
   that shows illustrative steps that may be involved in
30 displaying information display screens for programs that
   are scheduled to be recorded.   Step 2502 shows
   illustrative steps involved in providing a user with the

                               - 109
   ability to perform a task with respect to a listing in a
   scheduled recordings display screen.
               At step 2514, the interactive television
   application may display a scheduled recordings display
 5 screen or other graphic that includes a listing such as a
   browse overlay, a by time listings display screen, a by
   channel listings display screen, a by type listings
   display screen, or a search listings display screen.      The
   interactive television application may provide the user
10 with the ability to view information on a listing by
   selecting an information option for a listing.      At step
   2514, the interactive television application may also
   allow the user to cancel a scheduled recording of a
   program by pressing a remote control record button in
15 connection with a listing of that program.      In response,
   a recording canceled overlay may be displayed at step
   2522.   If desired, pressing a record button may convert a
   one-time recording to a series recording with default
   settings if the program is an episode in a series.      An
20 overlay may be displayed to inform the user of the
   conversion.
                If the user selects an information option, .for
   example by using a remote control    "OK"  button or a remote
    control info button, the interactive television
25  application may display an information display screen for
    a program that is   scheduled to be recorded.
                If an information option is selected for a
    program that is a PPV or VOD program, the interactive
    television application may determine at step 2528 if that
30  program is currently being recorded.     If the program is a
    PPV or VOD program, which is currently being recorded,
    the interactive television application may proceed to
    step 2510.    A VOD program that is scheduled to be

                              - 110
   recorded may be currently recording because a user may
   have scheduled the recording for the VOD program to be at
   the current time.   If the program is a PPV or VOD
   program, which is not currently being recorded, the
 5 interactive television application may proceed to step
   2508.   If the program is noe a PPV or VOD program, the
   interactive television application may proceed to step
   2506.
              Step 2510 may be performed for a PPV or VOD
10 program when the PPV or VOD program is being recorded.
   Step 2510 may include steps 2530, 2532, 2536, and 2540
   for providing a scheduled program information display
   screen for a PPV or VOD program that is currently being
   recorded.   At step 2530, the interactive television
15 application may display a scheduled program information
   display screen.   The interactive television application
   may provide related program guide options at step 2532.
   Related program guide options may include last, watch,
   lock, and other suitable program guide options.    At step
20 2536, the interactive television application may provide
   the user with the ability to select stop recording
   option.   In response to the selection of stop recording
   button, the interactive television application may stop
   recording the PPV or VOD program and display a stop
25 recording overlay at step 2540.
              Step 2508 may include steps 2542, 2544, 2546,
   2550, and 2554 for providing a scheduled program
   information display screen for a PPV or VOD program that
   is not currently being recorded.    At step 2542, a
30 scheduled program information display screen for a PPV or
   VOD program that is not currently being recorded may be
   displayed.   The interactive television application may

                                - 111
    provide related program guide options at step 2544.
    Related program guide options may include last,      lock, and
    any other suitable program guide options.      At step 2546,
    the interactive television application may provide the
 5  user with the ability to select a cancel order option.
    In response to the selection of a cancel order option,
    the interactive television application may exit the
    current scheduled program display screen and may display
    a recording canceled overlay at step 2554.      If desired,
10  an order for a PPV or VOD program may be automatically
    canceled when a user selects to cancel a scheduled PPV or
    VOD recording at step 2546.      At step 2550, the
    interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to select to edit recording settings.
15              Step 2506 may include steps 2572, 2574, 2578,
    2580,  2582,  2586, 2588,  and 2590 for providing a program
    information display screen for a non-PPV and non-VOD
    program that is scheduled to be recorded.
                At step 2572, a scheduled program information
20   display screen for the non-PPV and non-VOD program may be
     displayed.   The interactive television application may.
     provide related program guide options at step 2574.
     Related program guide options may include last, watch (if'
     the program is   currently on),   lock, and other suitable
25   program guide options.    At step 2578, the interactive
     television application may provide the user with the
     ability to select a stop recording option.       In response
     to the selection of a stop recording option, the
     interactive television application may determine if the
 30  scheduled recording is currently being recorded at step
     2586.   If the program is being recorded, the interactive
     television application may display an overlay to request
     whether the user wants to stop recording the program at

                               - 112
   step 2588.   If the program is not currently being
   recorded, the interactive television application may
   cancel the scheduled recording and display a recording
   canceled overlay at step 2590.    At step 2580,. a user may
 5 be provided with an opportunity to select and configure a
   series recording.    At step 2582, a user may be provided
   with an opportunity to edit recording settings that will
   be used for the scheduled recording.        Step 2582 may be
   the same as step 606 of process 600.
10            An interactive television application may
   display a list of scheduled recordings in a scheduled
   recording listings display screen.       FIG. 43 shows
   illustrative scheduled recording listings display screen
   2600 that may be provided by the interactive television
15 application.    Display screen 2600 may be displayed in
   response to the selection of scheduled recordings option
   524 in display screen 500 of FIG. 5.        Display screen 2600
   may be an example of step 2514 of process 2500 of FIG.
   42.
20            Display screen 2600 may include listing bars
   such as listing bar 2602 and date bars such as date bar
   2604.  Display screen 2600 may display a list of the
   titles of programs scheduled for recording.         Display
   screen 2600 may list    scheduled programs based on their
25 scheduled start   times with date bar 2604 separating
   programs that are scheduled on different days.         Display
   screen 2600 may be used to list    each program that is
   currently scheduled to be recorded.        The list  may include
   one-time recordings as well as recordings that are part
30 of a series recording.     Multiple listing     bars may be
   included for series recordings.      If desired., episodes for
   programs that are scheduled to have reminders may also be
   listed in display screen 2600.

                             -  113
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 2610 over listing bar 2602 and select a remote
   control'info button, a remote control "OK' button, a
 5 remote control record button, or any other suitable
   remote control button in order to modify the
   recording/reminder settings for the program.     Display
   screen 2600 may include delete episode option 2606,
   delete all episodes option 2608, and see other scheduled
10 recordings option 2612.   A  user may be permitted to
   scroll through scheduled recordings listings using remote
   control up and down navigation keys and permitted to move
   between the listings and options 2606, 2608, and 2612
   using remote control right and left navigation keys.     For
15 example, the interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move highlight
   window 2610 over listing bar 2602 and to mark that
    listing by pressing a predetermined remote control
   button.   Remote control right/left navigation keys may
20  then be used to move highlight window 2610 over delete
    episode option 2606.   The marked listing may then be
    removed from display screen 2600 and the scheduled
    recording for that listing may be canceled by pressing a'
    remote control "OK" button.     A delete episode function
25  may also be available for example by pressing a remote
    control record key to convert a one-time recording to a
    series recording and then by pressing a remote control
    record key again to delete a scheduled recording.     A
    delete episode or delete series recording option may also
30  be available from a program information display screen.
    The interactive television application may provide the
    user with the ability to move highlight window 2610 over
    delete all episodes option 2608 (e.g., using right/left

                                - 114
    arrow buttons) to delete all scheduled episodes by
    pressing remote control "OK" button.
                The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to move highlight
 5  window 2610 over see other scheduled recordings option
    2612   (e.g., using remote control right/left navigation
    keys).    In response to a user selecting see other
    scheduled recordings option 2612 in connection -with a
    marked listing, the interactive television application
10  may display a list of other scheduled recordings that
    match the program name in the marked listing.     The list
    of other recordings may include series recordings,
    keyword-based recordings, or recordings defined using
    time and channel on an on-going basis.     A list of
15  episodes in a series may also be available from the see
    all episodes option 1008 of series recording setup
    display screen of FIG 10.
                 If a scheduled recording is a VOD program,
     display screen 2600 may display a listing for the VOD
20  program in the scheduled recordings list in the same
     manner as a regularly scheduled program with an
     associated time and day that the VOD program is to be
     recorded.    Display screen 2600 may provide the user with
     the ability to select a scheduled VOD recording.     In
25   response to a selection of a scheduled VOD recording, the
     interactive television application may provide the user
     with the ability to view program information and to edit
     recording information using a display screen such as that
     shown in FIG. 28.
 30              FIG. 44 shows illustrative information display
     screen 2700 for a PPV program that is currently being
     recorded.    Display screen 2700 may be displayed in
     response to a user pressing a remote control info button

                                - 115
     or a remote control "OK" button for a PPV listing in FIG.
     43 or on any other screen from which the PPV program may
     be accessed.    Display screen 2700 may be provided based
     on step 2510 of process 2500 of FIG. 42.
 5              Display screen 2700 may include stop recording
     option 2730 that may be provided based on step 2536 shown
     in FIG. 42.    In response to a user selecting stop
     recording option 2730, the interactive television
     application may show stop recording overlay 1702 of FIG.
10   31.
                FIG. 45 shows illustrative information display
     screen 2800 for a PPV program that is not currently being
     recorded.    Display screen 2800 may be displayed in
      response to a user pressing a remote control info button
15    or a remote control "OK" button for a listing of a PPV
      program that is scheduled to be recorded, but is not yet
      airing. Display screen 2800 may be provided based on
      step 2508 of process 2500 of FIG. 42.
                 Display screen 2800 may include cancel
20    recording option 2828, cancel order option 2830, and edit
      option 2832 that may be provided based on steps 2546 and
      2550 shown in FIG. 42.    In response to a selection of.
      cancel recording option 2828, the interactive television
      application may show cancel recording overlay 3110 of
 25   FIG. 48.   In response to a selection of cancel order
      option 2830, the interactive television application may
      cancel the PPV order. If desired, the canceling of a PPV
      order may also cancel the recording.     Edit option 2832
      may be used to access a display screen to allow a user to
 30.   modify a recording that is already scheduled.
                  In response to a selection of edit option 2832,
       the interactive television application may display PPV
       recording setup display screen 2900 of FIG. 46. FIG. 46

                                - 116
    shows illustrative modify PPV recording setup display
    screen 2900 that may be provided by the interactive
    television application.     Display screen 2900 may provide
    the user with the ability to edit recording options for a
  5 particular scheduled recording.     Display screen 2900 may
    include save option 2910, time option 2912, quality
    option 2916, buffer time before option 2916, buffer time
    after option 2918, and cancel option 2920.      Change time
    option 2912 may allow the user to select a different
10  airing of the PPV program to be used for the scheduled
    recording.     These options may have been provided based on
    illustrative steps 1232,    1234, 1236, 1238, 1240, and 1242
    shown in FIG. 23.     Save option 2910 may be selected to
    save the new settings that are selected by the user.      If
15  the changes that were selected by a user included
    changing the time of the PPV program, the selection of
    save option 2910 may cause the recording to be scheduled
    for that new time and may cause the PPV program that is
    airing at that new time to be ordered.      Options 2912,
2-0 2914, 2916, 2918, and 2920 may operate in the same way as
    options 1410, 1404, 1412, 1414, and 1416 of FIG. 25,
    respectively.     If desired, display screen 1400 of FIG. 25
    may be shown instead of display screen 2900.
                Illustrative display screens and options that
25  have described in connection with PPV programs such as
    display screen 2900 of FIG. 46 may be used for VOD
    programs.
                FIG. 47 shows illustrative scheduled recording
    program information display screen 3000 that may be
30  provided by the interactive television application.
    Display screen 3000 may be displayed in response to a
    user pressing a remote control info button for a listing
    in  FIG. 43   (or on any other screen from which the program

                               - 117
                                                  a non-PPV
    may be accessed) of a scheduled recording of
    and non-VOD program. Display screen 3000 may be provided
    based on step 2572 of process 2500 of FIG. 42.
               Stop recording option 3030, setup option 3032,
 5  and series option 3028 may be provided based on
                                                            42.
    illustrative steps 2578, 2582, and 2580 shown in FIG.
     In response to the selection of stop recording option
     3030, the interactive television application may display
     a stop recording overlay if the program is currently
10   being recorded.   The stop recording overlay may request
     whether a user wants to stop the recording of the
     program.   In response to a selection of setup option
     3032, the interactive television application may display
                                                    9.
     program recording display screen 900 of FIG.
15              FIG. 48 shows illustrative cancel recording
     overlay 3110 that may be provided by the interactive
     television application. Overlay 3110 may be displayed
     when a user selects to cancel a scheduled recording.
     Recording canceled overlay 3110 may appear over display
20   screen 3100.
                FIG. 49 shows illustrative live controls
      overlay 3204 displayed over a video of a program that. may
      be provided by the interactive television application.
      Overlay 3204 may be displayed while buffered video 3202
 25   for a program is playing in the background. As in live
      control overlay 1904 of FIG. 19, overlay 3204 may also
      include rewind option 3208, play option 3210, record
                                                            3222,
      option 3212, pause option 3214, fast-forward option
                                                          include
      and program title 3216. overlay 3204 may further
 30   live TV option 3218 and time behind live TV indicator
      3220.
                 Time behind live TV indicator 3220 may indicate
      how far back buffered video 3202 is behind live

                               - 118
     television.   The interactive television application may
     allow the user to select live TV option 3218 to return
     the user to watching live video that is currently airing.
                The interactive television application may
 5   allow the user to set the size of the buffer for pausing
     live television in size of live TV buffer option 570 of
     FIG. 18.   If desired, the application may allow the user
     to set different buffer sizes and record qualities for
     different channels, channel types, and program types.
10   FIG. 50 shows illustrative live controls overlay 3304
     with pause time left indicator 3306 displayed over a
     paused video of a program that may be provided by the
     interactive television application.    overlay 3304 may be
     displayed over paused video 3302 for a current program.
15   overlay 3304 may include pause time left indicator 3306
     which may indicate how much time is left in the buffer
      for pausing live television.   If desired, pause time left
      indicator 3306 may not be displayed if the size of the
     buffer is large enough to hold the entire remainder of
20    the current program.
                A user may be permitted to set delete priority
      settings for recordings. in general.   For example, with
      reference now to FIG. 51, illustrative delete priority
      setup display screen 3400 may be displayed by an
25    interactive television application to allow a user to
      select delete priority settings.    Display screen 3400 may
      be displayed when a user selects delete priority option
      526 of main menu display screen 500 of FIG. 5.
      Alternatively, display screen 3400 may be accessible from
 30-  PVR Setup screen 540 of FIG. 18. Display screen 3400 may
      provide the-user with the ability to set various delete
      priority settings. Display screen 3400 may include edit
      one-time recording delete priority option 3402, edit

                                - 119
     series recording delete priority option 3404, delete by
                                                            option
     program type option 3406, delete by broadcast type
                                                        expiration
     3408, delete by channel option 3409, recording
                                            option 3414.
     option 3410, and delete after viewed
 5               The interactive television application may
                                                     edit one-time
     provide the user with the ability to select
                                                              to
     recording delete priority option 3402. In response
     such a selection, the interactive television application
                                                 priority order
     may display a one-time recording delete
10   display screen (see FIG. 53).    A one-time recording
     delete priority display screen may allow a user to change
      the order in which individual recordings will be deleted.
                 Managing delete priority settings for
      individual recordings that are part of a series recording
15    may be time consuming. A series recording delete
                                                      may be used
      priority order display screen (see FIG. 52)
                                                           for
      to speed the process for setting delete priority
      series recordings.    A series recording delete priority
      order display screen may be displayed in response to a
 20    selection of edit series recording delete priority option
       3404.
                  Other types of parameters may also be used to
       set delete priority settings.   If the user selects'
       program type delete by option 3406, the interactive
 25    television application may display a delete by program
       type display screen (see FIG. 54).    If the user selects
       delete by broadcast type option 3408, the interactive
       television application may display a delete by broadcast
        type display screen (see FIG. 55A).    If the user selects
  30   delete by channel option 3409, the interactive television
        application may display a delete by channel display
        screen (see FIG. 55B).

                                - 120
                The interactive -television application may
     provide the user with the ability to move highlight
     window 3416 over recording expiration option 3410, and
     the ability to use remote control navigation buttons to
   5 select the length of time that a recording will be stored
     on the PVR.   The settings for this option may include
     never delete, one week, two weeks, or any other suitable
     duration.
                The interactive television application may
  10 provide the user with the ability to move highlight
}    window 3416 over delete after viewed option 3414 and to
     use remote control navigation buttons to select to have
     recordings deleted after they have been viewed.
     Selecting this option may cause recordings to be deleted
  15 immediately after being viewed.    Alternatively, it may
     cause the priority of the viewed program to be reduced so
     that it may be deleted in preference to a program that
     has not yet been viewed.
                FIG. 52 shows illustrative series recordings
  20 delete priority display screen 3500 that may be provided
     by the interactive television application.* Display
      screen 3500 may be displayed in response to a selection       -
      of series recording delete priority option 3404 of FIG.
      51.  Other means for reaching display screen 3500 may
  25  also be implemented.   With reference now to FIG. 52,
      display screen 3500 may display listing bars for
      recordings such as listing bar 3502 that are displayed in
      the priority order that recordings in one series are
      given over recordings in another series.     One listing bar
  30  may be displayed for each scheduled series recording.      If
      desired, keyword-based recordings may also be included on
      this screen.   Display screen 3500 may include move up
      option 3508 and move down option 3510.     The interactive

                              - 121
    television application may allow the user to use move up
    option 3508 or move down option 3510 to change the delete
    priority for a series.   The delete priority order in
    display screen 3500 -may be used by the interactive
 5  television application to determine the priority of
    individual series recordings with respect to all
    recordings.
               In FIGS. 52-55B, a user may be permitted to
    switch between listings and move up/down options using
10  remote control right/left navigation keys. For example,
    when a user has positioned a highlight window over a
    desired listing, the user may press right/left
    navigations keys to access move up or move down options,
    which may be selected by the user by, for example,
is  pressing a remote control "OK" key. The listing from
    which move up or move down options are accessed may be
    moved up or down in priority in a delete priority list
    when a user selects move up or down options.
               Screens similar to those shown in FIGS. 52-55B
20   may be used to set relative default recording priorities
     for series, individual programs, program types, and
     channel types.   If desired, recording priorities may be
     converted to delete priorities after a program has been
     recorded.
 25             FIG. 53 shows illustrative one-time recording
     delete priority display screen 3600 that may be provided
     by the interactive television application. Display
     screen 3600 may be displayed in response to a selection
     of edit one-time recording delete priority option 3402 of
 30  FIG. 51.   With reference now to FIG. 53, display screen
     3600 may display listing bars, such as listing bar 3602,
     which are displayed in the order that will be used.to
     delete recordings.   The delete order for the recordings

                               - 122
    may have been determined based on delete priority
    settings that a user selected for specific programs
     (e.g., never delete, preferred recording, etc.)   or based
    on delete priority settings. that a user selected for
 5  recordings in general   (e.g., delete priority for series
    recordings, delete priority by program type, delete
    priority by broadcast type, etc.).     This screen may
    include a listing bar for each scheduled one-time
    recording.    Display screen 3600 may include move up
10  option 3606 and move down'option 3608.     The interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to use move up option 3606 or move down option
    3608 to change the order in which listed recordings will
    be deleted.    By moving the position of a recording up or
15  down, the user manually changes the delete priority of
     that recording with respect to the other recordings.
                FIG. 54 shows illustrative delete priority by
     program type display screen 3700 that may be provided by
     the interactive television application.     Display screen
20   3700 may be displayed in response to a selection of
     delete by program type option 3406 of FIG. 51.     With
     reference now to FIG. 54, display screen 3700 may display
     listing bars such as listing bar 3702.     The order of the
     listing bars shows the priority that the interactive
 25  television application will give to different types of
     programs when the interactive television application
      selects programs to delete.    Program types may include
      sports, movies, children, adult, sitcom, or other
      suitable program types. A listing bar may be included
 30   for each program type supported by the application.
      Display screen 3700 may include move up option 3706 and
      move down option 3708.   The interactive television
      application may allow a user to select move up option

                                 - 123
                                                     delete
     3706 or move down option 3708 to change the
                                              The interactive
     priority order of the program types.
                                                              order
     television application may use this delete priority
     in specifying the order in which individual recordings
 5   will be deleted.
                  FIG.-55A shows illustrative delete priority by
     broadcast    type display screen 3800 that may be provided
                                                      Display
     by the interactive television application.
      screen 3800 may be displayed in response to a selection
                                                    FIG. 51.    With
10    of delete by broadcast type option 3408 of
      reference now to FIG. 55A, display screen 3800 may
                                               bar 3802, that list
      display listing bars, such as listing
      the delete priority that will be given to recordings
                                                         the
      based on the broadcast type that was used for
is    recording. Types of broadcasts may include PPV, VOD,
      broadcast, cable, local access, and other suitable
      broadcast types. Display screen 3800 may include move up
                                                that may be used to
      option 3806 and move down option 3808
                                                         with
       change the delete priority that is associated
                                                        may also be
 20    broadcast types. This delete priority order
       used in selecting the order in which individual
       recordings will be deleted.
                   FIG. 55B shows illustrative delete priority by
       channel display screen 3810 that may be provided by the
 25     interactive television application.    Display screen 3810
                                                        of delete by
       may be displayed in response to a selection
                                                                 to
        channel option 3409 of FIG. 51. With reference now
        FIG. 55B, display screen 3810 may display listing bars,
        such as listing bar 3812, that list the delete priority
                                                                    on
  30    that will be given to recordings based on the channel
        which a program was recorded. Display screen 3800 may
                                                              3818
         include move up option 3816 and move down option
                                                               the
         that may be used to change the delete priority of

                              - 124
   channels.   This delete priority order may also be used in
   selecting the order in which individual recordings will
   be deleted.
              An interactive television application may be
 5 implemented to push television advertisements and other
   content to be locally stored'and displayed.    FIG. 56
   shows illustrative process 9500 involved in pushing
   television advertisements and other content to user
   equipment.   An interactive television application may
10 store a limited amount of program listing information or
   other information on a set-top box and/or a PVR.    With
   reference now to FIG. 56, at step 9502 the interactive
   television application may determine during which hours
   of the day a user typically does not watch television.
15 This may be performed by asking the user to specify time
   periods that the user does not typically watch television
   or by monitoring when a user watches television.     At step
   9504, the interactive television application may push
   video advertisements   (e.g., short video advertisements)
20 and other video content   (such as editorial content) to a
   user's set-top box.   The advertisements and other content
   may be based on user-specified or automatically generated
   profile information.    The transfer of content may be
   performed during a time period in which a user typically
25 does not watch television.     In configurations in which
   multiple tuners are provided for user equipment, video
   content may be pushed when the equipment is not using all
   of the tuners.
              If a user chooses to watch television during a
30 time period in which the interactive television
   application is pushing content to user equipment, the
   interactive television application may proceed to step
   9506.  At step 9506, the interactive television

                              - 125
    application may cancel pushing content to the local
    equipment of the user. The interactive television
    application may then attempt to resume pushing content
    during another time'period that the user does not
 5  typically watch television or may attempt to resume again
    during the same time period the following day. If
    desired, content that is fully or partially downloaded
    before the interactive television application cancels
    pushing content may be retained until the next attempt.
10  After the advertisements and other content have been
    transferred to the local equipment of a user, the user
    may access these interactive advertisements from
    practically any location in the interactive television
    application at step 9508.
15             FIG. 57 shows illustrative online scheduled
     recordings program guide window 9530 that may be provided
    by an interactive television application. Examples of
     online program guide systems are illustratively described
     in Boyer et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 08/938,028,
20   filed September 18, 1997, which is hereby incorporated by
     reference herein in its entirety.   Window 9530 may be an
     online program guide window for accessing information.
     relating to scheduled events and other system information
     for a user's PVR.   If desired, an online program guide
 25  may provide the same functionality through the Internet
     as is illustratively described herein primarily in the
     context of cable television based program guides.
                Online scheduled recordings program guide
     window 9530 may provide the user with the ability to have
 30  online access to that user's scheduled recordings.
     Window 9530 may include menu bar 9532 which may contain a
      menu of features available from the online program guide.

                               - 126
    Menu bar 9532 may have similar functionality to main menu
    display screen 500 of FIG. 5.
               Window 9530 may also have all the same
    functionality as scheduled recordings display screen 2600
 5  of FIG. 43.   Online program guide window 9530 may include
    date region 9534, program listings 9536, and checkbox
    9538.   There may be one checkbox for each scheduled
    recording that is listed in window 9530.    The online
    program guide may also include option buttons 9550, such
10  as info button 9540, record button 9542, series button
    9544, delete episode button 9546, and delete all episodes
    button 9548.   Option buttons 9550 may perform the same
    functionality as remote control buttons or options that
    are available for listings in a scheduled recordings
15  display screen such as scheduled recordings display
    screen 2600 of FIG. 43.    The online program guide may
    provide the user with the ability to select a checkbox
     for a scheduled recording such as checkbox 9538 and to
     select an option button in option buttons 9550 to perform
20   a particular function.   The online guide may allow a user
     to select only one scheduled recording at a time to allow
     the selection of option buttons 9550 to be only for the
     currently selected scheduled recordings.
               The online program guide may record a program
25   to a server and provide the user with the ability to
     select to view the program after it   has been recorded
     through the online program guide.    The online program
    *guide may provide the user with the ability to tune to a
     program through a tuner card in a personal computer. The
 30  online program guide may further provide the user with
     the ability to store the program on a hard disk connected
     to the personal computer. The online program guide may
     send instructions to user equipment., such as a set-top

                                  - 127
                                                    a program. The
      box or personal video recorder, to record
                                                recorded on a
      online program guide may send programs
                                                                 such
      server or on a personal computer to user equipment,
                                                          Examples of
      as a set-top box or personal video recorder.
                                                       access are
 5    interactive program guides that have remote
                                                     U.S. Patent
       illustratively described in Ellis et al.,
                                           July 16, 1999, which is
      Application No. 09/354,344, filed
       hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                  FIG. 58 shows illustrative process 9552 that
                                                    ability to edit
10     may be used to provide the user with the
       saved programs.    Examples of these and other options are
                                                         Patent
       illustratively shown in Rudnick et al., U.S.
                                                        17, 1998,
       Application No. 09/157,256, filed September
                                                              in its
       which is hereby incorporated by reference herein
                                                   television
15     entirety. At step 9554, the interactive
                                                            display
       application may display an edit stored program
                                                     a remote control
        screen, for example, when a user selects
                                                       connection
        edit button or an on-screen edit option in
                                                               to be
        with a recording. The recording may be selected
                                                         interactive
 20     edited from practically any location in the
        television application.
                   At step 9556, the interactive television
                                                                to
        application may provide the user with the ability
        remove commercials from a recording. At step 9558, the
                                                             the user
 25      interactive television application may provide
        with the ability to combine a selected recording with
         other recordings.   If the user selects to combine
         recordings, the interactive television application may
                                                     display screen at
         display a combine with other recordings
  30-    step 9560.
                    At step 9568, the interactive television
                                                  the ability to
         application may provide the user with
                                                             user
         remove parts of a selected recording. If the

                                -  128
    selects to remove parts of a recording, the interactive
    television application may display a remove overlay with
    a time bar indicator over a video at step 9570.            Step
    9570 may include steps 9572, 9574 and 9576.           At step
 5  9572, the interactive television application may provide
    the user with the ability to place a marker in the time
    bar indicator.     If the user selects to place one or more
    markers, the first marker may function as a beginning
    marker and the second marker may function as an end
10  marker.    At step 9574, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to
    remove a part of the recording that may be between a
    beginning marker and an end marker or before or after            a
    single marker.     At step 9576,   the interactive      television
15  application may provide the user with the ability to
    clear any markers that may appear on a time bar
     indicator.
                At step 9578, the interactive television
     application may provide the user with the ability           to add
20   a selected recording to a playlist.         If the user selects
     to add a selected recording to a playlist, the
     interactive television application may display a playlist
     display screen at step 9580.       Step 9580 may include steps
     9582, 9584, 9586, 9588, and 9590.       At step 9582, the
25   interactive   television application may provide the user
     with the ability to mark and unmark a recording that may
     be added to a playlist.      At step 9584,      the interactive
     television application may provide the user with the
     ability to add more recordings to a playlist.            At step
 30  9586,  the interactive television application may provide
     the user with the ability to create a new playlist.              If
     the user selects to create a new playlist, the
      interactive television application may display a create

                               -  129
    new playlist overlay in step 9588.    At step 9590, the
    interactive television application may provide the user
    with the ability to order a playlist and remove a
    recording from a playlist.
 5             At step 9592, the interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability    to mark
    locations for reference and to also recall references
    that may have been previously marked for a selected
    recording.    If the user selects to mark locations for
10  reference or to recall references that may have been
    previously marked, the interactive television application
    may display a location overlay with a time bar indicator
    at step 9594, which may include steps 9596, 9598, and
     9600.  At step 9596, the interactive television
15  application may provide the user with the ability to
    place a marker in the time bar indicator. At step 9598
     the interactive television application may provide the
     user with the ability to skip to the next marker or skip
     to the previous marker.    At step 9600, the interactive
20   television application may provide the user with the
     ability to clear all markers in the time bar indicator.
                FIG. 59 shows illustrative edit saved
     recordings display screen 9602 that may be provided by
     the interactive television application.     Display screen
 25  9602 may be displayed in response to a selection of a
     remote control edit button when a recording (referred to
     herein in this context as "selected recording") in a
     recordings display screen or some other suitable display
      screen or overlay is selected.   Alternatively, display
 30   screen 9602 may be displayed in response to a selection
      of an edit option that may have been shown, for example,
      on a recorded program information screen. Display screen
      9602 may include remove commercials from recording option

                               -  130
    9604, combine with other recordings option 9606, remove
    parts of a recording option 9608, add to playlist option
    9610, and mark and recall location option 9612, which may
    be provided based on illustrative steps 9556, 9558,         9568,
 5  9578, and 9592 shown in FIG. 58.
               With reference now,to FIG. 59, the interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to move highlight window 9614 over remove
    commercials from recording option 9604 and to select that
10  option to remove the commercials from the selected
    recording.   The interactive television application may
    provide'the user with the ability to move highlight
    window 9614 over combine with other recordings option
    9606 to select that option    (e.g., by pressing a remote
15  control "OK" button).   The interactive television
    application may display a combine with other recordings
    display screen in response to a selection of combine with
    other recordings option 9606.      The interactive television
    application may provide the user with the ability to move
20  highlight window 9614 over remove parts of a recording
    option 9608 to select that option (e.g., by pressing a
    remote control "OK"  button).     The interactive  television
    application may display a remove parts of a recording
    overlay in  response to a selection of remove parts of a
25   recording option 9608.   The interactive television
     application may provide the user with the ability to move
     highlight window 9614 over add to playlist option 9610 to
     select that option (e.g.,   by pressing a remote control
     "OK" button).  The interactive television application may
30.  display an add to playlist display screen in response to
     a selection of add to playlist option 9610.      The
     interactive television application may provide the user
     with the ability to move highlight window 9614 over mark

                               - L..
    and recall location option 9612 to select that option
                                               button).    The
    (e.g., by pressing a remote control "OK"
                                                               and
    interactive television application may display a mark
    recall location overlay in response to a selection of
 5  mark and recall location option 9612. Display screen
    9602 may also include information about the selected
                                                      recording
    program, such as its title and length. As the
    is edited, the displayed length may change accordingly.
                FIG. 60 shows illustrative combine with other
10  recordings display screen 9616 that may be provided by
     the interactive television application. Display screen
     9616 may be displayed in response to a selection of
     combine with other recordings option 9606 of FIG. 59.
     With reference now to FIG. 60, display screen 9616 may
                                                     a selected
15   provide the user with the ability to combine
     recording with other recordings. Display screen 9616 may
                                                             in
     also provide the user with the ability to determine
     what order recordings may be combined (e.g., whether
                                                    program B).
     program A may be positioned before or after
20               Display screen 9616 may include recording
      listings 9618 which may contain a list of PVR recordings.
                                                       option .9620
      Display screen 9616 may include combine after
      and combine before option 9622.   Display screen 9616 may
      provide the user with the ability to move highlight
 25   window 9632 over a listing bar in recording listings 9618
      and to select combine after option 9620 or combine before
      option 9622 for the recording identified in that listing
      bar. A user may be permitted to move a highlight window
      between listings 9618 and options 9620 and 9622 using
 30   right and left remote control navigation keys. A user
                                                         over a
      may be permitted to move highlight window 9632
                                                          combine a
      particular listing (e.g., Sports Center) and to
       recording of that particular listing with a currently

                             - 132
   selected recording by adding the recording of that
   particular listing before or after the currently selected
   recording.   By using remote control right and left
   navigation keys, a user may access combine after option
 5 9620 or combine before option 9622 for that particular
   listing.   Pressing a remote control "OK" key will then
   cause the recording for that particular listing to be
   combined with currently selected recording.    Display
   screen 9616 may also include the title, length, and other
10 information related to the currently selected recording.
   The combined recording may have the name of the
   originally selected program, the name of the program
   selected to be combined with it, the user may be able to
   choose which name to use, or the user may be allowed to
15 enter a new name for the combination.    If desired,
   neither, either or both of the original recordings may be
   deleted when the combination is created.
              FIG. 61 shows illustrative remove parts of a
   recording overlay 9636 displayed over video 9634 that is
20 playing from a PVR.   Overlay 9636 may be displayed in
   response to a selection of remove parts of a recording.
   option 9608 of FIG. 59 for a selected recording.     With
   reference now to FIG. 61, overlay 9636 may provide the
   user with the ability to remove portions of a recording.
25 Overlay 9636 may include program counter 9638 and time
   bar indicator 9640 which may provide a numerical and
   visual display of the playback position of the selected
    recording.  The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to move through a
30  recording by using a remote control fast-forward button,
    a remote control rewind button,  a remote control play
   button, a remote control pause button, a remote control
    stop button, a remote control skip forward or back

                             -  133
   button, an on-screen option to perform any of the above
   by selecting a marker, such as marker 9646 or 9648, or
   any other suitable remote control button or action.
   Program counter 9638 and time bar indicator 9640 may
 5 reflect a user's movements in the selected recording.
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to navigate to a
   location within a recording that the user may want to
   mark as a beginning point of a section of a recording to
10 be removed.   When the user reaches a desired location,
   the interactive television application may provide the
   user with the ability to select place marker option 9650.
   In response to a selection of place marker option 9650,
   the interactive television application may place
15 beginning marker 9646 at the selected location with a
   time stamp indicating the exact time location of
   beginning marker 9646.
              The interactive television application may fill
   time bar indicator 9640 with a criss-crossed fill pattern
20 in playback section 9642 before beginning marker 9646.
   Playback section 9642 may be filled with a pattern to
   show the elapsed playback time. Once beginning marker
    9646 is placed at a desired location, the interactive
    television application may modify time bar indicator 9640
25  to include a slashed fill pattern to show how much of the
   program may be removed by the user.     The user may then
    use a remote control fast-forward button, a remote
    control play button, a remote control pause button, on
    screen options, arrow keys,   and any other suitable remote
30  control buttons to navigate to another location in the
    recording where the user may place an end marker.    In
    response to a selection of place marker option 9650, the
    interactive television application may place end marker

                             -  134
   9648 at the selected location with a time stamp
   indicating the exact location of end marker 9648.
             The placement of end marker 9648 would thus
   define section 9644 that a user may select to remove from
 5 the recording.  In order to remove section 9644, the
   interactive television application may provide the user
   with the ability to select remove option 9652.   If the
   user does not want to remove section 9644 or if the user
   wants to edit a section to be removed, the interactive,
10 television application may provide the user with the
   ability to select clear markers option 9654.   The
   selection of clear markers option 9654 may cause
   beginning marker 9646 and end marker 9648 to be removed
   from overlay 9636.
15           If desired, a user may enter only a beginning
   marker, in which case all content after the marker may be
   removed.  Similarly, a user may enter only an end marker,
   in which case all content prior to the marker may be
   removed.
20           A user may be provided with the ability to
   create a list of recordings in a desired order, such as a
   playlist.  FIG. 62 shows illustrative playlist display
   screen 9656 that may be provided by the interactive
   television application.
25           Display screen 9656 may provide the user with
   the ability to move highlight window 9658 over playlist
   listing bar 9660 to select a playlist to which a
   recording may be added.   Display screen 9656 may include
   recording listings 9662.    A user may add a particular
30 recording to a current playlist identified in   playlist
   bar 9660 by moving highlight window 9658 over one of add
   to playlist options 9670 that is positioned adjacent to a
   listing of a recording that is desired to be added to the

                              - .L -) )
   current playlist and by pressing a 'remote control "OK"
   button.
              The interactive television application may
   provide the user with the ability to select edit playlist
 5 option 9672 to change the order of recordings within a
   playlist and remove recordings from a playlist.      In
   response to a selection of edit playlist option 9672, the
   interactive television application may display an edit
   playlist display screen   (see FIG. 63).    The interactive
10 television application may provide the user with the
   ability to select create new playlist option 9674 to
   create a new playlist.    In response to a selection of
   create new playlist option 9674, the interactive
   television application may display a create new playlist
15 overlay (see FIG. 64).
              FIG. 63 shows illustrative edit playlist
   display screen 9676 that may be provided by the
    interactive television application.     Display screen 9676
   may provide the user with the ability to change the order
20  of recordings within a playlist and remove recordings
    from a playlist.   Display screen 9676 may include
    playlist recording listings 9678, move up option 9680.,
    move down option 9682, remove option 9684, and cancel
    option 9688.   A user may access options 9680, 9682, and
25  9684 for a particular listing in listings 9678 by
    pressing a right or left remote control navigation
    buttons when highlight window 9690 is positioned over
    that particular listing.    The right or left navigation
    buttons may move highlight window 9690 from that
30  particular listing to options 9680, 9682, and 9684 to
    allow the user to select one of these options for the
    listing.   The selection of move up option 9680 or move
    down option 9682 may move a recording up or down within a

                              - 136
   playlist.  The selection of remove option 9684 for a
   particular listing may cause that recording to be removed
   from a playlist, although the recording itself may not be
   deleted.  In response to a selection of cancel option
 5 9688, the interactive television application may cancel
   changes made to. a playlist and exit display screen 9676.
             FIG. 64 shows illustrative create new playlist
   overlay 9702 displayed over playlist display screen 9700
   that may be provided by the interactive television
10 application.  Overlay 9702 may provide the user with the
   ability to create a new playlist and to provide the user
   with the ability to edit the name of the playlist.
   Overlay 9702 may include playlist name 9704, edit name
   option 9706, and "OK" option 9708.    Overlay 9702 may
15 provide the user with the ability to select edit name
   option 9706 to edit the name of a new playlist.    A user
   may use remote control alpha-numeric keys to edit the
   name of the playlist.    Once the user is satisfied with
   playlist name 9704,  the interactive television
20 application may provide the user with the ability to
   select "OK" option 9708.
             FIG. 65 shows illustrative mark and recall
   overlay 9804 displayed over video 9802 of a selected
   recording that the interactive television application may
25 be playing from a PVR.    Overlay 9804 may be displayed in
   response to a selection of mark location option 9612 of
   FIG. 59 for a selected recording.     The functions of this
   overlay may also be available from a control overlay such
   as overlay 2404 of FIG. 39.     With reference now to FIG.
30 65, overlay 9804 may provide the user with the ability to
   mark and recall locations within a recording.     Overlay
   9804 may include program counter 9806 and time bar
   indicator 9808.

                               - 137
               The interactive television application may
    provide the user with the ability to navigate to a
    location within a recording that the user would like to
    mark to be a reference point.    When the user reaches a
 5  desired location, the interactive television application
    may provide the user with the ability to select place
    marker option 9812.    In response to a selection of place
    marker option 9812, the interactive television
    application may place marker 9810 at that particular
10  location with a time stamp indicating the exact location
    of place marker 9810.
               Overlay 9804 may include skip to previous
    marker option 9814, skip to next marker option 9816, and
    clear markers option 9818.    The interactive television
15  application may provide the user with the ability to move
    highlight window 9820 over skip to previous marker option
    9814 and skip to next marker option 9816.     In response to
    a selection of skip to previous marker option 9814, the
    current playback location in indicator 9808 may be moved
20  to a previous marker (if one exists) and the application
    may play the corresponding video at that location in
    video 9802.    In response to a selection of skip to next
    marker option 9816, the current playback location in
    indicator 9808 may be moved to a next marker (if one
25  exists) and the application may play the corresponding
    video at that location in video 9802.     The interactive
    television application may provide the user with the
    ability to select clear markers option 9818.     In response
    to a selection of clear markers option 9818, the
30.  interactive television application may remove all markers
    associated with a selected recording.     The interactive
     television application may save all existing markers when
    a user exits overlay 9804 and may recall the markers the

                              - 138
   next time a user accesses this option for the selected
   recording.   If desired, the user may be given the
   opportunity to name or number the individual markers
   within a program, and to jump to a marker by name or
 5 number.  If desired, keys on the remote control   (such as
   page up and page down) may be used to quickly navigate to
   markers while watching a recording without having to
   display an overlay.   Markers may be maintained when
   recordings are combined, when parts of a recording are
10 removed, and when a playlist is created.
              An interactive television application may be
   implemented to provide a PVR.with multiple user accounts.
   FIG. 66 shows illustrative steps involved in providing
   multiple program guides for PVR users in a household.
15 With reference now to FIG. 66, at step 3902, user
   equipment that includes a PVR may be provided in a
   household.   If desired, some of the functionality may be
   provided using equipment that is not in the user's home.
   For example, programs may be recorded to a server in a
20 distribution facility.   At step 3904, an interactive
   television application may be implemented on the user
   equipment to provide multiple program guides.    Each
   program guide may correspond to one of the household
   members.
25            At step 3906, an interactive television
   application may associate different household member
   specific PVR information with different household
   members.   The member specific PVR information of each
   household member may be associated with that user's
30 program guide.   PVR information may include configuration
   settings for recordings, user preference information,
   scheduled recordings information, recording information
   or other PVR related information.    If desired, steps 3904

                               - 139
    and 3906 may be combined.    If desired, the size of the
    storage space to be used for configuration settings, user
    preferences, program information, buffers, stored
    programs, and other user-specific data may be specified
 5  for the multiple program guides.    Alternatively, storage
    space may not be pre-allocated, and memory may be
    allocated from available memory as each user needs it.
    At step 3908, an interactive television application may
    allow household members to interact with respect to the
10  PVR and/or with respect to their PVR information using
    their corresponding program guides.     For example, a
    household member may use his or her program guide to
    record a program on a PVR, to schedule a PVR to perform a
    recording, or to view or manipulate his or her list of
15  PVR recordings.
               Step 3908 may include step 3910.    At step 3910,
    the interactive television application may display PVR
     information that is associated with a particular
    household member when that household member uses their
20   corresponding program guide.    At step 3912, the
     interactive television application may cause the PVR to
     record or delete programs based on the PVR information
     that is associated with the household members.     The PVR
     information may be updated when a program is recorded or
 25  deleted.   Thus, the interactive television application
     may provide a unique program guide for each member of a
     household.
                A household member may begin to use his or her
     program guide by logging into his or her program guide.
 30  For example, with reference now to FIG. 67, the
     interactive television application may display user-login
     display screen 4002.   User-login display screen 4002 may
      include options 4004 for allowing users to select their

                             - 140
   login identification.  User-login display screen 4002 may
   also include data entry area 4006.   Area 4006 may be used
   to enter a personal identification code that is
   associated with a login identification.   Once a user has
 5 logged in to access one feature, the user may not be
   required to login to access additional features.   For
   example, there may be a "change user" or "login" button
   on the main menu screen or a key on the remote control.
   If desired, a user may be automatically logged out after
10 a period of inactivity, or when the system is turned off.
             Personalized main menu display screen 4008 may
   be displayed when a user selects a particular login
   identification using options 4004 and enters a valid
   personal identification code.   Main menu display screen
15 408 may include text 4014 identifying the current user
   and may include options for providing interactive
   services.  For example, main menu display screen 4008 may
   include recordings option 4010 and scheduled recordings
   option 4012 that the user may select to access PVR
20 related information and features.   User preferences and
   PVR setup options accessed from this main menu screen may
   be specific to the logged in user.
             A user may access his or her list of scheduled
   recordings when that user logs into their program guide.
25 For example, with reference now to FIG. 68, user-login
   display screen 4102 may be displayed to provide users
   with an opportunity to login.   In this instance, display
   screen 4102 identifies the users to be Tom and Jerry.
             Scheduled recordings display screen 4104 may be
30 displayed after a user logs into their program guide and
   selects to access his or her list of scheduled
   recordings.  As mentioned above, a user may log in by
   selecting a user login and entering a personal

                             - 141
   identification code.   Scheduled recordings display screen
   4104 may include list 4106 containing listings for
   programs that Jerry selected to be recorded.    Tom's list
   of scheduled recordings may be displayed in scheduled
 5 recordings display screen 4108 upon user request after
   Tom logs in to his program guide.   Scheduled recordings
   display screen 4108 may include list 4110 containing
   listings for programs that Tom selected to be recorded.
   An interactive television application may associate
10 different programs to be recorded with different users.
   For example, as shown, list 4110 that is displayed for
   Tom is different from list 4106 that is displayed for
   Jerry.
              If desired, a user may be required to login
15 when the user selects to access PVR related information
   and/or features.   For example, with reference now to FIG.
   69, main menu display screen 4202 may be displayed for
   example when a user presses a main menu remote control
   button.  Access to main menu display screen 4202 may be
20 provided without requiring user login.    From main menu
   display screen 4202, a user may be _permitted to access
   general program guide features such as program listings,
   weather information, etc.
              Main menu display screen 4202 may contain
25 recordings option 4204 and scheduled recordings
   option 4206.   User-login display screen 4208 may be
   displayed when a user selects scheduled recordings
   option 4206 in main menu display screen 4202.     If
   desired, user-login display screen 4208 may be presented
30 as an overlay.   User-login display screen 4208 may
   contain login identification options 4210 and data entry
   area 4212.

                               - 142
              Personalized scheduled recordings display
    screen 4214 may be displayed when a particular user, in
    this case, Jerry logs into his program guide.      Scheduled
    recordings display screen 4214 may contain list 4216 for
 5  Jerry's scheduled recordings list for January 18,     2002,
    and list 4218 for Jerry's scheduled recordings for
    January 20, 2002.   Scheduled recordings display
    screen 4212 may contain interactive advertisement 4220.
    Examples of interactive television program guide systems
10  with interactive advertisements are illustratively shown
    in Knudson, et al, which is mentioned below.
               Features for managing recordings may be
    implemented in a similar way.      For example, with
    reference now to FIG. 70, main menu display screen 4302
15  may be displayed for example when a user presses a remote
    control menu button.    Main menu display screen 4302 may
    contain recordings option 4304.      User-login display
    screen 4307 may be displayed when a user selects
    recordings option 4304.    At user-login display screen
20  4306, a user may use options 4308 to select their login
     identification and may enter their personal
     identification code using data entry area 4310.
     Personalized recorded programs display screen 4312 may be
     displayed when a user, in this case Calvin, logs into the
25   system using display screen 4307.     Recorded programs
     display screen 4312 may contain list 4314 that lists
     programs that have been recorded for Calvin.
                Illustrative steps involved in recording
     programs in a multiple program guide environment are
 30  shown in FIG. 71.   With reference now to FIG. 71, at step
     4402, a user may be provided with an opportunity to log
     into his/her program guide.     Multiple program guides may
     be provided that each correspond to a different user.

                               - 143
   The multiple program guides may be implemented to be
   available through local user equipment     (e.g., user
   equipment used by members in a household) and may also be
   implemented using remote equipment, such as a remote
 5 server.   The user equipment or server may include a
   storage device such as a PVR.     A user may be permitted to
   log into their program guide to interact with respect to
   the storage device.    At step 4404, a user who is
   currently logged into their program guide may be
10 permitted to select programs to be recorded on the
   storage device   (e.g., on a local recording device or on
   the server).   At step 4406, the user equipment may record
   programs based on which programs were selected to be
   recorded by the users while they were in their program
15 guides.   The interactive television application that
   provides the multiple program guides may record programs
   based on the user-selections irrespective of which user
   is currently logged into their program.      Therefore, a
   program may be recorded for one user when a program guide
20 for another is in use.    Step 4406 may include updating
   user-specific information regarding recordings so that
   the new information may be reflected when a user logs
    into the system.   If multiple users select to record the
    same program, the system may only record one copy.
25             Different techniques may be implemented to
    allow users in a multiple program guide environment to
    select programs to be recorded.     For example, with
    reference now to FIG. 72, program listings display screen
    4502 may be displayed when a particular user logs into
30  their program guide and selects to access program
    listings.   If desired, program listings display screen
    4502 may contain text identifying the current user, which
    in this case is Jerry.    Display screen 4502 may contain

                                 - 144
    program listings 4510.     The current user may be permitted
    to select a program to be recorded by moving highlight
    window 4504 over a program listing such as the listing
    for program A and pressing a remote control record key.
 5  Icon 4506 may be displayed in association with program A
    when the user has selected to record program A.       Thus,
    icon 4506 indicates that Jerry has selected to record
    program A, and program A is part of his list of scheduled
    recordings.
10             Another technique for selecting a program to be
    recorded may involve requesting user identification when
    a recording related action is sought to be taken by a
    current user.   For example, with reference now to FIG.
    73, program information display screen 4602 may be
15  'displayed when a user selects to obtain information on a
    particular program.     A user may be permitted to access
     information display screen 4602 without having to log
     into their program guide.     Information display screen
     4602 may contain record option 4604 that a user may
20   select to have the current program recorded     (e.g.,
     recorded using a  PVR).    overlay 4606 may be displayed
     when the current user selects record option z '04.
     overlay 4606 may include identification option 4608 that
     the user may scroll to select their login identification,
25   may include data entry area 4610 that may be used to
     enter a personal identification number     ("PIN"), OK option
     4618 that may be used to log in, and cancel option 4616
     that may be selected to cancel overlay 4606.       Icon 4612
     may be displayed in information display screen 4602 when
 30   the current user enters the appropriate information in
      overlay 4606.  Icon 4612 may indicate that the program is
      now selected to be recorded.     Information display screen
      4602 may now contain cancel recording option 4614 that

                               - 145
    the user may select to cancel the scheduled recording.
    The cancellation of the recording may require that the
    user select a login identification and enter a PIN again.
                In a multiple program guide environment,
 5  recordings may be manually deleted by individual users.
    Illustrative steps involved in deleting recordings are
    shown in FIG. 74.    With reference now to FIG. 74, at
    step 4702, an interactive television application may
    associate a recording with one or more users.     More than
10  one user may be associated with a particular recording
    when more than one user selects the same program to be
    recorded from within their guides.     At step 4704, users
    who are associated with the recording may be provided
    with an opportunity to delete the recording when they are
15  in their program guide.    At step 4706, the recording may
    be deleted when all of the users that are associated with
    that recording have selected to delete the recording.
    Step 4706 may include step 4708.     At step 4708,
     information that associates a recording with a user may
20  be deleted when the user selects to delete the recording.
     Step 4708 may be used to remove the association of that
     user with the program that the user selected to delete
      (e.g., removes the program name for the recording from
     the user's list of recordings).    Information on the
 25  program may be deleted without actually deleting the
     recording itself, e.g., if other users have selected the
     program for recording.
                 FIGS. 75 and 76 show an illustrative sequence
     of display screens that may be provided based on the
 30  illustrative steps shown in FIG. 74.     With reference now
     to FIG. 75, login display screen 4802 may be displayed
     when a user seeks to login to their program guide.     If
     desired, login display screen 4802 may be an overlay.      In

                               - 146
     this example, there are two users that are identified in
    display screen 4802 as Tom and Jerry.   Recordings display
     screen 4804 for Jerry's recordings may be displayed when
    Jerry logs into his program guide using login display
  5 screen 4802 and selects to access his list of recordings.
    Recordings display screen 4810 for Tom's recordings may
    be displayed when Tom logs into his program guide using
    login display screen 4802 and selects to access his list
    of recordings.   As shown, the recordings contained in
10  list 4806 in display screen 4804 for Jerry and in list
    4812 in display screen 4810 for Tom are different except
    for one program.   The program Living in Peace is listed
    in both lists 4806 and 4812.
               Information display screen 4814 that contains
15  information and options for the program Living in Peace
    may be displayed when Jerry moves highlight window 4808
    in recordings display screen 4804 over the listing for
    the program Living in Peace and presses a remote control
    "OK" key.   Information display screen 4814 may include
20  delete option 4816.   The program guide may allow Jerry to
    select delete option 4816 and to subsequently return to
    his updated list of programs, which are displayed in
    recordings display screen 4818.   As shown, a listing for
    the program Living in Peace is no longer included in
25  list 4806 of Jerry's recordings. Recordings display
    screen 4820 for Tom's recordings may be displayed after
    the program Living in Peace is selected to be deleted by
    Jerry.   Recordings display screen 4820 may include list
    4812 of Tom's recordings, which still contains listing
30  4822 for the program Living in Peace.   Thus, one user may
    delete a recording of a program from his or her guide
    without changing the program guides of the other users.

                                -  147
               FIG. 76 shows an illustrative sequence of
    display screens that continues the sequence shown in FIG.
    75.   With reference now to FIG. 76, recordings display
    screens 4918 and 4920 repeat recordings display screens
 5  4818 and 4820 of FIG. 75.      Recording display screen 4920
    for Tom's recordings may include listing 4926 for the
    program Living in Peace.      Information display screen 4928
    containing information and options for the program Living
    in Peace may be displayed when the current user      (Tom)
10  selects listing 4926.     Information display screen 4928
    may include delete option 4930.      A recording of the
    program Living in Peace and/or information related to
    that- program may be deleted when delete option 4930 is
    selected.    After delete option 4930 is selected for the
15  program Living in Peace, the interactive television
    application may display recordings display screen 4932
    that shows that the deleted program is no longer on Tom's
     list of recordings.
                The interactive television application may
20   include features for handling differences between
     recording settings that two different users have selected
     for recording the same program.      The interactive
     television application may record the program to based on
     both settings   (e.g., using the highest setting that is
25   set by each user).    For example, if the two users select
     different before/after buffer times, the application may
     use the longer of the two.      If the two users select
     different record qualities, the application may select
     the highest quality.    If two users select different
 30  record priorities, the application may use the highest
     specified priority.

                            -  148
             Accordingly, multiple program guides may be
   provided that correspond to different users that share
   the same user equipment.
             A notification feature may be another feature
 5 that may be provided with respect to recording activity.
   Illustrative steps involved in providing notifications
   for upcoming changes in recording content are shown in
   FIG. 77.  At step 5002, an interactive television
   application may provide a user with an opportunity to
10 select a program to be recorded.   At step 5004, a user
   may be provided with an opportunity to select delete
   priority settings for a particular recording.
             At step 5006, an interactive television
   application may automatically select a program to be
15 recorded or deleted.  A particular program may be
   automatically selected to be recorded based on stored
   user preferences or other suitable criteria.   A recording
   may be deleted automatically for example when the
   recording is one that was created over a certain number
20 of days ago or when the recording has not been viewed in
   a given period.
             At step 5008, a notification may be sent that
   describes a change that is to be made to the recorded
   content.  For example, the notification may state that a
25 particular program is about to be recorded or deleted.
   The change that is to be made may be determined based on
   steps 5002, 5004, and 5006.   Step 5008 may include step
   5010.  At step 5010, in a multiple program guide
   environment, a notification may be sent to specific users
30 to which the content of the notification is related.    For
   example, the notification may be sent only to users who
   used their program guides to select a particular program
   to be recorded.  This may be achieved by sending one

                              - 149
    notification using an e-mail and sending another
    notification via a program guide overlay.    Other
    techniques may involve waiting to send a notification to
    a particular user until that user logs into his or her
 5  program guide.   At step 5014, an opportunity to cancel or
    confirm the change identified in the notification may be
    provided to the recipient of the notification.
               In a multiple program guide environment, each
    user that is notified of the change in the recorded
10  content may be provided with an opportunity to confirm or
    cancel the change at step 5012.    Information associated
    with each user's program guide will reflect whether that
    user selected to confirm or cancel the change.     Step 5012
    may be a substep of step 5014.
15             FIG. 78 shows an illustrative display sequence
    that may be provided based on the illustrative steps
    shown in FIG. 77.   With reference now to FIG. 78,
    information display screen 5102 may contain information
    5104, which describes an upcoming program, and may
20  contain related program guide options such as record
    option 5106.   An upcoming future program may be a program
     that will air in about a week.   That program may be set
     to be recorded when record option 5106 is selected.     If
     that program is set to be recorded, notification overlay
25   5108 may be displayed over video 5110 or other content
     shortly before that program is about to air.
     Notification overlay 5108 may contain text notifying the
     user that the selected program is about to be recorded.
     Notification 5108 may include confirm option 5112 and
30-  cancel option 5114 to allow the user to select to confirm
     or cancel the recording of the program.    Video 5110 may
     be video of a program that is airing shortly before the

                               - 150
    airing time of the program that was selected to be
    recorded.
               Notifications may be sent using a number of
    different communications techniques such as using a
 5  program guide overlay, an e-mail message, or other
    communications technique.    A notification may specify
    information about a particular change that is to be made.
    FIGS 79-86 are illustrative of different notification
    techniques.   FIG. 79 shows notification overlay 5202 that
10  is displayed over video or graphic 5404 that is generated
    by an interactive television application.    Notification
    overlay 5202 includes text 5206 that informs a viewer
    that program XYZ is about to be recorded and also informs
    the viewer that program XYZ is a program that was
15 .manually selected to be recorded   (i.e., the program was
    specifically selected to be recorded by a user).
               FIG. 80 shows notification overlay 5302 that is
    displayed over video or graphic 5304.    Overlay 5302
    includes text 5306 that informs a viewer that program i
20  is about to be deleted and also informs the viewer that
    program XYZ is being deleted based on delete priority
    settings.   Overlay 5302 may include confirm deletion
    option 5308 that may be selected to confirm the deletion
    of program XYZ and may include cancel deletion option
25  5310 that may be selected to cancel the deletion of
    program XYZ.
               FIG. 81 shows notification overlay 5402 that is
    the same as notification overlay 5202 of FIG. 79 except
    that the text information contained in overlay 5402 is
30  different.   Text 5406 in overlay 5406 of FIG. 81 informs
    that program XYZ is about to be recorded and informs that
    program XYZ was automatically selected to be recorded.
    The program may have been automatically selected based on

                                - 151
    user preferences.    Examples of interactive television
    program guide systems with user preference features are
    illustratively shown in Ellis et al.,   U.S. Patent
    Application No. 09/034,934, filed March 4, 1998, which is
 5  hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
    The program may have also been automatically selected for
    recording based on user viewing or recording activity
    that has been monitored, or based on other criteria.
                FIG. 82 shows notification overlay 5502 that is
10  the same as notification overlay 5302 of FIG. 80 except
    that the text information contained in overlay 5502 is
    different.    Text 5506 in overlay 5502 of FIG. 82 informs
    that program XYZ is about to be deleted and informs that
    program XYZ was automatically selected to be deleted
15  based on the automatic delete settings of the system.
    Automatic delete settings may be settings that are not
    under user control.     Automatic delete setting may be
     configured to delete a program based on the date on which
     the program was recorded.    Other techniques may also be
20   used.   A notification such as those illustratively shown
     in FIGS. 78-82 may be displayed for a particular user in
     a multiple program guide environment when that user is
     currently logged into his or her guide.     If that user is
     not currently logged into his or her guide, the
 25  interactive television application may delay sending the
     notification until that user logs into his or her guide.
      If desired, the interactive television application may
     avoid such delays by sending an e-mail notification to
     that user.
 30              FIGS 83-86 illustratively demonstrate e-mail
     versions of the notifications shown in FIGS. 79-82.     FIG.
      83 shows e-mail 5602 that includes addressee information
      5604, addressor information 5606, subject information

                               - 152
     field 5610, message region 5608, and reply region 5612.
    Addressee information 5604 may identify an e-mail address
     for the recipient of e-mail 5602.  The e-mail address may
    be a general e-mail address used by one particular
 5  household to receive e-mail notifications regarding
    program guide activity or may be an e-mail address for a
    specific user in a household that was provided by that
    user to receive e-mails regarding his or her program
    guide.   Addressor information 5606 may identify the
10  address of a facility that sent e-mail 5602.   Subject
    information field 5610 may inform the user of the general
    nature of e-mail 5602 or may provide specific information
    describing activity that is about to occur.   Message
    -region 5608 may include text that informs the recipient
15  that a particular program is to be recorded and informs
    the recipient that the program was manually selected to
    be recorded. If desired, message region 5608 may include
    -reply region 5612.  Reply region 5612 may include
    interactive e-mail content that the recipient may select
20  to confirm or cancel the recording of the program (e.g.,
    a link to a particular Internet Web page may be
    displayed).   If desired, reply region 5612 may contain
    instructions on how the recipient can confirm or cancel
    the described activity (e.g., informs the recipient to
25  send an e-mail to a particular address to cancel a
    recording).
               FIG. 84 shows an illustrative e-mail embodiment
    in which e-mail 5702 is sent to inform an e-mail
    recipient that a particular program is to be deleted
30. based on delete priority settings.   The content of
    e-mail 5702 may include reply region 5704 that may
    include interactive content that the recipient may use to
    confirm or cancel the deletion. FIG. 85 shows an

                             - 153
   illustrative e-mail embodiment in which e-mail 5802 is
   sent to inform an e-mail recipient that a particular
   program is to be recorded at a particular time and that
   the program was automatically selected to be recorded.
 5 E-mail 5802 may include reply region 5804 that may be
   used to reply to e-mail 5802.   Reply region 5804 may be
   used to confirm or cancel the recording of the program.
   FIG. 86 shows an illustrative e-mail embodiment in which
   e-mail 5902 is sent to inform an e-mail recipient that a
10 particular program is to be deleted based on automatic
   delete settings.   An interactive reply region may be
   included in e-mail 5902 to allow a user to confirm or
   cancel the deletion of the program.
             In a single or multiple program guide
15 environment, an interactive television application may
   maintain a global list of programs that are available
   from a PVR.   For example, with reference now to FIG. 87,
   at step 6002, a global list of programs that may
   currently be stored on a PVR may be generated and stored
20 on user equipment or on a remote server.    The global list
   may include programs that are in the recordings list(s)
   of the current users.   Recordings may be included in the
   global list irrespective of whether they were recorded
   manually and automatically.   At step 6004, programs that
25 users deleted, but that are still available from the PVR
   may be kept on the global list.   Step 6004 may be a
   substep of step 6002.   If desired, programs that have
   been deleted and are no longer available may be included
   on the list.
30            At step 6006, an interactive television
   application will not record a program that is selected to
   be recorded (either automatically or manually) when that
   program is already on the global list.    If desired, at

                              - 154
   step 6008,  users may be permitted to edit the list.    For
   example, a user may be provided with an opportunity to
   permanently delete a program that contains offensive
   materials.   As another example, a user may remove a
 5 program from the list that was recorded, viewed, and
   deleted in the past, so that another copy of the program
   may be recorded and viewed.
              A PVR or an integrated PVR-IPG may integrate
   content from a variety of platforms.    For example, a PVR
10 may store content from broadcast television, from pay
   per-view, from video-on-demand, from the Internet, from
   radio, from multimedia devices   (e.g., video and still
   cameras),  from personal computers, etc.   This content may
   be gathered based upon the same criterion or criteria.
15 The content may be made available to the viewer through
   any suitable interactive television application such as a
   program guide.    Examples of interactive television
   program guides that have integrated content are
   illustratively shown in Walker et al.,   U.S. Patent
20 Application No. 09/829,856, filed April 10, 2001, which
   is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety.
              A PVR may be accessed and/or controlled
   remotely.   PVRs or integrated PVR-IPGs may be connected
25 to other equipment, including other PVRs    (or integrated
   PVR-IPGs), via any suitable connection, such as a wired
   or wireless network to enable control of the PVRs and/or
   to enable content from PVRs to be accessed at other
   equipment.   Examples of other equipment may include web
30 phones, personal digital assistants, two-way pagers,
   ebooks, etc.    Examples of interactive television program
   guides that provide remote access are illustratively
   shown in Ellis et al., U.S. Patent Application No.

                             - 155
   09/354,344, filed July 16, 1999, which is hereby
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
             Promotions such as advertisements may be stored
   on a PVR for presentation to users.   Such stored
 5 advertisements may be related to advertisements that are
   airing to be viewed by television viewers.    For example,
   with reference now to FIG. 88, at step 6102, a live video
   advertisement  (e.g., an advertisement airing during a
   local station break) may be received for presentation
10 and/or may be presented to a user.   At step 6104, a
   locally stored advertisement that is related to the live
   advertisement may be presented to the user.    The stored
   advertisement may be automatically selected for display
   based on user preferences or may be selected for display
15 based on user selections.   At 6106, a live video
   advertisement that is about to be presented to a user may
   be replaced with a particular recorded video
   advertisement.   The recorded video advertisement may be
   automatically selected for display based on user
20 information.
              For example, with reference now to FIG. -89,
   video 6204 may be used to extend or replace live video
   6202 for an automobile advertisement.    Live video 6202
   containing an advertisement for an automobile
25 manufacturer may be displayed during a station break.
   Video 6204 presenting an advertisement for a particular
   automobile model manufactured by that manufacturer may be
   displayed to a user from a local PVR following the
   presentation of video 6202.    The stored advertisement may
30 be selected for presentation based on user preferences.
   The stored advertisement may have been selected from
   among a number of different advertisements.

                              - 156
              If desired, a user may be allowed to view an
   extension of live video 6202 for a current advertisement.
   The interactive television application may display
   overlay 6206 over live video 6202 that provides the user
 5 with an opportunity to view an extension of the current
   advertisement.   Video 6204 of a related advertisement
   that is an extension of the current advertisement may be
   displayed when a user selects to view an extension of the
   current advertisement from overlay 6206.    In another
10 technique, an interactive television application may
   replace a current live advertisement with video 6204 of a
   recorded advertisement  from a PVR.   The recorded
   advertisement may be related to the current live
   advertisement and may be selected for display based on
15 user information.   If desired, the PVR may pause live
   television content when video 6204 is being displayed to
   a user.
              A video advertisement that is stored on a PVR
   may be presented to a user when the user enters a program
20 guide.   FIG. 90 shows illustrative steps that may be
   involved in displaying video advertisements in a program
   guide.   With reference now to FIG. 90, at step 6302,
   video advertisements may be stored on a recording device
    such as PVR for later presentation in an interactive
25  television application.   The video advertisements may be
    loaded during off-hours when user equipment is not likely
    to be used or loaded using any other suitable technique.
   At step 6304, an advertisement that was stored at step
    6302 may be displayed when a user is using a program
30 guide.
              FIG. 91 illustratively shows two different
    sequences for the presentation of video advertisements.
   With reference now to FIG. 91, an interactive television

                             - 157
   application may display program listings display
   screen 6402 that contains video advertisement 6404 and
   interactive graphic advertisement 6406.    Video
   advertisement 6404 may contain scaled video of an
 5 advertisement that is being presented using a PVR.    Video
   advertisement 6404 may be selectable.    Video 6412.may be
   displayed when a user selects video advertisement 6404.
   Video 6412 may present video advertisement 6404 in full
   screen.
10           Interactive graphic advertisement 6406 may be a
   graphic that is generated by the interactive television
   application to present a particular advertisement.
   Examples of interactive television program guides that
   include interactive graphic advertisements are
15 illustratively described in Knudson et al.,   U.S. Patent
   Application No. 09/034,939, filed March 4, 1998, which is
   hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.    Video 6408,
   which presents a video advertisement that is related to
   graphic advertisement 6406, may be displayed when a user
20 selects graphic advertisement 6406.    If desired, related
   options overlay 6410 may be displayed over video 6408 to
   allow the user to further interact with respect to the
   advertisement.
             A stored advertisement may be displayed when a
25 user enters a program guide.    For example, with reference
   now to FIG. 92, video 6504, which presents an
   advertisement that is stored on a PVR, may be displayed
   when a user who is watching video 6502 presses a remote
   control guide button.  Main menu display screen 6506 may
30 be displayed when video 6504 for the advertisement ends.
   If desired, video 6504 may be supplemented with text,
   graphics, interactive options, or other video.

                                - 158
              Such video advertisements may be available not
   only from a local PVR,  but also from remote storage
   devices, such as a remote storage device that is
   available in a client-server based program guide system.
 5 Examples of client-server based program guide systems are
   illustratively shown in Ellis et al.,      U.S. Patent
   Application No. 09/332,244, which is mentioned above.
   Remotely stored advertisements may be transmitted on
   demand, as part of a carousel, continuously, or using
10 combinations thereof.
              Buffer management techniques may be implemented
   with respect to television programming to enhance
   interactive services that are available to users.            Buffer
   management techniques may be implemented to create new
15 buffers based on current user activity.        For example,
   with reference now to FIG.     93,  at step 6602,     user
   equipment that includes a PVR may be provided.           The PVR
   may also be based on a   remote server.      At step 6604,     a
   new straight buffer may be created on the PVR when a new
20 channel or a new program is viewed by a current user.
              An interactive television application may
   allocate a portion of the storage space on the PVR to a
   new buffer when that buffer is created.         If desired, at
   step 6606, the interactive television application may
25 allocate the size of the buffer to be a size that is
   suitable to hold the size of the program.           If desired,
   buffer size may be increased incrementally to fit a
   program that is being buffered.       At step 6608, video
   and/or audio from a program or channel currently tuned to
30 may be stored to the buffer that is created when that
   channel or program is  first    tuned.    For clarity     and
   brevity, television content that is buffered is primarily
   referred to herein as video.       The television content that

                             - 159
   is buffered may not only contain video, but also contain
   audio, graphics, data, or other material.
              With reference now to FIG. 94,  first buffer
   6702 may be created when a user first tunes to a first
 5 channel to view video 6704 of a first program.    First
   buffer 6702 may have been allocated a size that is
   suitable to hold the remainder of the first program,
   which may, for example, be fifty minutes.    Second buffer
   6706 may be created when the user tunes to a second
10 channel to watch video 6708 of a second program.     The
   second channel may have been tuned to after the user
   watched the first program for ten minutes.    Dashed region
   6710 shown in first buffer 6702 represents what was
   buffered for the ten minutes that the first program was
15 watched.   The second program may have been watched to its
   completion, and the user may have stayed on the same the
   channel to watch the following program.    Dashed
   lines 6716 are shown in second buffer 6706 to represent
   that second buffer 6706 holds the portion of second
20 program that was watched by the user.    Third buffer 6712
   may be created when video 6714 of a third program
   commences following the end of the second program.     Third
   buffer 6712 may have been allocated a size that is
   suitable to hold the length of the third program.
25            Storage space on a PVR may be selected to be
   allocated to a buffer in a number of different ways.     For
   example, with reference now to FIG. 95, an interactive
   television application may be prompted to create a new
   buffer (e.g., a straight buffer) in step 6802.     At step
30  6804, storage space that is not allocated to an existing
   buffer or is not allocated to a recording may be
   allocated to create the new buffer.    If desired, at step
    6806, one or more existing buffers  (e.g., the oldest

                             - 160
   existing buffer) may be deleted to make room for the new
   buffer.  At step 6808, space from the deleted buffer(s)
   may be allocated to create the new buffer.    Steps 6806
   and 6808 may be performed simultaneously since allocating
 5 space to a new buffer may cause the deletion of the
   existing buffer.   If desired, at step 6810, a portion of
   an existing buffer  (e.g., the oldest portion of the
   oldest buffer) may be deleted to make room for the new
   buffer.  At step 6812,  space from the deleted portion may
10 be allocated to the new buffer.    Steps 6810 and 6812 may
   be repeated to increase the size of the newly created
   buffer.  For example, in some instances, new buffers may
   initially be assigned to have a fixed length that may be
   incremented thereafter.
15           If desired, separate buffers that are for the
   same program may be combined into a single buffer.
   Illustrative steps involved in combining such buffers are
   illustratively shown in FIG. 96.    With reference now to
   FIG. 96, at step 6902,- a new buffer may be created when a
20 user changes the current channel.    At step 6904, separate
   buffers may be combined when the separate buffers contain
   video from the same program.    In another implementation,
   an interactive television application may not create a
   new buffer when a user returns to viewing a program for
25 which a buffer already exists.    The interactive
   television application may simply store the program to
   the existing buffer.
             FIG. 97 shows an illustrative buffering
   sequence that may be provided based on the steps shown in
30 FIG. 96.  With reference now to FIG. 97,    first buffer
   7002 may be created when a user changes the current
   channel to view video 7004 of a first program on a first
   channel.   Second buffer 7006 may be created when the user

                             - 161
   changes the channel to watch video 7008 on a second
   channel.  The user may have changed the channel after
   watching the first program for ten minutes.    The ten
   minutes of video 7004 that was buffered by first buffer
 5 7002 is represented by dashed region 7010.    After viewing
   video 7008 for the second program to its completion, the
   user may switch back to the first channel to watch video
   7002 of the first program.   Dashed region 7012 in first
   buffer 7002 represents video 7004 of the first program
10 that has been buffered since the user returned to
   watching the first program.   Thus, video that is buffered
   when a user returns to viewing a recent program is
   combined with what was buffered when the user first
   watched that program.  Line 7014 in first buffer 7002 may
15 mark the point at which the buffered video in dashed
   region 7012 was added to first buffer 7002.    If desired,
   first buffer 7002 may include a gap at line 7014 that
   corresponds to the length of time that the user switched
   away from the current program.
20           Buffers that are for the same program may be
   combined in a number of different ways.    For example,
   with reference now to FIG. 98, at step 7102, an
   interactive television application may buffer separately
   watched or tuned portions of the same program.     For
25 example, two separate portions of a program may be
   buffered when a user switches away and switches back to
   watching a particular program.   At step 7104, the
   buffered portions of the program may be concatenated.
   The concatenated buffer may not include any indicators to
30 show that there is a break in buffered video.     If
   desired, at step 7106, the buffered portions may be
   combined by inserting blank video or other content in
   between the buffered portions.    Step 7106 may include

                               - 162
    step 7108.   At step 7108, the interactive television
    application may insert blank video, a stored
    advertisement, or other content that corresponds to the
    length of the gap in the video for a program between
  5 separately buffered portions.    If desired, short content
     (such as blank video, text, or a graphic) may be inserted
    between the gaps, along with an indication of the length
    of time to display the content, so that buffer storage is
    not required for the entire missed timed period.
10             FIG. 99 shows three illustrative video
    presentation sequences that may be performed based on the
    steps shown in FIG. 98.    Each sequence addresses how
    buffered video for nonadjacent portions of a program may
    be presented to a user.    A user may be provided with an
15  opportunity to rewind a program from a buffer.     Video
    7202 may be presented to a user when a user selects to
    play the program after rewinding the program to a first
    buffered portion of a particular program.     Blank video
    7204 may be displayed when the first buffered portion
20  ends.   Other content such as an advertisement stored on a
    PVR may also be used.    Blank video 7204 may have been
     inserted to fill a break in the buffer.    Video 7206
     containing a second buffered portion of the program may
    be displayed when blank video 7204 has been displayed for
25   a certain period of time (e.g., a time equal to the
     length of the gap in the program between the two
     portions).
                In the next sequence shown in FIG. 99,   the
     interactive television application displays text 7208 to
 30  inform the user of the existence of the break in the
     buffered video portions when video 7202 for the first
     buffered portions ends.    Text 7208 may be presented over
     blank video or may be presented as part of a graphic.

                              - 163
   Text 7208 may be displayed briefly, or it may be
   displayed for a period of time corresponding to the gap
   in the programming.    In the final sequence that is shown
   in FIG. 99, video 7210 for a second buffered portion of a
 5 program is displayed immediately following video 7212 for
   the first buffered portion (e.g., the portions are
   concatenated).   In this case, both video 7210 and 7212
   may be displayed without displaying blank video or text
   to inform the user of a break in the buffer.
10            Gaps in buffers of program may be avoided by
   buffering programs in parallel.    With reference now to
   FIG. 100, at step 7302, a user may be provided with an
   opportunity to change channels to watch different
   programs.   At step 7304, programs may be buffered in
15 parallel by implementing multiple tuners to buffer two
   programs at the same time.    Multiple tuners may be
   implemented as part of a user's local user equipment.     If
   desired, one or more of the multiple tuners may be
   implemented remotely.    At step 7306, an interactive
20 television application may record one program on a
   storage device   (e.g., PVR) while a current user is
   watching a different program on a different channel.
   This simultaneous watch/record feature may be provided
   when multiple tuners have been implemented.     The multiple
25  tuners may also allow the interactive television
    application to record two programs at the same time.
    Additionally, this implementation may allow the user to
    watch two or more programs at the same time, for example,
    by switching channels between the two programs and
30  rewinding on each channel change to see the programming
    that was missed.
               FIG. 101 shows an illustrative sequence of
    video and buffered management events that may be provided

                              - 164
    based on the steps shown in FIG. 100.   First buffer 7402
    may be created for a first program when a user changes
    the channel to watch video 7404 of the first program
    airing on a first channel.   Second buffer 7406 may be
 5  created for a second program when the user changes the
    channel to watch video 7408 of the second program.
    Dashed region 7410 in first buffer 7402 represents video
    7404 that was buffered before the user changed the
    channel.  After watching the second program for ten
10  minutes, the user may change the channel back to the
    first channel to return to the first program and may
    press a rewind key to rewind buffered video of the first
    program.  The portion of the first program that was
    missed by the user may have been buffered while the user
15- was watching the second channel.   Dual tuners may be used
    to buffer both programs.   Dashed region 7412 in first
    buffer 7402 shows that the interactive television
    application continues to buffer the first program after
    the user changes the channel.   Thus, when the user
20  returns to the first program and rewinds the first
    program, video 7410 containing the missed portions of the
    first program may be presented to the user.
              A user may be permitted to access additional
    buffer content when the user rewinds a current buffer to
25  the top of the buffer.   The top of the buffer may refer
    to the earliest recorded content for the program.    For
    example, with reference now to FIG. 102,   at step 7502, a
    user may be allowed to rewind a video for a program using
    a buffer that was created for that program.    At step
30- 7504, the rewinding may be stopped and the program may be
    automatically played when the user rewinds to the top of
    the buffer.  At this point, a user may select to rewind
    again from the top of the current buffer.    In response,

                              - 165
   the interactive television application may skip to the
   end of the previous program and rewind the previous
   program from the end of that program.    A previous program
   may be a program that was previously watched by the user.
 5 In another example, a previous program may be a program
   that was previously recorded by the system but that may
   not have been watched by the user.    Alternatively, at
   step 7508, the interactive television application may
   skip to the beginning of a previous program and may start
10 to play that program when the user selects to rewind
   again after rewinding a current program to the top of the
   buffer for that program.
              In the context of moving between programs that
   are available from program buffers, the movement may be
15 based on the chronological order in which the buffers for
   the program were created.
              FIG. 103 shows illustrative video presentation
   sequences that may be provided based on the steps shown
   in  FIG. 102.   With reference now to FIG.  103, video 7602
20 of a program rewinding may be displayed when a user
   selects to rewind a current program.     When the user
   rewinds the current program to the top of the buffer for
   the current program, the interactive television
   application may stop the rewinding and may play
25 video 7604 of the current program.     If the user selects
    to rewind again from the top of the current program or
    buffer, the interactive television application may
    display video 7606 that shows video of a previous program
    rewinding.   Alternatively, the interactive television
30  application may play video 7608 for the previous program
    starting from the top of the buffer for the previous
    program.

                              - 166
              A user may be permitted to fast-forward a
   program that is buffered.    With reference now to FIG.
   104, at step 7702, a user may be allowed to fast-forward
   video for a program that is buffered.    At step 7704, the
 5 video for the program that the user has selected to fast
   forward may be automatically stopped when the end of that
   program or the end of the buffer for that program is
   reached.   Alternatively, at step 7706, when the end of a
   program or the end of a buffer for a program is reached
10 by fast-forwarding the program, the interactive
   television application may begin playing a following
   program using a buffer for the following program.    In
   another alternative, the video for the following program
   may be fast-forwarded when the end of the first program
15 is reached.   The fast-forward and rewind techniques
   discussed herein may also apply to situations where
   buffers for a previous, current, or following program do
   not contain an entire program, but contain a portion of a
   program.
20            FIG. 105 shows an illustrative interactive
   sequence for presenting video that may be provided based
   on. the steps of FIG. 104.   As shown, video 7802 may
   contain video for a current program that is playing in
   fast-forward based on a user selection.    A program buffer
25 for the current program may be used to present video
   7802.   When the end of the current program is reached,
   the interactive television application may stop playing
   video 7802.   Video 7804 from a currently tuned channel or
   a still frame from the stopped program may be displayed
30 when the video 7802 is stopped.    Alternatively, when the
   end of the current program is reached, video 7806
   containing video for a following program may displayed.

                              -  167
   Video 7806 may be video that is presented from a buffer.
   Video 7806 may play in fast-forward.
              A user may be allowed to skip-forward when
   viewing buffered video for a program.      For example, with
 5 reference now to FIG. 106, at step 7902, a user who is
   watching a program that is playing from a program buffer
   may be allowed to skip-forward to a next program.      At
   step 7904, the interactive television application may
   skip to the top of the next program when the user selects
10 to skip-forward.   Similarly, a user may be allowed to
   skip backward between program buffers.      With reference
   now to FIG. 107, video 8002 may contain video for a
   current program that is being presented from a program
   buffer for that program.    Video 8004 for a next program
15 in the buffer space may be displayed when the user
   selects to skip-forward past video 8002 of the current
   program.
              Buffered programming may be saved as part of
   recording.   FIG. 108 shows illustrative steps involved in
20 recording a current program.      For example, with reference
   now to FIG. 108, at step 8102, a current program that a
   user is watching may be buffered.      At step 8104, the user
   may be provided with an opportunity to select to record
   the current program.   At step 8106, the current program
25 may be recorded by recording video that is currently
   airing and that is to air for that program and by saving
   video for that program that was recorded and is available
   from the buffer as part of the recording.
              FIG. 109 shows an illustrative sequence of
30 events for recording a current program that is provided
   based on the steps of FIG. 108.      With reference now to
   FIG. 109, video 8202 containing video for a current
   program on channel 2 may be displayed when the user

                              - 168
   selects to switch away from a program that the user was
   watching on channel 5.   A buffer for the program on
   channel 5 may have existed when the user changed the
   channel to channel 2.   After watching video-8202 for a
 5 period of time, the user may decide to switch back to
   channel 5.   Video 8204 containing current video of the
   program on channel 5 may be displayed when the user
   selects to change the channel back to channel 5.
             Overlay 8206 may be displayed when the user
10 selects to record the current program on channel 5.    The
   user may select to record the program on channel 5 by
   pressing a remote control record key when the user is
   watching video 8204 of that program.   Overlay 8206 may
   inform the user that the current program on channel 5 is
15 being recorded and that the recording for the program
   will contain portions of that program that were
   previously tuned.   In a multi-tuner environment, the
   recording may include both previously tuned portions and
   portions that were missed by the user (e.g., missed
20 because the user changed the channel to view another
   program).   If desired, information in overlay 8206 may
   reflect the additional content that will be recorded in a
   multi-tuner environment.
              A buffered program may be saved as a recording
25 even after the completion of that program.    FIG. 110
   shows illustrative steps that may be involved in saving a
   buffered program as a recording.   With reference now to
   FIG. 110, an interactive television application may keep
   a buffer for a program after the program ends.    At
30 step 8304, a user may be provided with an opportunity to
   have the program saved as a recording.    At step 8306, the
   program may be saved as a recording from the buffer.

                              -  169
              FIG. 111 shows an illustrative sequence of
   display screens that may be presented based on the steps
   shown in FIG. 110.   Program buffer display screen 8402
   may be displayed when a user selects a buffer listing
 5 option from an appropriate    display screen   (e.g.,  a main
   menu display screen)  in a program guide.      Program buffer
   display screen 8402 may include list    8404 identifying
   programs that are presently available     from a buffer.
              Information display screen 8408 may be
10 displayed when a user selects listing 8406 for a
   documentary from list 8404.     Information display screen
   8408 may include information about the documentary and
   may include program-related options such as record
   option 8410.   Record option 8410 may be selected to have
15 the program buffer for the documentary saved as a
   recording.   Recordings display screen 8416 may be
   displayed when the user later accesses the list of
   recordings that are currently available.       List 8412 in
   recordings display screen 8416 may contain listing 8414
20 for the buffered program    (the documentary)   that the user
   selected to save as a recording.     If desired, list 8404
   in program buffer display screen 8402 may identify how
   much of a particular program was buffered.        If desired,
   list 8404 in program buffer display screen 8402 may be
25 modified to remove listing 8406 when a user selects that
   program to be recorded from th.e buffer.      The buffer
   memory may be converted to program recording memory, or
   the program may be copied into program recording memory.
              In another example of recording a program that
30 has ended, the guide may allow a user to rewind or skip
   back to a previous program, as described previously.
   While watching a previous program, the user may be
   allowed to press a remote control info key to display

                              - 170
   program information screen 8408, or to press a remote
   control record key to record the program from the buffer.
              The size of the storage space that is used to
   buffer programs may be set manually or automatically.
 5 For example, with reference now to FIG. 112, at step
   8502, a storage device such as a PVR may be provided as
   part of a user's local equipment.    At step 8504, a
   portion  (or all) of the storage space on the storage
   device may be assigned to buffering television content.
10 Step 8504 may apply to single or multiple tuner
   environments.   At step 8504, the size of the buffer space
   may be set automatically when the system is configured by
   a system operator or be set manually by the user.    An
   example of setting the size of the buffer space
15 automatically is automatically using all free storage
   space for program buffers.    If desired, a minimum size of
   buffer space may be allocated automatically, even if that
   reduces the amount of programming that can be recorded.
              With reference now to FIG. 113, buffer
20 configuration display screen 8602 may be displayed when a
   user selects a buffer setup option from an appropriate
   display screen such as a main menu display screen or a
   PVR setup display screen.    Buffer configuration display
    screen 8602 may include buffer space option 8604 that the
25 user may use to select the total storage space that will
   be allocated to creating buffers, may include number of
   buffers option 8606 that may be used to select the
   maximum number of buffers that will be active at the same
    time, may include buffer size option 8608 that may be
30  used to specify a fixed or maximum buffer size, and may
    include option 8610 for selecting when buffers will be
    deleted (e.g., deleted every day, every week, every
    month, etc.).   If desired, there may not be an option to

                              - -171
   select when buffers are deleted, as older buffers may be
   deleted when space is needed for newer buffers.     Buffer
   size for each buffer may be set to a fixed size, may be
   set automatically based on program size, or may be set
 5 using other suitable techniques.
              A recording device such as a PVR may be used to
   automatically pause television content when a user
   interacts with an interactive television application.
   Illustrative steps involved in pausing television content
10 are shown in FIG. 114.    With reference now to FIG. 114,
   at step 8702, television content such as video for a
   program or commercial may be presented to a user.     The
   television content may be content that is currently
   airing, may be content that was previously recorded, or
15 may be content that is playing from a buffer.     At step
   8704, the user may be provided with an opportunity to
   interact with an interactive television application.      The
   interactive television application may for example be an
   interactive television application that has been
20 implemented on a television system to provide interactive
   services to the user.    At step 8706, the current
   television content that the user is watching may be
   automatically paused when the user starts to interact
   with the interactive television application.     The current
25  television content may be live television content or may
    be other television content such as a recorded program
    that a user is watching, a VOD program that a user is
    watching, etc.   The user may start to interact with the
    interactive television application by for example
30  pressing a remote control button.    At step 8708, the
    display of the television content may resume when the
    user exits the interactive television application.     The

                               - 172
    television content may be resumed from the point at which
    was automatically paused.
               FIGS. 115-120 show illustrative video and
    display screen sequences that may be provided based on
 5  the steps shown in FIG. 114.     With reference now to FIG.
    115, video 8802 of a television program that a user is
    currently watching may be automatically paused when the
    user enters a program guide by selecting a remote control
    guide button to display program listings display screen
10  8804.   Program listings display screen 8804 may include
    listings 8806, which may be scrolled to find listings.
    If desired, the user may take further actions to display
    other display screens after program listings display
    screen 8804 is displayed.    Video 8808 of the television
15  program, which the user was watching before entering the
    program guide, may be resumed from the point at which it
    was paused.    The television program may be resumed when
     the user exits the program guide.     Thus, a recording
     device such a PVR may be used to automatically pause
20   content when a user interacts with an interactive
     television application.
                With reference now to FIG. 116, video 8902 of a
     television commercial that a user is currently watching
     may be paused automatically when a user selects a remote
 25  control button such as an info button to display
     advertisement information display screen 8904.
     Advertisement information display screen 8904 may contain
      information about the commercial that the user was
     watching.   The user may interact with display screen 8904
 30  and may further use other features in the interactive
      television application before exiting to video 8906.
     Video 8906 may contain video of the commercial that the
      user was watching when advertisement information display

                             -  173
   screen 8904 was displayed.    Video 8906 may resume playing
   the commercial from the point at which the interactive
   television application was used to display information
   display screen 8904.
 5            With reference now to FIG. 117, interactive
   advertisement display screen 9004 may be displayed for
   example when a user presses a remote control info key
   while watching video 9002 of a television commercial.
   Interactive advertisement display screen 9004 may contain
10 information 9008 that is related to the television
   commercial that the user was watching, along with
   selectable options related to the advertisement.
   Interactive advertisement display screen 9004 may
   continue playing the television commercial that the user
15 was watching using scaled video 9006 of the commercial.
   When the user exists interactive advertisement display
   screen 9004, video 9010 may be displayed that resumes the
   commercial in full screen from the point at which
   interactive advertisement display screen 9004 was
20 displayed.   The video may be resumed from that earlier
   point because the user may have not devoted his/her full
   attention to the video when the user was interacting with
   interactive advertisement display screen 9004.
              With reference now to FIG. 118, recordings
25 display screen 9104 may be displayed when a user presses
   a particular remote control button to view which
   recordings are currently available to that user.     The
   user may have selected to view recordings display screen
   9104 while watching video 9102 of a current television
30 program.   Recordings display screen 9104 may include
   scaled video 9106 of the program that the user was
   watching when the user selected to view display
   screen 9104.   Recordings display screen 9104 may include

                              - 174
   listings 9108 that identify the recordings that are
   currently available to the user for playback.    Video 9110
   may be displayed when the user exits recordings display
   screen 9108.   Video 9110 may be video of the television
 5 program that the user was watching paused at the point
   where display screen 9104 was displayed.   The user may
   press a remote control key to play the television
   program.
             With reference now to FIG. 119, video 9204 of a
10 locally stored video commercial may be displayed when a
   user selects to enter a program guide while watching
   video 9202 of a particular television program.    When the
   user exits the program guide, video 9206 of that
   particular television program may resume automatically
15 from the point at which the presentation of video 9202
   was halted by the display of video 9204.    FIG. 120 shows
   an illustrative sequence that is the same the sequence
   shown in FIG. 119 except that video 9302 is for a
   television commercial that is automatically paused and
20 later resumed by displaying video 9306 when the user
   exits the program guide.
              A user may be given the option to resume the
   television content from the point at which it was
   automatically paused or from its current point.     For
25 example, with reference now to FIG. 121, overlay or
   display screen 9402 may be displayed to request whether
   the television content should be resumed from the point
   at which the user entered the program guide.    Overlay or
   display screen 9402 may include confirm option 9404 and
30  cancel option 9406.   Video 9408 of the television content
    at its current point (e.g., live television) may be
   displayed when the user selects cancel option 9406.     If
    confirm option 9404 is selected, the television content

                               -  175
    may be resumed from the point at which the user entered
    the program guide.
               Video or other stored content may be displayed
    when a program is paused.     For example, with reference
 5  now to FIG. 122, a user may select to pause video 9420
    for a program that is being presented to a user.
    Recorded video or other content 9422     (e.g., from a PVR)
    may be displayed when the program is paused.      Recorded
    video or other content 9422 may be displayed as a full
10  screen type display.    If desired, recorded content or
    other content 9426 may be displayed over paused video
    9424 when a user selects to pause a current program.
    Recorded content or other content 9426 may for example be
    displayed as an overlay.     The recorded video may be a
15  video advertisement or other video content.      Other
    content that may be displayed may be still content,
    animation, a still image, etc.
               A user may be allowed to send a recording, a
    reminder, or a recording request to another user      (e.g.,
20  another user in the same household or to other users in
    other households).    For example with reference now to
    FIG. 123, information display screen 9440 may be
    displayed when a user selects to receive information on a
    particular program.    Information display screen may be
25   for an upcoming program or for a program that has already
     aired and been recorded (e.g., recorded at least in
    part).   Information display screen 9440 may include send
     option 9442.   Send display screen 9446 may be displayed
    when send option 9442 is selected.      Send display screen
 30  9446 may provide a user with an opportunity to send a
     recording, send a reminder, or send a recording request
     for a program to another user.     Send display screen 9446
     may allow a user to send a recording when information

                               - 176
    display screen 9440 is displayed for a program that has
    an associated recording. Send display screen 9446 may
    allow a user to send a reminder or send a recording
    request when information display screen 9446 is displayed
 5  for an upcoming program. Send display screen 9446 may be
    displayed specifically for the particular program for
    which information display screen 9440 is displayed. Send
    display screen 9446 may include data entry area 9448 to
    allow a user to enter the name or address of an intended
10  recipient of a recording, reminder, or recording request.
    Send option 9450 may be included in send display screen
     9446 that a user may select to send a recording,
    reminder, or recording request to a particular user.     If
    desired, send display screen 9446 may include an option
15   to allow the user to select the messaging technique
     (e.g., e-mail messaging) that will be used.
                FIG. 124 shows e-mail 9460 to a particular user
     that provides the user with an attached recording, a
     reminder for an upcoming program, or a recording request
20   for an upcoming program depending on whether the
     particular program that is the subject of e-mail 9460 is
     a recording or an upcoming program. E-mail 9460 may be
     sent using a wide area network such as the Internet.
     FIG. 125 shows message listings display screen 9462 that
 25  a user may access from within a guide.    Message listings
     display screen 9462 may provide a list of messages that
      have been received for the current user.   Listing 9462
      shows that a recording from sender XYZ has been received
      for the current user.   Listing 9466 shows that a current
 30   user has received a reminder for a particular program
      from sender XYZ. Listing 9468 shows that a current user
      has received a recording request for a particular program
      from sender XYZ.   The current user may select each

                              - 177
   listing to view additional information related to that
   message.  FIG. 126 shows overlay 9470 that may be
   displayed to inform a current user of a reminder or
   recording request that has been sent to the current user.
 5 Overlay 9470 may include related options 9472 that may
   allow a user to take particular actions in connection
   with the reminder or recording request.    Related options
   9472 may allow a user to select to record or tune a
   program that is the subject of overlay 9470.     If desired,
10 the interactive television application may automatically
   process the content of the message.    For example, on
   receiving a recording, the recording may be added to the
   list of recordings available to the receiving user.     On
   receiving a reminder, the interactive television
15 application may set a reminder locally.    On receiving a
   record request, the interactive television application
   may automatically schedule a local recording for the
   program.   Examples of television messaging systems are
   illustratively shown in McKissick et al.,   U.S. Patent
20 Application No. 09/356,245 filed July 16,    1999, which is
   hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   If desired and as mentioned above, copy protection
   schemes may be provided for users with PVRs.     Programming
   or other content that can be displayed on user equipment
25 may be copy protected.    Copy protection information that
    is associated with programming or other content may be
   provided to user equipment to support copy protection
    schemes.  Copy protection schemes may be implemented that
   use the copy protection information to prevent users from
30  copying programming or other content without
    authorization.   For example, an interactive television
    application may block a program from being recorded to a
    PVR when that program is copy-protected.    The recording

                                - 178
    of the program may be blocked by preventing the recording
    from being scheduled.    A graphic (e.g., an overlay or
    display screen) may be displayed that informs a viewer
    that a particular program or other content that was
  5 selected to be recorded cannot be recorded due to
    copyright protections.    The MPEG-4 standard may be used
    to transmit programs with information on copyright
    protections.    Other standards that support such activity
    may also be used.
10             As mentioned above, a PVR may automatically
    record programs based on user preferences.     Other
    inference engines may use information such as user
    demographics or keyword searches    (mentioned above) to
    select programs to automatically record.     Examples of
15  interactive television program guides that use
    demographics are illustratively shown in Knee et al.,
    U.S. Patent Application No. 09/139,777, filed August 25,
    1998, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in
     its entirety.   Programs may be recorded automatically
20  based on keywords that a user has entered into the
     system.
                If desired and as mentioned above, conflict
     resolution schemes may be provided to support mechanisms
     for the viewer to resolve scheduling conflicts.     An
25   interactive television application may present options,
     configuration settings, or prompts that may be used by a
     user to resolve scheduling conflicts.    Conflicts may be
     resolved by allowing a user to interact with the
     interactive television application to resolve each
 30  conflict as it arises.    The interactive television
     application may also allow the user to set a conflict
     resolution scheme (e.g., set the interactive television

                              - 179
   application to resolve scheduling conflicts in favor of
   one type of recording such as a series recording).
              As mentioned above, personal video recorders
   and other digital recording devices record television
 5 programs onto a digital medium, such as a hard disk.    The
   amount of programming that can be stored by such a device
   is limited by the capacity of the storage medium.    A
   typical unit might store 30 hours of video programming,
   compressed at the maximum level.
10            Systems today use digital video compression
   methods such as MPEG-2, which are practical in real-time.
   An incoming audio/video program can be digitized,
   compressed, and stored as the signal is received.    More
   efficient compression methods are available, such as
15 MPEG-4.   However, these methods are much more
   computationally intensive.    Hardware that is inexpensive
   enough to be widely deployed may not be capable of
   compressing video using more efficient compression
   methods  (e.g., using the MPEG-4 standard) in real-time.
20            The computational tasks associated with a
   digital video recorder are not in general excessive.    A
   processor in such a device typically has spare processor
   cycles available.   These spare cycles may be used to
   compress stored audio/video programs more efficiently.
25            For example, the system may record programs
   using the MPEG-2 standard, the same as other existing
   systems.   However, in the background, using processor
   cycles that are not needed for storing, managing, and
   retrieving programs, the processor may scan through
30 previously stored programs and compresses them in a more
   efficient format.   After compressing a program in a more
   efficient format, such as MPEG-4, the less efficient

                              - 180
   version can be deleted, freeing up storage space for
   additional programs.
              Programs may also be compressed in multiple
   passes.   For example, it may make one pass through an
 5 audio/video file to reduce it in one way, and another
   pass to reduce it further.    Each pass may eliminate a
   specific type of redundancy, for example.     As each
   compression pass is completed, the previous version may
   be deleted.
10            The user, network operator, or programmer may
   be allowed to set parameters as to what types of
   compression are allowed, either in general or for a
   specific program.   For example, a specific "lossy" type
   of compression may be optional.    The more lossy types of
15 compression may also be reserved for programs that are
   archived for a longer period of time, or which have
   already been viewed.
              An advantage of this technique is that it
   allows many more hours of programming to be stored in the
20 same amount of storage.    For example, most or all of the
   program currently in progress may be stored in the least
   efficient format.    Programs recorded recently may be
   stored in a more efficient format.     And programs that
   have been stored for a longer period of time may be
25 stored in the most efficient format.
              A more advanced compression standard such as
   MPEG-4 may also allow for new features.     For example,
   MPEG-4 allows objects in the video to be explicitly
   defined.   A web address or commerce application could be
30 linked to one of these objects.     MPEG-4 supports
   management of intellectual property.     These new features
   may be limited to programs that were originally broadcast
    in the MPEG-4 standard, or may be provided with other

                             - 181
   formats by translating the information received into
   MPEG-4.
              If desired, a computer readable medium such as
   a floppy disk, optical disk, etc. may be used to store
 5 machine executable code for implementing an interactive
   television application for providing PVR and/or IPG
   features.   If desired, equipment such the equipment
   discussed in FIGS. 1-2C may be configured to provide
   features, options, or techniques that are illustratively
10 described herein.
              Thus, interactive television systems and
   methods that provide enhanced PVR and interactive
   television application features are provided.   One
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the present
15 invention can be practiced by other than the described
   embodiments, which are presented for purposes of
   illustration and not of limitation, and that the present
   invention is limited only by the claims which follow.
20            Throughout this specification, including the
   claims, where the context permits, the term "comprise"
   and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising"
   are to be interpreted as including the stated integer or
    integers without necessarily excluding any other
25  integers.

                                182
Claims
1.   A system for buffering programs, the system comprising:
     control circuitry configured to:
          buffer a first scheduled program currently being
received;
          receive a first user request to receive a second
scheduled program;
          based on the first user request, receive the second
scheduled program and
buffer the second scheduled program in parallel with the buffering
of the first scheduled program;
          receive a second user request to record the second
scheduled program;
          based on the second user request, record the second
scheduled program on a
remote server accessible to multiple users outside of a network
associated with the control circuitry;
          during the buffering of the first scheduled program:
               receive a third user request to pause the second
scheduled program
at a given time point;
               pause the second scheduled program while continuing
to record the second scheduled program on the remote server;
               receive a fourth user request to resume the second
scheduled program; and
               based on the fourth user request and the buffering
of the second scheduled program, cause the second scheduled program
to be continued from the given time point by retrieving the
buffered second scheduled program while continuing to record the
second scheduled program on the remote server.

                                183
2.   The system of claim 1, wherein the first user request to
receive a second scheduled program is a tuning request.
3.   The system of claim 1, wherein buffering the first scheduled
program comprises storing a previously received portion of the
first scheduled program.
4.   The system of claim 1, the control circuitry further
configured to:
     allocate a first storage space for buffering the first
scheduled program; and
     allocate a second storage space for buffering the second
scheduled program.
5.   The system of claim 4, wherein the first storage space and the
second storage space are on a personal video recorder, wherein the
personal video recorder is included on user equipment.
6.   The system of claim 4, wherein the first storage space and the
second storage space are on the remote server.
7.   The system of claim 4, the control circuitry further
configured to
     allocate a storage space size to the first storage space for
buffering the first scheduled program, the storage space size being
determined based on an amount of time remaining in the first
scheduled program.

                                184
8.   The system of claim 4, the control circuitry further
configured to:
     determine that the second scheduled program is the first
scheduled program; and
     combine the second storage space with the first storage space.
9.   The system of claim 4, the control circuitry further
configured to:
     determine that the second scheduled program is the first
scheduled program; and
     buffer the second scheduled program to the first storage
space.
10.  The system of claim 4, the control circuitry further
configured to:
     in response to receiving the second user request, store a
segment of the second scheduled program from the second storage
space as part of a recording of the second scheduled program on the
remote server.
11.  The system of claim 1, the control circuitry further
configured to:
     generate for display an interactive indicator which enables
the user to access a play position in the second scheduled program.
12.  A method for buffering programs, the method comprising:
          buffering a first scheduled program currently being
received;
          receiving a first user request to receive a second
scheduled program;

                                185
          based on the first user request, receiving the second
scheduled program and
buffering the second scheduled program in parallel with the
buffering of the first scheduled program;
          receiving a second user request to record the second
scheduled program;
          based on the second user request, recording the second
scheduled program on a remote server accessible to multiple users
outside of a network associated with the control circuitry;
          during the buffering of the first scheduled program:
               receiving a third user request to pause the second
scheduled program at a given time point;
               pausing the second scheduled program while
continuing to record the second scheduled program on the remote
server;
               receiving a fourth user request to resume the second
scheduled program; and
               based on the fourth user request and the buffering
of the second scheduled program, causing the second scheduled
program to be continued from the given time point by retrieving the
buffered second scheduled program while continuing to record the
second scheduled program on the remote server.
13.  The method of claim 12, wherein the first user request to
receive a second scheduled program is a tuning request.
14.  The method of claim 12, wherein buffering the first scheduled
program comprises storing a previously displayed portion of the
first scheduled program.

                                186
15.  The method of claim 12, further comprising:
     allocating a first storage space for buffering the first
scheduled program; and
     allocating a second storage space for buffering the second
scheduled program.
16.  The method of claim 15, wherein the first storage space and
the second storage space are on a personal video recorder, wherein
the personal video recorder is included on user equipment.
17.  The method of claim 15, wherein the first storage space and
the second storage space are on the remote server.
18.  The method of claim 15, further comprising:
     allocating a storage space size to the first storage space for
buffering the first scheduled program, the storage space size being
determined based on an amount of time remaining in the first
scheduled program.
19.  The method of claim 15, further comprising:
     determining that the second scheduled program is the first
scheduled program; and
     combining the second storage space with the first storage
space.
20.  The method of claim 15, further comprising:
     determining that the second scheduled program is the first
scheduled program; and
     buffering the second scheduled program to the first storage
space.

                                187
21.  The method of claim 15, further comprising:
     in response to receiving the second user request, storing a
segment of the second scheduled program from the second storage
space as part of a recording of the second scheduled program on the
remote server.
22.  The method of claim 12, further comprising:
     generating for display an interactive indicator which enables
the user to access a play position in the second scheduled program.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
