                                         ABSTRACT
Systems, methods, blasting machines and wireless bridge units are presented for wireless
blasting for safe firing of detonators under control of a remote wireless master controller in
which the blasting machine is connected by cabling to the wireless bridge unit and power to a
firing circuit of the blasting machine is remotely controlled via the bridge unit. The bridge
unit selectively provides first and second firing messages to the blasting machine contingent
upon acknowledgment of safe receipt of the first firing message by the blasting machine, and
the blasting machine fires the connected detonators only if the first and second firing
messages are correctly received from the bridge unit. A wireless slave blasting machine is
disclosed, including a wireless transceiver for communicating with a remote wireless master
controller, which fires the connected detonators only if first and second firing messages are
wirelessly received from the master controller.

                                       1/10
                  2--\                                                fB
     BLASTINGMACHINE
                                                                 BLAST SITE
                        FIRING CKT          LI  --    -      DETONATOR ARRAY
  8~    Comm                                                                  D
                                                     D D--                   -D
        ,-I24-                                                               -D
   2-uP &MEM              22    R   f,
2   SLAVE BRIDGE UNIT'r
                                               rrrrc           34
                                                     40s MASTER CONTROLLER
                                   FIG. 1

                  METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR WIRELESS BLASTING
                            REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
             This application claims priority to, and the benefit of, U.S. Provisional Patent
  5  Application Serial No. 61/910,654, filed on December 2, 2013, entitled METHOD AND
     APPARATUS FOR WIRELESS BLASTING, the entirety of which application is hereby
     incorporated by reference.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
 10          The present disclosure relates generally to the field of blasting technology, and
     particularly involves methods and apparatus for wireless remote blasting.
                                           BACKGROUND
             In blasting operations, detonators and explosives are buried in the ground, for
15   example, in holes (e.g., bore holes) drilled into rock formations, etc., and the detonators are
    wired for external access to blasting machines that provide electrical firing signaling to
    initiate detonation of explosives. Wireless blasting involves use of a remotely located master
    controller and a local slave wireless device connected to a blasting machine at the blast site,
    with the blasting machine being wired to an array of detonators. In wireless blasting systems,
20  no wiring or lead lines are connected between the detonator array and the master controller,
    and the master controller can be positioned a significant distance from the blast site, such as
     1-5 miles in one example. The blasting machine is normally turned on together with the slave
    controller as the operator walks from the blast area to the master controller site some distance
    away, where the blast sequence includes power up, verification and/or programming of delay
25  times, arming and finally issuance of a "fire" command. The blasting machine provides
    sufficient energy and voltage to charge the firing capacitors in the detonators, and initiates
    the actual detonator firing in response to the fire command. During the firing phase, upon
    operator input at the master controller, a fire command is transferred from the master to the
    slave which then issues the final command to the blasting machine in order to fire the
                                               -1 -

   detonator array. Accordingly, improved techniques, systems and apparatus are desirable for
   improved safety in wireless remote blasting.
                                            SUMMARY
 5          Various aspects of the present disclosure are now summarized to facilitate a basic
   understanding of the disclosure, wherein this summary is not an extensive overview of the
   disclosure, and is intended neither to identify certain elements of the disclosure, nor to
   delineate the scope thereof. Instead, the primary purpose of this summary is to present some
   concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form prior to the more detailed description that is
10 presented hereinafter.
            The disclosure relates to systems, methods and apparatus for electronic blasting, and
   provides improved blasting machine and slave bridge unit operation to facilitate improved
   safety and controllability compared with conventional wireless blasting. The disclosed
   apparatus provides remote blasting machine turn on and/or turnoff as well as reliable fire
15 command issuance procedures using multiple fire command messages to facilitate improved
   safety and immunity from spurious noise. In certain implementations, the firing circuitry of
   the blasting machine is not powered up even though the branch lines or a lead line may be
   connected with the array of detonators, with the local slave bridge unit controlling the firing
   circuit power condition to apply power only if the bridge unit/master control unit wireless
20 link is established. The fire command initiation process provides two or more fire commands
   issued by the slave bridge unit and properly received by the blasting machine in order to
   actually fire the control detonators. These devices and techniques thus advantageously
   facilitate safe blasting using remote wireless master control.
            One or more aspects of the present disclosure relate to methods for wireless detonator
25 blasting, including wirelessly receiving a wireless fire command message from a master
   controller at a wireless enabled bridge unit coupled with a blasting machine, and sending a
   first command message from the bridge unit to the blasting machine. The methods further
   include selectively sending a second fire command message from the bridge unit to the
   blasting machine in response to receipt of a fire command acknowledgment message from
30 the blasting machine or after a predetermined period of time has elapsed since the first fire
                                             -2-

   command message was sent. In certain embodiments, the second fire command message is
   sent to the blasting machine only if the fire command acknowledgment message is received
   within a predetermined time after the first fire command message was sent. In this manner,
   the method advantageously mitigates or avoids the possibility of a blasting machine
 5 inadvertently firing detonators based on receipt of noise or other spurious signaling, thereby
   facilitating safe, predictable remote wireless blasting. In addition, certain embodiments
   facilitate safe controlled operation during detonator verification and/or arming using multiple
   messages from the bridge unit and corresponding acknowledgment from the blasting
   machine. In various embodiments, moreover, the bridge unit is used to selectively enable or
10 disable the firing circuit of the blasting machine. This, in turn, facilitates manual connection
   of the blasting machine to the detonator array and connection of the slave bridge unit while
   ensuring that the firing circuit of the blasting machine is unpowered. Moreover, the ability to
   thereafter turn off power to the blasting machine firing circuit via the RF-enabled bridge unit
   advantageously allows blasting personnel to visit the blasting site for troubleshooting while
15 ensuring that the blasting machine is incapable of firing any detonators.
            Further aspects of the disclosure provide a bridge unit for remote wireless operation
   of a blasting machine. The bridge unit includes a communications interface for connection to
   a blasting machine, as well as a wireless transceiver for interfacing with a master control
   unit, and at least one processor. The processor is programmed to receive a wireless fire
20 command message from the master controller, to send a first fire command message to the
   blasting machine, and to selectively send a second fire command message to the blasting
   machine responsive to receipt of a fire command acknowledgment message from the blasting
   machine. In certain implementations, the bridge unit sends the second fire command message
   only if the acknowledgment of the first message is received from the blasting machine within
25 a predetermined time. The bridge unit may be configured in certain embodiments to issue
   multiple command messages to the blasting machine for verification and/or arming
   operations, with the second or subsequent messages being sent only if proper
   acknowledgment is received from the blasting machine to ensure that these commands are
   initiated only when needed. Moreover, certain embodiments of the bridge unit involve the
                                               -3-

     processor being programmed to selectively enable or disable the blasting machine firing
     circuit.
               Still other aspects of the present disclosure involve a blasting machine with a
     communications interface for communicating with a connected bridge unit, as well as a firing
  5  circuit and at least one processor programmed to receive and acknowledge a first fire
     command from the bridge unit, and to selectively fire one or more connected detonators in
     response to receiving a second fire command message. In certain implementations, the
     detonators are fired only if the second fire command message is received from the bridge unit
     within a predetermined time period. The blasting machine processor in certain embodiments
 10  is programmed to verify the fire command messages and issue acknowledgment of the first
     message only if verified as correct and/or fire the detonators only if the second fire command
     is verified as correct. In certain embodiments, moreover, the blasting machine firing circuit
     can be selectively enabled or disabled by a connected bridge unit.
              Further aspects of the disclosure provide an integrated wireless slave blasting
15  machine having a wireless communications interface for communicating with a wireless
    master controller, as well as at least one processor and a firing circuit. The wireless slave
    blasting machine processor is programmed to fire connected detonators only if first and
     second firing messages are wirelessly received from the master controller. In addition, the
    wireless blasting machine is operative in certain embodiments to send a fire command
20  acknowledgment message to the master controller via the wireless transceiver in response to
    receiving the first fire command message, and/or to selectively enable or disable the firing
    circuit in response to wirelessly receiving a remote turn on or remote turn off command from
    the master controller.
              In accordance with further aspects ofthe disclosure, blasting machines, remote master
25  controllers and methods are provided for preventing remote out of sync conditions in a
    wireless detonator blasting operation, in which the blasting machine sends the master
    controller a data packet with a data designation number and refrains from processing a
    received message command until the master controller sends back the data designation
    number.
30
                                               -4-

                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             The following description and drawings set forth certain illustrative implementations
     of the disclosure in detail, which are indicative of several exemplary ways in which the
    various principles of the disclosure may be carried out. The illustrated examples, however,
  5  are not exhaustive of the many possible embodiments of the disclosure. Other objects,
     advantages and novel features of the disclosure will be set forth in the following detailed
    description of the disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings, in which:
             Fig. 1 is a simplified system diagram illustrating a wireless blasting system for
    remotely firing an array of detonators connected to a blasting machine at a blast site,
 10 including a remotely located wireless master controller and a wireless slave bridge unit
    connected to the blasting machine in accordance with one or more aspects of the present
    disclosure;
             Figs. 2 and 3 are schematic diagrams illustrating first and second embodiments of the
    remote turn on and remote turn off features of the blasting machine and slave bridge unit;
15          Figs. 4A-4C provide a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary process for operating
    the slave bridge unit;
            Fig. 5 is a signal flow diagram illustrating operation of the master controller, slave
    bridge unit and blasting machine in the system of Fig. 1;
            Figs. 6A-6B provide a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary process for operating
20  the blasting machine;
            Fig. 7 is a simplified system diagram illustrating an alternate wireless blasting system
    with a wireless slave blasting machine in accordance with further aspects of the present
    disclosure; and
            Fig. 8 is a flow diagram illustrating a data designation process to prevent remote out
25  of-sync conditions between the blasting machine and the remote master controller.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Referring now to the figures, several embodiments or implementations ofthe present
    disclosure are hereinafter described in conjunction with the drawings, wherein like reference
                                               -5-

     numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout, and wherein the various features are
     not necessarily drawn to scale.
              Fig. 1 shows a wireless blasting system with a blasting machine 2 is one a wireless
     enabled slave bridge unit 20 located at or near a blast site B that includes a detonator array A
  5  with a number of electronic detonators D connected by wires to a single pair of lead lines LL.
     As shown in Fig. 1, the lead lines LL are connected to a firing circuit 4 of the blasting
     machine 2, although various operational aspects of the disclosed methods and systems
     contemplate that the lead lines LL may be connected to the firing circuit 4 only at certain
     points in a blasting process. A key 3 may be associated with the blasting machine 2 for
 10  security purposes, for example, to ensure that the blasting machine 2 operates only once a
     proper key 3 is installed. In other embodiments, password protection may be provided in the
     blasting machine 2, requiring an operator to enter a proper password to enable blasting
     machine operation, and the key 3 may be omitted. The blasting machine 2 further includes a
     microprocessor and associated electronic memory 6 operatively connected to the firing
15   circuit 4 and to a communications interface 8. As is known, the blasting machine 2 may be
    housed in a suitable environmental enclosure capable of withstanding the rigors and
     environmental conditions of blasting sites, and the blasting machine 2 in certain
    implementations includes an internal battery 10 for operation without requiring connection of
    external power lines. Other embodiments are possible in which the blasting machine 2 does
20  not include an internal power source, and operates exclusively using power supplied from a
    connected slave bridge unit 20.
             The slave bridge unit 20 is really housed in a suitable enclosure and operated by a
    battery 30, and may have an associated key 23 for operating the unit 20. The slave bridge unit
    20 may alternatively or in combination be password-protected, requiring user entry of a
25  password to enable bridge unit operation, and the key 23 may be omitted. One or both of the
    blasting machine 2 and the slave bridge unit 20 may also include various user interface
    features (not shown) allowing an operator to perform various operations by pressing buttons,
    and may provide a display screen or other output means by which an operator can receive
    data or messages. The slave bridge unit 20 includes a communications interface 28 allowing
30  communication between the slave bridge unit 20 and the blasting machine 21 connected by a
                                              -6-

   communications cable 12. In addition, the slave bridge unit 20 includes a microprocessor and
   associated electronic memory 26 that is operatively connected to the communications
   interface 28 as well as to a wireless transceiver 22 having an associated RF antenna 32.
   Moreover, the illustrated bridge unit 20 includes a power control circuit 24 operative to
 5 selectively enable or disable the firing circuit 4 of the blasting machine 2 by any suitable
   means, including without limitation provision of firing circuit power 14 and/or by providing
   a power gating control signal 14, 14a in order to control the provision of power to the firing
   circuit 4, examples of which are further illustrated in Figs. 2 and 3. Also, the slave bridge
   unit 20 includes an internal battery 30 allowing field operation.
10         The processors 6, 26 may be any suitable electronic processing device including
   without limitation a microprocessor, microcontroller, DSP, programmable logic, etc. and/or
   combinations thereof, which performs various operations by executing program code such as
   software, firmware, microcode, etc. The devices 2, 20 each include an electronic memory
   operatively associated with the corresponding processors 6, 26 to store program code and/or
15 data, including computer executable instructions and data to perform the various
   functionality associated with blasting machine operation as is known as well as
   communications tasks and the various function set forth herein. The memory of the devices
   2, 20 may be any suitable form of electronic memory, including without limitation RAM,
   EEPROM, flash, SD, a multimedia card, etc.
20         As further shown in Fig. 1, a master controller apparatus 40 includes a
   microprocessor and electronic memory 46 operatively coupled with a user interface 44 and a
   wireless transceiver 42 with an associated RF antenna 48. In operation, the master controller
   40 and the slave bridge unit 20 establish a radio-frequency (RF) or other wireless
   communications link 34 via the transceivers 42, 22 and the corresponding antennas 48, 32,
25 thus allowing the master controller 42 operate the slave bridge unit 20 and hence the blasting
   machine 2 at a significant distance away from the blast site 8, such as several miles in certain
   implementations. In this manner, the remote positioning of the master controller 40 facilitates
   operator safety during blasting operations, with the various concepts ofthe present disclosure
   further facilitating operator safety as detailed further below.
                                             -7-

            Fig. 2 illustrates one possible implementation of the blasting machine 2 and the slave
   bridge unit 20 facilitating control of the application of electrical power to the blasting
   machine firing circuit 4 by the slave bridge unit 20. In various situations, the disclosed
   blasting machine 2 and bridge apparatus 20 advantageously allow remote turn on and/or
 5 remote turn off of the firing circuit power, thereby enhancing personal safety for blasting
   sites. In this implementation, a relay 16 is provided in the blasting machine 20 for selectively
   connecting power from the blasting machine battery 10 to the firing circuit 4 according to a
   switching control signal 14 provided by the power control circuit 24 of the slave bridge unit
   20. The control signal 14 can be provided from the bridge unit 22 the blasting machine 2 by a
10 variety of means, including a dedicated control line in a communications cable 12, 14
   connecting the units 20 and 2. In another possible embodiment, the power control circuit 24
   is implemented in programming of the processor 26, with the processor 26 providing a
   command message via the communications interfaces 28, 8, with the blasting machine
   processor 6 controlling operation of the relay 16 accordingly, wherein the switching control
15 signaling 14 is provided via such messaging between the units 20, 2. Other possible
   implementations may be used by which the slave bridge unit 20 selectively controls the
   application of power to, or removal ofpower from, the firing circuit 4 to selectively enable or
   disable the firing circuit 4 of the blasting machine 2. In this manner, the power control circuit
   24 operates under control of the slave bridge unit processor 26 to selectively provide the
20 control signal 14 to either apply power to the blasting machine firing circuit 4 or to ensure
   that the firing circuit 4 is unpowered.
            Fig. 3 illustrates another non-limiting embodiment in which a dedicated power line is
   provided in cabling connecting the blasting machine 2 with the bridge unit 20, including a
   single wire or pair of wires 14, where a single cable may also include the communications
25 line or lines 12, or separate cabling can be provided. The slave bridge unit 20 in Fig. 3
   includes an on-board relay 18 operative to selectively apply power from the bridge unit
   battery 30 to the firing circuit 4 of the blasting machine 2 according to a switching control
   signal 14a from the power control circuit 24. As in the implementation of Fig. 2, the power
   control circuit 24 may be a separate circuit operated under control of the bridge unit
30 processor 26, or may be implemented via programming of the processor 26 to selectively
                                               -8-

     provide the switching control signal 14a to operate the relay 18 to thereby selectively apply
     power from the battery 30 to the firing circuit 4, or to ensure that the firing circuit 4 is
     unpowered according to the state of the switching control signal 14a.
             In the illustrated implementations, a single contact relay 16, 18 may be used, for
  5  example, to connect a positive DC power line to the firing circuit 4, or a relay 16, 18 maybe
     used having multiple contacts, for instance, to selectively connect or disconnect multiple
     power lines to or from the firing circuit 4. In one possible implementation, the bridge unit
     processor 26 performs remote turn on of the firing circuit power by asserting the control
     signal 14 after connection of the bridge unit 22 the blasting machine 2 only after a verified
 10  communications link 34 is established between the master control unit 40 and the slave
     bridge unit 20. In another possible implementation, the processor 26 of the bridge unit 20 is
     programmed to enable the firing circuit 4 via the power control circuit 24 and the signaling
     14, 14a only upon receipt of a command message from the master controller 40 instructing
     the bridge unit 20 to apply power to the firing circuit 4. This operation advantageously allows
15  blasting operators to leave the blasting site B before any powered circuit is connected to the
     detonators D. In addition, the provision of the power control circuitry 24 and selective
     enabling/disabling of the firing circuit 4 by the slave bridge unit 20 also facilitates remote
    turn off, whereby the slave bridge unit processor 26 is programmed in certain embodiments
    to remove power from the firing circuit 4 via the control signaling or messaging 14, 14a if the
20  wireless link 34 between the slave bridge unit 20 and the master controller 40 is lost or if the
    master controller 40 sends a message via the wireless link 34 to the bridge unit 20 with a
    command to turn off power to the firing circuit 4.
             Referring again to Fig. 1, the master controller 40 and the slave bridge unit 20
    implement two-way communications via the wireless link 34, by which the master controller
25  40 remotely controls the operation of the blasting machine 2 with all blasting machine
    functions and messages being displayed or echoed on the user interface 44 of the master
    controller 40. In this regard, the blasting machine 2 may have a local user interface (not
    shown), and may be operable in a local control mode according to a keypad and other means
    for receiving user inputs locally, with connection to the slave bridge unit 20 placing the
30  blasting machine 2 into a remote control mode for operation according to the master
                                              -9-

    controller 40 via the wireless link 34 and the connection to the slave bridge unit 20. In certain
    embodiments, echoing of the local blasting machine user interface prompts and displayed
    information via the bridge unit 20 to the master controller 40 enables the remote operator at
    the master controller 40 to safely see remotely whatever is on the blasting machine display
 5  from a distance. In addition, the system implemented by the interconnection and operation of
    the master controller 40, the bridge unit 20 and the blasting machine 2 performs various
    operations using multiple messages with acknowledgment and verification as detailed below
    in order to further facilitate safe and predictable operation of a remote wireless blasting
    system.
10           Referring now to Figs. 4A-6B, exemplary methods 100, 200 are illustrated for
    implementing a remote wireless blasting operation, including a method 100 in Figs. 4A-4C
    showing exemplary operation of the slave bridge unit 20, and a method 200 in Figs. 6A and
    6B for operating the blasting machine 2, along with a signal flow diagram 150 in Fig. 5
    showing various interconnections and messaging between the master controller 40, slave
15 bridge unit 20, blasting machine 2 and detonator array A. While the exemplary methods 100
    and 200 are illustrated and described hereinafter in the form of a series of acts or events, it
   will be appreciated that the various methods of the disclosure are not limited by the
   illustrated ordering of such acts or events. In this regard, except as specifically provided
   hereinafter, some acts or events may occur in different order and/or concurrently with other
20 acts or events apart from those illustrated and described herein in accordance with the
   disclosure. It is further noted that not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a
   process or method in accordance with the present disclosure, and one or more such acts may
   be combined. The illustrated methods 100, 200 and other methods of the disclosure maybe
   implemented in hardware, processor-executed software, or combinations thereof, such as in
25 the exemplary blasting machine 2 and slave bridge unit 20 described herein, and may be
   embodied in the form of computer executable instructions stored in a non-transitory
   computer readable medium such as the memories associated with the processors 6 and 26.
            In one possible remote wireless blasting procedure, electronic detonators D are
   programmed and logged using one or more loggers (not shown), with detonator delay times
30 being programmed during the logging process, or such delay times may have been previously
                                             - 10 -

     programmed. Thereafter, the detonators D are connected to each of their individual branch
     wires, and a logger may be used to verify that each detonator D in a specific branch is
     properly electrically connected. Detonator data may then be transferred from the logger to the
     blasting machine 2, such as by electrical connection of the longer (not shown) to the
  5  communications interface 8 for transfer of the detonator data. Branch wires may then be
     connected to the lead line wiring LL, where the lead line wiring LL may extend some
     difference from the detonator array A to the position of the blasting machine 2.
             The process 100 begins at 102 in Fig. 4A begins in one example with connection of
    the lead lines LL from the detonator array A to the blasting machine 2 while the blasting
 10 machine 2 and the firing circuit 4 thereof remain unpowered. On-site blasting personnel may
    then insert and turn the power keys 3 and 23 of the blasting machine 2 and the slave bridge
    unit 20, but the firing circuit 4 of the blasting machine 2 initially remains off. The slave
    bridge unit 20 is connected to the blasting machine 2 at 104, with the bridge unit 20
    maintaining the unpowered condition of the blasting machine firing circuit 4. At 106 in Fig.
15  4A, the slave bridge unit 20 is powered up while still maintaining the blasting machine firing
    circuit 4 in the unpowered state. The blasting site B may then be cleared of personnel and/or
    extra equipment.
             At 108, the bridge unit 20 and the master controller 40 establish a wireless
    communications link 34 with the blasting machine firing circuit 4 still unpowered under
20  control of the power control circuit 24 implemented in the slave bridge unit 20. At 110 in
    Fig. 4A, the slave bridge unit enables the blasting machine firing circuit power after linking
    with the master controller 40. This is schematically illustrated in the signal flow diagram 150
    of Fig. 5, in which the slave bridge unit 20 provides suitable signaling and/or messaging 14,
    14A to the blasting machine 2 under control of the slave bridge unit processor 26 to initiate
25  application of electrical power to the firing circuit 4, for example, using the relay circuit
    control techniques shown in Figs. 2 or 3 above. In one possible embodiment, the bridge unit
    20 sends a command message "BMO" or "BM 1" to the blasting machine 2, which may be
    acknowledged by the blasting machine 2 in certain implementations. The slave bridge unit
    processor 26 determines at 112 in Fig. 4A whether the wireless link 34 has been lost, or
30  alternatively whether a message has been received from the master controller 40 including a
                                             - 11 -

      command or instruction to turn off the blasting machine 2. If so (YES at 112), the method
      100 continues to 114 where the slave bridge unit 20 disables the blasting machine firing
      circuit power via the power control circuit 24 and any associated signaling or messaging 14,
      14a, and one or more remedial measures may be undertaken at 116. For instance, if the
  5   wireless link 34 was lost, blasting personnel may safely visit the blasting site B, ifnecessary,
     to service the slave bridge unit 20 or take other actions to reestablish the communications
     link 34. Alternatively, if the remote turn off feature was initiated by receipt of a message
     from the master controller 40, the blasting personnel can attend to other situations at the blast
     site B with the assurance that the firing circuit 4 of the blasting machine 2 has been disabled.
 10  Once the remedial measures have been undertaken at 116, blasting personnel can determine
     that it is now safe to again turn on the blasting machine at 118, with the process 100
     returning to 110 for the slave bridge unit 20 to enable the blasting machine firing circuit
     power after again establishing the communications link with the master controller 40, and
     optionally after receiving a specific command from the master controller 40 to again power
 15  up the blasting machine firing circuit 4.
              Once it is determined at 112 that the wireless link 34 is operational and no turn off
    messaging has been received from the master controller 40 (NO at 112 in Fig. 4A), the
    process 100 proceeds to 120 in Fig. 4B with the slave bridge unit 20 wirelessly receiving a
    verify command message from the master controller 40 (shown as a wireless verify command
20  message 152 in Fig. 5) and sending a verify command message to the blasting machine 2
    (message 154 in Fig. 5). In one possible embodiment, the blasting machine 2 receives the
    verify command 154 and performs one or more verification operations, while the operator at
    the master controller 40 may monitor the user interface 44 to verify proper interconnection of
    the various detonators D. In the illustrated implementation, moreover, the slave bridge unit
25  20 and the blasting machine 2 further ensure proper receipt of a verify command with the
    blasting machine 2 using two or more verify commands from the bridge unit 20 an
    acknowledgment by the blasting machine 2 as shown. In this case, the bridge unit 20 waits
    for an acknowledgment message from the blasting machine 2 at 122 in Fig. 4B. If no
    acknowledgment is received (NO at 122), the slave bridge unit 20 notifies the master
30  controller 40 at 124, and the process 100 returns to await another verify command from the
                                              - 12 -

   master controller 40 at 120. If the blasting machine 2 provides an acknowledgment (message
    156 in Fig. 5) within a predetermined time (YES at 122 in Fig. 4B), the slave bridge unit 20
   sends a second verify command (message 158 in Fig. 5) to the blasting machine 2 at 126 in
   Fig. 4B. The verify process, in this regard, may be individualized for specific detonators D,
 5 and the multiple command messaging with acknowledgment shown at 120-126 in Fig. 4B
   may be implemented at the beginning of a verification process, with further single messaging
   being used to verify individual detonators D. The slave bridge unit 20, moreover, may
   receive one or more notification messages at 128 in Fig. 4B from the blasting machine 2
   indicating any missing detonators or other verify process status indicators, which can then be
10 relayed via the wireless link 34 to the remote master controller 40 for display to an operator
   via the user interface 44.
           At 130 in Fig. 4B, the slave bridge unit 20 wirelessly receives a charge or "ARM"
   command message (message 162 in Fig. 5) from the master controller 40, and sends an arm
   command to the blasting machine 2 (message 164 in Fig. 5). In certain embodiments, the
15 blasting machine 2 responds to the first arm command and charges firing capacitors of
   connected detonators D, and may perform calibration processing as well, and reports any
   arming or calibration errors to the slave bridge unit 20, which are then forwarded to the
   master controller 40 for display to an operator via the user interface 44. In the illustrated
   implementation, the bridge unit 20 waits for an acknowledgment at 132 in Fig. 4B of the arm
20 command from the blasting machine 2, and if no such acknowledgment is received within a
   predetermined time (NO at 132), notifies the master controller 40 and returns to 132 await
   receipt of another charge or arm command from the master controller 40. Otherwise (YES at
   132), once the acknowledgment from the blasting machine 2 has been received within the
   predetermined time (acknowledgment message 166 in Fig. 5), the slave bridge unit 20 sends
25 a second arm command (message 168 in Fig. 5) to the blasting machine 2 at 136 in Fig. 4B,
   and receives one or more notification messages at 138 from the blasting machine 2 indicating
   any arming our calibration errors, which are then forwarded via the wireless link 34 to the
   master controller 40.
           Continuing in Fig. 4C, the slave bridge unit 20 wirelessly receives a fire command at
30 140 from the master controller 40 (message 172 in Fig. 5), and sends a fire command to the
                                            - 13 -

   blasting machine 2 (command message 174 in Fig. 5). At 142, the bridge unit 20 waits for an
   acknowledgment of the fire command from the blasting machine 2, and if no
   acknowledgment is received within a predetermined time (NO at 142) the bridge unit 20
   notifies the master controller 40 at 144, and the process returns for remedial measures at 116
 5 in Fig. 4A. If the slave bridge unit 20 receives a proper acknowledgment of the fire command
   (YES at 142 in Fig. 4C, acknowledgment message 176 in Fig. 5), the slave bridge unit 20
   sends a second fire command (message 178 in Fig. 5) at 146 to complete the blasting process
    100. As seen in Fig. 5, moreover, this causes the blasting machine 2 in certain embodiments
   to fire the detonator array A at 179. In other embodiments, the slave bridge unit 20 need not
10 implement a timeout function, and may instead continue to await receipt of a second or
   subsequent fire command at 142 in Fig. 4C. In certain embodiments, moreover, the blasting
   machine 2 may be configured to implement a predetermined timeout for receipt of the second
   command message 178, and if not received from the slave bridge unit 20 in the
   predetermined period of time, may issue a message to the slave bridge unit 20 indicating that
15 the fire process, if intended, needs to be restarted. In addition, although illustrated and
   described above in the context of a dual message process with intervening acknowledgment,
   more than 2 fire command messages may be required, with intervening acknowledgments
   from the blasting machine 2, in order to fire the detonators D at 179 in Fig. 5.
            In this manner, if the initial fire command message 174 was not properly received by
20 the blasting machine 2, or if the communications interface 12 between the blasting machine 2
   in the slave bridge unit 20 is inoperative or intermittent, the bridge unit 20 will not send a
   second or subsequent fire command to the blasting machine 2. Moreover, as discussed
   further below in connection with Figs. 6A and 6B, the blasting machine 2 is adapted to await
   a second or subsequent fire command before actually firing the detonators D via the firing
25 circuit 4. Consequently, the wireless blasting system of the present disclosure advantageously
   employs multiple fire command messaging between the blasting machine 2 and the slave
   bridge unit 20 in order to ensure that the blasting machine 2 only acts upon intended firing
   commands. In this regard, should the blasting machine 2 inadvertently receive a different
   command or spurious noise via of the communications interface 8 which is interpreted as
30 being a single fire command, without the slave bridge unit 20 actually intending to cause the
                                                - 14 -

    detonators D to be fired, no unintended firing will be initiated by the blasting machine 2.
    Consequently, this aspect of the present disclosure facilitates safe controlled detonation of
   the detonator array A and presents a significant robust system architecture providing an
    advance over conventional wireless blasting systems which could be susceptible to
 5 misinterpretation of single firing command messages or signals.
            Referring also to Figs. 6A and 6B, the process 200 illustrates exemplary operation of
   the blasting machine 2 in conjunction with the above-described bridge unit operation in Figs.
   4A-4C and 5. At 202 in Fig. 6A, the blasting machine firing circuit power is enabled by the
   slave bridge unit (signaling 14, 14a in Fig. 5). At 204, the blasting machine 2 receives a
10 verify command message (message 154 in Fig. 5) and sends a verify command
   acknowledgment in certain embodiments to the slave bridge unit 2 (acknowledgment 156 in
   Fig. 5). As mentioned previously, certain embodiments of the blasting machine 2 and slave
   bridge unit 20 may provide for single messaging for verify operation, with or without
   acknowledgment. In the illustrated example, the blasting machine 2 waits at 206 in Fig. 6A
15 for a second verify command to be received from the slave bridge unit 20, and if no second
   or subsequent verify command is received (NO at 206), the blasting machine 2 notifies the
   slave bridge unit 20 at 208, and returns to 204 as described above. If the second verify
   command (message 158 in Fig. 5)is received within a predetermined time (YES at 206), the
   blasting machine 2 performs one or more verification operations at 210 and may notify the
20 slave bridge unit 20 of any missing (unverified) detonators D. In certain embodiments,
   moreover, the blasting machine 2 performs a remote out of sync prevention process 400 as
   further described below in connection with Fig. 8 to selectively perform the verification
   operation or operations at 210 after verifying synchronization with the master controller 40.
            At 212 in Fig. 6A, the blasting machine 2 receives an arm command message
25 (message 164 in Fig. 5) from the slave bridge unit 20, and sends an arm command
   acknowledgment (message 166 in Fig. 5) to the slave bridge unit 20. In certain embodiments,
   the blasting machine 2 may be programmed to initiate detonator arming in response to the
   first arm command message 164, with or without sending any acknowledgment message 176.
   In the illustrated implementation, moreover, the blasting machine 2 waits at 214 in Fig. 6A
30 for receipt of a second arm command from the slave bridge unit 20 (arm command 168 in
                                            - 15 -

   Fig. 5), and may implement a timeout period in certain embodiments. If a second arm
   command is not received within the optional predetermined time period (NO at 214), the
   blasting machine 2 notifies the slave bridge unit at 216 and returns to await a first verify
   command message at 212 as described above. Otherwise (YES at 214), the machine 2
 5 charges the firing capacitors of the connected detonators D and performs calibration at 218,
   and may notify the slave bridge unit 20 of any arming or calibration errors. As discussed
   further below in connection with Fig. 8, certain embodiments of the blasting machine 2
   implement a remote out of sync operation before charging the firing capacitors and
   performing other operations at 218.
10         The process 200 then continues at 220 in Fig. 6B, where the blasting machine 2
   receives a fire command message (message 174 in Fig. 5) from the bridge unit 20, and
   performs a cyclical redundancy check (CRC) evaluation at 222 to determine whether the
   received fire command message 174 is correct. If there is a CRC error (YES at 222), the
   blasting machine 2 notifies the slave bridge unit 20 at 224 that an erroneous message has
15 been received, and returns to await retransmission of any valid fire command message at 220.
   If there was no CRC error in the first fire command message (NO at 222), the blasting
   machine sends a fire command acknowledgment (message 176 and Fig. 5)to the slave bridge
   unit 20, and waits for receipt of a second or subsequent fire command message from the
   bridge unit 20 at 226. If a second or subsequent fire command message (e.g., second fire
20 command message 178 in Fig. 5) is received at 228 from the slave bridge unit 20 (YES at
   228), a CRC error check is performed at 230 by the blasting machine 2. If no CRC error
   occurs in the second received fire command message (NO at 230), the blasting machine fires
   the detonators D at 232 to complete the blasting process. In certain embodiments, moreover,
   even if the second fire command message is properly received without CRC errors, the
25 blasting machine 2 verifies synchronization with the remote master controller 40 via a
   process 400 in Fig. 8 before firing the detonators at 232, as described further below.
           The firing of the detonators at 232 can be by any suitable operation of the blasting
   machine using the firing circuit 4. For example, where electronic detonators D are used, the
   blasting machine 2 may issue a fire command at 232 in Fig. 6B along the lead lines LL to
30 cause the detonators D to fire according to any programmed delay times in the detonators D
                                            -16-

     (also shown at 179 in Fig. 5). As previously discussed, moreover, although the operation in
     Fig. 6B illustrates usage of first and second fire commands 174 and 178 with an intervening
     acknowledgment message 176 by the blasting machine 2, other implementations are possible
     in which more than two fire command messages must be received before the blasting
  5  machine 2 will fire the detonators at 232. Further, while the blasting machine 2 implements a
     timeout period in the determination at 228 in Fig. 6B, other implementations are possible in
     which no timeout period is used, and the blasting machine 2 will fire the detonators D in
     response to receipt of the second (or subsequent) fire command message 178. In cases where
     a CRC error occurs at 222 or 230, moreover, the blasting machine 2 will notify the slave
 10  bridge unit 20 at 224, and will itself treat the received fire command message(s) as invalid or
     as an automatic abort command, and thus the blasting machine 2 will not cause the
     detonators D to be fired.
             Fig. 7 illustrates another wireless blasting system with a wireless slave blasting
     machine 300 according to further aspects of the present disclosure. In this case, the blasting
15  machine 300 is equipped with a wireless transceiver 22 and associated wireless antenna 32
     for wireless (e.g., RF) communications 34 with the master controller 40. In addition, the
    wireless slave blasting machine 300 in this example includes a firing circuit 4 for connection
    to the lead lines LL of the detonator array A, and may be selectively operable by way of akey
     3, and/or the unit 300 may be password-protected in certain implementations. The wireless
20  slave blasting machine 300 in general implements the functions and features of the slave
    bridge unit 20 and the blasting machine 2 of Fig. 1, and includes a power control circuit 24
    operative to selectively enable or disable provision of power to a firing circuit 4 connected to
    one or more detonators D as shown, for example, using a power control circuit 24 and a relay
     16 as described above. In addition, the blasting machine 300 includes one or more batteries
25  30 to power various internal circuitry and the firing circuit 4 by way of a power control relay
     16 as described above.
             The processor 26 of the wireless slave blasting machine 300 in certain embodiments
    is programmed to receive a first wireless fire command message (e.g., like command 172
    above) from the master controller 40 via the wireless transceiver 22 using the wireless
30  connection 34, as well as to receive a second wireless fire command message from the master
                                               -  17 -

      controller 40, and to selectively fire one or more connected detonators D via the firing circuit
      4 only after receiving both the first and second fire command message from the master
      controller 40 via the wireless transceiver 22. In certain embodiments, the wireless blasting
      machine 300 will only fire the detonators D if the first and second fire command messages
  5   are received from the master controller 40 within a predetermined time period. In certain
      embodiments, moreover, the wireless blasting machine 300 will send a fire command
      acknowledgment message to the master controller 40 via the wireless transceiver 22 in
     response to receiving the first fire command message 172. Moreover, the wireless slave
     blasting machine 300 in certain embodiments implements remote turn on/off, with the
 10  processor 26 being programmed to selectively enable or disable the firing circuit 4 (e.g., via
     the power control circuit 24 providing a relay control signal 14 to the relay 16 in Fig. 7) in
     response to wirelessly receiving a remote turn on or remote turn off command from the
     master controller 40.
               In certain related aspects, the master controller 40, and the processor 46 thereof, may
 15  be programmed to receive an input from an operator (e.g., via the user interface 44) for
     initiation of a firing operation, and to automatically wirelessly transmit first and second firing
     command messages via the wireless link 34 to the wireless slave blasting machine 300 of
     Fig. 7. In one implementation, the master controller 40 sends the second firing command
     message within a predetermined time following transmission of the first firing command
20  message. In certain implementations, moreover, the master controller 40 will selectively
    transmit the second firing command message only in response to receipt of a firing command
     acknowledgment message received through the wireless link 34 from the wireless slave
    blasting machine 300.
              In accordance with further aspects of the disclosure, the slave bridge unit 20 and
25  blasting machine 2 (e.g., Fig. 1) and/or the wireless slave blasting machine (Fig. 7)
    implement remote turn on/turnoff operation according to commands from the master
    controller 40, independent of specific fire command operation of these devices. In this
    manner, the operator at the master controller 40 may selectively disable the firing circuit 4
    through transmission of a disable message from the master controller 40 to either a wireless
30  slave blasting machine 300 as set forth in Fig. 7 or to a wireless slave bridge unit 20 as seen
                                                - 18 -

      in Fig. 1. Also, the operator may use the master controller 40 to wirelessly send an enable
      command or message via the wireless link 34 to either the wireless slave blasting machine
      300 or to a slave bridge unit 20 in order to remotely enable (e.g., power) the corresponding
      firing circuit 4.
  5           In accordance with further aspects of the present disclosure, the multiple fire
      command message concepts (and/or multiple verify and multiple arm message concepts),
     alone or in further combination with the associated predetermined times and/or
     acknowledgment message concepts, may be implemented in association with multiple slave
     bridge units 20 and/or multiple wireless enabled slave blasting machines 300 or
 10  combinations thereof. In this manner, a single master controller 40 can wirelessly control
     multiple bridge units 20 and/or multiple wireless blasting machines 300 with respect to
     detonator firing operations and other associated tasks such as verification and/or arming.
     Moreover, the remote turn on/turnoff features of the illustrated and described master
     controller 40, wireless slave blasting machine 300 and slave bridge units 20 can be
15   implemented in systems having a single master controller 40 operatively coupled via
     corresponding wireless links 34 to multiple slave blasting machines 300, or multiple slave
    bridge units 20, or combinations thereof, by which the master controller 40 may selectively
     enable or disable multiple firing circuits 4.
              Referring now to Fig. 8, certain embodiments of the blasting machine 2, 300, any
20  included slave bridge unit 20, and the master controller 40 are configured to implement a
    data designation process 400 to prevent one or more operations if remote out-of-sync
    conditions are detected between the blasting machine 2, 300 and the remote master controller
    40. In particular, when the blasting machine 2, 300 receives a second verify, arm or fire
    command (e.g., at 206 or 214 in Fig. 6A or at 228, 230 in Fig. 6B) or any other event occurs
25  at 402 in Fig. 8 for which the blasting machine 2, 300 updates its display, the blasting
    machine 2, 300 sends a wireless display data packet or other message to the master controller
    40 at 404, either directly as per the blasting machine 300 in Fig. 7, or indirectly through an
    associated slave bridge unit 20 as shown in Fig. 1 above. This first out of sync prevention
    message at 404 includes the updated display data for updating the remote master controller
30  40, as well as a data designator command, such as a command bite, and a data designation
                                             - 19  -

     number determined by the blasting machine 2, 300. In addition, the blasting machine 2, 300
     starts a timer at 404 to establish a predetermined time following transmission of the first
     message.
              Ifthe blasting machine 2, 300 and the master controller 40 are synchronized properly
  5  with a functioning direct or indirect wireless communications link established, the master
     controller 40 receives the first message and processes the display data to update its own
     display, and sends a wireless "Data Designator" response message back to the blasting
     machine 2, 300 directly or through any associated slave bridge unit 20. The response message
     includes the data designation number originally transmitted from the blasting machine 2, 300
 10  at 404 in Fig. 8. At 406, the blasting machine 2, 300 determines whether the data designator
     response message was received before expiration of the timer started at 404. If so (YES at
     406), the blasting machine 2, 300 determines at 408 whether the response message includes
     the correct data designation number provided with the display data packet at 404. If so (YES
     at 408), the blasting machine 2, 300 processes the received verify, arm or fire command (e.g.,
15   at 210 or 218 in Fig. 6A, or at 232 in Fig. 6B above). Thereafter, the process 400 returns to
     402 as described above. If the blasting machine 2, 300 does not receive any data designator
    response before the timer expires (NO at 406), the blasting machine at 416 refrains from
    processing the requested verify, arm or fire command, and may optionally shut down in a
     safe mode.
20           If, however, the blasting machine 2, 300 receives a data designator response before
    expiration of the timer (YES at 406) but the response does not include the correct data
    designation number (NO at 408), the blasting machine 2, 300 determines at 412 whether a
    predetermined maximum number ofretransmissions of the display data packet has occurred.
    If not (NO at 412), the blasting machine 2, 300 sends another display data packet with the
25  data designator command bite and a new data designation number at 414 to the master
    controller 40 (e.g., via a slave bridge unit 20 or directly), and returns to 406 to await a
    response from the master controller 40. If the blasting machine 2, 300 receives a response to
    the second message including the new data designator number (YES at 408), the requested
    verify, arm or fire command is processed at 410. In addition, this retransmission attempt
30  processing at 406, 408, 412 and 414 can repeat until the predetermined maximum number of
                                             - 20 -

retries has occurred (YES at 412) or until the timer expires without receipt of a data designator
response message including the most recent data designation number (NO at 416), in which case
the blasting machine 2, 300 refrain from processing the verify, arm or fire command at 416, and
may optionally shut down in the safe mode. In this manner, the master controller 20 and the
blasting machine 2, 300 are ensured to be synchronized before performance of critical operations
by the blasting machine 2, 300, and the display data presented to an operator at the remote master
controller 14 correctly reflects the display data at the blasting machine 2, 300.
         The above examples are merely illustrative of several possible embodiments of various
aspects of the present disclosure, wherein equivalent alterations and/or modifications will occur
to others skilled in the art upon reading and understanding this specification and the annexed
drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described
components (assemblies, devices, systems, circuits, and the like), the terms (including a reference
to a "means") used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise
indicated, to any component, such as hardware, processor-executed software and/or firmware, or
combinations thereof, which performs the specified function of the described component {i.e.,
that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure
which performs the function in the illustrated implementations of the disclosure. In addition,
although a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one
of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the
other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular
application. Also, to the extent that the terms "including", "includes", "having", "has", "with", or
variants thereof are used in the detailed description and/or in the claims, such terms are intended
to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term "comprising."
         In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar terms
are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or apparatus that
comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but may well include other
elements not listed.
         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.
         This application is a divisional application from Australian Application 2014357421. The
full disclosure of AU 2014357421 is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  -1)1 -

                                            CLAIMS
1.      A method for wireless detonator blasting, comprising:
        using a wireless enabled bridge unit operatively coupled with a blasting machine via a
communications cable, selectively enabling or disabling a firing circuit of the blasting
machine in response to wirelessly receiving a remote turn on or remote turn off command
from a master controller.
2.      A method for wireless detonator blasting, comprising:
        using a wireless enabled bridge unit coupled with a blasting machine via a
communications cable, wirelessly receiving a wireless fire command message from a master
controller;
        using the bridge unit, sending a first fire command message to the blasting machine
via the communications cable;
        using the bridge unit, sending a second fire command message to the blasting machine
via the communications cable within a predetermined time after sending the first fire
command message to the blasting machine; and
        using the blasting machine, selectively firing at least one connected detonator only
after if both the first and second fire command message are received from the bridge unit
within the predetermined time.
3.      A method for wireless detonator blasting, comprising:
        using a wireless blasting machine having a wireless transceiver operative to
communicate with a remote master controller and a firing circuit operative when enabled and
powered to fire at least one connected detonator, wirelessly receiving a wireless first fire
command message from a master controller;
        using the wireless blasting machine, wirelessly receiving a wireless second fire
command message from the master controller; and
        using the wireless blasting machine, selectively firing the at least one connected
detonator only after if both the first and second fire command message are received from the
master controller within a predetermined time.
                                               22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
