  ABSTRACT:
          A method for a refrigeration system includes applying, by a gas cooler of the
  refrigeration system, a first cooling stage to refrigerant circulating through the
  refrigeration system load.      The method further comprises applying, by a heat
5 exchanger located downstream from the gas cooler, a second cooling stage to the
  refrigerant, wherein the second cooling stage removes heat from the refrigerant, and
  applying, by the heat exchanger located downstream from the gas cooler, the heat
  removed during the second cooling stage to a floor heating system operable to heat
  the floor of an enclosed space.

             114
                    CD0
                 T0
       CD4
   No
   CD4
         fu4
CD                  00
                              fu
                 CD     Ln -4
                        n     (

              SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REUSING WASTE HEAT OF A
                      TRANSCRITICAL REFRIGERATION SYSTEM
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5         This disclosure relates generally to waste heat of a transcritical refrigeration
   system. More specifically, this disclosure relates to a system and method of reusing
   waste heat of a transcritical refrigeration system.
   BACKGROUND
10         During operation of a refrigeration system, components of a transcritical
   refrigeration system may discharge heat. The heat produced by the components is
   also referred to as "waste heat."      In typical transcritical refrigeration systems, this
   waste heat is released into the environment because it is too hot to be reused.
15 SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
           According to one embodiment, a refrigeration system is operable to circulate
   refrigerant through the refrigeration system in order to cool a refrigeration load and
   comprises a gas cooler and a heat exchanger located downstream the gas cooler. The
   gas cooler is operable to receive the refrigerant and apply a first cooling stage to the
20 refrigerant.  The heat exchanger is operable to receive the refrigerant cooled by the
   gas cooler and apply a second cooling stage to the refrigerant, wherein the second
   cooling stage removes heat from the refrigerant.           The heat exchanger is further
   operable to apply the heat removed during the second cooling stage to a floor heating
   system operable to heat the floor of an enclosed space and discharge the refrigerant to
25 an expansion valve operable to supply the refrigerant to the refrigeration load.
           According to another embodiment, a method for a refrigeration system
   includes applying, by a gas cooler of the refrigeration system, a first cooling stage to
   refrigerant circulating through the refrigeration system load.         The method further
   comprises applying, by a heat exchanger located downstream from the gas cooler, a
30 second cooling stage to the refrigerant, wherein the second cooling stage removes
   heat from the refrigerant, and applying, by the heat exchanger located downstream
   from the gas cooler, the heat removed during the second cooling stage to a floor
   heating system operable to heat the floor of an enclosed space.
                                                 1

           According to yet another embodiment, a heat exchanger is operable to receive
   refrigerant cooled by a gas cooler of a refrigeration system and apply a cooling stage
   to the received refrigerant, wherein the cooling stage removes heat from the
   refrigerant. The heat exchanger is further operable to apply the heat removed during
 5 the cooling stage to a floor heating system operable to heat the floor of an enclosed
   space and discharge the cooled refrigerant to an expansion valve operable to supply
   the refrigerant to a refrigeration load of the refrigeration system.
           Certain embodiments may provide one or more technical advantages.            For
   example, an embodiment of the present disclosure may result in more efficient
10 operation of refrigeration system. As another example, an embodiment of the present
   disclosure may provide supplemental cooling to refrigerant circulating through the
   refrigeration system.      As yet another example, an embodiment of the present
   invention may provide heating to one or more additional facility systems such as a
   floor heating system and/or a water heating system.            Certain embodiments may
15 include none, some, or all of the above technical advantages.          One or more other
   technical advantages may be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the figures,
   descriptions, and claims included herein.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20         For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure, reference is now
   made to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying
   drawings, in which:
           FIGURE 1 illustrates an example refrigeration system operable to apply waste
   heat to a floor heating system, according to certain embodiments of the present
25 disclosure.
           FIGURE 2 is a flow chart illustrating a method of operation for the example
   refrigeration system of FIGURE 1.
           FIGURE 3 illustrates an example refrigeration system operable to apply waste
   heat to a water heating system, according to certain embodiments of the present
30 disclosure.
           FIGURE 4 is a flow chart illustrating a method of operation for the example
   refrigeration system of FIGURE 3, according to certain embodiments of the present
   disclosure.
                                                 2

           FIGURE 5 illustrates an example of a controller of a refrigeration system,
   according to certain embodiments.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5         Embodiments of the present disclosure and its advantages are best understood
   by referring to FIGURES 1 through 5 of the drawings, like numerals being used for
   like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.
           Transcritical refrigeration systems differ from conventional refrigeration
   systems in that transcritical systems circulate refrigerant that becomes a supercritical
10 fluid above the critical point. As an example, the critical point for carbon dioxide
   (C0 2 ) is 31PC and 73.8 MPa, and above this point, C02 becomes a homogenous
   mixture of vapor and liquid that is called a supercritical fluid.            This unique
   characteristic of transcritical refrigerants is associated with certain operational
   differences between transcritical      and conventional refrigeration     systems.      For
15 example, transcritical refrigerants are typically associated with discharge temperatures
   that are higher than their critical temperatures and discharge pressures that are higher
   than their critical pressures. When a transcritical refrigerant is at or above its critical
   temperature and/or pressure, the refrigerant may become a "supercritical fluid" -         a
   homogenous mixture of gas and liquid.         Supercritical fluid does not undergo two
20 phase changes in a gas cooler as occurs in a condenser of a conventional refrigeration
   system circulating traditional refrigerant.     Rather, supercritical fluid undergoes a
   single phase change in the gas cooler.         Stated differently,  the gas cooler in a
   transcritical refrigeration system receives and cools supercritical fluid and the
   transcritical refrigerant undergoes a partial state change from a liquid to a gas as it is
25 discharged from an expansion valve.
           In addition to a gas cooler, typical transcritical systems may include a heat
   exchanger located upstream of the gas cooler.            Such heat exchanger may be
   configured to receive compressed refrigerant from one or more compressors and
   perform a cooling stage to the refrigerant before discharging the cooled refrigerant to
30 the gas cooler. During operation of a typical transcritical refrigeration system, one or
   more components (e.g., gas cooler, heat exchangers) of the system will give off waste
   heat. However, the waste heat in typical transcritical systems is generally too hot to
   be reused by another system.         For example, waste heat from a heat exchanger
   upstream of a gas cooler may be 110'C.           The present disclosure contemplates a
                                                3

   configuration of a refrigeration system that is operable to provide waste heat to other
   systems via a heat exchanger located downstream from the gas cooler.            As one
   example, the present disclosure recognizes utilizing waste heat of a transcritical
   refrigeration system to heat the floor in a cold room (e.g., freezer).      As another
 5 example, the present disclosure recognizes utilizing waste heat of a transcritical
   refrigeration system to pre-heat tap water. Utilizing waste heat in these and other
   manners may provide various efficiency benefits for the transcritical refrigeration
   system and the other systems that the heat is provided to.
            FIGURES 1 and 3 illustrate examples of refrigeration systems 100 operable to
10 apply waste heat to other systems within a facility.         Specifically, FIGURE 1
   illustrates an example of refrigeration system 100 operable to apply waste heat to a
   floor heating system 190 and FIGURE 3 illustrates an example of a refrigeration
   system 100 operable to apply waste heat to a water heating system 300.         In some
   embodiments, refrigeration system 100 is a transcritical refrigeration system that
15 circulates a transcritical refrigerant such as C02. Refrigeration system 100 may
   include one or more compressors 110, one or more heat exchangers 120-140, an
   expansion valve 150, a flash tank 160, one or more valves 165 corresponding to one
   or more evaporators 170, and a flash tank valve 180. Generally, refrigeration system
   100 is operable to provide cold liquid refrigerant to evaporators 170. The evaporators
20 170 discharge warm refrigerant vapor to compressors 110 which is then cooled by one
   or more heat exchangers 120-140 and discharged to expansion valve 150 prior to
   returning to evaporators 170.      In some embodiments, heat exchanger 140, located
   downstream from gas cooler 130, may provide heating to other systems in addition to
   providing supplemental cooling to refrigerant circulating through refrigeration system
25 100. As depicted in FIGURE 1, heat exchanger 140 is configured to provide heating
   to floor heating system 190.       As depicted in FIGURE 3, heat exchanger 140 is
   configured to provide heating to water heating system 300.
            In some embodiments, refrigeration system 100 includes one or more
   compressors 110.      Refrigeration system 100 may include any suitable number of
30 compressors 110.      For example, as depicted in FIGURES 1 and 3, refrigeration
   system 100 includes two compressors 1 Oa-b. Compressors 110 may vary by design
   and/or by capacity.     For example, some compressor designs may be more energy
   efficient than other compressor designs and some compressors 110 may have modular
   capacity (i.e., capability to vary capacity). In certain embodiments, compressor 11 Oa
                                                4

   may be a low-temperature ("LT") compressor that is configured to compress
   refrigerant discharged from a LT evaporator (e.g., evaporator 170a) and compressor
   110b may be a medium-temperature ("MT") compressor that is configured to
   compress refrigerant discharged from a MT evaporator (e.g., MT evaporator 170b)
 5 and provide supplemental compression to refrigerant discharged from compressor
   1 10a.     Accordingly, compressors    110 may be operable to receive refrigerant
   discharged from evaporators 170 and compress the received refrigerant.         In some
   embodiments, compressors 110 discharge compressed refrigerant directly to gas
   cooler 130. In other embodiments, refrigerant discharged from compressors 110 is
10 directed to another component of refrigeration system 100. For example, as depicted
   in FIGURES 1 and 3, compressor 110b discharges compressed refrigerant to a first
   heat exchanger 120, which in turn discharges refrigerant to gas cooler 130.
            Refrigeration system 100 may comprise a heat exchanger located upstream
   from gas cooler 130 in some embodiments. For example, as depicted in FIGURES 1
15 and 3, refrigeration system 100 includes first heat exchanger 120 that is upstream of
   gas cooler 130. In some embodiments, first heat exchanger 120 receives compressed
   refrigerant discharged from compressors 110 and provides a first cooling stage to the
   received refrigerant. As an example, first heat exchanger 120 may receive refrigerant
   having a temperature of 107 0 C from compressors 110 and cool the refrigerant to a
20 temperature of 95'C before discharging the refrigerant to gas cooler 130. In some
   embodiments, operation of first heat exchanger 120 results in waste heat.           As
   described above, waste heat from first heat exchanger 120 may be too hot to be used
   by other systems. For example, waste heat from first heat exchanger 120 may be
   90'C and therefore may be referred to as "high-grade heat." In some embodiments,
25 after applying a first cooling stage to the refrigerant, first heat exchanger 120
   discharges the cooled refrigerant to gas cooler 130 for additional cooling.
            As described above, refrigeration system 100 may include a gas cooler 130 in
   some embodiments. Gas cooler 130 may be operable to receive refrigerant (e.g., from
   heat exchanger 120 and/or compressors 110) and apply a cooling stage to the received
30 refrigerant. In some embodiments, gas cooler 130 may cool refrigerant between 50
   80'C.     In some embodiments, gas cooler 130 is a heat exchanger comprising cooler
   tubes configured to circulate the received refrigerant and coils through which ambient
   air is forced. Inside gas cooler 130, the coils may absorb heat from the refrigerant,
   thereby providing cooling to the refrigerant.       In some embodiments, gas cooler
                                               5

   receives refrigerant having a temperature of 90'C from first heat exchanger 120 and
   discharges the refrigerant at a temperature of 38'C to second heat exchanger 140.
           Refrigeration system 100 also includes a second heat exchanger 140 in some
   embodiments. As described above, second heat exchanger 140 may be configured to
 5 receive cooled refrigerant from gas cooler 130 and apply a cooling stage to the
   refrigerant.  As an example, second heat exchanger 140 may cool the refrigerant
   between 3 - 70 C.    In some embodiments, operation of second heat exchanger 140
   results in waste heat.    Waste heat from second heat exchanger 140 may have a
   temperature that is just above the ambient temperature (e.g., 5 0 R/20 K above the
10 outdoor air temperature), and therefore may be referred to herein as "low-grade heat."
   This low-grade heat from second heat exchanger 140 may be reclaimed and used to
   heat one or more other systems.       As described above, waste heat of second heat
   exchanger 140 may be reclaimed and provided to ground heating system 190 of
   FIGURE 1 and/or water heating system 300 of FIGURE 3. As a result, second heat
15 exchanger 140 may provide supplemental cooling to refrigerant circulating through
   refrigeration system and provide heating to systems capable of utilizing low-grade
   heat. Operation of the cooperating systems will be described in more detail below. In
   some embodiments, second heat exchanger            140 discharges the refrigerant to
   expansion valve 150 after applying a cooling stage.
20         In some embodiments, refrigeration system 100 includes an expansion valve
   150.    Expansion valve 150 may be configured to receive liquid refrigerant from
   second heat exchanger 140 and to reduce the pressure of received refrigerant.      For
   example, second heat exchanger 140 may discharge liquid refrigerant having a
   pressure of 100 bar to expansion valve 150, and the refrigerant may be discharged
25 from expansion valve 150 having a pressure of 38 bar. In some embodiments, this
   reduction in pressure causes some of the refrigerant to vaporize. As a result, mixed
   state refrigerant (e.g., refrigerant vapor and liquid refrigerant) is discharged from
   expansion valve     150.     In some embodiments, this mixed-state refrigerant       is
   discharged to flash tank 160.
30         Refrigeration system 100 may include a flash tank 150 in some embodiments.
   Flash tank 150 may be configured to receive mixed-state refrigerant and separate the
   received refrigerant into flash gas and liquid refrigerant.   Typically, the flash gas
   collects near the top of flash tank 160 and the liquid refrigerant is collected in the
   bottom of flash tank 160. In some embodiments, the liquid refrigerant flows from
                                               6

   flash tank 160 and provides cooling to one or more evaporators (cases) 170 and the
   flash gas flows to one or more compressors (e.g., compressor 1 Ob) for compression
   before being discharged to gas cooler 130 for cooling.
           Refrigeration system 100 may include one or more evaporators 170 in some
 5 embodiments. As depicted in FIGURES 1 and 3, refrigeration system 100 includes
   two evaporators 170. In some embodiments, evaporators 170 are refrigerated cases
   and/or coolers for storing food and/or beverages that must be kept at particular
   temperatures.    As depicted in FIGURES 1 and 3,         first evaporator 170a is a low
   temperature case ("LT" case 170a) and second evaporator 170b is a medium
10 temperature case ("MT case" 170b).         LT case 170a may be configured to receive
   liquid refrigerant of a first temperature and MT case 160b may be configured to
   receive liquid refrigerant of a second temperature, wherein the first temperature (e.g.,
   -30'C) is lower in temperature than the second temperature (e.g., -6'C).          As an
   example, LT case 170a may be a display case in a grocery store and MT case 170b
15 may be a cooler in a grocery store.        In some embodiments, the liquid refrigerant
   leaving flash tank 160 is the same temperature and pressure (e.g., 4'C and 38 bar).
   Before reaching cases 170, the liquid refrigerant may be directed through one or more
   evaporator valves 165 (e.g.,      165a and 165b of FIGURES 1 and 3).            In some
   embodiments, each valve 165 may be controlled (e.g., by controller 500 of FIGURE
20 5) to adjust the temperature and pressure of the liquid refrigerant. For example, valve
   165a may be configured to discharge the liquid refrigerant at -30'C and 14 bar to LT
   case 170a and valve 165b may be configured to discharge the liquid refrigerant at
   -6'C and 30 bar to MT case 170b. In some embodiments, each evaporator 170 is
   associated with a particular valve 165 and the valve 165 controls the temperature and
25 pressure of the liquid refrigerant that reaches the evaporator 170.
           System 100 may also include a flash gas valve 180 in some embodiments.
   Flash gas valve 180 may be configured to open and close to permit or restrict the flow
   through of flash gas discharged from flash tank 160.             In some embodiments,
   controller 500 of FIGURE 5 controls the opening and closing of flash gas valve 180.
30 As depicted in FIGURES 1 and 2, closing flash gas valve 180 may restrict flash gas
   from flowing to second compressor 110b and opening flash gas valve 180 may permit
   flow of flash gas to second compressor 1 10b.
           Although this disclosure describes and depicts refrigeration system 100
   including certain components, this disclosure recognizes that refrigeration system 100
                                                7

   may include any suitable components. As an example, refrigeration system 100 may
   include one or more sensors configured to detect temperature and/or pressure
   information. In some embodiments, each of compressors 110, heat exchangers 120,
   140, gas cooler 130, flash tank 160, and evaporators 170 include one or more sensors.
 5 As another example, refrigeration system 100 may include a controller operable to
   communicate with one or more components of refrigeration system 100. An example
   of a controller of refrigeration system 100 will be explained in further detail below in
   reference to FIGURE 5. As yet another example, refrigeration system 100 may
   include an oil separator operable to separate compressor oil from the refrigerant. One
10 of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that refrigeration system 100 may include
   other components not mentioned herein.
            As described above, FIGURE 1 illustrates refrigeration system 100 operating
   in cooperation with floor heating system 190.        Floor heating system 190 may be
   operable to circulate a second refrigerant and may comprise a pump 192 and one or
15 more coils 195. As depicted in FIGURE 1, floor heating system, 190 comprises three
   coils 195a-c. Coils 195 may be under-ground floor coils operable to heat the floor of
   an enclosed space. As an example and not by way of limitation, coils 195 may heat
   the floor of a cold room (e.g., walk-in freezer). Heating the floor of a cold room may
   be desirable for one or more reasons. For example, it may be desirable to heat the
20 floor of a cold room to protect the floor from freezing.        Traditional solutions for
   heating the floor of a cold room include reclaiming heat from a refrigeration rack
   (e.g., compressors 110). However, as described above, this solution does not translate
   in a transcritical refrigeration system because the waste heat from the refrigeration
   rack is too hot (e.g., 95'C) and using such waste heat directly would cause more
25 problems than it would resolve.
            In operation, pump 192 causes the second refrigerant to circulate throughout
   coils 195 and through second heat exchanger 140 thereafter. In some embodiments,
   the second refrigerant is a substance that can absorb heat as it passes through second
   heat exchanger 140. As an example, the second refrigerant may be a glycol solution
30 (e.g., 30% glycol, 70% water). Heat exchanger 140 may heat the second refrigerant
   with low-grade waste heat as the second refrigerant passes through heat exchanger
   140.    In some embodiments, the second refrigerant is heated between 1 - 3C by
   absorbing low-grade waste heat.        For example, pump 120 may receive second
   refrigerant at a temperature of 130 C and force the second refrigerant through coils
                                                8

   195. As stated above, the warmed refrigerant provides heating to coils 195 which is
   transferred to the cold room floor. Stated differently, the second refrigerant cools
   down as the cold room floor heats up. As a result, second refrigerant exits coils 195
   at a decreased temperature (e.g., 100 C) and is directed to second heat exchanger 140
 5 for a warming stage. In this manner, floor heating system 190 may reclaim low-grade
   waste heat of second heat exchanger 140 and reduce and/or remove operation of any
   heating element that would otherwise heat the cold room floor. Additionally, second
   heat exchanger 140 supplements cooling of the refrigerant circulating through
   refrigeration system 100 thereby reducing the power otherwise consumed by gas
10 cooler 130.
            FIGURE 2 illustrates a method of operation for the refrigeration system
   configuration of FIGURE 1.           In some embodiments, the method 200 may be
   implemented by a controller of refrigeration system 100 (e.g., controller 500 of
   FIGURE 5). Method 200 may be stored on a computer readable medium, such as a
15 memory of controller 500 (e.g., memory 520 of FIGURE 5), as a series of operating
   instructions that direct the operation of a processor (e.g., processor 530 of FIGURE
   5). Method 200 may be associated with efficiency benefits such as reduced power
   consumption relative to refrigeration systems that do not operate heat exchanger
   downstream from the gas cooler. In some embodiments, the method 200 begins in
20 step 205 and continues to step 210.
            At step 210, the refrigeration system applies a first cooling stage to refrigerant
   circulating through the refrigeration system. In some embodiments, the component
   that applies the first cooling stage is a gas cooler (e.g., gas cooler 130 of FIGURE 1)
   of the refrigeration system. The refrigerant may be cooled between 10 - 30'K during
25 the first cooling stage. As an example, gas cooler 130 may receive refrigerant having
   a temperature of 95'C, apply the first cooling stage to the received refrigerant, and
   discharge the refrigerant at a temperature of 40'C. In some embodiments, gas cooler
   130 receives the refrigerant from first heat exchanger 120. In some embodiments, gas
   cooler 130 discharges the refrigerant to second heat exchanger 140. After applying
30 the first cooling stage to the refrigerant, the method 200 may continue to a step 220.
            At step 220, the refrigeration system applies a second cooling stage to
   refrigerant circulating through the refrigeration system. In some embodiments, the
   component that applies the second cooling stage is a heat exchanger (e.g., second heat
   exchanger 140 of FIGURE 1) of the refrigeration system. In some embodiments, the
                                                  9

   heat exchanger that applies the second cooling stage is located downstream from the
   gas cooler (e.g., gas cooler 130) of the refrigeration system. In some embodiments,
   applying the second cooling stage comprises removing heat from the refrigerant.
   Stated differently, the second cooling stage may cause a reduction in the temperature
 5 of the refrigerant. In some embodiments, the refrigerant may be cooled between 2
   5'C during the second cooling stage. As an example, second heat exchanger 140 may
   receive refrigerant having a temperature of 38'C, apply the second cooling stage to
   the received refrigerant, and discharge the refrigerant at a temperature of 35 0 C.   In
   some embodiments, second heat exchanger 140 receives the refrigerant from gas
10 cooler 130.     In some embodiments, second heat exchanger 140 discharges the
   refrigerant to expansion valve 150 to supply the refrigerant to a refrigeration load.
   After applying the second cooling stage to the refrigerant, the method 200 may
   continue to a step 230.
           At step 230, the refrigeration system applies the heat removed during step 220
15 to a floor heating system (e.g., floor heating system 190 of FIGURE 1).        In some
   embodiments, the component of refrigeration system that applies the heat to the floor
   heating system is a heat exchanger (e.g., second heat exchanger 140 of FIGURE 1).
   In some embodiments, the heat exchanger that applies the heat removed during step
   220 is located downstream from a gas cooler (e.g., gas cooler 130) of the refrigeration
20 system. In some embodiments, the refrigeration system applies the heat to a second
   refrigerant circulating through the floor heating system which is operable to heat the
   floor of an enclosed space. As an example, second heat exchanger 140 applies the
   heat removed from the refrigerant during step 220 to a second refrigerant which in
   turn heats the floor of an enclosed space (e.g., the floor of a cold room).    In some
25 embodiments, the second refrigerant is heated at least 2 0 C during step 230. In some
   embodiments, after applying the heat to the floor heating system, the method 200
   continues to an end step 235.
           The method 200 may include one or more additional steps in some
   embodiments.      For example, in some embodiments, the refrigeration system may
30 include another heat exchanger (e.g., first heat exchanger 120) which is also
   configured to apply a cooling stage to the refrigerant circulating through the
   refrigeration system. As such, method 200 may include a step wherein a third cooling
   stage is applied by an additional heat exchanger, wherein the additional heat
   exchanger is located upstream from the gas cooler 130.         Although this disclosure
                                               10

   describes and depicts certain steps of method 200, this disclosure recognizes that
   method 200 may comprise any suitable step.
           In addition to utilizing waste heat of a transcritical refrigeration system to heat
   the floor of an enclosed space, the present disclosure also contemplates other
 5 applications in which the waste heat can be utilized. As described above, this
   disclosure recognizes using waste heat of a transcritical refrigeration system to heat
   water or any other suitable substance. In many cases, facilities that have refrigeration
   systems also include water heating systems for heating tap water. As an example, a
   grocery store having refrigeration needs may also have a water heating system to
10 supply hot water to a hot water tank. Such a facility is illustrated in FIGURE 3. The
   refrigeration system depicted in FIGURE 1 has been reproduced in FIGURE 3 for
   simplicity. As described above in reference to FIGURE 1, refrigeration system 100 of
   FIGURE 3 may include one or more additional components that are not described or
   depicted in FIGURE 3.
15         Refrigeration system 100 of FIGURE 3 is operating in cooperation with water
   heating system 300. Water heating system 300 may include one or more components.
   As depicted in FIGURE 3, water heating system 300 includes a water reservoir 305
   and a hot water tank 310. In operation, water from reservoir 305 may be directed
   through second heat exchanger 140 for a first heating stage and may be directed
20 through first heat exchanger 120 for a second heating stage. As explained above,
   second heat exchanger 140 may provide low-grade heat and first heat exchanger 120
   may provide high-grade heat. As such, water passing through second heat exchanger
   140 may be heated by low-grade heat and water passing through first heat exchanger
   120 is heated by high-grade heat.
25         In some embodiments, water is warmed between 7 - 130 K during the first
   heating stage and between 20 - 30'C during the second heating stage. As an example,
   second heat exchanger 140 may receive tap water having a temperature of 25'C from
   water reservoir 305 and provide a first heating stage (using low-grade waste heat) to
   the received tap water before discharging the heated tap water to first heat exchanger
30 120. In such example, the temperature of the tap water discharged from second heat
   exchanger 120 may be 35'C. First heat exchanger 120 may receive the heated tap
   water from second heat exchanger 140 and apply a second heating stage (using high
   grade waste heat) to the received tap water before discharging the heated tap water to
   hot water tank 310.     The temperature of the tap water discharged from first heat
                                               11

   exchanger 120 and stored in hot water tank 310 may be 60'C. In this manner, water
   heating system 300 may reclaim low and/or high-grade waste heat of heat exchangers
   120 and 140 and reduce and/or remove operation of any heating element that would
   otherwise heat the tap water. Additionally, second heat exchanger 140 supplements
 5 cooling of the refrigerant circulating through refrigeration system 100 thereby
   reducing the power of compressor 1 10b.
            FIGURE 4 illustrates a method of operation for the refrigeration system
   configuration of FIGURE 3.           In some embodiments, the method 400 may be
   implemented by a controller of refrigeration system 100 (e.g., controller 500 of
10 FIGURE 5). Method 400 may be stored on a computer readable medium, such as a
   memory of controller 500 (e.g., memory 520 of FIGURE 5), as a series of operating
   instructions that direct the operation of a processor (e.g., processor 530 of FIGURE
   5). Method 400 may be associated with efficiency benefits such as reduced power
   consumption relative to refrigeration systems that do not operate a heat exchanger
15 downstream from the gas cooler. In some embodiments, the method 400 begins in
   step 405 and continues to step 410.
            At step 410, the refrigeration system applies a first cooling stage to refrigerant
   circulating through the refrigeration system. In some embodiments, the component
   that applies the first cooling stage is a gas cooler (e.g., gas cooler 130 of FIGURE 3)
20 of the refrigeration system. The refrigerant may be cooled between 70 - 90'C during
   the first cooling stage. As an example, gas cooler 130 may receive refrigerant having
   a temperature of 120'C, apply the first cooling stage to the received refrigerant, and
   discharge the refrigerant at a temperature of 40'C. In some embodiments, gas cooler
   130 receives the refrigerant from first heat exchanger 120. In some embodiments, gas
25 cooler 130 discharges the refrigerant to second heat exchanger 140. After applying
   the first cooling stage to the refrigerant, the method 400 may continue to a step 420.
            At step 420, the refrigeration system applies a second cooling stage to
   refrigerant circulating through the refrigeration system. In some embodiments, the
   component that applies the second cooling stage is a heat exchanger (e.g., second heat
30 exchanger 140 of FIGURE 3) of the refrigeration system. In some embodiments, the
   heat exchanger that applies the second cooling stage is located downstream from the
   gas cooler (e.g., gas cooler 130) of the refrigeration system. In some embodiments,
   applying the second cooling stage comprises removing heat from the refrigerant.
   Stated differently, the second cooling stage may cause a reduction in the temperature
                                                 12

   of the refrigerant. In some embodiments, the refrigerant may be cooled between 2
   100 C during the second cooling stage. As an example, second heat exchanger 140
   may receive refrigerant having a temperature of 38'C, apply the second cooling stage
   to the received refrigerant, and discharge the refrigerant at a temperature of 32'C. In
 5 some embodiments, second heat exchanger 140 receives the refrigerant from gas
   cooler 130.     In some embodiments, second heat exchanger 140 discharges the
   refrigerant to expansion valve 150 to supply the refrigerant to a refrigeration load.
   After applying the second cooling stage to the refrigerant, the method 400 may
   continue to a step 430.
10         At step 430, the refrigeration system applies the heat removed during step 420
   to a water heating system (e.g., water heating system 300 of FIGURE 3). In some
   embodiments, the component of refrigeration system that applies the heat to the water
   heating system is a heat exchanger (e.g., second heat exchanger 140 of FIGURE 3).
   In some embodiments, the heat exchanger that applies the heat removed during step
15 220 is located downstream from a gas cooler (e.g., gas cooler 130) of the refrigeration
   system. In some embodiments, the refrigeration system applies the heat to water
   circulating through the water heating system. The water heating system may, in some
   embodiments, comprise a water reservoir (e.g., water reservoir 305 of FIGURE 3) and
   a hot water tank (e.g., hot water tank 310 of FIGURE 3) and be operable to heat water
20 from the water reservoir and deliver the heated water to the hot water tank. As an
   example, second heat exchanger 140 applies the heat removed from the refrigerant
   during step 220 to water directed to second heat exchanger 140 from water reservoir
   305. Because heat is applied to the water during step 430, the action is alternatively
   referred to herein as a heating stage. Accordingly, applying the heat to the water pre
25 heats the water. In some embodiments, the water is pre-heated by at least 5'C during
   step 430. In some embodiments, after applying the heat to the water heating system,
   the method 400 continues to an end step 435.
           The method 400 may include one or more additional steps in some
   embodiments.      For example, in some embodiments, the refrigeration system may
30 include another heat exchanger (e.g., first heat exchanger 120 of FIGURE 3) which is
   also configured to apply a cooling stage to the refrigerant circulating through the
   refrigeration system. As such, method 400 may include a step wherein a third cooling
   stage is applied by an additional heat exchanger, wherein the additional heat
   exchanger is located upstream from the gas cooler 130. As another example, the
                                               13

   method 400 may include one or more step(s) wherein the additional heat exchanger
   (e.g., first heat exchanger 120 of FIGURE 3) receives the preheated water discharged
   from the heat exchanger (e.g., second heat exchanger 140 of FIGURE 3), applies a
   second heating stage to the received water, and discharges the heated water to the hot
 5 water tank (e.g., hot water tank 310 of FIGURE 3).            Although this disclosure
   describes and depicts certain steps of method 400, this disclosure recognizes that
   method 400 may comprise any suitable step.
            FIGURE 5 illustrates an example controller 500 of refrigeration system 100,
   according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure.         Controller 500 may
10 comprise one or more interfaces 510, memory 520, and one or more processors 530.
   Interface 510 receives input (e.g., sensor data or system data), sends output (e.g.,
   instructions), processes the input and/or output, and/or performs other suitable
   operation. Interface 510 may comprise hardware and/or software. As an example,
   interface 510 receives information (e.g., temperature and/or pressure information)
15 about one or more components of refrigeration system 100 (e.g., via sensors).
            Memory (or memory unit) 520 stores information. As an example, memory
   520 may store methods 200 and 400. Memory 520 may comprise one or more non
   transitory, tangible, computer-readable, and/or computer-executable storage media.
   Examples of memory 520 include computer memory (for example, Random Access
20 Memory (RAM) or Read Only Memory (ROM)), mass storage media (for example, a
   hard disk), removable storage media (for example, a Compact Disk (CD) or a Digital
   Video Disk (DVD)), database and/or network storage (for example, a server), and/or
   other computer-readable medium.
            Processor 530 may include any suitable combination of hardware and software
25 implemented in one or more modules to execute instructions and manipulate data to
   perform some or all of the described functions of controller 500. In some
   embodiments, processor 530 may include, for example, one or more computers, one
   or more central processing units (CPUs), one or more microprocessors, one or more
   applications, one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), one or more
30 field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and/or other logic.
            Embodiments of the present disclosure may have one or more technical
   advantages.     In certain embodiments, a heat exchanger downstream the gas cooler
   provides supplemental cooling to refrigerant, thereby reducing the amount of power
   of other refrigeration system components configured to cool the refrigerant.
                                             14

   Additionally, the waste heat produced by the downstream heat exchanger may be
   reclaimed by other facility systems (e.g., floor heating system, water heating system),
   thereby reducing the amount of power of compressors 110.
            Including a heat exchanger downstream from the gas cooler as disclosed
 5 herein may provide efficiency benefits for both the transcritical refrigeration system
   and other facility systems as explained above. For example, assuming a transcritical
   refrigeration system having a 50 kW MT load, 20 kW LT load, a 0.4% dry bulb
   temperature of 35'C, a LT saturated suction temperature (SST) of -30'C, a MT SST
   of -6'C, a ground heating glycol temperature of 5'C (50'F), and a subcooler capacity
10 of 5 kW, such transcritical refrigeration system could yield about 8% energy savings.
            Although this disclosure describes and depicts a configuration of a transcritical
   refrigeration system including a heat exchanger downstream from the gas cooler, this
   disclosure recognizes other similar applications.        For example, this disclosure
   recognizes a configuration of a conventional refrigeration system comprising a heat
15 exchanger downstream from a condenser.          The downstream heat exchanger would
   provide supplemental cooling to refrigerant circulating through the conventional
   refrigeration system, thereby reducing the power consumption of compressors 110.
   Additionally, the waste heat produced as a result of operation of the downstream heat
   exchanger could be reclaimed and used by other facility systems.
20          This disclosure also recognizes reclaiming waste heat of a gas cooler in a
   transcritical refrigeration system to replace and/or supplement heating in other facility
   systems.     Taking FIGURE 1 as an example, this disclosure recognizes that floor
   heating system 190 may reclaim waste heat of gas cooler 130. Taking FIGURE 3 as
   an example, this disclosure recognizes that water heating system 300 may reclaim
25 waste heat of gas cooler 130. In such embodiments, gas cooler 130 may receive and
   heat (using waste heat of gas cooler 130) a substance and/or solution (e.g., glycol
   solution, water) of another facility system (e.g., floor heating system, water heating
   system). Similarly, this disclosure recognizes reclaiming waste heat of a condenser in
   a conventional refrigeration system to replace and/or supplement heating in other
30 facility systems. In such an embodiment, the condenser may receive and heat (using
   waste heat of the condenser) a substance and/or solution of another facility system.
   For example, waste heat of a condenser may be reclaimed by an air conditioning
   system of a facility.
                                                15

            Modifications,  additions, or omissions may be made to the systems,
   apparatuses, and methods described herein without departing from the scope of the
   disclosure.   The components of the systems and apparatuses may be integrated or
   separated.    Moreover, the operations of the systems and apparatuses may be
 5 performed by more, fewer, or other components. For example, refrigeration system
   100 may include any suitable number of compressors, condensers, condenser fans,
   evaporators, valves, sensors, controllers, and so on, as performance demands dictate.
   One skilled in the art will also understand that refrigeration system 100 can include
   other components that are not illustrated but are typically included with refrigeration
10 systems. Additionally, operations of the systems and apparatuses may be performed
   using any suitable logic comprising software, hardware, and/or other logic. As used
   in this document, "each" refers to each member of a set or each member of a subset of
   a set.
            Modifications, additions, or omissions may be made to the methods described
15 herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure. The methods may include
   more, fewer, or other steps. Additionally, steps may be performed in any suitable
   order.
            Although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments,
   alterations and permutations of the embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in
20 the art. Accordingly, the above description of the embodiments does not constrain
   this disclosure.   Other changes, substitutions, and alterations are possible without
   departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.
            Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
25 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.
            The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
   taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art
30 forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                               16

   CLAIMS:
            1.       A refrigeration system operable to circulate refrigerant through the
   refrigeration system in order to cool a refrigeration load, the refrigeration system
   comprising:
 5         a gas cooler operable to receive the refrigerant and apply a first cooling stage
   to the refrigerant;
           a heat exchanger located downstream the gas cooler, the heat exchanger
   operable to:
                    receive the refrigerant cooled by the gas cooler;
10                  apply a second cooling stage to the refrigerant, the second cooling
   stage removing heat from the refrigerant;
                    apply the heat removed during the second cooling stage to a floor
   heating system operable to heat the floor of an enclosed space; and
                    discharge the refrigerant to an expansion valve operable to supply the
15 refrigerant to the refrigeration load.
           2.       The system of Claim 1, wherein the floor heating system is operable to
   circulate a second refrigerant through one or more coils of the enclosed space.
20         3.       The system of Claim 2, wherein the heat exchanger applies the heat
   removed during the second cooling stage to the second refrigerant.
           4.       The system of Claim 3, wherein the second refrigerant is heated at
   least 2'C.
25
           5.       The system of Claim 2, wherein the second refrigerant is a glycol
   solution.
           6.       The system of Claim 1, wherein the refrigeration system is a
30 transcritical refrigeration system and the refrigerant is a transcritical refrigerant.
           7.       The system of Claim 1, wherein the second cooling stage cools the
   refrigerant at least 3C.
                                                 17

            8.      The system of Claim 1, wherein:
           the refrigeration system further comprises a second heat exchanger located
   upstream of the gas cooler and configured to apply a third cooling stage to the
   refrigerant; and
 5         the gas cooler receives the refrigerant from the second heat exchanger.
           9.        A method of operating a refrigeration system, the method comprising:
           applying, by a gas cooler of the refrigeration system, a first cooling stage to
   refrigerant circulating through the refrigeration system load;
10         applying, by a heat exchanger located downstream from the gas cooler, a
   second cooling stage to the refrigerant, wherein the second cooling stage removes
   heat from the refrigerant; and
           applying, by the heat exchanger located downstream from the gas cooler, the
   heat removed during the second cooling stage to a floor heating system operable to
15 heat the floor of an enclosed space.
            10.     The method of Claim 9, wherein the floor heating system is operable to
   circulate a second refrigerant through one or more coils of the enclosed space.
20          11.     The method of Claim 10, wherein the heat exchanger applies the heat
   removed during the second cooling stage to the second refrigerant.
            12.     The method of Claim 11, wherein the second refrigerant is heated at
   least 2'C.
25
            13.     The method of Claim 10, wherein the second refrigerant is a glycol
   solution.
            14.     The method of Claim 9, wherein the refrigeration system is a
30 transcritical refrigeration system and the refrigerant is a transcritical refrigerant.
            15.     The method of Claim 9, wherein the second cooling stage cools the
   refrigerant at least 3C.
                                                18

           16.     The method of Claim 10, further comprising:
           applying, by a second heat exchanger, a third cooling stage to the refrigerant,
   wherein the second heat exchanger is located upstream of the gas cooler.
 5         17.     A heat exchanger operable to:
           receive refrigerant cooled by a gas cooler of a refrigeration system;
           apply a cooling stage to the received refrigerant, wherein the cooling stage
   removes heat from the refrigerant;
           apply the heat removed during the cooling stage to a floor heating system
10 operable to heat the floor of an enclosed space; and
           discharge the cooled refrigerant to an expansion valve operable to supply the
   refrigerant to a refrigeration load of the refrigeration system.
           18.     The heat exchanger of Claim 17, wherein the floor heating system is
15 operable to circulate a second refrigerant through one or more coils of the enclosed
   space.
           19.     The heat exchanger of Claim 17, wherein the heat exchanger applies
   the heat removed during the cooling stage to the second refrigerant.
20
           20.     The heat exchanger of Claim 19, wherein the second refrigerant is
   heated at least 3C.
                                                 19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
