PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND TOPICAL USE
THEREOF
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods for the preparation of compositions comprising
adipose tissue-derived secretions, for example those derived from bovine adipose tissue,
and the use of such compositions in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for
topical use. The invention also relates to the use of adipose tissue-derived secretions and
pharmaceutical compositions thereof for the topical treatment of a non-inflammatory
condition, for example the treatment of a skin condition, and for the stimulation of hair
growth in a subject by topical application. The invention also relates to the use of adipose
tissue-derived secretions and pharmaceutical compositions thereof for the topical treatment
of acne.

                                                 1
                     Pharmaceutical compositions and topical use thereof
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
         The present application claims priority from Australian Patent Application No.
AU2011900932, filed 15 March 2011 and from AU2012900140, filed 13 January 2012, the
disclosure of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. This
application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015202776 which is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013203165, which is a divisional of
Australian Patent Application No. 2012229890 (national phase of PCT/AU2012/000274), the
disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
Technical Field
         The present invention relates to methods for the preparation of compositions
comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions, for example those derived from bovine adipose
tissue, and the use of such compositions in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition
for topical use. The invention also relates to the use of adipose tissue-derived secretions and
pharmaceutical compositions thereof for the topical treatment of a non-inflammatory
condition, for example the treatment of a skin condition, and for the stimulation of hair
growth in a subject by topical application. The invention also relates to the use of adipose
tissue-derived secretions and pharmaceutical compositions thereof for the topical treatment of
acne.
Background of the Invention
         Adipose tissue contains a cell population of large, lipid-filled adipocytes and a
population of non-adipocyte cells, which comprises cells associated with various connective
fibres and cells associated with capillaries and larger blood vessels. The non-adipocyte cell
population also comprises a variety of infiltrating immune cells and cells and cell processes
associated with the nervous system. The non-adipocyte cell population is also thought to
comprise a population of adipose-derived adult stem cells and consequently there has been
interest in using adipose tissue as a source of isolated adult stem cells for various therapeutic
applications.
         In general, methods for obtaining adipose tissue-derived presumptive adult stem cells
involves depleting adipocytes from adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells, which requires
digesting adipose tissue with enzymes such as collagenase, and then separating the liberated
cells by centrifuging the digested sample. During centrifugation, the adipose-derived non
adipocyte cells separate from the adipocytes to form a pellet, whereas the lipid containing
(13847604 1):GGG

                                               la
adipocytes float. The fraction containing the non-adipocyte cells is then used as a source of
tissue stem cells.
         The present inventors have earlier described the use of an adipose tissue-derived cell
suspension which comprises adipocytes for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition
for use in the treatment of an inflammatory disorder or the alleviation of pain associated with
an inflammatory disorder in a subject, and for the treatment and alleviation of pain of
conditions such as a cartilage or bone disorders. This is described in
(13847604 1):GGG

                                                   -2
    Australian Patent Application No. 2009201915 and in International Publication No.
    W02010/020005, the contents of which are incorporated herein by cross-reference.
    There remains a need for improved methods for the treatment of non-inflammatory
    conditions and compositions for use therein.
 s         Acne, including acne vulgaris and cystic acne, is a common skin disease. The areas
    of the skin commonly affected by acne include the face, the upper part of the chest, and
    the back.      Acne most commonly occurs during adolescence, often continuing- into
    adulthood. Various treatments are available for acne but, given the potential for acne
    scarring and for psychological effects on sufferers, who are often adolescents, alternative
io  or improved treatments are desirable.
     Summary of the Invention
            The inventor has surprisingly identified that secretions from adipose tissue- derived
     cells, including from adipocytes, are effective for improving various non-inflammatory
1s   conditions, for stimulating the growth of hair, wool and fur, and for the treatment or
     prevention of acne.       The adipose tissue-derived cells from which the secretions are
     prepared may or may not comprise adipocytes.
            In a first aspect of the invention there is provided use of a composition comprising
     adipose tissue-derived secretions in the manufacture of a medicament for the topical
20   treatment of a non-inflammatory disorder in a subject.
            In a second aspect there is provided a method of treating a non-inflammatory
     disorder in a subject, the method comprising topically administering to the subject a
     pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions together with a
     pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or diluent.
 25         In an embodiment the non-inflammatory disorder is associated with one or more of
     the following conditions in said subject (i) dry skin, (ii) itchy skin, (iii) insect bite, (iv)
      sun burn, (v) wrinkling of the skin, (vi) thin skin, (vii) cracking of the skin, (viii) insect
      sting (ix) scarring, (x) stretch marks, (xi) sun spots, (xii) age spots, (xiii) liver spots, (xiv)
      puffiness and or dark circles around the eyes, (xv) athlete's foot, (xvi) warts, and said
 30   treatment alleviates one or more of said conditions.
             In a third aspect there is provided use of adipose tissue-derived secretions in the
      manufacture of a medicament for topical use in stimulating hair, fur or wool growth in a
      subject.

                                                   -3
            In a fourth aspect there is provided a method of stimulating hair, wool or fur growth
    -in a subject, the method comprising topically administering to the subject a
     pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions, together with a
     pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or diluent.
 5          In an embodiment the subject has one or more of (i) surgery-related hair loss, (ii)
     chemotherapy-related hair loss, (iii) radiation exposure-related hair loss, (iv) alopecia, (v)
     male pattern baldness, (vi) female pattern baldness.
            In a fifth aspect there is provided use of a composition comprising adipose tissue
     derived secretions in the manufacture of a medicament for the topical treatment or
                                                                                                 or
10   prevention of acne in a subject. In an embodiment the medicament is for the treatment
     prevention of acne in an adolescent.
             In sixth aspect there is provided a method of treating or preventing acne in a
      subject, the method comprising topically administering to the subject a pharmaceutical
      composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions, together with a
is    pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or diluent.
             In an embodiment the subject is an adolescent. In an embodiment the subject has
      clinically relevant acne. In an embodiment the acne is cystic acne. In an embodiment the
      subject has severe acne. In an embodiment the subject is an adolescent with clinically
      relevant acne.
20            The embodiments of the invention described herein apply to all aspects of the
      invention, as relevant.
              In an embodiment the medicament or pharmaceutical composition for topical
      administration is a cream, lotion, liquid or ointment. In an embodiment the medicament
                                                                                      composition.
      or pharmaceutical composition is a human medicament or pharmaceutical
 25   In an embodiment the medicament or pharmaceutical composition is a veterinary
      medicament or pharmaceutical composition.
              In an embodiment the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions is
       of bovine origin. In an embodiment the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived
       secretions is of porcine origin.
 30           In an embodiment the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions
       further comprises adipocytes. In an embodiment the composition comprising'adipose
       tissue-derived secretions is substantially free of adipocytes.
               In'an embodiment the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions is
       prepared from a cell suspension comprising adipocytes.            In an embodiment the

                                                  -4
    composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions is prepared from a cell
    suspension substantially free of adipocytes.
           In an embodiment the subject is a human. In embodiment the subject is an
    adolescent human. In an embodiment the subject is a non-human mammal. In an
 s  embodiment the non-human mammal is a canine. In an embodiment the non-human
    mammal is a feline. In an embodiment the non-human mammal is an equine. In an
    embodiment the non-human mammal is an ovine.
           In an embodiment the adipose tissue-derived secretions is autologous to the subject.
    In an embodiment the adipose tissue-derived secretions is allogeneic to-the subject. In an
10  embodiment the adipose tissue-derived secretions is xenogeneic to the subject. In an
    embodiment the adipose tissue-derived secretions is of bovine origin. In an embodiment
    the adipose tissue-derived secretions is of porcine origin.
            In an embodiment the adipose tissue-derived secretions or a cell culture comprising
    said secretions is concentrated, such as by freeze-drying and re-hydration in a suitable
1s   liquid and volume. In an embodiment the re-hydration is in a volume between about 5
     and about 20 fold less than the original volume pre-freeze drying.
            In an embodiment adipocytes are added to the adipose tissue-derived secretions.
            In a seventh aspect there is provided a method for preparing bovine adipose tissue
     derived secretions, the method comprising:
20           (i)     exposing a sample of bovine adipose tissue to a proteolytic enzyme
                     solution to generate a cell suspension;
             (ii)    centrifuging the suspension of cells to form a cell pellet, a free lipid layer
                     above a floating cell layer which comprises adipocytes and an intermediate
                     layer between the cell pellet and the floating cell layer, said intermediate
 25                  layer being depleted of cells relative to the cell pellet and the floating cell
                     layer; and
             (iii)   removing the free lipid layer and the intermediate layer,
             (iv)    optionally removing part or substantially all of the floating cell layer which
                     comprises adipocytes,
 30          (v)     mixing the cell pellet and, if present, the floating cell layer comprising
                     adipocytes to form an adipose tissue derived cell suspension which may or
                     may not include adipocytes;
              (vi)    culturing the cell suspension under appropriate conditions;

           (vii)     harvesting supernatant of the cell culture to form a composition
                     comprising bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions.
           In an embodiment the proteolytic enzyme solution comprises collagenase at a final
    concentration of about 0.25% w/v. In an embodiment the digestion of the bovine adipose
 5  tissue is incomplete.
           In an embodiment the floating cell layer comprising adipocytes is retained. In an
    embodiment the floating cell layer comprising adipocytes is partially removed. In an
    embodiment the floating cell layer comprising adipocytes is removed.
           In an embodiment the step of culturing the cell suspension under appropriate
10  conditions comprises culturing to form an adherent culture. In an embodiment the
    adherent cell culture is a confluent cell culture. In an embodiment the step of culturing
    the cell suspension under appropriate conditions comprises culturing cells in a spinner
    culture. In an embodiment the harvested supernatant further comprises adipocytes. In an
     embodiment the harvested supernatant is substantially free of adipocytes. In an
15   embodiment the method further comprises a step of removing cells from said harvested
     supernatant.
            In an embodiment the method further comprises freeze-drying the cell culture. In
     an embodiment the method further comprises freeze-drying the bovine adipose tissue
     derived secretions. In an embodiment the freeze-dried material is re-hydrated in a
20   suitable liquid at a suitable volume. In an embodiment the re-hydration is in a volume
     between about 5 and about 20 fold less than the original volume pre-freeze drying.
            In an eighth aspect there is provided use of a composition comprising bovine
     adipose tissue-derived secretions for the manufacture of.a medicament for topical use in
     (i) the treatment of a non-inflammatory condition in a subject, or (ii) stimulating hair,
 25  wool, or fur growth in a subject, or (iii) the treatment or prevention of acne in a subject.
            In an embodiment. the composition comprising bovine adipose tissue-derived
     secretions is prepared according to a method of the seventh aspect.
            In a ninth aspect there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising bovine
     adipose tissue-derived secretions, together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or
 30  diluent.
            In an embodiment the pharmaceutical composition or medicament is formulated for
     topical administration, such as in the form of a lotion, cream, liquid or ointment. In an
     embodiment the pharmaceutical composition or medicament is suitable for use on .a

                                                -6
    human subject.     In an embodiment the pharmaceutical composition or medicament is
    suitable for use on a non-human subject.
           In an embodiment the composition comprising bovine adipose tissue-derived
    secretions further comprises adipocytes. In an embodiment the composition comprising
 5  bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions is substantially free of adipocytes.
           The summary of the invention described above is not limiting and other features
    and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description
    of the preferred embodiments, as well as from the claims.
10  Brief Description of the Drawings
           Preferred forms of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
    accompanying drawings in which:
           Figure 1: Hair re-growth in shaved patches of a single dog, photographed at 7, 12
    and 22 days after shaving. The left hand panels ("treated") show hair re-growth on the
is   shaved patch to which bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions were topically
    administered twice a day whilst the right hand panels ("control") show hair re-growth on
     the shaved patch which received no treatment.
            Figure 2: Trial results from seven human individuals topically administered a
     composition comprising bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions for the treatment of
20   acne. (A) showing individual trial subject results and (B) showing results averaged per
     day over the seven individuals.
     Abbreviations
            For convenience, the following abbreviations used in this specification are listed
25   below.
            DMEM       Dulbecco's Modified Eagles Medium
            RPMI       Roswell Park Memorial Institute Medium
            SVCs       stromal vascular cells
 30   Definitions
            In the context of the present invention reference to a composition comprising
      "adipose tissue-derived secretions" will be understood to mean a composition which
      includes one or more factors released from cells of the adipose tissue. The material used

                                                   -7
    in the preparation of the composition comprising the secretions may include adipocytes or
    may be substantially free of adipocytes.
            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent" as used herein is intended
    to encompass not only a carrier or diluent which is suitable for topical administration to a
 5  human subject, but also a carrier or diluent which is suitable for topical administration to
    a non-human mammalian subject. In particular embodiments, the carrier or diluent is
    suitable for administration to a non-human mammalian subject.                 In particular
     embodiments the carrier or diluent is suitable for administration to a human subject.
            The terms "treating", "treatment", "therapy" and the like in the context of the
10   present specification refer to the alleviation of the symptoms and/or the underlying cause
     of a non-inflammatory disorder or skin condition or acne. For brevity, these may
     variously be referred to herein collectively as "condition" or "disorder". In certain
     embodiments a treatment will slow, delay or halt the progression of a disorder or the
     symptoms of the disorder, or reverse the progression of the disorder, at least temporarily.
is   Hence, in the context of this invention the word "treatment" or derivations thereof such as
     "treating" when used in relation to a therapeutic application includes all aspects of a
     therapy, such as the alleviation of pain associated with the condition being treated,
     alleviation of the severity of the condition being treated, improvement in one or more
     symptoms of the condition being treated, improvement in the overall well-being of the
20   subject being treated, etc., such as in the treatment of acne an improvement in the
     appearance of the skin.      Use of the word "treatment" or derivatives thereof will be
     understood to mean that the subject being "treated" may experience any one or more of
     the aforementioned benefits.
            Throughout this specification, reference to "a" or "one" element does not exclude
 25  the plural, unless context determines otherwise.
            The term "therapeutically effective amount" as used herein includes within its
     meaning a non-toxic but sufficient amount of a compound or composition for use in the
     invention to provide the desired therapeutic effect. The exact amount required will vary
     from subject to subject depending on factors such as the species being treated, the age and
 30  general condition of the subject, co-morbidities, the severity of the condition being
     treated, the particular agent being administered and the mode of administration and so
      forth. Thus, for any given case, an appropriate "effective amount" may be determined by
      one of ordinary skill in the art using only routine methods.

                                                     -8
           In the context of this specification, the term "comprising" means including, but not
   necessarily solely including. Furthermore, variations of the word "comprising", such as
   "comprise" and "comprises", have correspondingly varied meanings. Hence, the term
   "comprising" and variations thereof is used in an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning
 s such that additional integers or features may optionally be present in a composition,
   method, etc. that is described as comprising integer A, or comprising integer A and B, etc.
           In the context of this specification the term "about" will be understood as indicating
   the usual tolerances that a skilled addressee would associate with the given value.
           In the context of this specification, where a range is stated for a parameter it will be
1o understood that the parameter includes all values within the stated range, inclusive of the
   stated endpoints of the range. For example, a range of "5 to 10" will be understood to
   include the values 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 as well as any sub-range within the stated range,
   such as to include the sub-range of 6 to 10, 7 to 10, 6 to 9, 7 to 9, etc, and inclusive of any
   value and range between the integers which is reasonable in the context of the range
is  stated, such as 5.5, 6.5, 7.5, 5.5 to 8.5 and 6.5 to 9, etc.
            In the context of this specification, the term "plurality" means any number greater
    than one.
            It is to be noted that reference herein to use of the inventive methods and
    compositions in treatment or therapy will be understood to be applicable to human and
20  non-human, such as veterinary, applications.           Hence it will be understood that, except
    where otherwise indicated, reference to a patient, subject or individual means a human or
    a non-human, such as an individual of any species of social, economic or research
    importance including but not limited to members of the classifications of ovine, bovine,
    equine, porcine, feline, canine, primates, rodents, especially domesticated members of
25  those classifications, such as sheep, cattle, horses and dogs.
             To the extent that it is permitted, all references cited herein are incorporated by
    reference in their entirety.
     Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
30           The present invention will now be described in more detail, including, by way of
     illustration only, with respect to the examples which follow.
             Surprisingly, the inventors have identified that secretions from adipose fissue
     derived cells which may or may not include adipocytes are effective for improving
     various non-inflammatory conditions, for stimulating the growth of hair, wool and fur,

     and for alleviating acne. Described herein are topical compositions comprising adipose
     tissue-derived secretions and use of these compositions for treating, non-inflammatory
     disorders, for the stimulation of hair, fur and wool growth and for the treatment or
     prevention of acne.
 5           Accordingly, in an aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
     treating a non-inflammatory disorder in a subject, the method comprising topically
     administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose tissue
     derived secretions together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or diluent.
             The term "inflammatory" when used in reference to a disorder refers to a
10   pathological process which is caused by, resulting from, or resulting in inflammation that
      is inappropriate or which does not resolve in the normal manner. Inflammatory disorders
     may be systemic or localized to particular tissues or organs. The non-inflammatory
      conditions contemplated for treatment -in the. present invention are conditions which do
      not arise as a result of inappropriate inflammation or inflammation that does not resolve
  s5  in a normal manner.
              Treatment of a non-inflammatory disorder includes the alleviation of one or more
      symptoms or manifestations of such a disorder. For example, the method of the invention
      includes treatment of a skin condition. In particular embodiments the present invention
      provides a method of treating a skin condition, wherein the skin condition is not a
20    manifestation of an inflammatory disorder. Although a particular condition contemplated
      for treatment in this invention may manifest in a degree of inflammation, such as where
      the condition is sunburn, such conditions are not generally classified as inflammatory
      disorders and so are non-inflammatory conditions or manifestations of non-inflammatory
       conditions for the purposes of the present invention.
 25           Specific conditions contemplated for treatment under the present invention include
       (i) dry skin, (ii) itchy skin, (iii) insect bite or sting, (iv) sun burn, (v) wrinkling of the skin,
       (vi) thin skin, (vii) cracking of the skin, (viii) acne, (ix) scarring, (x) stretch marks, (xi)
       sun spots, (xii) age spots, (xiii) liver spots, (xiv) puffiness and or dark circles around the
       eyes, (xv) athlete's foot, (xvi) warts, and said treatment alleviates one or more of said
 30    conditions.
              A   further     surprising effect     of the     adipose    tissue-derived  secretions and
       pharmaceutical compositions thereof is that when administered to an individual they
       stimulate hair growth. In a further aspect of the invention therefore there is provided a
       method of stimulating hair, wool or fur growth in a subject, the method comprising

                                                 -10
    topically administering to the subject a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived
    secretions, together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or diluent.
            The composition is formulated for topical administration to the individual. In
    certain embodiments the subject is a human. The ability of the compositions to provide
 5  stimulation of hair growth in an individual is beneficial where the subject has one or more
     of (i) surgery-related hair loss, (ii) chemotherapy-related hair loss, (iii) radiation
     exposure-related hair loss, (iv) alopecia, (v) male pattern baldness, (vi) female pattern
     baldness.
            In certain embodiments the subject to which the composition is to be administered
10   is a non-human animal kept for the purpose of production of wool or fur. For example,
     the subject may be an ovine, particularly a sheep, kept for the production of wool. In
     certain embodiments the non-human mammal is a companion animal or show animal or
     stud animal, such as a canine, a feline, bovine or an equine.
15          Acne
             The inventor has identified that the adipose tissue-derived          secretions and
      pharmaceutical compositions thereof are effective in the treatment of acne.            Acne
      typically occurs as a result of blockages in skin follicles, pores, or sebaceous glands,
      which may occur through the accumulation of dead skin cells and or sebum. This may be
20    exacerbated by bacterial colonisation of the blocked follicle, pore or gland, such as by the
      naturally occurring commensal bacterium Propionibacteriumacnes or by Staphylococcus
      epidermidis.
             Acne typically affects areas of the skin in which sebaceous follicles or glands are
      denser, such as the face, the upper part of the chest and the back. In more severe cases of
 25   acne, the acne cysts may occur in areas of the skin where sweat collects in hair follicles
      and perspiration ducts, such as on the buttocks, groin and armpit area. Acne can manifest
      in non-inflammatory forms although severe. acne may also have an inflammatory
      component. It will be understood that the acne contemplated for treatment or prevention
      in the present invention may have an inflammatory component. It will also be understood
 30   that the acne contemplated for treatment or prevention in the present invention may be
      non-inflammatory.
             Acne occurs' most commonly during adolescence and often continues into
       adulthood. In adolescence the occurrence of acne may be related to an increase in

                                                -11-
    androgens, such as testosterone, the levels of which increase in males and females during
    puberty.
           Physical manifestations of acne can be variable and range in severity of both
    appearance and long-term effect. Mild acne, for example, may include scaly red skin,
 s  blackheads and whiteheads (also referred to as comedones), papules (also referred to as
    pinheads), and in more severe cases pustules or pimples, nodules and cysts. Larger
    nodules have been referred to as nodulocystic acne or cystic acne. Cystic acne typically
    affects deeper skin tissue than does common acne. Aside from the physical discomfort
    and potential psychological. effects of the presence of acne on the individual, the acne can
10  have longer term effects on the individual, such as through physical scarring of the skin.
           The invention contemplates the treatment or prevention of all forms of acne. In a
    specific embodiment the methods are directed at clinically relevant acne. As used herein,
    clinically relevant acne is acne which has the potential to detrimentally affect an
    individual, either physically, such as by scarring, or emotionally, to the extent that clinical
is   intervention is advisable. Clinical intervention may or may not be by a trained physician.
    Typically, intervention would be advisable in subjects with moderate to severe acne, or in
     subjects with one or more large nodules or cysts, or in subjects with widespread acne, or
     in subjects with a personal or family history of moderate to severe acne.
            Through the use of adipose tissue-derived secretions and pharmaceutical
20   compositions thereof as described herein an individual with acne may experience
     improvement of the condition, including reduced inflammation of the affected area of the
     skin, accelerated healing and reduced scarring. As demonstrated herein, continued use of
     the composition of the invention may prevent the recurrence of acne in an individual or
     may reduce the severity of recurrent acne.
25
            Adipose Tissue
            Adipose tissue may be human adipose tissue or mammalian animal adipose tissue.
     The human or animal may be alive or dead, but preferably provided that there are still
     viable adipocyte cells within the adipose tissue. The adipose tissue may be derived from
 30  a mature animal or from a juvenile animal. In particular embodiments the animal is a
     companion animal, such as a canine or a feline domestic animal, or a working animal. In
      other particular embodiments the mammal is a farm animal, stud animal, or racing animal
      such as equines (including horses, donkeys, asses), bovines (including cattle and
      buffaloes), ovines, caprines, porcines, and camelids (including camels, llamas, alpacas

                                               -12
    and the like). In other embodiments the animal is a research animal, such as a rodent. In
    other embodiments the animal is a zoo animal, such as a member of the family Felidae, a
    member of the family Canidae, a member of the order Rodentia, or a member of the one
    of the orders of Cetacea, Perissodactyla, Artiodactyla, Tubulidentata, Hyracoidea, Sirenia,
 5  or Proboscidea. In preferred embodiments the adipose tissue is bovine or porcine.
           The adipose tissue may originate from the same individual subject in which the
                                                                                       will be
    pharmaceutical. composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions
    administered, in which the adipose tissue and hence the adipose tissue-derived secretions
    is autologous. The adipose tissue may originate from a different individual of the same
to  species to the subject in which the pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose tissue
    derived secretions will be administered, in which the adipose tissue and hence the adipose
    tissue-derived secretions is allogeneic. In certain embodiments the adipose tissue may
     originate from an individual of a different species to the subject in which the
                                                                                             be
     pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions will
15   administered, in which the adipose tissue and hence the adipose tissue-derived secretions
     is xenogeneic. The adipose tissue may originate from a single source or may originate
     from more than one source, such as more than one individual of a single species or from
     multiple species.
            The adipose tissue may originate from any source in the body which is accessible.
20   Subcutaneous fat, for example, is readily accessible with only superficial wounding, such
     as by excision from the tail base, or by using keyhole surgery techniques. Subcutaneous
     adipose tissue may be collected using liposuction techniques. Adipose tissue may, for
     example, be removed with reproductive tissue when de-sexing a male or female mammal.
     Adipose tissue may be removed from a freshly killed animal. The adipose tissue may
 25  comprise "white" adipose tissue and/or "brown" adipose tissue.               In particular
      embodiments the adipose tissue comprises white adipose tissue only.
            The adipose tissue may be rinsed with a tissue culture medium or buffered isotonic
      solution to remove adherent red blood cells. The adipose tissue may also be rinsed with a
      disinfectant such as betadine and may be trimmed or coarsely processed to remove large
 30   blood vessels or connective tissue elements prior to generating an adipose tissue-derived
      cell suspension.

                                                 -13
            Adipose Tissue-Derived Cell Suspension
            The adipose tissue-derived cell secretions and hence the compositions comprising
    such secretions, are preferably prepared by first obtaining or preparing an adipose tissue
    derived cell suspension. The cell suspension may comprise adipocytes or may be
 s  substantially free of adipocytes. A cell suspension for the purposes of preparing adipose
    tissue-derived secretions will be understood herein as being substantially free of
    adipocytes if the cell suspension has been significantly depleted of adipocytes compared
    to the starting material, such as by removal of the adipocyte fraction after centrifugation.
    It will be understood that substantially free of adipocytes when used in relation to a cell
10  suspension includes complete absence of adipocytes and also includes the situation where
    minimal retention of adipocytes in the material has occurred.
            The term "adipose tissue-derived cell suspension" as used herein encompasses
    isolated cells from adipose tissue or small aggregates or pieces of adipose tissue, or a
     mixture of two or more of isolated cells, small aggregates and pieces of adipose tissue.
15          The cell suspension may be obtained by mechanically dissociating adipose tissue
     using techniques which are readily available in the art. Any suitable method for the
     mechanical dissociation of adipose tissue may be used, for example by mincing adipose
     tissue with blades, or with scissors, or by forcing adipose tissue through screens or
     meshes with a. pore size sufficient to break the tissue into isolated cells and/or small
20   pieces of adipose tissue. A combination of suitable techniques may be used. Small
     aggregates of adipose tissue may form when dissociated adipose-derived cells reassociate
     into larger assemblies, for example on standing in a medium. Small pieces or aggregates
     of adipose tissue may be less than ten millimetres in maximum diameter, less than five
     millimetres in maximum diameter, less than one millimetre in maximum diameter, less
 25  than 500 im in maximum diameter or less than 250 jim in maximum diameter. In certain
     embodiments, a mechanical dissociation technique is used without using one or more
     proteolytic enzymes. The techniques employed in these embodiments may be used to
      rapidly generate an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension.
             The adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be filtered through a mesh or screen
 30   to remove ell aggregates or tissue pieces which are greater than the mesh or screen pore
      size.
             In certain embodiments, proteolytic enzymes are used to promote the dissociation of
      adipose tissue into an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension. Enzymes which are suitable
      for such a use are well known in the art, and include but are not limited to trypsin, and

                                                  - 14
    collagenase. The proteolytic enzymes may be removed or inactivated before using the
    adipose tissue-derived cell suspension, particularly where these enzymes may not be
    compatible with a desired use of the cell suspension. In certain embodiments, proteolytic
    enzymes in combination with techniques for the mechanical dissociation of adipose tissue
 5  are used to generate an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension.
           In particular embodiments the cell suspension may be suspended in a medium. The
    medium may be added to the adipose tissue before, during or after the dissociation of the
    adipose tissue. The medium may be a medium which is capable of maintaining adipose
    tissue cell survival for at least 24 hours under appropriate culture conditions, such as a
10  tissue culture medium.        The medium may be an isotonic buffered solution, such as a
    phosphate or a HEPES buffered saline, which is capable of maintaining adipose tissue
    cell survival for at least one hour. The medium may be a serum free medium. The
    medium may comprise serum or serum components which support or extend adipose
    tissue cell survival in the cell suspension. The serum or serum components may be
15   autologous serum or serum components.            The serum or serum components may be
     allogeneic serum or serum components from a single individual or pooled from multiple
     individuals.
            In a further embodiment the cell suspension is not suspended in a medium, but
     instead the cells are. suspended in liquid which is formed during the dissociation of the
20   tissue.
            In certain embodiments the preparation of an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension
     comprises a centrifugation step. The centrifugation of isolated cells or small aggregates
     or pieces of adipose tissue suspended in a liquid, such as a medium, is at approximately
     500 g for 10 minutes, or for sufficient time and at a sufficient g-force to generate a cell
 25  pellet which comprises adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells, above which is a layer of
     medium, floating above which in turn is a layer which comprises adipocytes, and floating
     at the top is a layer of lipid which is derived from ruptured adipocytes.
             Following centrifugation, in certain embodiments the medium layer, which
     comprises secretions from adipocytes, may be collected, thereby representing one
 30   composition or source of adipose tissue-derived secretions.        In this embodiment the
      collected medium or composition comprising secretions may or may not comprise
      adipocytes.
             In certain other embodiments, following centrifugation the lipid layer and the
      medium layer will be discarded and the retained cells are rmixed, leaving an adipose

                                                -15
    tissue-derived cell suspension which comprises adipocytes and adipose-derived non
    adipocyte cells.
            In certain other embodiments, following centrifugation the lipid layer, the medium
    layer, and the floating layer which comprises adipocytes will be discarded, thereby
 5  retaining primarily adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells.
    -       In certain embodiments multiple centrifugation steps may be used, for example to
    provide additional cell separation steps.
            In other embodiments, the preparation of an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension
    does not include a centrifugation step.
 10         The adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be freshly isolated, that is it may be
    utilised for the preparation of adipose tissue-derived secretions which will be
     administered to the recipient within approximately 6 hours of the removal of the fat tissue
     from the donor. In these embodiments, the preparation of the adipose tissue-derived
     secretions typically does not include a step of culturing the cells as described herein.
15   Alternatively, the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be stored for more than 6
     hours, typically when suspended in a medium, prior to being utilised for the preparation
     of adipose tissue-derived secretions.
            The adipose tissue-derived cell suspension utilised for the preparation of adipose
     tissue-derived secretions may or may not comprise adipocytes.                  In particular
20   embodiments the adipocytes comprise viable adipocytes. In particular embodiments, the
      adipocytes retain detectable quantities of lipid in their cytoplasm, and may be separated
      from adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells on the basis of the different density provided by
      the lipid. Lipid may be detectable using light microscopy techniques, including phase
      contrast microscopy, or by staining a sample of cells with a lipophilic dye such as Oil Red
25    0. Adipocytes which retain lipid in their cytoplasm are considerably more fragile than
      other adipose-derived cells and accordingly, where viable adipocytes are required,
      techniques for dissociating tissue which damage or render non-viable a large proportion
      of the adipocytes should be avoided. The ultrasonic dissociation of adipose tissue or
      techniques in which adipose tissue is vigorously shaken, for example, are unlikely to
30    provide a cell suspension which contains large numbers of viable adipocytes. The
      viability of adipocytes may readily be determined using readily available techniques, such
      as the LIVE/DEAD cell viability assays (Life Technologies).
             In certain embodiments, the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension does not
      comprise substantial numbers of adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells. In these

                                                  - 16
   embodiments, the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be conveniently prepared
   by methods which comprise a centrifugation step, as described herein, by which the
   pelleted adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells are excluded.
          In certain embodiments, the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension comprises both
 s adipocytes and adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells. In these embodiments, the adipose
   tissue-derived: cell suspension may be conveniently prepared by methods which comprise
   a centrifugation step, as described herein, in which both the adipocyte cell layer and the
   pelleted adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells are collected. Alternatively, in these
   embodiments the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be prepared by dissociating
10  adipose tissue as described herein without a centrifugation step.
          Bovine Adipose Tissue Derived Cell Suspensions
          The inventors have surprisingly found that the preparation of adipose tissue derived
    cell suspensions from bovine sources, particularly from bovine tail base tissue, is
15  refractory to standard methods appropriate to multiple other sources of adipose tissue,
    such as human, canine, equine, mouse and rat. Accordingly, the application of the present
    invention, in so far as it utilises bovine adipose-derived cell secretions, optimally also
    employs a method for preparing, a bovine adipose tissue-derived cell suspension, the
    method comprising:
20               -  exposing a sample of bovine adipose tissue to a proteolytic enzyme solution
           to generate a cell suspension;
                 -  centrifuging the suspension of cells to form a cell pellet, a free lipid layer
           above a floating cell layer which comprises adipocytes and an intermediate layer
           between the cell pellet and the floating cell layer, said intermediate layer being
25         depleted of cells relative to the cell pellet and the floating cell layer; and
                 - removing the free lipid layer and the intermediate layer
                  - optionally removing part or substantially all of the floating cell layer which
           comprises adipocytes,
                  -  mixing the cell pellet and, if present, the floating cell layer to form an
30          adipose tissue derived cell suspension which may or may not include adipocytes.
            As described herein the adipocyte layer, also referred to as the floating cell layer,
     may or may not be removed during the processing. The methods and compositions of the
     invention therefore include, in various embodiments, the optional removal of the
     adipocyte layer leading to a cell suspension that is substantially depleted of adipocytes;

                                                 -17
    the optional retention of the adipocyte layer leading to a cell suspension that includes
    adipocytes; the optional partial removal of the adipocyte layer.
            In certain embodiments the method may comprise additional steps in the
    preparation of adipose tissue-derived cell suspensions as set out elsewhere in this
 5   specification, in particular the previous section headed "Adipose Tissue-Derived Cell
     Suspension". These additional steps include, for example, mechanically dissociating the
    tissue, and suspension via a medium or buffer etc.
            The removed intermediate layer may be retained as it typically includes adipose
     tissue-derived secretions.
10           In certain embodiments the proteolytic enzyme solution comprises collagenase.
             In certain embodiments the collagenase is used at a final concentration of about
     0.25% w/v or greater. In certain embodiments the exposure of the bovine adipose tissue
                                                                                       digestion
     to proteolytic enzyme is conducted under conditions which result in incomplete
     of the adipose tissue, such as which result in significant amounts of intact adipose tissue
is   being present. Typically, for example, there may be pieces of adipose tissue present that
      are the same size as they were prior to starting the digestion. In embodiments of the
      method anywhere between about 20% to about 80% of the adipose tissue may not be
      digested.
              In certain embodiments the cells may be subjected to multiple centrifugation steps
20    or wash steps, for example in order to remove excessive free lipid.
              As described further in the following section an adipose tissue-derived cell
      suspension which may be of any species origin, such as mentioned herein, for example
      bovine, porcine, canine, feline, human, etc, or an aliquot thereof, may be used in the
 25   preparation of a composition comprising secretions of the adipose tissue-derived cells.
              Compositions Comprising Adipose Tissue-derived Secretions
              A composition comprising secretions from the adipose tissue-derived cells may be
      prepared from an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension, which may or may not comprise
 30   adipocytes, by any appropriate manner. As noted herein the liquid components formed
       during the preparation of an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension typically includes
       adipose tissue-derived secretions, thereby representing one embodiment of a composition
       comprising such secretions.    In this form the composition comprising adipose tissue
       derived secretions may be collected at any appropriate stage in the preparation of a cell

                                               - 18
   suspension, such as by collection of the intermediate liquid layer between the cell pellet
   and the floating cell layer after centrifugation of the adipose tissue-derived material. In
   this embodiment the collected material comprising secretions may or may not include
   adipocytes.
 s        Typically, the composition is generated by exposure of a medium to the adipose
   tissue-derived cell suspension. Exposure of the medium to the adipocyte tissue-derived
   cell suspension does not require conditions which enable cell attachment to a substratum.
   In these embodiments, the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions may
   be generated by exposing a medium to the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension for any
io appropriate period of time, such as at least 6 hours, at least 8 hours, at least 10 hours, or at
   least 12 hours, followed by removal of the cell suspension from the medium, or vice
   versa, for example by centrifugation or by filtration. The removal of the cell suspension
   and the medium from each other may result in complete or incomplete removal of cells.
   Hence the medium, which comprises the adipose tissue-derived secretions, may or may
15 not include adipocytes after removal from the cell suspension. In certain embodiments
   the composition is generated by exposing a medium to the adipose tissue-derived cell
    suspension for no more than 12 hours, no more than 18 hours or no more than 24 hours.
    The composition may comprise cell-derived molecules which are released from cells
    following cell death or the breakup of adipose tissue cells. The composition comprises
20  secretions of cells of the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension.        The exposing of a
    medium to an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be at a temperature of from 4*C
    to 50*C, more typically at a temperature of from 10*C to 40*C and most typically at a
    temperature of from 20 0 C to 370 C.
           For a typical adipose tissue-derived cell suspension, 5 g of adipose tissue is
25  dissociated and suspended in 50mls of DMEM containing 10 % autologous serum. The
    adipose tissue derived cell suspension typically comprises from 100,000 to 1,000,000
    non-adipocyte cells for every gram of adipose tissue source material.          The number of
    adipocytes per gram of adipose tissue source material is typically between 100,000 and
    5,000,000.
30         The term "medium" as used herein is intended- to encompass compositions which
    support the survival of at least some cells in an adipose tissue-derived cell suspension for
    at least one hour. The medium may be a tissue culture medium, such as DMEM, RPMI,
    or minimal essential medium, optionally supplemented with serum. The medium may be
    a buffered isotonic solution, such as a phosphate buffered saline or Hank's buffered saline

                                                -19
    solution, provided the medium is suitable for administration to a subject. The medium
    may be liquid which is formed during the dissociation of adipose tissue. The medium
    may optionally be supplemented with factors which promote cell survival or attachment
    and cell division, such as insulin, progesterone and selenium, or serum or serum
 s  components. In certain embodiments the medium must be suitable for. a pharmaceutical
    composition, which is acceptable for in vivo use. Such media will be substantially free of
    pyrogens or other impurities which may be harmful to humans or animals.
    Pharmaceutically-acceptable       media are' commercially available. The phrase
    "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to molecular entities and compositions that do not
10  produce adverse, allergic, or other untoward reactions when administered to an animal or
    a human.
            Preparation of a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions may
    include a step of lysis of the adipose tissue-derived cell suspension. A lysate comprising
    cell secretions may be prepared by any suitable method. In an example embodiment, an
15  adipose tissue-derived cell suspension may be exposed to a medium, such as described
    above. Cells of the suspension may then be lysed by any suitable means, such as by
    mechanical disruption (eg, vigorous shaking or agitation), ultrasonic disruption, freeze
    thawing, freeze drying or the addition of one or more agents capable of inducing cell
     lysis, such as adipocyte lysis. Such lysing agents are known in the art and include urea,
20   sodium dodecyl sulphate and Triton x100. After a lysis step the preparation may be
     centrifuged or filtered to assist in the removal of cell debris, or it may be used without
     such a clarifying step, in which case the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived
     secretions may also include cell debris. In some cases the cell lysate may be removed
     from the lysing agent by precipitation of the cell lysate. Where the lysis step results in
25   incomplete cell lysis, the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions may
     also comprise adipose-derived cells, such as adipocytes.
            In certain embodiments preparation of the adipose tissue-derived secretions
     comprises culturing the cell suspension under appropriate conditions. . Methods for
     culturing a cell suspension are known in the art and include, for example, culturing the
 30  cells to form an adherent cell culture, such as a confluent adherent cell culture, and
     culturing the cells in a spinner culture. At any appropriate time during, or after, culturing
     of the cells supernatant is harvested, such as from an adherent cell culture, which may be
      a confluent adherent cell culture, and optionally, removing cells from said supernatant to
      form a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions. The cell suspension so-

                                                  -20
    cultured may comprise adipocytes or may be substantially free of adipocytes. The
    removal of the cells from the supernatant to leave a composition comprising adipose
    tissue-derived secretions may be complete removal or may be partial removal. In the
    latter case, the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions may therefore
 s  also include adipocytes.
            Prior to commencing the culturing of the cells, the adipose tissue derived cell
     suspension may be re-suspended in a desired volume of an appropriate buffer, such as
     DMEM, RPMI or minimal essential media. The cell suspension, or an aliquot thereof,
     may be added to a sterile tissue culture flask and incubated under appropriate conditions,
10   typically until the adherent cells have reached confluence. The cell culture is preferably
     in the presence of sterile serum. The concentration of the serum in the culture may be any
     suitable concentration which assists culturing of adipose tissue-derived cells, such as for
     example in the range of about 1% v/v to about 30% v/v, such as about 10% v/v, or about
      15% v/v or about 20% v/v. The serum may be any appropriate serum for the culturing of
is    adipose tissue-derived cells, such as a commercial fetal calf serum, or a serum prepared in
      house, such as by methods known in the art. Preferably the serum is autologous, having
      been prepared from the same individual from which the adipose tissue was obtained, or
      allogeneic. Typically, the cells are cultured at 37*C with 5% CO 2.
             During culturing the adipose tissue-derived cells secrete cytokines including anti
20    inflammatory molecules, pro-inflammatory molecules, growth factors and other cell
      signalling molecules into the medium. The supernatant in the culture thereby comprises
      adipose tissue-derived secretions.
             In certain embodiments the culture may be frozen and freeze dried, resulting in a
      freeze dried preparation that includes cells and the secretions. Rehydration of the freeze
 25   dried preparation will lyse the majority of the cells resulting in the release of additional
      cytokines. Rehydration will typically be performed using a volume of fluid that is less
      than the original volume of the adipose tissue-derived cells, such as a volume of fluid that
      is between about 5 and about 20 times less than the original volume, more typically about
       10 times less than the original volume of the adipose tissue-derived cells which results in
 30   a composition that is 10 times concentrated. The composition may then be filtered to
      remove cell debris resulting in a composition that contains concentrated cytokines. This
       provides a preferred method for producing large volumes of concentrated secretions.
              In other certain embodiments the supernatant may be harvested from the culture at
       any appropriate time, although typically for an adherent cell culture it will be harvested

                                                 -21
    when the cells have reached confluence, such as after about 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
    13 or 14 days. Cells, cell debris and any remaining adipose tissue may be removed from
    the supernatant, such as by filtration. In an embodiment the filtration may be through a
    20 micron mesh.      If desired, multiple steps of filtration may be undertaken such as
 s  through two or more filters of decreasing mesh size. The resultant preparation of adipose
    tissue-derived secretions is typically filter sterilised, such as through a 0.22 micron filter.
    The sterilised composition may be used immediately, or may be aliquoted for use, or for
    storage. Typically, if stored, the composition is stored frozen at -20*C. The composition
    contains secretions from the adipose tissue-derived cells.
10         A composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions may also comprise
    adipocytes. Where present, the adipocytes may remain from the original adipose tissue
    used in the preparation of the secretions or they may be added to the composition
    comprising the secretions.
15         Pharmaceutical Compositions and other compositions of the invention
           In aspects of the invention the adipose tissue-derived composition, containing
     secretions of adipose tissue cells, is used for the preparation of a pharmaceutical
     composition for topical use.       According to one aspect the invention provides a
     composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions for the preparation of a
20   pharmaceutical composition for topical use in the treatment of a non-inflammatory
     disorder in a subject. In another aspect the invention provides a composition comprising
     adipose tissue-derived secretions for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for
     topical use for stimulating hair, wool or fur growth in a subject. In another aspect the
     invention provides a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions for the
25   preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for topical use for the treatment or
     prevention of acne, or one or more symptoms thereof. Typically the pharmaceutical
     composition also comprises one or more of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent,
     excipient or adjuvant.      According to a further aspect the invention provides a
     pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions, together with a
 30  pharmaceutically    acceptable   carrier,  diluent, excipient     or adjuvant.    In certain
     embodiments the composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions further
     comprises adipocytes.

                                                  -22
           1n certain embodiments, the adipose tissue is taken from an individual subject, and
    the pharmaceutical composition is topically administered to the same individual, and thus
    the adipose tissue-derived secretions is a purely autologous preparation.
           In certain embodiments, the adipose tissue is taken from one or more individual
 s  subjects and the pharmaceutical composition is topically administered to a different
    subject of the same species, and thus the adipose tissue-derived secretions is an allogeneic
    cell suspension. In certain embodiments the adipose tissue is taken from an individual of
    a different species to that which is intended to be a recipient of the adipose tissue-derived
    secretions. For example, a composition comprising secretions prepared from bovine or
10  porcine tissue may be intended for topical administration to an individual of a different'
    species, such as a human. In embodiments where the composition comprising adipose
    tissue-derived secretions is for use in a different individual of the same species as the
     source material or for use in an individual of a different species as the source material, the
     composition may typically be devoid of cells of the immune system in order to minimise
15   the possibility of host (recipient) immune response to the composition or graft versus host
     disease.
            In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is prepared from more than
     one source of adipose tissue, such as from different preparations taken from the same
     individual or from different preparations taken from different individuals. The pooling
20   may comprise combining multiple adipose tissue-derived cell suspensions, such as in a
     pooled culturing step or the pooling may comprise combining multiple compositions of
     adipose tissue-derived secretions, such as may be obtained from separate culturing or
     exposure steps.
            The pharmaceutical composition is topically administered to the subject, typically
 25   by direct or indirect contact with the skin. Topical administration used herein will also be
      understood to -include transdermal delivery. Typically a transdermal delivery system will
      comprise the pharmaceutical composition formulated with one or more agents which
      increase the permeability of the skin to the composition.
            The pharmaceutical composition for topical administration, for example for the
 30   treatment of skin conditions or for the stimulation of hair growth, or for the treatment or
      prevention of acne, may be formulated in an aqueous based cream or lotion, such as a
      cetomacrogol cream or a sorbolene cream, to increase residency at the, skin surface. As
     ,described herein the inventors have identified that the compositions of the invention are
      effective in stimulating hair, fur or wool growth. Accordingly, the compositions of the

                                                - 23
    invention for topical use include products routinely used in hair care such as shampoos,
    conditioners, hair gels, and the like.
           Where the pharmaceutical composition is administered to the cornea, it may be
    formulated with an oil-based ointment-which is acceptable for corneal administration, or
 5  it may be admixed with corneally-acceptable artificial tear solutions which increase
    residency time at the corneal surface.
              The invention will now be described in more detail, by way of illustration only,
10  with respect to the following examples. The examples are intended to serve to illustrate
    this invention and should not be construed as limiting the generality of the disclosure of
    the description throughout this specification.
 15           Example 1. Preparation of a mixture of adipocytes and adipose-derived
     non-adipocyte cells.
           A 10 g sample of adipose tissue was collected by excision from the groin of an adult
     dog. The adipose tissue was rinsed with saline and then minced finely using scissors and
     mixed with 20 ml of Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM, Sigma).
20(  Collagenase (Sigma) was added to achieve a final concentration of 0.05% w/v and the
     sample was incubated at 37'C for 90 minutes. During the incubation the sample was
     gently inverted by hand every 15 minutes.
            Following collagenase treatment the sample was aseptically filtered through a
     stainless steel mesh (300 .pm pore size), transferred to a 50 ml centrifuge tube and
 25  centrifuged at 500g for 15 minutes.
            Four distinct layers were visible within the centrifuged sample: a small (2 mm
     thick) layer of free lipid on the surface, below which was a white 10 mm thick layer of
     adipocytes and then a large clear layer of liquid which largely comprised DMEM and
     then a pellet of adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells. The small layer of lipid was
 30  carefully removed with a pasteur pipette. A fresh pasteur pipette was then carefully
     inserted through the adipocytes and the clear DMEM was removed-without disturbing the
     floating adipocytes or the pelleted cells. This resulted in a sample that contained only the
     floating adipocytes and the pelleted cells. The floating adipocytes and the pelleted cells
     were gently mixed with a pasteur pipette and transferred to a 15 ml centrifuge tube.

                                                 - 24
           The cells were then washed- in DMEM to remove collagenase. DMEM was added
    to a final volume of 14 ml and the sample centrifuged at 500g for 10 minutes. This
    resulted in three distinct layers: floating adipocytes, DMEM and pelleted adipose-derived
    non-adipocyte cells. The DMEM was carefully removed by inserting a pasteur pipette
 s  through the adipocytes taking care not to disturb the adipocytes or the pelleted cells.
           The floating and the pelleted cells were gently resuspended in 4 ml of DMEM and
    mixed with a pasteur pipette.
10            Example 2. Preparation of a cell-free extract from an adipose tissue-derived
    cell suspension.
           A 10 g sample of canine adipose tissue was minced finely using scissors and then
    mixed with 5 ml of DMEM. Autologous canine serum was filter sterilised and a 1 ml
    volume added to the mixture of minced tissue.
is         The tissue mixture was incubated at 37*C overnight without agitation. The sample
    was then centrifuged at 1500g for 15 minutes and the liquid between the floating layer of
     adipocytes and tissue and the pellet of adipose tissue-derived non-adipocyte cells was
     carefully harvested. The cell-free extract comprises secretions from the adipose tissue.
20             Example 3. Alternative preparation of a cell-free extract from an adipose
     tissue-derived cell suspension.
            A 10 g sample of adipose tissue was collected by excision from the tail-base of a
     horse. The adipose tissue was rinsed with saline and then minced roughly using scissors
     into pieces of approximately 5 mm diameter and mixed with 20 ml of Dulbecco's
25   Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM, Sigma). Collagenase (Sigma) was added to produce
     a final concentration of 0.05% [w/v] and the sample was incubated at 37"C for 30
     minutes. At the end of 30 minutes the adipose tissue was partially digested and consisted
     of a mixture of partially digested fat particles, liberated stromal vascular cells (SVCs) and
     liberated adipocytes.
 30         The sample was then washed to remove collagenase by centrifuging at 500g for 15
     minutes. Four distinct layers were visible within the centrifuged sample: a small (2 mm
     thick) layer of free lipid on the surface, below which was a white 20 mm thick layer of
      adipose tissue and adipocytes and then a large clear layer of DMEM/collagenase and then
      a pellet of adipose tissue-derived non-adipocyte cells. The small layer of lipid was

                                                -25
   carefully removed with a pasteur pipette. A fresh pasteur pipette was then carefully
   inserted through the adipocytes and the clear DMEM was removed without disturbing the
   floating adipose tissue, adipocytes or the pelleted cells. This resulted in a sample that
   contained only the floating pieces of adipose tissue and adipocytes suspended in a small
 s volume of DMEM and the pelleted cells. The pieces of adipose tissue and adipocytes and
   the pelleted cells were gently mixed with a pasteur pipette and transferred to a 15 ml
   centrifuge tube.
           The pieces of adipose tissue and cells were then washed in DMEM to remove
   collagenase as follows, DMEM was added to a final volume of 14 ml and the sample
io centrifuged at 500g for 10 minutes. This resulted in three distinct layers: floating pieces
   of adipose tissue and adipocytes, DMEM and pelleted adipose tissue-derived non
   adipocyte cells. The DMEM was carefully removed by inserting a pasteur pipette
   through the adipocytes taking care not to disturb the pieces of adipose tissue, adipocytes
   or the pelleted cells.
15
   Tissue culture
           The floating and the pelleted cells were gently resuspended in 10 ml of DMEM and
    transferred to a 300 ml tissue culture flask. A 30 ml volume of DMEM and 10 mils of
    autologous sterile serum were added and the flask was then incubated at 37*C with 5%
20  Co 2 . The flask was examined daily by microscopy.             Cells became attached and
    fibroblast-like in appearance between days 3 and 6.
    Harvesting cell free cell secretions
           After 6 days the supernatant was harvested and the suspended adipose tissue and
25  cells were removed by filtration through a 20 micron mesh. The solution was filter
    sterilised through a 0.22 micron filter and then aseptically dispensed into 10 ml vials and
    stored frozen at -20*C.
   .          Example 4. Production of a mixture of adipocytes and adipose-derived non
30   adipocyte cells depleted of adherent cells.
            A 4 ml volume of adipocytes and adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells was prepared
     as described in Example 1. Autologous canine serum was filter sterilized and a 1 ml
     volume added to the cell mixture.

                                                - 26
           The cell mixture was incubated at 37*C overnight in a tissue culture flask without
    agitation. The sample was .examined using an inverted microscope and a layer of cells
    adhering to the surface of the flask was observed. Unattached cells and floating
    adipocytes were also observed. The non-adherent cells, comprising adipocytes and
 s  adipose-derived non-adipocyte cells were carefully tipped off and collected. These cells
    are suitable for the generation of a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived
    secretions.
              Example 5. Preparation of a suspension of adipocytes.
10         A 10 g sample of adipose tissue was collected by excision from the groin of a dog.
    The adipose tissue was rinsed with saline and then minced finely using scissors and
    mixed with 20 ml of Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM, Sigma).
    Collagenase (Sigma) was added to a final concentration of 0.05% v/v and the sample was
    incubated at 370 C for 90 minutes. The sample was gently inverted by hand every 15
15  minutes.
           The sample was then aseptically filtered through a stainless steel mesh (300 pm
    pore size), transferred to a 50 ml centrifuge tube and centrifuged at 500g for 15 minutes.
           Four distinct layers were visible within the centrifuged sample: a small (2 mm
     thick) layer of free lipid on the surface, below which was a white 10 mm thick layer of
20   adipocytes and then a large clear layer of DMEM and then a pellet of adipose-derived
     non-adipocyte cells. The small layer of lipid was carefully removed with a pasteur
     pipette. A fresh pasteur pipette was then carefully inserted through the adipocytes and the
     clear DMEM and the pelleted cells were removed. This resulted in a sample that
     contained only the floating adipocytes. The adipocytes were gently mixed with a pasteur
25   pipette and transferred to a 15 ml centrifuge tube.
            The adipocytes were then washed in DMEM to remove collagenase as follows.
     DMEM was added to a final volume of 14 mis and the sample centrifuged at 500g for 10
     minutes. The DMEM was carefully removed by inserting a pasteur pipette through the
     adipocytes.
 30         The floating cells, comprising adipocytes, were gently resuspended in 4 mls of
     DMEM. At each step the DMEM exposed to the adipose tissue or adipocytes will
      comprise adipose tissue-derived cell secretions.

                                                  -27
           Example 6. Preparation of bovine adipose tissue-derived cell suspensions
           Adipose tissue from human, canine, domestic cats, snow leopard, equine, rat and
    mouse have all been digested with normal concentrations (0.02%                  or 0.05%) of
    collagenase. The use of standard methods for preparation of adipose tissue derived cells
 5  (mincing and collagenase digestion), such as those described above, were unsuccessful
    when applied to bovine tissue. The inventor initially attempted digesting with 0.02% v/v
    collagenase, this being the concentration that can be used successfully for human, canine
    and equine adipose tissue. This did not work. The digestion time was increased and
    shaking of the digestion mixture was introduced.          This resulted in the minced tissue
1o  forming into one round solid lump. The collagenase concentration was increased to 0.1%
     and still the tissue did not digest. Surprisingly, it was not until a concentration of 0.25%
     v/v collagendse was used and the mixture was digested for two hours, that the tissue
     would digest.
             Bovine adipose tissue is an attractive source of secretions due to its ready
1s   availability, the lack of zoonotic diseases (particularly in Australia) and acceptance by the
     public of using bovine products. For similar reasons the inventor considers that porcine
     adipose tissue is also an attractive source for use in methods of the invention.
            Example 7: Production of secretions from bovine adipose tissue
20
     Preparation of adipose tissue
            A 10 g sample of adipose tissue was collected by excision from the tail-base of a
     two year old steer. The adipose tissue was rinsed with saline and then minced finely
     using scissors and mixed with 20 ml of Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM,
25   Sigma). Collagenase (Sigma) was added to produce a final concentration of 0.25% [w/v]
     and the sample was incubated at 37*C for 120 minutes.
            The sample was then centrifuged at 500g for 15 minutes. Four distinct layers were
     visible within the centrifuged sample: a small (2 mm thick) layer of free lipid on the
      surface, below which was a white 20 mm thick layer of adipose tissue and adipocytes and
 30  then a large clear layer of DMEM and then a pellet of adipose tissue-derived non
      adipocyte cells. The small layer of lipid was carefully removed with a pasteur pipette. A
      fresh pasteur pipette was then carefully inserted through the adipocytes and the clear
      DMEM was removed without disturbing the floating adipose tissue, adipocytes or the
      pelleted cells. This resulted in a sample that contained only the floating pieces of adipose

                                                 - 28
    tissue and adipocytes suspended in a small volume of DMEM and the pelleted cells. The
    pieces of adipose tissue and adipocytes and the pelleted cells were gently mixed with a
    pasteur pipette and transferred to a 15 ml centrifuge tube.
            The - pieces of adipose tissue and cells were then washed in DMEM to remove
 s  collagenase as follows. DMEM was added to a final volume of 14 ml and the sample
     centrifuged at 5OOg for 10 minutes. This resulted in three distinct layers: floating pieces
     of adipose tissue and adipocytes, DMEM and pelleted adipose tissue-derived non
     adipocyte cells. The DMEM was carefully. removed by inserting a pasteur pipette
     through the adipocytes taking care not to disturb the pieces of adipose tissue, adipocytes
1o   or the pelleted cells.
     Tissue culture
            The floating and the pelleted cells were gently resuspended in 10 ml of DMEM and
     transferred to a 300 ml tissue culture flask. A 30 mi volume of DMEM and 10 mIs of
                                                                                    0
15   autologous sterile serum were added and the flask was then incubated at 37 C with 5%
     CO 2 .   The flask was examined daily by microscopy. Cells became attached and
      fibroblast-like in appearance between days 3 and 6. The attached cells became confluent
      between days 5 and 10.
20    Harvesting compositions comprising cell secretions
             Once cells were confluent on the base of the flask the supernatant was harvested
      and the suspended adipose tissue and cells were removed by filtration through a 20
      micron mesh. The solution was filter sterilised through a 0.22 micron filter and then
      aseptically dispensed into 10 ml vials and stored frozen at -20*C.
 25
             Example 8: Production of concentrated secretions from bovine adipose tissue
             Bovine adipose tissue was collected, processed and placed into tissue culture flasks
      as described in Example'7.
             Once the adherent cells became confluent the tissue culture flasks were frozen and
 30   then freeze dried in a Telstar Lyobeta freeze dryer for 2 days. The resulting freeze dried
       cake was rehydrated with 2.5 ml of distilled water. The concentrated sample was then
       desalted by passing through a PD10 column (GE Lifesciences). A 3.5 ml volume was
       eluted from the column. This small volume contained a concentrated mix of cytokines.

                                                     - 29
              Example 9: Production of secretions from bovine adipose derived cells depleted'
      of adipocytes
      Preparation of adipose tissue
   s           A 10 g sample of adipose tissue was collected by excision from the tail-base of a
      two year old steer. The adipose tissue was rinsed with saline and then minced finely
      using scissors and mixed with 20 ml of Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM,
      Sigma). Collagenase (Sigma) was added to produce a final concentration of 0.25% [w/v]
      and the sample was incubated at 37*C for 180 minutes.
  to           The sample was then centrifuged at 500g for 15 minutes. Four distinct layers were
      visible within the centrifuged sample: a small (2 mm thick) layer of free lipid on the
       surface, below which was a white 20 mm thick layer of adipose tissue and adipocytes and
      then a large clear layer of DMEM and then a pellet of adipose tissue-derived non
       adipocyte cells. All the liquid and the floating layers were discarded.
  15           The cells were then washed in DMEM to remove collagenase as follows. DMEM
       was added to a final volume of 14 ml, the sample centrifuged at 5OOg for 10 minutes and
       then the DMEM was tipped off.
       Tissue culture
  20           The pelleted cells were gently resuspended in 10 ml of DMEM and transferred to a
       300 ml tissue culture flask. A 30 ml volume of DMEM and 10 mls of autologous sterile
                                                                    0
-      serum were added and the flask was then incubated at 37 C with 5% CO 2 . The flask was
       examined daily by microscopy. Cells became attached and fibroblast-like in appearance
       between days 3 and 6. The attached cells became confluent between days 5 and 10.
  25
       Harvesting compositions comprising cell secretions
               Once cells were confluent on the base of the flask the supernatant was harvested
        and the cells were removed by filtration through a 20 micron mesh. The solution was
        filter sterilised through a 0.22 micron filter and then aseptically dispensed into 10 ml vials
  30    and stored frozen at -20*C.
               Example 10
               Examples 1-9 herein describe, inter alia, the preparation of adipose tissue-derived
        cell suspensions, wherein the suspension may or may not include adipocytes, and of cell
   35   free extracts comprising secretions from the adipose tissue (eg., Example 2). In the

                                                  -30
    course of preparation of those cell suspensions the methods may comprise exposure of the
    adipose tissue, which may or may not be partially or completely digested, to a liquid,
    typically DMEM in the Examples. During that exposure the adipose tissue-derived cells
    including adipocytes secrete factors into the liquid. In the course of preparing an adipose
 5  tissue-derived cell suspension the liquid phase, such as DMEM, may be described as a
    composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions.
            The adipose tissue-derived cell suspensions described in Examples 1-9 may be
    further utilized in the preparation of a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived
    secretions, such as by methods described herein. For example, the adipose tissue-derived
to  cell suspensions may be exposed to a suitable medium and the medium collected, or the
     cell suspension may be lysed and the medium collected, or the cell suspension may be
     cultured under suitable conditions and the medium collected, or the cell suspension may
     be cultured and subjected to freeze drying followed by re-hydration in a suitable liquid at
     a desired volume. Various examples for these methods of utilizing the adipose tissue
is   derived cells or cell suspensions in the preparation of a composition comprising adipose
     tissue-derived secretions are described herein.
            Example 10: Acceleration of hair growth in canines
            Administration of adipose tissue-derived secretions to canines has resulted in
20   acceleration of hair regrowth in the animals. Two related Ridgebacks had patches shaved
      on their shoulders. One dog had bovine secretions produced as described in Example 7
      applied topically to the left patch, twice a day while the right patch received no treatment.
      The other dog had one patch shaved and received no treatment. The patches were
      photographed regularly.      By two weeks the treated patch had grown back to 75% of
 25   original hair (Figure 1 left hand panels). The untreated patch on the same dog was at
      approximately 20% regrowth (Figure 1 right hand panels). The patch on the untreated
      dog was at 5% regrowth (not shown).
             Example 11: Treatment of skin conditions in humans
 30          Secretions from bovine adipose tissue were prepared as described in Example 7.
      The secretions were mixed with an equal amount of Aqueous Base Cream BP and
      dispensed into plastic pots and stored at 4*C until used. Pots of cream were provided to
      people for trialing for a range of topical applications.         The following descriptions

                                                -31
    exemplify the manner in which the compositions were used by the various patients, the
    condition being treated and the outcomes, as described by the patients.
          (i) Patient 1
 s        Thank you for the opportunity to trial the cream. I applied the cream to two areas.
           1. Scar on Face - (two year old scar)
          2. Plantar Wart - (at least 5 years old)
           1. Scar on Face
10         Commenced Trial: November 2010
           I applied the cream daily directly on the scar.
           The first week - no noticeable improvement.
           The second week - scar looking less raised.
           The third week - continued looking less raised/slightly faded.
1s         The fourth week - till Jan 2011 - no further improvement.
           2. Plantar Wart
           Commenced Trial: November 2010
           I applied the cream directly on the plantar wart nightly.
20         The first four weeks - no noticeable improvement.
           The fourth week       - noticeable changes in the look of the wart.
           The fourth week to January 11         -   daily improvements   -  leading to the wart
     disappearing completely.
25         (ii) Patient 2
           I tried the cream on a surgical scar on my arm. It was applied to half the scar twice
     daily for around 3 weeks and there was an observable difference in the healing of the scar
     compared to the half not treated.
            The half of the scar treated displayed a lighter and more consistent colour than the
 30  deeper crimson of the untreated section. Changes were noticed a few days after treatment.
            (iii) Patient 3
            The bovine secretions cream had a rapid and positive effect on sunburn.

                                              -32
           The burn was moderate (significant skin redness and pain) on the face, forearms and
    shins. Cream was applied to the face and forearms twice in the evening after the sun
    exposure (approximately 1.5 hours and 5 hours after sun exposure). The second
    application of cream was immediately prior to bed. The skin was washed with water, but
 5  no soaps or non-soap cleansers were used.
           No cream of any sort was applied to the skin on the burnt shins.
           The burns on the arms and face was significantly less painful within 2 hours after
    the first application. By the following morning (after two applications) the face and arms
    were almost pain free. There was little pain on the arms and face in a 40*C shower,
io  however, the untreated shins were quite painful.
           A third application of cream was used on the face and arms in the morning
    (approximately 16 hours after sun exposure). The pain has gone and the redness is very
    significantly reduced. On the untreated shins the skin is still red/pink and painful.
1s         (iv) Patient 4
           Here is my cream experience:
           Main observation: Both my wife and I put the cream on mosquito bites and within
     about 10 min the itchiness went away. Applied the cream twice more the same day and
    the bites disappeared within one day. I have done this three times and my wife once.
20   Other mosquito bites which were untreated stayed itchy for several days.
            (v) Patient 5
            I applied the cream to mosquito bites and the itchiness disappeared within 10
     minutes. After a second application of the cream the bites healed with no further
25   itchiness. At the same time I treated other mosquito bites with 1%Dermaid Cream and
     observed that the Dermaid Cream was not as effective as the bovine secretions cream.
            (vi) Patient 6
            I am a 50 year old woman and I applied the cream to my face on a daily basis.
 30  After 4 weeks my wrinkles appeared less obvious. People began to comment on my
     appearance after 6 weeks.

                                                  - 33
           (vii) Patient 7
           The bovine cell secretions cream was given to a patient with athlete's foot who self
    administered it over a period of time. The patient's report on the treatment is as follows:
           I used the bovine cell secretions cream to treat some athlete's foot between my little
 5  toes on my left foot. The athlete's foot was flaky skin that had been quite stubborn to heal
    over 12 months. I had not treated the condition in recent times. I rubbed the cream on the
    affected area every night for about a week. After about a week after I stopped applying
    the cream, I noticed that the flaky skin seemed to be less pronounced and itchy. After a
    further week (with no further cream being applied), the itchiness and flaky skin had gone
10  away and has not returned for over 6 months.
            (viii) Patient 8
            As for my 13 year old daughter's sunburn, she got burnt with particular redness
     around her chest and shoulders. I thought it was bad enough that the skin would peel
is   quite quickly. I applied the bovine cell secretions cream that evening.. In the morning the
     redness had reduced and I applied the cream again that morning. Within 24 hours the
     redness had reduced visibly and the skin did not blister or peel in any obvious way. I
     think we applied the cream once more. No negative side effects.
20          Example 12: Treatment of acne
             This example demonstrates the efficacy of bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions
     in the treatment of acne.
      Method:
 25          A batch of bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions (hereinafter "CellFree") was
      produced (batch # CFB-3A) as detailed in Example 7. This CellFree was filter sterilized
      and then freeze dried in T175 tissue culture flasks at BTF. lOOmL of CFB-3A was placed
      in 2 x T175 and then each flask was re-constituted with 1OmL of sterile water. The 1Ox
      concentrate was then filtered through PD10 columns, as follows:
 30
          1. Tip off the sodium azide from the top of the PD 10
          2.Cut the tip off the bottom of the PD10
          3. Add 20mL PBS to the top of the PD 10 allow this to drain through
          4. Add 2.5mL of the concentrated CellFree to the top of the PD10
 35       5. Allow all of the liquid to pass through the frit at the top of the PD 10

                                                  - 34
         6. Add 3.5mL of PBS and place collection tube under the tip of the PD1O to collect the
              desalted concentrated CellFree.
            27mL was collected in total of the desalted concentrated CellFree and added to 54
 5  grams of BP Aqueous cream (Kenkay Batch29AOl exp 05/13).
            A patch test was performed. Six human volunteers all put 200ul of the cream on
    their arms and placed a band-aid over this. This was held in place for approximately 8
    hours. There were no reported adverse effects from the cream.
10
            The cream was divided into 7 x 10 gram in small clear plastic pots purchased from
    the pharmacy.
            After receiving informed consent from the individuals to be involved in the trial
is   (referred to herein as human volunteer (HV) #1 to #7), a TF-002 Acne trial form was
     completed for each individual and seven pots of cream were produced and one each was
     provided to the individuals in the trial.
             According to TF-002 Acne trial protocol the individuals were given the following
20   instructions:
     This is a 21 day trial where you are required to fill in the supplied trial record form daily.
     Day 1-7 do not apply the cream.
     Day 8 - 21 You are required to apply the cream twice daily.
     - Please continue with your current skin treatment routine during the entire 21 days.
25   - Score your skin once daily using the 1-6 scale below.
     - Record any other observations regarding your skin while using the acne cream, a list of
     potential considerations is included below.
      - Please use the table on the reverse to score your skin.
      - Please record your score at roughly the same time everyday.
 30   - Using the lines provided at the end of this form, please note your current skin care
      routine. E.g cleansing, prescribed medication or treatments from the pharmacy or
      supermarket.

                                               -35
   1-6 Acne Scale
       1.Clear, indicating no inflammatory lesions (red bumps, white or yellow 'squeezable'
            spots) or noninflammatory lesions (blackheads or whiteheads).
       2. A few scattered blackheads and whiteheads and greasiness of your skin.
 5     3.30-40 small red bumps, blackheads and whiteheads over a quarter of your face.
       4. About half of your face has small red bumps, blackheads and superficial white or
            yellow 'squeezable' spots.
       5.Involves three quarters of your face with numerous blackheads and white or yellow
            'squeezable' spots.
10     6. Most of your face is affected with large inflamed red lumps and or blackheads,
            whiteheads or white or yellow 'squeezable' spots.
   Observation considerations
       1. Redness
is     2. Itchiness
       3. Skin becomes hard
       4. Skin becomes smooth
       5. Skin becomes soft
       6. Tingling sensation on application
20     7. Discolouration
        8. No change
   Results:
25
    Human volunteer        Pre-treatment   Post treatment    Comments
                           score (scale    score (scale
                           below)_         below)
    HV#1                   3               2                 Skin soft, reduction in redness, skin
                                                             quite clear, no new pimples since
                                                             beginning treatment
    HV#2                   3-4             2-3               Gone from having yellow squeezable
                                                             spots to a reduction in redness and no
                                                             new spots

                                           - 36
  HV#3                  3             3                  Most effective when applied to
                                                         individual spots rather than whole face
  HV#4                  3             1-2                NM found that after stopping using the
                                                         cream for 5 days his skin got worse
                                                         again: He has asked for more cream
  HV#5                  3-4            1                 "IH's skin is quite clear now after 4
                                                         days of use." "Cream is great. IH has
                                                         had comments from teachers about it!"
  HV#6                  2              1                 Decrease redness, inflammation and
                                                         pimples, reduced pimples on chest and
                                                         back
  HV#7                  3              1                 Improvement in softness and
                                                         smoothness
  Conclusion
  As shown in the above table and graphically in Figure 2, the trial acne results are positive
  in demonstrating an improvement in the individual trial participant's acne after
s administration of the composition comprising the bovine adipose tissue-derived
  secretions.

                                                  -37
           Claims
           1.    Use of a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions in the
    manufacture of a medicament for the topical treatment of a non-inflammatory disorder in
 5  a subject.
           2.    Use of adipose tissue-derived secretions in the manufacture of a medicament
    for topical use in stimulating hair, fur or wool growth in a subject.
           3.    Use of a composition comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions in the
    manufacture of a medicament for the topical treatment or prevention of acne in a subject.
10         4.    The use according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the adipose tissue
    derived secretions is of bovine origin or porcine origin.
           5. The use according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein the composition
    comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions further comprises adipocytes.
           6. * The use according to claim 1, wherein the non-inflammatory disorder is
15  associated with one or more of the following conditions in said subject (i) dry skin, (ii)
    itchy skin, (iii) insect bite, (iv) sun burn, (v) wrinkling of the skin, (vi) thin skin, (vii)
    cracking of the skin, (viii) insect sting, (ix) scarring, (x) stretch marks, (xi) sun spots, (xii)
    age spots,.(xiii) liver spots, (xiv) puffiness and or dark circles around the eyes, (xv)
    athlete's foot, (xvi) warts, and said treatment alleviates one or more of said conditions.
20         7.     The use according to claim 2, wherein the subject has one or more of (i)
     surgery-related hair loss, (ii) chemotherapy-related hair loss, (iii) radiation exposure
    related hair loss, (iv) alopecia, (v) male pattern baldness, (vi) female pattern baldness.
           8.     The use according to claim 3, wherein the subject is an adolescent.
           9.     A method of treating a non-inflammatory disorder in a subject, the method
25   comprising topically administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition
     comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable
     carrier or diluent.
            10. . A method of stimulating hair, wool or fur growth in a subject, the method
     comprising topically administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition
 30  comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions, together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable
     carrier or diluent.
            11.   A method of treating or preventing acne in a subject, the method comprising
     topically administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising adipose
     tissue-derived secretions, together with a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or diluent.

                                                  -38
           12.    The method according to claim 11, wherein the subject is an adolescent.
           13.    The method according to claim 11, wherein the subject has clinically relevant
    acne.
           14.    The method according to any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the adipose
 5  tissue-derived secretions is of bovine origin or porcine origin.
           15.    The method according to any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the composition
    comprising adipose tissue-derived secretions further comprises adipocytes.
           16. A method for preparing bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions, the method
    comprising:
10'        (i)       exposing a sample of bovine adipose tissue to a proteolytic enzyme
                     solution to generate a cell suspension;
           (ii)      centrifuging the suspension of cells to form a cell pellet, a free lipid layer
                     above a floating cell layer which comprises adipocytes and an intermediate
                     layer between the cell pellet and the floating cell layer, said intermediate
1s                   layer being depleted of cells relative to the cell pellet and the floating cell
                     layer; and
           (iii)     removing the free lipid layer and the intermediate layer;
            (iv)     optionally removing part or substantially all of the floating cell layer which
                     comprises adipocytes;
20          (v)      mixing the cell pellet and, if present, the floating cell layer comprising
                     adipocytes to form an adipose tissue derived cell suspension which may or
                     may not include adipocytes;
            (vi)     culturing the cell suspension under appropriate conditions;
            (vii)    harvesting supernatant of the cell culture to form a composition
 25                  comprising bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions.
             17.   The method according to claim 16, wherein the proteolytic enzyme solution
     comprises collagenase at a final concentration of about 0.25% w/v.
             18. The method according to claim 16, wherein culturing the cell suspension
      comprises culturing (i) an adherent cell culture, or (ii) culturing a spinner culture.
 30          19.   The method according to claim 16, wherein the harvested supernatant
      comprises adipocytes.
            20.    The method according to claim 18, wherein said adherent cell culture is a
      confluent cell culture.

                                             -39
        21.   The method according to claim 16, further comprising freeze-drying said
  bovine adipose tissue-derived secretions..
        22.   The method according to claim 21, further comprising re-hydrating said
  freeze-dried material.
5
                                    Cell Ideas Pty Ltd
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                         SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
