ULTRASONIC ROTARY MOLDING
ABSTRACT
The application relates to a rotary wheel (220) for forming an edible food product. The rotary
wheel (220) includes one or more cutting tools (250) disposed on the outer surface of the rotary
wheel (220). The rotary wheel (220) further includes one or more ventilation channels (224)
that are routed and adapted to allow air to flow between the one or more cutting tools (250) and
air surrounding the rotary wheel (220).

                                                   1
ULTRASONIC ROTARY MOLDING
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015200272, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013240268, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
FIELD
[0002] One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to the manufacturing
of food products and more particularly to the ultrasonic rotary molding of edible compositions.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Millions of pounds of food products such as snack foods, cereals, and pet foods, for
example, are purchased and consumed every year. Typically, many of these types of food
products are manufactured and sold in the form of small, bite-sized shapes. For example, many
popular snack foods and dry cereals today are packaged and sold in small, bite-sized shapes.
Such bite-sized shapes may provide for convenient manufacturing and packaging of the food
product as well as being easily consumable by consumers. Additionally, dry pet foods, such as
dog food, for example, are also typically sold in small, bite-sized form. Small pet foods may
also provide convenient manufacturing and packaging of the pet food products as well as being
easily consumable by pets.
[0004] One method of manufacturing small, bite-sized food products is a guillotine-style cutter.
In these systems, the guillotine cutter is located at a point along a conveyor belt and a cutter
blade slices through strips of food product. Because the blade(s) of the guillotine cutter are
generally straight, the guillotine cutter can only cut food products into final shapes that have
linear and angular edges. Most often, the guillotine cutter is only adapted to cutting square and
rectangular-shaped food products. With earlier styles of guillotine cutters, the food product
tended to stick to the cutter blade. Some guillotine-style systems addressed this by using an
ultrasonic cutter such as an ultrasonic knife or guillotine blade.

                                                    2
[0005] Another method of manufacturing these small, bite-sized food products is rotary
forming. Traditionally, rotary forming of food products has typically been accomplished by
using a pair of rotary forming wheels (the double-wheel style). Each of the rotary forming
wheels typically includes a number of cavities positioned around the outer surface of each of the
rotary forming wheels. Each cavity on one rotary forming wheel typically has a counterpart of
the same shape and size on the other rotary forming wheel in the pair. The rotary forming
wheels are typically positioned directly adjacent to each other with the outer surfaces of each of
the rotary wheels facing each other. The rotary forming wheels are also typically positioned so
that the outer surfaces of each of the rotary forming wheels are in close proximity to, or
touching the other rotary forming wheel.
[0006] In operation, the rotary forming wheels typically are rotated in a downward fashion so
that the cavities at the top of each of the rotary forming wheels are rotated towards each other.
The timing of each of the rotary forming wheels is arranged so that the cavities along the outer
edges of each of the rotary forming wheels align with each other at the point where the outer
edges of the two rotary forming wheels are positioned closest together or touching. When the
cavities of each of the rotary forming wheels align, a hollow mold is formed by the two cavities
at the point where the outer surfaces of the two rotary forming wheels are positioned closest
together or touching. Food product is introduced into the system by filling the upper most cavity
of each rotary forming wheel. Then, rotation of the rotary forming wheels causes the filled
cavities to become positioned adjacent to each other forming an enclosed mold as described
above. As the rotary forming wheels continue to rotate downward, the cavities of each rotary
forming wheel containing the formed food product begin to separate.
[0007] The food product supply system typically delivers the food product in a sticky or semi
adhesive state. Typically, the sticky or semi-adhesive properties of the food product cause the
food product to stick to the inside of the cavities, which causes the molded food product to resist
falling out of the cavity by the force of gravity alone when the wheels separate. Because of this
issue, manufacturers have relied on a phenomena called "webbing" to facilitate the food product
in removing from the cavity. Webbing occurs because excess food product leaks or squeezes out
of the cavities when the rotary wheels are pressing the food product between corresponding
cavities. The leaked food product created by one molding cavity adheres or sticks to the leaked
food product created by the subsequent molding cavity, and so on. Thus, each formed food
product is connected to the next formed food product through a "web" of food product. As

                                                   3
previous formed food products are removed from the cavities and move along a conveyor line,
the webbed food product pulls subsequent formed food products out of their cavities. However,
the food product web serves little purpose beyond facilitating removal of molded food products
from cavities, and the web results in wasted food product material, which adds to overall cost of
the process.
[0008] A rotary forming apparatus that does not utilize a food product web is described in U.S.
Pat. No. 6,635,292, entitled "Ultrasonic Rotary Forming of Food Products", by Roberto A.
Capodieci, issued Oct. 21, 2003, which explains a similar two-wheel apparatus that uses an
ultrasonically activated rotary wheel that facilitates a food product to detach from its cavity
without the use of the food product web.
OBJECT
[0009] It is the object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the above disadvantages.
SUMMARY
[0010] According to a first aspect there is disclosed herein a rotary wheel for forming an edible
food product, the rotary wheel including one or more cutting tools disposed on the outer surface
of the rotary wheel, the rotary wheel including one or more ventilation channels that are routed
and adapted to allow air to flow between the one or more cutting tools and air surrounding the
rotary wheel.
[0011] According to a second aspect there is disclosed herein a rotary wheel for forming an
edible food product, the rotary wheel including one or more cutting tools disposed on the outer
surface of the rotary wheel, wherein the one or more cutting tools each include edges that are
bevelled.
[0012] According to a third aspect there is disclosed herein a cutting tool for forming an edible
food product, the cutting tool including one or more ventilation channels comprising at least one
area of discontinuity in a cutting edge of the cutting tool.

                                                 4
[0013] According to a fourth aspect there is disclosed herein a cutting tool for forming an edible
food product, the cutting tool including edges that are beveled.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
[0015] FIG. 1 is an illustration of an example system for forming edible compositions,
according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0016] FIG. 2 is an illustration of an example spring that may be included as part of a system for
forming edible compositions, according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0017] FIG. 3 is an illustration of an example system for forming edible compositions,
according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0018] FIG. 4 is an illustration of an example ultrasonic rotary wheel, according to one or more
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0019] FIG. 5 is an illustration of an example tool that may be included as part of an ultrasonic
rotary wheel, according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0020] FIG. 6 is an illustration of an example ultrasonic rotary wheel, according to one or more
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0021] FIG. 7 is a close-up illustration of an example system for forming edible compositions,
according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0022] FIG. 8 shows two top-plan-view illustrations of an example system for forming edible
compositions, according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0023] FIG. 9 is an angled-top-view illustration of an example system for forming edible
compositions, including four rotary wheels, according to one or more embodiments of the
present disclosure.

                                                   5
[0024] FIG. 10 is a top-plan- view illustration of an example system for forming edible
compositions, including thirty rotary wheels, according to one or more embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0025] FIG. 11 is an illustration of an example infeed stage, according to one or more
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0026] FIG. 12 illustrates a perspective view of an egg-shaped tool having a first portion, a
second portion, and a vented region.
[0027] FIGs. 13-16 illustrate various views of a heart-shaped tool also having a first portion, a
second portion, and a vented region.
[0028] FIGs. 17-20 illustrate various views of a Christmas-tree-shaped tool having several
portions and several vented regions.
[0029] FIGs. 21-24 illustrate various views of a pumpkin shaped tool having several portions
and several vented regions.
[0030] FIGs. 25-28 illustrate various views of an alternative egg-shaped tool.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031] The present disclosure describes an ultrasonic rotary molding system that is used to form
edible compositions or food products by forming the food product on a conveyor belt which is
backed, at least in part, by a spring loaded platform. The resulting food products are typically
bite-sized (such as pet treats, candy bar "eggs," nuggets, balls and the like), although the present
disclosure contemplates using the solutions described herein to create larger food products as
well (such as regular-sized pet treats such as dog bones, regular-sized candy bars, etc.).
Throughout this disclosure, it should be understood that a reference to a particular resulting food
product does not restrict the description to systems, equipment or solutions that create only that
type of food product. For example, a description of a machine or a process that refers to a dog
bone or candy bar, may also apply to the creation of an egg, and vice versa.

                                                   6
[0032] FIG. 1 shows an illustration of an example system 100 for forming an edible
composition, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. The system comprises
an ultrasonically activated rotary wheel 120, a moveable backing plate 130 and a conveying
element 140. FIG. 3 shows another illustration of an example system 200 for forming an edible
composition according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in FIG. 3, the
system may include more than one rotary wheel (220 and 221), more than one moveable
backing plate (230 and 231) and more than one conveying element (240 and 241).
[0033] FIG. 3 also shows two embodiments of the ultrasonic rotary wheel 220 and 221. In one
embodiment of the rotary wheel, the rotary wheel 220 includes a plurality of tools, generally
referenced with a number 250, for cutting strips of food product into a final size (or an
intermediate size). Cutting tools may take many different shapes, sizes and depths, and may
include different inner cavity shapes. FIG. 3 shows an example tool 250 that may be included as
part of an ultrasonic rotary wheel according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In this
example, each tool 250 has an oblong cylindrical shape, where the rim of each tool has a shape
that is similar to the cross-sectional shape of an egg. In some embodiments, the conveying
elements can be narrower than the widest width of the cutting tools thereby allowing for any
excess trim material to fall away from the finished shape.
[0034] FIG. 4 shows another embodiment of the ultrasonic rotary wheel 320 and another
example style of tool 350 that includes cutting fins 352 that are disposed adjacent to the cutting
tool cylinders. In some embodiments, these cutting fins 352 may improve the forming of food
products, but in other embodiments, the food product forming may work better without fins.
FIG. 5 shows another embodiment of the ultrasonic rotary wheel 420 and another example tool
450 that may be included as part of an ultrasonic rotary wheel according to one embodiment of
the present disclosure. As FIG. 5 shows, a cutting tool may have a more complex shape than
simply a circle or an egg shape. In some embodiments, the tool 450 may be shaped such that the
resulting formed food product resembles an animal or other recognizable shape.
[0035] Regardless of the shape, each cutting tool may include one or more edges that are
adapted for cutting through a food product. The edges may be located at the outermost point or
extremity of the cutting tool's side walls. In some examples, the edges are adapted for cutting
through meat chunks, cereal grains, peanuts, caramel, nougat and other food products that
typically form the inside of pet foods, and/or chocolate-covered candy bars. It should be

                                                   7
understood however, that the final food product need not be subsequently covered in chocolate
or any other food substance. In other examples, the edges are adapted for cutting through a food
product that has already been covered with another food substance such as chocolate. In some
embodiments, the cutting tool side walls are tapered to improve release of the product from the
cutting tool.
[0036] In some examples, the edges may be beveled, meaning that the contacting face of the
edges may not be perpendicular to the side walls of the cutting tool. This beveled shape of the
cutting tool edge may also be referred to as the "grind" of the edge. The grind of an edge may
refer to the cross-sectional shape of the edge, and a beveled edge may have a cross-sectional
shape where the contacting face of the edge may not be perpendicular to the side walls of the
cutting tool. For example, the contacting face of the edge may form a 45 degree angle relative to
the line that extends outward from the side walls. Many other angles are possible. In some
examples, the edges may have a double (or triple, etc.) bevel, meaning that the edge may include
two (or more) contacting surfaces that are angled differently from each other. For example, an
edge may have a first bevel of approximately 15 degrees and a second bevel of approximately
20 degrees. The beveled edges of a cutting tool may adapt the cutting tool to cut through food
products and/or recede from the food products more easily.
[0037] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, multiple cutting tools are disposed
around the outer surface of the rotary wheel. FIG. 6 shows an illustration of an example rotary
wheel 520 according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. In these embodiments, the
rotary wheel 520 may resemble a rolling pin with cookie cutters (tools 550) attached to the outer
curved surface of the rolling pin. It should be understood that the tools may either be attached to
the outer curved surface such that they protrude outward beyond the curved surface of the rotary
wheel, or they may be recessed into the rotary wheel such that each tool extends minimally from
the curved surface of the rotary wheel, or not at all. In operation, as the rotary wheel rotates
about its axis, cutting tools disposed at various locations around the rotary wheel take turns
approaching the cutting surface of the conveying element, making contact with the food product
and the cutting surface, and then receding from the cutting surface, leaving behind the cut and
formed food product on the cutting surface.
[0038] In some embodiments, the tools disposed around the rotary wheel, in addition to cutting
the food product, may also mold the food product into a more desirable three dimensional shape.

                                                    8
In some embodiments, the shapes can be curvilinear and thus create a shape with a plurality of
rounded surfaces. Each cutting tool may further include walls that are adjacent to the cutting
edge and, potentially, a contoured cavity that may be adapted to mold the food product. It
should be understood that manufacturers of food products are sometimes less concerned about
the highly presentable appearance of the food product, and more concerned about economy,
speed and volume. This may be especially true if the food product will be subsequently covered
in chocolate, for example, after the food product is cut and formed by the rotary wheel.
Therefore, different requirements of the manufacturer and different subsequent processes may
result in the use of rotary wheels employing different tools. If, for example, the tools are used to
only cut relatively flat strips of food product, it may not be necessary for the tools to have a
contoured or cupped cavity for three dimensional molding of the food product. However, if the
tools are used to cut and mold a thicker food product or a food product that requires a three
dimensionally shaped or curvilinear top, the tools may have a contoured or cupped cavity for
molding the food product. In one example, each tool includes one or more cutting edges, one or
more walls that are adjacent to the cutting edges, and a contoured cavity. In this example, the
cutting edge(s) will first contact the food strip; then the walls will contact the food strip,
partially molding the food product; finally, the contoured cavity will contact the food strip,
further molding or stamping the food product.
[0039] The rotary wheel typically has a cylindrical shape and is typically oriented such that the
axis of the cylinder runs horizontally and the outer curved surface of the cylinder may
continually make contact with (or come close to) a separate horizontal surface such as a
conveyor belt. The ultrasonic rotary molding system may utilize cylinders with a variety of
dimensions. For example, the circular cross-section of the cylinder may vary in radius, and the
length of the axis of the cylinder may vary. Additionally, the ratio between the radius and the
length of the axis may vary.
[0040] In some embodiments of the current disclosure, a rotary wheel may include ventilation
channels. As shown in FIG. 3, the rotary wheel 221 on the left has holes or ventilation channels
222 that are bored or drilled substantially horizontally into the rotary wheel. Additionally,
ventilation channels 224 are bored or drilled from the base of the tool 251's cavities and run
toward the center of the rotary wheel 221 where they eventually intersect with the ventilation
channels 222. As a result, a first ventilation channel 222 and a second ventilation channel 224
intersect to form a continuous ventilation channel 226 that runs from the inner base of a tool 251

                                                    9
such that air can flow to and from the base of the tool 251 from and to the exterior space
surrounding the wheel. Each ventilation channel 226 vents the cavity so that air can enter and
escape the tool 251's cavity while food products are being formed. Ventilation ensures that no
vacuum builds up within the cavity which may make food product pieces stick and not release
easily. In testing, some embodiments of the present disclosure have exhibited significant
performance increases when the ventilation channels are used.
[0041] In some embodiments, the ventilation channels can the take the form of areas of
discontinuity in the cutting edge of the cutting tools. In these embodiments, the areas of
discontinuity can occur wherever the cutting tool runs parallel to the edge of the product strip. In
some embodiments, the areas of discontinuity can be a single opening in the edge of the cutting
tool while in other embodiments, there can be an area of discontinuity at every point where the
cutting tool is parallel to the product strip. By placing the area(s) of discontinuity at point(s)
where the cutting edge of the cutting tool runs parallel to the product strip, the shape of the
formed product is not comprised.
[0042] In some embodiments, the size of the area(s) of discontinuity is at least 1.5 mm while in
other embodiments the size can be less than 50 mm. In embodiments where the size of the
area(s) of discontinuity is smaller, the taper of the cutting tool side wall may be decreased to
improve release of the product from the cutting tool.
[0043] In yet another example embodiment, the ventilation channels may be coupled to an air or
gas source that creates an air or gas pulse to positively pressurize the cavity to facilitate the
ejection of food product pieces from the cavity. The ventilation channels 226 may be routed and
adapted to allow a gas, for example a pressurized gas, to flow between the gas source and the
base and/or cavity of the cutting tools 251, to aid in ejection of the food product. In some
embodiments, the air or gas source may be in communication with one or more sensors, for
example, optical sensors such as cameras. The sensors may be oriented and adapted to detect
whether a food product has been properly ejected from the cavity of the cutting tools. The sensor
may communicate a signal to the air or gas source when the sensor detects that a food product
has not been properly ejected from a cavity, and, in response to the signal from the sensor, the
air or gas source may generate a blast or pulse of air or gas through one or more of the
ventilation channels, to aid in ejecting the food product. The sensors may aid a food
manufacturer in lowering production costs because the air or gas source may only need to

                                                  10
expend energy to blast air when a food product does not eject on its own. In some embodiments,
the sensors may not communicate with an air source but may provide some other type of
feedback and, for example, may stop the system or perform some other action in response to
detecting that a food product has not been properly ejected.
[0044] The rotary wheel is typically attached to an ultrasonic generator (also referred to as an
ultrasonic frequency generator) that introduces ultrasonic vibrations to one or more parts of the
rotary wheel during operation of the system. In some embodiments, the ultrasonic generator and
the rotary wheel are configured in such a manner that only a portion of rotary wheel vibrates, for
example the tools that are attached to the rotary wheel, such that vibration does not translate to
other parts of the apparatus. In other embodiments, the entire rotary wheel may vibrate. It should
be understood that throughout this disclosure, whenever reference is made to the vibration of the
rotary wheel, it is contemplated that either a part of the rotary wheel may vibrate, or the entire
wheel may vibrate.
[0045] The rotary wheel may vibrate continuously at the same frequency and amplitude at all
times during operation. For example, many rolling devices may operate at one constant
frequency and amplitude because the machine is constantly feeding food product, the rollers are
constantly rolling, and the tools are cutting at an even rate. In other embodiments, however, the
rotary wheel may vibrate at different frequencies and different amplitudes during operation,
depending on several factors.
[0046] The ultrasonic generator may operate (continuously or at a particular time) at a variety of
frequencies and amplitudes. For example, the generator may vibrate (and causes the rotary
wheel to vibrate) at an ultrasonic frequency of about 15,000 Hz to 30,000 Hz. In one specific
example, the generator vibrates at an ultrasonic frequency of approximately 20,000 Hz. In other
embodiments, the ultrasonic frequency may be less than 30,000 Hz, or less than 25,000, or less
than 20,000 while in still other embodiments, the ultrasonic frequency may be more than 15,000
Hz or more than 20,000 or more than 25,000 Hz. In some embodiments, the ultrasonic
frequency may be between 20,000 and 25,000 Hz. Adjusting the frequency of the vibrations
may allow a technician to adapt the system for ideal operation. For example, frequencies that are
too low may cause the system operate too loudly because the vibrations resonate in an audible
range. On the other hand, frequencies that are too high may cause the rotary wheel and the

                                                   11
cutting tools to vibrate so intensely that the cutting tools become unable to cut with ideal
precision, and thus non-ideal tool shapes would have to be used.
[0047] As far as the amplitude of the ultrasonic generator, in some examples, the generator may
vibrate with amplitudes of between about 20 and 50 microns. In one specific example, the
generator vibrates with an amplitude of between about 30 and 40 microns. In some
embodiments, the generator may vibrate with amplitudes of more than 20, or more than 25, or
more than 30, or more than 35, or more than 40, or more than 45 microns while in still other
embodiments, the generator may vibrate with amplitudes of less than 50, or less than 45, or less
than 40, or less than 35, or less than 30 or less than 25 microns. In some embodiments the
generator may vibrate with amplitudes of between about 25 and 45 microns, Adjusting the
amplitude of the vibrations may allow a technician to adapt the system for ideal operation. For
example, if the generator vibrates with amplitudes that are too low, the food product may, to
some extent, stick to the cutting tools or blades. On the other hand, if the generator vibrates with
amplitudes that are too high, the cutting tools and blades may get too hot which may result in
the food product melting to some extent.
[0048] The ultrasonic generator may be comprised of an input converter and a transducer. The
input converter converts an electrical input (for example, 60 HzAC, 117 VAC, or 240 VAC) to
electrical pulses. The transducer then converts the electrical pulses received from the input
converter to mechanical vibrations which are then introduced to the rotary wheel. In one
embodiment of the present disclosure, the input converter converts an electrical input to about
20,000 electrical pulses, which the transducer then converts to about 20,000 mechanical
vibrations per second. Various other types of equipment can be used in connection with (or as
part of) the ultrasonic generator, such as, for example, a booster or reducer that can effectively
increase or decrease the vibratory movement of the cutting tools, as desired.
[0049] The rotary wheel and associated cutting tools benefit from the ultrasonic vibrations in
several ways. For example, the ultrasonic vibrations cause a reduction in the friction at the
surfaces of the cutting tools, such as the cutting edges, the walls adjacent to the cutting edges
and the contoured cavities (optional) of the tools. Surfaces with reduced friction are less prone
to sticking to food product. Additionally, because the tools of the rotary wheel can cut without
sticking to the food product, the apparatus may operate for longer periods of time before it needs
to be stopped so that the cutting tools may be cleaned or replaced.

                                                   12
 [0050] The surfaces of the cutting tools, such as the cutting edges, the walls adjacent to the
cutting edges and the contoured cavities may be formed out of a variety of materials. Ultrasonic
vibrations have been shown to reduce the friction properties of metal surfaces, as well as plastic
surfaces, and thus, metal or plastic surfaces may be used, for example. It may be possible to
further improve the friction properties of the surfaces of the tools by adding or coating one or
more of the surfaces with a lubricious polymeric material. For example, the surfaces may be
coated with a lubricious polymeric material such as polytetrafluoroethylene (sold commercially
under the trademark TEFLON), which can be bonded to the surfaces of the cavities.
Alternatively, the surfaces can be fabricated from a polymeric material that provides lubricious
properties.
 [0051] Another benefit of the ultrasonic vibrations is that the edges of the cutting tools cut more
cleaning through the food product. For example, an ultrasonically vibrated cutting edge can
make very clean cuts through peanuts, such that the peanuts are left with smooth edges. By
contrast, when peanuts are cut with a regular knife or edge, the resulting peanuts may have
jagged or crumbled edges.
 [0052] Additionally, ultrasonic vibrations may help mix the food product, or maintain the food
product in a well-mixed state. Ultrasonic vibrations have been used in processing of liquids and
semi-liquids, by generating alternating low-pressure and high-pressure waves in liquids, leading
to the formation and violent collapse of small vacuum bubbles. This phenomenon (sometimes
termed "cavitation") causes high speed impinging liquid jets and strong hydrodynamic shear
forces that can be used for the disintegration of cells and mixing. It should be understood that
some food products maintain a fairly constant consistency and, therefore, do not require mixing
during the cutting and forming of the food strips. However, the mixing benefits of ultrasonic
vibrations may be useful to maintain the consistence or further mix some types of food products.
 [0053] The ultrasonic rotary wheel system further includes a movable backing plate. As shown
in the example in FIG. 1, the backing plate 130 may be disposed under a conveyor belt at the
point where the tools of the rotary wheel 120 contact the strips of food product. This point of
contact can be the point where the confectionery strips pass beneath the approximate center of
mass 121 of the rotary wheel. The center of mass 121 of the rotary wheel 120 is typically
located at the horizontal point of the axil of the rotary wheel, but this need not be the case. The
backing plate 130 may be spring loaded such that a spring 132 causes the backing plate to exert

                                                  13
force upward against the conveyor belt, and in turn against the food product that is moving on
the conveyor belt. FIG. 7 shows another view of an example backing plate 630. In this example,
it can be seen that the backing plate 630 is located beneath a conveyor belt 642 and directly
below a rotary wheel 620.
[0054] Referring back to FIG. 1, the spring 132 may be implemented by a variety of designs. In
some embodiments, as shown in FIG. 1, the spring 132 may be designed like a traditional coiled
spring where as more force is exerted down on the spring 132, the spring compresses in a
vertical direction and exerts more force upward against the backing plate 130 the more it
compresses. In other embodiments, as shown in FIG. 2, the spring 134 may be designed to
include a flexible fin 136 or paddle attached to a rod 133 where as more force is exerted down
on the top surface of the fin 136, especially near the outer end of the fin, the fin wraps slightly
more around the rod 133 and exerts more force in the opposite rotation direction, generally
upward against the backing plate 130. The spring action of the fin-style spring 134 operates
similar to the spring action of a diving board. FIG. 3 shows an example of how the rod 233
associated with the fin-type spring may be incorporated into a system 200. As shown in this
example, the rod 233 may run through one or more solid pieces of the system 200 or solid
pieces of nearby machinery such that the rod 233 is coupled to a solid base so that it can resist
rotation as the fin (not shown) torques the rod 233. The rod 233 then connects with a fin (not
shown) that is located beneath the backing plate 230. In another example, the fin may be
adhered to the backing plate 230 or the fin may be formed with the backing plate 230 so that
they constitute a single molded piece.
[0055] The spring (for example spring 132 and/or spring 134) may be adapted to have an
adjustable spring tension so that the spring and the backing plate may exert a range of forces,
depending on the desired application. For example, the spring tension system may be adjusted
so that the spring exerts a pressure that may range from zero pounds to approximately 50 pounds
of force. In some embodiments, the spring pressure may be more than 10, more than 20, more
than 30, or more than 40 pounds of force while in other embodiments, the spring pressure may
be less than 50, or less than 40 or less than 35, or less than 30 or less than 25 or less than 20 or
less than 15 or less and 10 pounds of force. In another example, the spring operates within a
range of forces between approximately 10 pounds and 20 pounds. In some embodiments, the
spring may exert a pressure of from about 5 to about 45 pounds of force while in other
embodiments, the pressure may be from about 15 to about 35 pounds of force. The spring

                                                   14
tension may be adjusted in a variety of manners. For example, spring may simply be replaced
with a different spring with different resistance properties. In another example, a coiled spring
may include a dial that can increase the resistance of the spring. In yet another example, the
resistance of a fin-styled spring may be increased by rotating the rod so that the fin rests in a
more torqued initial position when no food product is on the backing plate.
[0056] Additionally, in some embodiments, the rotary wheel(s) may be adjustable vertically so
that the distance and/or pressure between the rotary wheel and the conveyor belt (and the
backing plate) may change as the rotary wheel is adjusted. For example, the rotary wheel may
be adjusted by a screw gear.
[0057] One object of the movable backing plate is to compensate for the effect of ultrasonic
vibrations on the conveyor belt (from the cutting element). In order for the rotary wheel tools to
cut through the food product strips, pressure must be exerted downward on the food product,
and thus, the cutting edges of the tools also exert pressure downward upon the belt. The
movable backing plate is adapted to absorb some of the pressure that is exerted down on the belt
from the cutting tools, which reduces the amount of damage caused by the cutting tools on the
belt. Therefore, the movable backing plate allows for long term operation of the ultrasonic
rotary wheel system with reduced cutting or wearing of the conveyor belt. Additionally, the
movable backing plate evens out the pressure exerted on the belt which allows for more
consistent cutting.
[0058] Another benefit of the movable backing plate may be that it minimizes or prevents
completely any leaking of food product from the cutting tools of the rotary wheel. The movable
backing plate in conjunction with a semi-flexible conveyor belt may allow for evenly-spaced
contact between the edges of the cutting tool and the belt, thereby allowing the cutting tools to
cut completely through the food product strips, making clean cuts with minimal or no leakage of
food product from between the cutting edge of the tool and the conveyor belt.
[0059] The ultrasonic rotary wheel system further includes a conveying element, which may
further include one or more flexible belts (i.e., conveyor belts). FIG. 3 shows an illustration of
an example system 200 that includes a conveying element 240 that further includes two
conveyor belts 242, 243, as well as components that facilitate movement of the belt (such as
rollers, gears, gear belts, a motor and the like) and optional support platforms that may supply a

                                                    15
sturdy surface below the conveyor belts if needed. For example, a sturdy surface may be
required when a piece of machinery must apply force downward upon a food product that is
moving on the conveyor belt. In other embodiments, the conveying element may include a series
of rollers, a series of discrete conveyor belts, or other means of conveying a food product along
a feed path. (The path that a food product travels, along the top of the conveying element, from
its form as a strip, through the rotary wheel, and beyond, is sometimes referred to as the "feed
path".)
[0060] It should be understood that even though FIG. 1 shows the conveying element 140 as
including a single conveyor belt, the conveying element may include more than one conveyor
belt. For example, a dual conveyor belt embodiment of a system is shown in FIG. 3, and more
closely in FIG. 7. In these embodiments, the conveying element includes two conveyor belts,
each conveyor belt being independently powered, for example, with independent rollers, gears,
gear belts, motors and/or the like. In these embodiments, in operation, the food product travels
from left to right (as the figures are depicted). The food product first travels along the left
conveyor belt (242 in FIG. 3 and 642 in FIG. 7) and then gets formed by a rotary wheel (220 in
FIG. 3 and 620 in FIG. 7). In these examples, the spring-loaded backing plate (230 in FIG. 3 and
630 in FIG. 7) is located near the end (or nose) of the left conveyor belt. Then the food product
transfers to the next conveyor belt (243 in FIG. 3 and 643 in FIG. 7), the one of the right.
[0061] One benefit of a dual conveyor belt embodiment can be seen in FIG. 9, which depicts
another example system 900. Again, as shown in FIG. 9, in operation, the food products travel
from left to right (as the figure is depicted). As the food product transfers from the conveyor belt
942 on the left to the conveyor belt 943 on the right, the "webbing" (or the excess food product),
that is created when the rotary wheel tools (of rotary wheels 920) stamp the food product strips,
falls between the two conveyor belts, where it is then carried away. In an exemplary
embodiment, the ultrasonic rotary wheel tools cut through the strips of food product so cleanly,
that the webbing easily falls away when it is no longer supported from below. Quick removal of
the webbing may help to ensuring that scrap food product does not re-adhere to the formed food
product after it is formed and cut by the rotary wheel. Additionally, in some embodiments, the
second belt (the belt on the right, or the take-away belt) may be run at a higher speed than the
first belt (the belt on the left, or the forming belt). This difference in speed of the successive
belts may create a gap between successive formed food pieces so that they do not stick to each
other after they are formed.

                                                 16
[0062] The ultrasonic rotary molding system may utilize a single lane of conveyor belts, or it
may utilize multiple lanes of individual conveyor belts. The difference in these two
embodiments can be seen, for example, if FIG. 3 and FIG. 9 are compared. In FIG. 3, multiple
separate lanes are used, one lane per rotary wheel. By contrast, in FIG. 9, a single conveyor belt
lane is used, even though the system includes multiple rotary wheels 920. Utilizing multiple
strips of food product and/or multiple separate conveyor belts may provide benefits while
forming food products. For example, separate strips of food product allows for the system to
employ multiple staggered wheels, and multiple separate conveyor belts with widths that are
narrower than the widest width of the cutting tools may facilitate the webbing or scrap food
product to fall away from the formed food product quickly, sometimes immediately after
forming. Quick removal of the webbing or trim may help to ensuring that scrap food product
does not re-adhere to the formed food product after it is formed and cut by the rotary wheel.
[0063] In some embodiments, the conveying element may include one or more side-rail guides.
For example, each lane of conveyor belts may include a side rail guide on either or each side of
the lane. For each lane, the side rail guides may extend the entire length of the conveying
element or a portion of the length of the conveying element. For example, the side rail guides
may extend along portions of the conveying element that lead into and out from the rotary
wheel. The side rail guides may be positioned and adapted to aid a food product traveling on a
conveyor belt from straying. For example, side rail guides that extend along portions of the
conveying element that lead into the rotary wheel may aid strips of food product from straying
and/or falling off of the conveyor belt. As another example, side rail guides that extend along
portions of the conveying element that lead out from the rotary wheel may aid molded pieces of
food product from straying and/or falling off of the conveyor belt.
[0064] The conveyor belt's outer surface may have a variety of textures (or lack thereof). In one
embodiment, the outer surface is a very smooth surface. A smooth outer surface may be
beneficial because it may allow for superior adhesion between the outer belt surface and the
food product because a smooth surface allows for more surface area contact between the belt
and the food product. Better adhesion facilitates the belt to pull the food product from the
cutting tools after they have completed cutting and forming the food product. Additionally,
better adhesion prevents the food product from slipping and moving backwards along the
conveyor belt as the food product is fed into the rotary wheel as well as other stages in the
system that may require that a machine part touch the food product. In a specific example of this

                                                  17
embodiment, the conveyor belt may include an FDA-approved smooth surface that is safe to
contact the food products and a belt that is partially or wholly constructed of fabric and is
adapted to withstand bending and turning around sharp corners, curves and the like. Other
embodiments of the present disclosure may include conveyor belts with outer types of surfaces
that are not perfectly smooth and/or are textured because some types of food products may stick
better to textured surfaces.
[0065] As mentioned above, the ultrasonic rotary molding system may include more than one
rotary wheel. In some embodiments, the rotary wheels are staggered, as is shown in FIG. 8 (the
figure on the top), which shows a top view of an example system. FIGS. 3, 9, and 10 also show
illustrations of embodiments with staggered rotary wheels. As can be seen from these figures,
the system may be configured to accommodate a wide range of numbers and orientations of
rotary wheels, from a single wheel, to four wheels (FIG. 9), to 30 wheels as shown in the
example of FIG. 10. More specifically, FIG. 10 shows an example of how a system 1000 may
be scaled up to include many rotary wheels while keeping the footprint of the overall system
manageable. For example, a 'V configuration, as shown in FIG. 10, is one example of a system
with a manageable footprint.
[0066] In some embodiments, multiple rotary wheels contact multiple edible food product
masses. In such embodiments, the edible food product mass may be formed into strips prior to
contacting the rotary wheels such that multiple strips contact the multiple wheels. In other
embodiments, multiple rotary wheels contact a single edible food product mass. In such
embodiments, the edible food product mass may be formed into a sheet prior to contacting the
rotary wheels such that a single sheet contacts the multiple wheels.
[0067] Even though FIG. 8 and other figures throughout this disclosure may show the system as
including staggered rotary wheels, it should be understood that the rotary wheels may be
oriented such that at least one rotary wheel in the system is oriented inline with another rotary
wheel, such that the axis of at least one rotary wheel approximately aligns with the axis of
another rotary wheel in the system. See FIG. 8 (the figure on the bottom) for an example of a
fully in-line system 800.
[0068] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the system may further include one or
more lift prevention mechanisms. A lift prevention mechanism may be located downstream

                                                 18
from each rotary wheel, for example, near the point where molded pieces of food product exit
the cutting tools of the rotary wheel. In some examples, after a molded piece of food product
exits a cutting tool and falls down upon the conveyor belt, the molded piece may tend to lift up
off of the conveyor belt, for example, because an edge of the cutting tool catches or sticks to a
portion of the molded piece. A lift prevention mechanism may be positioned and adapted to
prevent molded pieces from lifting and/or may apply pressure down on the molded pieces to
ensure they remain adhered to the conveyor belt. The lift prevention mechanism may include a
finger or bar that applies pressure to the molded pieces, and may include a spring or motor
mechanism to engage the finger or bar.
[0069] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the system may further include an infeed
stage 1100, as shown in FIG. 11. In these embodiments, the infeed stage 1100 may further
include one or more pressure fingers 1162, 1163, where each pressure finger applies a
downward force to the food products that are moving along the conveyor belt toward the rotary
wheel, for example, to ensure that the food products are well adhered to the conveyor belt before
they reach the rotary wheel. In some embodiments, a single lane of the infeed stage may include
more than one pressure finger, for example, two or more pressure fingers in series. In these
embodiments, multiple pressure fingers may engage a single strip of food product, for example
to ensure that the food product is well adhered to the conveyor belt. The infeed stage 1100 is
typically located upstream (in the feed path) from the rotary wheel(s), for example, at distance
upstream such that the tip of a pressure finger is approximately 1 to 2 inches away from the
point where the rotary wheel contacts the food product. The pressure finger 1162 may be spring
loaded whereby the spring forces the tip of the finger in a downward direction. Different springs
may be used so that the pressure finger may exert different downward forces, for example,
between 10 and 15 pounds. The spring may attach to the pressure finger at varying locations
along the finger. The pressure finger 1162 may be formed from a variety of materials, for
example, plastic.
[0070] The infeed stage may include one or more side rail guides. For example, side rail guides
that extend along portions of the conveying element that lead into the rotary wheel may aid
strips of food product from straying and/or falling off of the conveyor belt. Side rail guides may
keep the food product approximately centered on a conveyor belt while the food product is
contacted by one or more pressure fingers and/or a rotary wheel.

                                                  19
[0071] In some embodiments of the system that do not include an infeed stage 1100 and a
pressure finger 1162, the food product may not sufficiently adhered to the conveyor belt, and
therefore, the food product may slip or slide backwards along the conveyor belt when the rotary
wheel touches the food product. If food products slip backwards, the food products may back
up, and the system may have to be shut down and cleaned out. In order to address this problem,
the hold down finger 1162 may exert pressure down on the food product to better adhere it to
the conveyor belt so that the food products do not slip. One benefit of a system where the food
products do not slip is that the system may be adapted for continuous and efficient operation.
[0072] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the system further comprises a sheet
forming device that is located upstream (in the feed path) from the rotary wheel. The sheet
forming device forms an edible composition mass into a product sheet upstream.
[0073] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the system further comprises a slitting
device that is located upstream (in the feed path) from the rotary wheel. The slitting device
divides product sheets into a plurality of product strips prior to the strips being fed to the
ultrasonically activated rotary wheel.
[0074] Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for forming a
confectionery product (or a food product) comprising the following steps: (1) forming one or
more confectionery product strips; (2) moving the confectionery product strips along a feed path
that may include a conveyor belt; and (3) cutting the confectionery product strips into a plurality
of confectionery product shapes by contacting the confectionery strips with an ultrasonically
activated rotary wheel.
[0075] Regarding step 1 of the described method, forming the confectionery product strip may
further include the steps of forming a confectionery sheet and slitting the sheet into strips.
Regarding step 2, the step may also include a sub step where the product strips move through an
infeed stage, whereby a pressure finger applies downward pressure to the product strips to
adhere them to the conveyor belt. Regarding step 3, the rotary wheel may include a plurality of
cutting tools that contact the confectionary strips at a point where the confectionery strips pass
beneath the approximate center of mass of the rotary wheel. At the point where the rotary wheel
contacts the confectionary strip, a moveable backing plate that is positioned beneath a conveyor

                                                 20
belt may allow for absorption of some of the pressure that the rotary wheel exerts down on the
confectionary strip and the conveyor belt.
[0076] The previously described method(s) may be executed by one or more of the systems,
apparatuses and/or solutions described in this disclosure. For example, the method may be
executed by a system that comprises an ultrasonically activated rotary wheel, a moveable
backing plate and a conveying element. In another example, the system that executes the
method(s) may include a moveable backing plate that is spring loaded.
[0077] The solutions described in present disclosure may provide several benefits. Previous
styles of ultrasonic food cutters have disadvantages, and the solutions of the present disclosure
either do not experience these disadvantages or they experience them to a lesser degree. For
example, guillotine-style cutters can utilize only generally straight blades, so the guillotine
cutter can only cut food products into final shapes that have linear and angular edges. One
benefit of some embodiments described herein is that the tools that are attached to the rotary
wheel are not limited to having only straight and angular edges, and therefore, the rotary wheel
may produce final food products that have a variety of shapes including circles, ovals, egg
shapes, animal shapes and more. Moreover, because the tool that cuts the strips of food product
may also contain a three dimensionally formed cavity, some embodiments described herein may
cut and three dimensionally shape a final food product all in one step. This three dimensional
shaping was not possible with previous styles of guillotine cutters.
[0078] The previous double-wheel style of food cutter has disadvantages as well. Those
experienced in the industry have observed that this style of food cutter is expensive as well as
equipment and parts intensive. Essentially, the double-wheel style requires two of every part
because two wheels are required for every strip of food product that runs along the conveyor
belt. This means each strip of food product requires two wheels, two spindles, two sets of
hardware, two sets of add-on tools, and so on. Consequently, if food product manufacturers
want to operate conveyor belts with between 30 and 50 strips of food running in parallel, the
double-wheel style of food cutter would require two times the amount of equipment for each
strip of food compared to the single wheel of the present disclosure. Consequently, the double
wheel style is less durable and breaks down more often than the single wheel style of the present
disclosure. Additionally, the extra equipment and the higher maintenance costs of the double
wheel style make the double-wheel style more expensive to run than the single wheel style.

                                                  21
[0079] Additionally, the double-wheel style is not conducive to "scaling up". That is, the
double-wheel style cannot handle large volumes of food product as well as the solutions of the
current disclosure. In addition to the additional equipment and cost of handling larger volumes
of food product, the double-wheel machines cannot run at the fast speeds that the single wheel
of the present disclosure can. For example, with the double- wheel machines, the conveyor belts
run at a maximum speed of approximately 1.5 meters / minute. This is much slower than the
solutions of the present disclosure where the conveyor belts may run at approximately 4 meters
/minute.
[0080] One additional benefit of the system as described in one or more embodiments of the
present disclosure is that the single rotary wheel design allows for compositional consistency
between different "forms" of the same type of food product. For example, the system may
provide compositional consistency between the confection known as a Snickers bar and the
confection known as a Snickers egg, such that the bar and the egg taste exactly the same even
though they are differently shaped and sized. The reason that the composition of the different
forms remains consistent is because the ratios of different types of food products across different
"regions" of the final food product are maintained at the same level in, for example, the bar and
the egg. Previous styles of double rotary wheel systems may be unable to maintain such
consistency because, for example, the food product may be poured into cavities specifically
designed for each form of the final food product. By contrast, in the present system, the food
product is pre-formed regardless of the final form of the food product, and then different tools
on the rotary wheel cut the final shape.
[0081] In one embodiment, after the product shapes are formed by cutting, a coating layer may
be applied to one or more of the product shapes. Additionally or alternatively, one or more of
the product shapes may be subjected to a surface treatment. In one embodiment these one or
both steps may be downstream from the rotary wheel. For example, after forming the edible
product forms may be enrobed, coated by tumbling as in the case of a panning operation or
otherwise surface treated by spraying.
[0082] Figures 12-28 illustrate various embodiments of cookie cutters or tools similar to the
cookie cutter/tool 450 shown in Figure 5 or tool 550 as shown in Figure 6.

                                                22
[0083] More specifically, Figure 12 illustrates a perspective view of an egg-shaped tool 1200
having a first portion 1210, a second portion 1220, and a vented region 1230.
[0084] Figures 13-16 illustrate various views of a heart-shaped tool also having a first portion, a
second portion, and a vented region.
[0085] Figures 17-20 illustrate various views of a Christmas-tree-shaped tool having several
portions and several vented regions.
[0086] Figures 21-24 illustrate various views of a pumpkin shaped tool having several portions
and several vented regions.
[0087] Figures 25-28 illustrate various views of an alternative egg-shaped tool
[0088] While the present solutions have been described and illustrated by reference to particular
embodiments, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the solutions lend
themselves to many different variations not described or illustrated herein.

                                                 23
CLAIMS
1.     A rotary wheel for forming an edible food product, the rotary wheel including one or more
cutting tools disposed on the outer surface of the rotary wheel, the rotary wheel including one or
more ventilation channels that are routed and adapted to allow air to flow between the one or
more cutting tools and air surrounding the rotary wheel.
2.     The rotary wheel of claim 1, wherein the ventilation channels comprise at least one area of
discontinuity in a cutting edge of the one or more cutting tools.
3.     The rotary wheel of claim 2, wherein the at least one area of discontinuity is at least 1.5
mm.
4.     The rotary wheel of claim 1, wherein the one or more ventilation channels are routed and
adapted to allow a pressurized gas to flow between a gas source and the one or more cutting
tools to aid in ejection of the food product from the cutting tools.
5.     A rotary wheel for forming an edible food product, the rotary wheel including one or more
cutting tools disposed on the outer surface of the rotary wheel, wherein the one or more cutting
tools each include edges that are beveled.
6.     A cutting tool for forming an edible food product, the cutting tool including one or more
ventilation channels comprising at least one area of discontinuity in a cutting edge of the cutting
tool.
7.     The cutting tool of claim 6, wherein the at least one area of discontinuity is at least 1.5
mm.
8.     The cutting tool of claim 6, wherein the one or more ventilation channels are routed and
adapted to allow a pressurized gas to flow between a gas source and the cutting tool to aid in
ejection of the food product from the cutting tool.
9.     A cutting tool for forming an edible food product, the cutting tool including edges that are
beveled.

                                                24
10.   The cutting tool of claim 6 or claim 9 further comprising one or more sensors that are
oriented and adapted to detect whether the food product has been properly ejected from the
cutting tool.
                                      Mars, Incorporated
                             Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F>

