   ABSTRACT
   The invention relates to a photovoltaic structure (10), especially for a roadway suitable for
   the circulation of pedestrians and vehicles, comprising: at least one photovoltaic cell; and
 5 a non-opaque coating covering at least the front face of said photovoltaic cell and having
   an outer surface which is macrotextured and microtextured irregularly, with a mean
   texture depth MTD, measured according to the norm NF EN 13036-1, of between 0.2 mm
   and 3 mm, and a polishing resistance value PRV, according to the norm NF EN 13043, of
   at least PRV4 4, preferably PRV5 0 , especially preferably PRV5 3, the texture of the outer
10 surface (13) being defined at least partially by non-opaque texturing elements (16) having
   a size ranging from 0.4 mm to 4 mm.

                  1/4
                        Fig.1
   12   16 14 13 16
                                     10
       11~~~          I ~94T     17
  12
 R
      17                          Fig.2
      36   36              Fig.3
14                               17

                                                   1
                PHOTOVOLTAIC STRUCTURE FOR A ROADWAY
                The present invention relates to photovoltaic structures, intended in particular
   to form a roadway suitable for pedestrian and vehicular traffic and having in particular an
   outer surface that reproduces the texture of a trafficable road surface dressing.
 5
                Related applications
                This   application   is  divided    from Australian     patent  application   No.
   2014217512, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
10              Prior art
                There is a need to use roads as a means of producing energy during the day,
   whether this is to supply buildings located in the vicinity (businesses, eco-districts, single
   family houses, etc.) or to supply the power grid or traffic control devices.
                Owing to the extent of the surface area of the road network, this could make it
15 possible to avoid fields of solar modules that use arable land for energy production or to
   increase the surfaces that are currently usable such as roofs.
                US 2005/0199282 Al discloses a roadway that incorporates a photovoltaic
   structure, comprising solar cells covered by a non-opaque surfacing that must withstand
   the weight of vehicles and provide a sufficient coefficient of friction to allow the latter to
20 travel without skidding.
                As examples of surfacings, mention is made of materials such as transparent
   plastics surface-coated with an abrasion-resistant layer, tempered or annealed glass, a
   complex formed of 5 mm glass beads bonded by an epoxy resin onto annealed glass, with
   a preference for a complex formed of polycarbonate-backed acrylic.
25              The structure may have frictional elements at the surface that are intended to
   increase the coefficient of friction. These frictional elements may be arranged in patterns
   such as long or short straight or curved lines, circles or other geometrical figures.
                The frictional elements may be formed by bars or spikes or by grooves cut into
   the surface of the surfacing. The frictional elements, when they are added, may be made of
30 stainless steel or of polycarbonate.
                There is a need to further improve the photovoltaic structures intended for
   pedestrian or vehicular traffic.

                                                   2
                Reference to cited material or information contained in the text should not be
   understood as a concession that the material or information was part of the common
   general knowledge or was known in Australia or any other country.
                Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is
 5 expressly incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be
   read and considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent
   application, or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons for
   conciseness.
                Reference numbers and letters appearing between parentheses in the claims,
10 identifying features described in the embodiment(s) and/or example(s) and/or illustrated in
   the accompanying drawings, are provided as an aid to the reader as an exemplification of
   the matter claimed. The inclusion of such reference numbers and letters is not to be
   interpreted as placing any limitations on the scope of the claims.
                Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires otherwise,
15 the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
   exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "include" and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be
20 understood to imply the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
   exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                Summary
                One subject of the invention is, according to a first of its aspects, a
25 photovoltaic structure (also referred to as complex) in particular for a roadway suitable for
   pedestrian and vehicular traffic, comprising:
               -    at least one photovoltaic cell,
               -    a non-opaque      surfacing,   covering at least the front face of said
   photovoltaic cell and having an irregularly macrotextured and microtextured outer surface
30 with a mean texture depth MTD measured according to the NF EN 13036-1 standard of
   between 0.2 mm and 3 mm and a PSV (polished stone value) value according to the NF
   EN 13043 standard of at least PSV44, better still PSV,      even better still PSV53, the texture

                                                 3
   of the outer surface being defined at least partially by non-opaque texturing elements
   having a size ranging from 0.4 mm to 4 mm.
                The term "irregularly" is understood to mean the fact that the reliefs giving the
   macrotexture and the microtexture do not all have the same shape or the same size. These
 5 reliefs may be obtained from texturing elements that do not have the same shape or the
   same size, being non-calibrated. The nature, the mean size, the mean aspect ratio and the
   mean surface density of the texturing elements are specifically chosen so as to obtain the
   desired MTD and PSV values.
                Unlike the uniformly textured structure presented in patent application
10 US 2005/0199282, a structure according to present invention has, at the surface, an
   irregular, preferably random, dispersion of non-opaque relief elements, of irregular and
   preferably random shape themselves, which approaches the surface appearance of a well
   known surface dressing of the road industry. Furthermore, it has both macroscopic-scale
   (macrotexture) and microscopic-scale (microtexture) topographies favorable to grip.
15 Therefore, the particular surface characteristics of the present invention are selected to
   have favorable levels of macrotexture and of microtexture that meet specifications in
   terms of MTD and PSV making the surfacing suitable for traffic.
                Moreover, the present invention is preferably carried out using texturing
   elements such as glass grains which 1) replicate the texture of a road and provide
20 measured grip properties that conform to the specifications (BO [Official Bulletin] 2002
   10: circular 2002-39 of 16 May 2002 relating to the grip of new treads and the control of
   the macrotexture) and 2) can be applied, if this is desired, to construction sites using
   public works machinery and techniques.
                In one of its embodiments, the structure according to the present invention is a
25 trafficable encapsulated photovoltaic unit.
                The surfacing of a structure according to the invention makes it possible,
   owing to the texture of its outer surface, to exhibit the grip suitable for vehicular or
   pedestrian traffic, while effectively protecting the photovoltaic cells positioned beneath
   this surfacing.
30              The invention makes it possible to not replace existing roadways; the structure
   according to the invention may be compatible with most of these roadways without
   requiring excavations or the laying of thick and rigid photovoltaic blocks.

                                                 4
                Furthermore, the invention makes it possible to use the know-how and the
   customary equipment that is used for manufacturing and maintaining road surfacings
   (finishing machines, spreading of binder and gravel, etc.).
                Thus, the invention allows easy implantation of the photovoltaic structure and,
 5 from an economic viewpoint, makes it possible to significantly reduce the laying and
   integration costs.
                The grip characteristics of the surfacing according to the invention are
   preferably close to those of conventional bituminous road surfacings and the optical
   characteristics are compatible with obtaining a satisfactory conversion efficiency of the
10 solar energy into electrical energy.
                The photovoltaic structure according to the invention may be produced
   according to two methods of implementation in particular.
                According to a first method of implementation, the photovoltaic cells are
   present within one or more modules covered by the non-opaque and textured surfacing,
15 the module(s) being inserted between this surfacing and the underlying road. In particular,
   the surfacing may, according to this first method of implementation, also extend to the
   portion of the road bearing the photovoltaic modules but not covered thereby, or else be
   limited to just the surface of the modules. The latter may be attached to the roadway by a
   tie layer.
20              According to a second method of implementation, the photovoltaic cells are
   encapsulated in the non-opaque and textured surfacing, the surfacing then extending
   preferably both on top of and underneath the photovoltaic cells. The surfacing may extend
   in contact with a tie layer deposited on the road or directly in contact therewith. In
   particular, according to this second method of implementation, the surfacing may be
25 preassembled with one or more photovoltaic modules, containing the photovoltaic cells,
   preferably using a mold.
                Another subject of the invention is, according to another of its aspects,
   independently of or in combination with the aforegoing, a photovoltaic structure suitable
   for pedestrian and vehicular traffic, comprising at least one photovoltaic cell encapsulated
30 in a non-opaque surfacing, having an irregular, textured, outer surface that is suitable for
   pedestrian and vehicular traffic.

                                                   5
                Another subject of the invention is, according to another of its aspects,
   independently of or in combination with the aforegoing, a photovoltaic structure suitable
   for pedestrian and vehicular traffic, comprising at least one photovoltaic cell covered by a
   surfacing that has an outer surface textured with an irregular relief, characterized by
 5 aggregates of irregular shape and/or by an imprint of aggregates of irregular shape.
                Another subject of the invention is, according to another of its aspects,
   independently of or in combination with the aforegoing, a photovoltaic structure suitable
   for pedestrian and vehicular traffic, comprising a surfacing that covers at least one
   photovoltaic cell, this surfacing comprising a bituminous binder, a clear road binder of
10 synthetic or plant origin, resins, adhesives or polymers, such as epoxy or polyurethane,
   and optionally texturing elements such as aggregates or grains made of glass, that provide
   surface texturing.
                Another subject of the invention is, according to another of its aspects,
   independently of or in combination with the aforegoing, a photovoltaic structure that
15 makes it possible to produce a roadway, in the form of a rolled-up flexible sheet, to be
   rolled out in order to form the wearing surface, comprising photovoltaic cells and a
   surfacing that covers them, this surfacing having a textured outer surface.
                According to all these subjects of the invention, the surfacing may be as
   defined subsequently, in the same way as the texturing elements used.
20              Another subject of the invention is a process for manufacturing a photovoltaic
   structure, in particular according to the first aspect as defined above, comprising the steps
   consisting in:
                -    positioning texturing elements, preferably aggregates of irregular, in
   particular random, shape, in the bottom of a mold, the texturing elements preferably being
25 arranged in a single layer,
                -    positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in the mold,
                -    injecting or casting a non-opaque material in the fluid state into or in the
   mold in order to cover the photovoltaic cell(s), and retain the texturing elements.
   Preferably, the texturing elements are positioned with a given surface density.
30              Another subject of the invention is a process for manufacturing a photovoltaic
   structure, in particular according to the first aspect as defined above, comprising the steps
   consisting in:

                                                   6
                -    positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in a mold,
                -    injecting or casting a non-opaque material in the fluid state into or in the
   mold,
                -    before curing said material, embedding texturing elements, preferably
 5 aggregates of irregular, in particular random, shape, in its surface, the texturing elements
   preferably being arranged in a single layer.
                Another subject of the invention is a process for manufacturing a photovoltaic
   structure, in particular according to the first aspect as defined above, comprising the steps
   consisting in:
10              -    positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in a mold, the bottom of which
   is textured, preferably with a relief that reproduces the imprint of aggregates of irregular,
   in particular random, shape, and
                -    injecting or casting a non-opaque material in the fluid state, which is
   intended to cure, into or in the mold. Preferably, the reliefs that reproduce the imprint of
15 the texturing elements are distributed with a given surface density.
                Another subject of the invention is a process for manufacturing a photovoltaic
   structure, in particular according to the first aspect as defined above, comprising the steps
   consisting in:
                -    positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in a mold,
20              -    depositing a transparent polymer film of given thickness on the
   photovoltaic cell(s),
                -    depositing texturing elements, preferably aggregates of irregular, in
   particular random, shape, on its surface, the texturing elements preferably being arranged
   in a single layer,
25              -    subjecting the assembly to a hot pressurized laminator, the heat ensuring
   the softening of the film and enabling the aggregates to be embedded therein. Preferably,
   the texturing elements are positioned with a given surface density.
                In all the processes involving texturing elements, the latter are preferably
   trapped between one quarter and three quarters of their height, preferably at around mid
30 height. The production of a single layer is preferable for reasons of photovoltaic
   performance.

                                                  7
               Thus, in a first embodiment, texturing elements such as transparent aggregates
   are spread to saturation, and ideally as a single layer, on the bottom of a mold. Once the
   transparent material which will have been injected or molded therein attains its final
   mechanical properties, the aggregates will be set in the material and will provide surface
 5 texturing.
               In a second embodiment, transparent aggregates are inserted in the surface of
   the molded photovoltaic complex, ideally before the injected or molded transparent
   material has completely cured.
               In a third embodiment,        one face     of the   casting or injection      mold
10 advantageously reproduces the imprint of a texture valid for a road application, in
   particular having the desired MTD and PSV values, defined above. The cast or injected
   transparent material then reproduces said texture.
               Surfacing
               The surfacing according to the invention is advantageously produced so as to
15 have technical characteristics suitable both for pedestrian and vehicular traffic but that also
   enable its use in the photovoltaic field. In particular, these characteristics relate to the
   transparency and the surface texturing of said surfacing.
               Transparency
               In order to guarantee the desired photovoltaic performance, the surfacing is
20 non-opaque. It advantageously has a degree of transparency of between 50% and 95%.
               In order to characterize the degree of transparency, a spectrophotometer
   equipped with an integrating sphere is used. This device makes it possible to quantify the
   light which passes directly through the sample and that which is scattered by the sample,
   for a range of wavelength values, in steps of 5 nm for example, this range preferably lying
25 around the peak of efficiency of the photovoltaic cells, plus or minus 100 nm.
               The degree of transparency is measured for the thickness of surfacing passed
   through by the light incident upon the wearing surface, before reaching the photovoltaic
   cells.
               The surfacing to be characterized is used on a glass plate. This plate is first
30 characterized in terms of transparency by using the same spectrophotometer. The
   measurement is carried out in accordance with the protocol described above and the
   transparency values obtained are subtracted from those of the glass plate.

                                                 8
                In order to have a characterization of the optical efficiency of the structure
   according to the invention, the transmission values are weighted by the spectral response
   (sensitivity depending on the wavelengths) of the photovoltaic cells, the sensitivities of
   which in the blue (450-520 nm) and in the violet (380-450) may be different depending on
 5 the type of technology used. Since the maximum efficiency of the current technologies is
   in the green around 600 nm, the surfacing is preferably produced so that in the range 500
   to 700 nm, its degree of transparency is greater than 50%.
                Surface texturing:
                In order to guarantee the desired grip performance, the surfacing according to
10 the invention is advantageously produced so as to have an outer surface which is both
   macrotextured and microtextured.
                Macrotexture
                The macrotexture of the surfacing characterizes the surface irregularities in the
   range 0.5 to 50 mm horizontally (according to the NF EN ISO 13473-1 standard); the
15 macrotexture facilitates the drainage of the water at the surface of the structure according
   to the invention and makes it possible to avoid loss of tire/roadway grip in rainy weather.
                A macrotexture has a texture wavelength ranging from 50 mm to 0.5 mm and
   a microtexture has a texture wavelength of less than 0.5 mm.
                The macrotexture preferably has an irregular relief, which is advantageously
20 obtained owing to a well-defined choice of texturing elements, with a size and a surface
   density that are specifically chosen, of irregular, in particular random, shape, such as
   aggregates, or being the imprint of texturing elements of irregular shape, inspired by the
   surface topography of road surface dressings.
                Furthermore, the outer surface of the coating has a macrotexture depth
25 preferably such that the mean texture depth MTD measured according to the NF EN
   13036-1 standard is at least 0.20 mm, and preferably 0.30 mm, and ideally 0.60 mm or
   more, preferably being between 0.2 mm and 3 mm.
                Microtexture
                The surface of the surfacing also has a microtexture, in order to ensure good
30 grip of the tires.

                                                 9
                The microtexture characterizes the surface irregularities, the characteristic
   horizontal size of which is less than 0.5 mm, according to the NF EN ISO 13473-1
   standard.
                The grip of the surfacing of the invention with respect to traffic, which
 5 conveys the quality of the microtexture, must remain after polishing, and may be
   expressed:
                -    in terms of coefficient of friction pws, measured with a Wehner und
   Schulze machine. Such a machine firstly carries out up to 180 000 polishing cycles on the
   surface to be measured (disk with a diameter of 225 mm), obtained by three cones under a
10 mixture of water and silica. Secondly, the device accelerates a head bearing three rubber
   based pads having a size of 30 mm x 14.5 mm each up to 3000 rpm, which corresponds to
   a tangential speed of 100 km/h. Water at 10'C is sprayed onto the surface to be
   characterized until a theoretical water film thickness of 0.5 mm is formed. At that
   moment, the pads are applied to the surface to be measured with a pressure of 0.2 N.mm- 2 ,
15 equivalent to a tire pressure of 2 bar. The coefficient of friction pws is calculated at the
   speed of 60 km/h, and may be given in terms of polished stone value PSV;
                -    in terms of Polished Stone Value (PSV), using a friction pad as described
   in the NF EN 1097-8 standard. The surfacing according to the invention advantageously
   has a PSV value according to the NF EN 13043 standard of at least PSV44, preferably
20 PSV5, and ideally PSV53.
                Irregular nature of the texture
                The coating according to the invention has an irregularly macrotextured and
   also irregularly microtextured outer surface.
                It should be understood that the relief of the macrotexture or of the
25 microtexture is not reproduced in an identical manner, due to the use of texturing elements
   that do not have the same shape or the same size, and that are not calibrated. The relief
   may have a random nature, both in its macrotexture and its microtexture. The texturing
   elements are for example shards or grains of glass, as specified below.
30              Detailed description

                                                   10
                The invention will be better understood on reading the following description,
   of exemplary embodiments that are not limiting thereto, and on examining the appended
   drawing, in which:
               -     figure 1 schematically represents, in cross section taken through the
 5 thickness, an example of a roadway equipped with a photovoltaic structure according to
   the invention,
               -     figures 2 and 3 are views similar to figure 1, of the embodiment variants
   of the photovoltaic structure,
               -     figures 4A to 4E illustrate the production of a structure and the use thereof
10 according to one exemplary embodiment of the invention, and
               -     figures 5A to 5E and 6A to 6D are views similar to figures 4A to 4E, of
   embodiment variants of the invention.
                In the drawing, the relative proportions of the various constituent elements
   have not always been respected, for the sake of clarity. Likewise, the texturing elements
15 have been represented very schematically, in a reduced number, in order to simplify the
   drawing. The conventional electrical connection elements have not been represented.
                A first example of a photovoltaic structure 10 according to the invention is
   represented in figure 1. The structure 10 comprises one or more modules 11 containing
   photovoltaic cells and a transparent surfacing 12 that covers this or these modules 11.
20              The surfacing 12 mechanically protects the photovoltaic cells while allowing
   pedestrian and vehicular traffic and its transparency enables production of electrical
   energy by the modules 11.
                The structure 10 has an irregular, granular, outer surface 13, preferably having
   a random relief.
25              The surfacing 12 is for example formed, as illustrated, from a binder 14, also
   referred to as a matrix, embedded in which are transparent texturing elements 16, such as
   aggregates formed from glass shards or glass grains, giving the outer surface 13 its
   granular appearance. The texture of the surfacing may also be produced by structuring of
   the surface, without inclusion of aggregates in the binder.
30              The terms "transparent", "translucent" and "non-opaque" are considered to be
   synonyms within the context of the present invention.

                                                 11
               The texture of the surfacing 12 guarantees a road holding similar to
   "conventional" roads, preferably with MTD and PSV values as defined above.
               The photovoltaic modules 11 may be flexible or semi-rigid, or even rigid.
               A tie layer 17 may ensure the attachment of the module(s) 11 to the road R,
 5 which may be new or existing.
               The example from figure 1 corresponds to the first method of implementation
   of the invention, defined above, according to which the surfacing 12 extends on top of the
   photovoltaic module(s) 11 and is not inserted between the latter and the underlying road.
   Other variants will be described below.
10             Irrespective of the embodiments, the binder used preferably has a degree of
   transparency ranging from 80% to 100%.
               Preferably, the material of the surfacing is selected so that the latter remains
   transparent over time, which can be verified via aging tests in a climatic chamber, by
   following for example the NFT 30-049 standard. The surfacing will lose no more than
15 20% after 5 days of aging in the WOM (Weather 0 Meter) according to the NFT 30-049
   standard and preferably no more than 10% of its initial transparency.
               The structure illustrated in figure 1 may be produced by spreading the binder
   in the fluid state over the surface of the photovoltaic modules 11, and before the binder
   cures, the texturing elements 16 (preferably in the form of transparent aggregates of
20 irregular shape) may be spread to saturation over the surface.
               The amount of binder may be realized according to the traditional road know
   how in order to trap the inclusions formed by the texturing elements, preferably at around
   mid-height.
25             Exemplary embodiments of the surfacing
               According to a first exemplary embodiment of the surfacing, the binder is of
   bituminous type as defined in the NF EN 12591 standard, clear, i.e. unpigmented, the
   penetration classes of which determined according to the EN 1426 method may be,
   without limitation, 160/220, 100/150, 70/100, 50/70, 40/60, 35/50, 30/45 or 20/30 (in
30 tenths of a millimeter). Mention will be made, for example, of the Bituclair binder sold by
   Colas.

                                                 12
                According to a second exemplary embodiment of the surfacing, the binder is a
   clear road binder of synthetic or plant origin, the penetration classes of which determined
   according to the EN 1426 method may be, without limitation, 160/220, 100/150, 70/100,
   50/70, 40/60, 35/50, 30/45 or 20/30 (in tenths of a millimeter). Mention will be made, for
 5 example, of the V6g6col or V6g6clair binders sold by Colas.
                According to a third exemplary embodiment of the surfacing, the binder is of
   purely synthetic or plant origin nature, the binder preferably being of organic nature,
   preferably of polymeric nature. Mention will be made, by way of example and without
   limitation, of an acrylic, epoxy or polyurethane resin, such as the epoxide varnishes
10 referred to as Vemis D sold by R6sipoly, or else a Sovermol polyurethane sold by BASF.
                The binders used in the invention may comprise initiators or catalysts, in
   particular for accelerating the curing. They may also comprise additives, thickeners, fluxes
   or others to facilitate the spreading and the obtaining of a film-forming surface of
   controlled thickness.
15              The binders used have a good UV resistance (both in terms of transparency
   and mechanical properties), water resistance, heat resistance, cold resistance and frost
   resistance, which can be verified in a climatic chamber, by following for example the NFT
   30-049 standard, and also good adhesion to the texturing elements 16 and the surface of
   the photovoltaic modules 11. Furthermore, these binders advantageously have a flexibility
20 similar to the complex formed by the wearing surface of the existing road and photovoltaic
   modules, namely ideally an elastic modulus of between 0.1 and 10 GPa.
                The examples of surfacings given above apply for all structures according to
   the invention.
25              Examples of texturing elements
                The production of a single layer of texturing elements 16 is preferable for
   reasons of photovoltaic performance, since the optical transmission drops with the
   thickness of material.
                The choice of the nature, particle size, shape factor and surface density of the
30 texturing elements aims to obtain:
                -   a good angularity, allowing good grip between the tires and the roadway,
   under dry or wet conditions: the macrotexture thus obtained enables the drainage of water

                                                13
   under the tire, whereas the microtexture contributes to the grip; a random texture
   characterized by texturing elements of random shape or that reproduces the relief of
   texturing elements of random shape is advantageous from this point of view;
               -   an abrasion resistance in order to retain over time the desired road-holding
 5 quality; the use of mineral materials of great hardness, as texturing elements, is
   advantageous from this point of view;
               -   a good surface finish in order to ensure correct adhesion to the binder ; the
   use of aggregates of irregular, in particular random, shape may contribute to the good
   attachment of these aggregates to the matrix;
10             -   a good transparency, in order to retain the photovoltaic performance.
               The texturing elements are advantageously transparent materials (glass,
   polycarbonate, etc.), preferably made of glass, shards or grains, preferably grains of glass
   (crushed recycled or new glass).
               The size of these elements, differentiated using a screen, may be monodisperse
15 or polydisperse, and range from 0.1 to 10 mm, better still from 0.4 to 4 mm, and more
   preferably have a size ranging from 0.9 to 1.4 mm.
               In order to obtain the desired level of macrotexture, the surface density of
   these texturing elements at the surface of the surfacing is preferably between 0.1 and
   5 kg/m2 , and advantageously between 0.7 and 1.5 kg/     2
                                                              .
20             The shape factor of these structuring elements, that is to say the ratio for one
   element between its greater length and its smaller width, is preferably less than or equal to
   8 and preferably between 1 and 3.
               The mean texture depth MTD of such elements preferably is close to 0.8 mm
   and corresponds to the ideal threshold of 0.6 mm, whereas in terms of grip and resistance
25 to polishing, after 180 000 polishing cycles in the Wehner und Schultze machine, the
   texturing elements preferably have a coefficient of friction pws of 0.4, exceeding the
   pws= 0.30 threshold of a Polished Stone Value 50.
               The examples of texturing elements above apply for all the embodiments.
               The photovoltaic modules 11 may be thin, flexible or semi-rigid (for example
30 photovoltaic modules of the Unisolar brand) and may be adhesively bonded directly to the
   surface of a road made of bituminous mixes or made of cement concrete. The rear face of
   the modules 11 is preferably sufficiently rigid and solid to protect the photovoltaic cells

                                                 14
   from any puncturing by the surface asperities of the existing road (for example by the tops
   of aggregates), while following the change in the surface topography of the roads (for
   example following the formation of ruts or a crack). For example, the rear face of the
   modules 11 is characterized by a fluorinated resin such as ethylene-tetrafluoroethylene, for
 5 example that sold under the name Tefzel by DuPont, preferably having a thickness of 0.2
   to 5 mm.
                The roadway may be new or existing, preferably being produced from
   bituminous mix formulations that are not very prone to rutting, so that the topography of
   the surface of the road only changes slightly as vehicles pass over it.
10              The adhesive bonding of the modules 11 to the surface of the road R is carried
   out with the tie layer 17, which may be formed of special industrial adhesives, or else of a
   bituminous binder, optionally reinforced by an addition of a polymer such as SBS, hot or
   as an emulsion.
                In a first embodiment, the adhesive or the bituminous binder forming the tie
15 layer 17 is directly spread on the surface of the road R, spread out as a thin layer, then the
   photovoltaic modules 11 are deposited thereon while the adhesive has not cured or while
   the bituminous binder is still viscous and tacky.
                In a second embodiment, the binder intended to form the tie layer 17 is
   deposited in the factory on the lower face of the photovoltaic modules 11, which face may
20 be untreated or may have undergone a plasma or corona treatment in order to promote a
   better adhesion to the binder; the complex thus obtained is then adhesively bonded to the
   road R by a slight reheating of the binder on the back of the modules 11. The complex
   corresponding to this second embodiment may be laid on a new or existing road.
                With reference to figure 2, a photovoltaic structure 10 according to the second
25 method of implementation of the invention defined above will now be described, in which
   the photovoltaic cell(s) 11 are encapsulated in the surfacing 12. The latter may also be
   attached to the road R by a tie layer 17, in the manner of the examples described
   previously with reference to figure 1.
                The encapsulation ensures the (mechanical, hygrometric, leaktightness, etc.)
30 protection of the photovoltaic cells.
                The encapsulation is preferably produced by pre-positioning the photovoltaic
   cell(s) 11 within a mold as illustrated in figures 4A, 5A or 6A, and described in detail

                                                   15
   below. Next, the structure 10 is removed from the mold and may be attached to the
   existing road R owing to the tie layer 17.
                 In order to produce the surface texture of the surfacing, in a first embodiment,
   illustrated in figures 4A to 4E, texturing elements 16 such as transparent aggregates are
 5 spread to saturation over the bottom of a mold, preferably in the form of a single layer, in
   what will then be the wearing surface of the structure. A transparent binder 14 is then
   injected or poured into the mold. Once this material has attained its final hardness and
   mechanical properties, the aggregates are firmly attached to the contents of the mold and
   provide the desired surface texturing.
10               In a second embodiment, illustrated in figures 5A to 5E, the transparent binder
   14 is firstly injected or poured into the mold (figure 5B), then the texturing elements such
   as transparent aggregates are spread over the free surface of the mold (figure 5C), while
   the injected or poured material has not attained its final properties and still behaves as a
   viscous fluid. The texturing elements may be sunk in the binder via a mechanical stress or
15 sink by means of their own weight; it is also possible to heat the texturing elements in
   order to melt the binder in the immediate vicinity thereof. Once the binder 14 has attained
   its final hardness and mechanical properties, the aggregates are firmly attached to the
   contents of the mold and provide the desired surface texturing (figure 5D).
                 These first two embodiments use texturing elements 16 added to the binder 14
20 in order to give the surfacing 12 the desired texture, preferably in the form of a single
   layer.
                 In a third embodiment, illustrated in figure 3 and in figures 6A to 6D, the
   lower face 45 of the mold M is textured and the desired texture is given by the shape of
   this lower face. This face of the mold may reproduce an imprint of random, irregular road
25 texture, for example that of a surface dressing having good grip to tires. After removal
   from the mold, a wearing surface is obtained with relief elements 36 that give the desired
   macrotexture and microtexture.
                 In a fourth embodiment:
                 - a transparent polymer film, of given thickness, is deposited on the
30 photovoltaic cell(s),
                 - texturing elements, in particular aggregates of irregular, better still random,
   shape, are deposited on its surface, the texturing elements preferably being arranged in a

                                                16
   single layer, and these elements are subjected to a hot pressurized laminator. The heat
   ensures the softening of the film and enables the aggregates to be embedded therein.
               As encapsulant can be used for carrying out the invention according to the
   second method of implementation, use may be made of any transparent material (degree of
 5 transparency between 80% and 100%) capable of being poured or injected into a mold, in
   which photovoltaic cells have been pre-positioned.
               The role of the binder is to mechanically protect the photovoltaic cells, to hold
   the optional texturing elements that will give the surface its texture, and therefore to
   enable the desired roadholding, while being and remaining transparent over time (by
10 satisfying the climatic chamber aging test according to the NFT 30-049 standard for
   example).
               The binder may be the same as according to the first method of
   implementation of the invention (see the section "Exemplary embodiments of the
   surfacing" above) and have the same characteristics.
15             Thus, according to a first example, the binder is of bituminous type as defined
   in the NF EN 12591 standard, clear (unpigmented), the penetration classes of which
   determined according to the EN 1426 method may be, without limitation, 160/220,
   100/150, 70/100, 50/70, 40/60, 35/50, 30/45 or 20/30 (in tenths of a millimeter). Mention
   will be made, for example, of the Bituclair binder sold by Colas.
20             According to a second example, the binder is a clear road binder of synthetic
   or plant origin, the penetration classes of which determined according to the EN 1426
   method may be, without limitation, 160/220, 100/150, 70/100, 50/70, 40/60, 35/50, 30/45
   or 20/30 (in tenths of a millimeter). Use may be made of the V6g6col or V6g6clair binders
   sold by Colas.
25             According to a third example, the binder is of purely synthetic or plant origin
   nature, preferably of organic nature, preferably of polymeric nature. Mention will be
   made, by way of example and without limitation, of an acrylic, epoxy or polyurethane
   resin, such as the epoxide varnishes referred to as Vemis D sold by R6sipoly, or else a
   Sovermol polyurethane sold by BASF.
30             The texturing elements may be the same as those listed in the section
   "Examples of texturing elements". The choice of the nature and of the particle size of
   these inclusions corresponds to the same criteria as those defined above. By way of

                                                 17
   example, glass aggregates, having a size of between 0.9 and 1.4 mm, may be used as
   texturing elements in combination with polyurethane of Sovermol type as binder. The
   degree of transparency of such a surfacing is between 60% and 95% at 600 nm and ideally
   95%. The PSV values are preferably at least PSV44, better still PSV,         even better still
 5 PSVs3, and the mean texture depth MTD is preferably between 0.2 and 3 mm.
                As a function of the transparency and mechanical protection objectives, the
   thickness of the photovoltaic structure 10 according to the invention ranges for example
   from 0.5 to 30 mm, ideally from 0.6 to 12 mm. It is not necessary for the thicknesses of
   binder on top of and underneath the photovoltaic modules or cells 11 to be identical.
10              The adhesive bonding of the photovoltaic structure according to this second
   method of implementation of the invention to the surface of the road may be carried out
   with special industrial adhesives, or else with a bituminous binder, optionally reinforced
   by an addition of a polymer such as SBS, hot or as an emulsion.
                In a first embodiment, the binder is directly spread on the surface of the road,
15 spread out as a thin layer, then the prefabricated photovoltaic structure is deposited
   thereon while the adhesive has not cured or while the bituminous binder is still viscous
   and tacky.
                In a second embodiment, the binder is deposited in the factory on the lower
   face of the prefabricated photovoltaic structure, which face may be untreated or may have
20 been treated by plasma or corona effect in order to promote a better adhesion to the binder;
   the photovoltaic structure is then adhesively bonded to the road by a slight reheating of the
   binder on the back thereof.
                The front face may be produced during the manufacture of the photovoltaic
   structure in the factory.
25              The wearing surface may also be produced on the road construction site, after
   having spread the photovoltaic modules or cells over the first bituminous layers.
                A photovoltaic structure according to the invention may also be proposed in
   the form of a textured complex that can be rolled out having a large radius of curvature,
   whether the upper face (after rolling out) is already pretextured or whether a layer based
30 on a transparent binder bearing texturing elements such as transparent aggregates is added
   thereto. The complex may include flexible electrical paths and connectors. Construction
   site machinery may be used to roll out the complex on an existing road.

                                                  18
                In a third embodiment, the surfacing is advantageously produced by
   impregnation using a roller. The photovoltaic structure is positioned on the road to be
   covered, and a roller preimpregnated with binder, in particular with resin, is passed over
   the structure in the style of an application of paint.
 5              Roadway
                Generally, the roadway may be new or existing, but preferably produced from
   bituminous mix formulations that are not very prone to rutting, so that the topography of
   the surface of the road only changes slightly as vehicles pass over it. The roadway may be
   a road, a freeway, a sidewalk.
10
                Use of the electrical energy produced
                The electrical energy produced by a photovoltaic structure according to the
   invention may be used in various ways, for example in eco-districts, solar farms, powering
   public lighting, road signaling or recharging electrical vehicles, this list not being limiting.
15              The invention may also be used for any type of application where the concept
   of grip is important or for esthetic reasons.
                Whilst one or more preferred embodiments of the present invention have been
   herein before described, the scope of the present invention is not limited to those specific
   embodiment(s), and may be embodied in other ways, as will be apparent to a person
20 skilled in the art.
                Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in
   the art are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                The expression "comprising a" should be understood as being synonymous
   with "comprising at least one".

                                            19
      THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A photovoltaic structure, in particular for a roadway suitable for pedestrian and
 5    vehicular traffic, comprising:
         -    at least one photovoltaic cell,
         -    a non-opaque surfacing, covering at least the front face of said
      photovoltaic cell and having an outer surface which is irregularly macrotextured
      and irregularly microtextured, with a mean texture depth MTD measured
10    according to the NF EN 13036-1 standard of between 0.2 mm and 3 mm and a
      PSV value of resistance to polishing according to the NF EN 13043 standard of at
      least PSV44, better still PSV5,    even better still PSV53, the texture of the outer
      surface being defined at least partially by non-opaque texturing elements having a
      size ranging from 0.4 mm to 4 mm.
15
   2. The structure as claimed in claim 1, the mean texture depth MTD being at least
      0.30 mm, better still at least 0.6 mm.
   3. The structure as claimed in either one of the preceding claims, the surfacing
20    having a degree of transparency of greater than 50% in a range of 100 nm around
      the peak of efficiency of the photovoltaic cells, in particular in the range 500
      700 nm.
   4. The structure as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, the surfacing
25    comprising a non-opaque matrix, preferably having an elastic modulus of
      between 0.1 and 10 GPa.
   5. The structure as claimed in the preceding claim, the photovoltaic cell being
      covered by the matrix.
30
   6. The structure as claimed in either of claims 4 and 5, the texture of the outer
      surface being defined at least partially by the matrix.

                                             20
   7.  The structure as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, the matrix being selected
       from materials of synthetic or plant origin, bituminous binders, preferably having
       a penetration class according to the EN 1426 standard of 160/220, 100/150,
 5     70/100, 50/70, 40/60, 35/50, 30/45 or 20/30 (in tenths of mm), and clear road
       binders of synthetic or plant origin, preferably having a penetration class
       according to the EN 1426 standard of 160/220, 100/150, 70/100, 50/70, 40/60,
       35/50, 30/45 or 20/30 (in tenths of mm) and polymeric binders.
10 8.  The structure as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, the non-opaque
       texturing elements being of irregular, better random, shape.
   9.  The structure as claimed in claim 8, the density of texturing elements at the
       surface of the surfacing being between 0.1 and 5 kg/m2 , better still between 0.7
15     and 1.5 kg/m2.
   10. The structure as claimed in either of claims 8 and 9, the texturing elements having
       a shape factor of less than 8, better still of between 1 and 3.
20 11. The structure as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 10, the texturing elements
       being arranged in a single layer, preferably sunk to mid-thickness approximately
       in the matrix of the surfacing.
   12. The structure as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 11, the texturing elements
25     being selected from aggregates of organic or mineral, transparent or translucent
       materials in particular of polycarbonate or of glass.
   13. The structure as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 12, the texturing elements
       having a size ranging from 0.9 mm to 1.4 mm.
30

                                            21
   14. The structure as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, comprising a layer of
       a polymer, which is optionally fluorinated, beneath the photovoltaic cell,
       preferably having a thickness ranging from 0.2 to 5 mm.
 5 15. A roadway equipped with a photovoltaic structure as defined in any one of the
       preceding claims.
   16. A process for manufacturing a photovoltaic structure as defined in any one of
       claims 1 to 12, comprising the steps consisting in:
10         -   positioning texturing elements in the bottom of a mold, in particular
       aggregates of irregular, preferably random, shape, the texturing            elements
       preferably being arranged in a single layer,
           -   positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in the mold,
           -   injecting or casting a non-opaque material in the fluid state into or in the
15     mold in order to cover the photovoltaic cells, and retain the texturing elements.
   17. A process for manufacturing a photovoltaic structure as defined in any one of
       claims 1 to 12, comprising the steps consisting in:
           -   positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in a mold,
20         -   injecting or casting a non-opaque material in the fluid state into or in the
       mold,
           -   before curing said material, embedding texturing elements, in particular
       aggregates of irregular, preferably random, shape, in its surface, the texturing
       elements preferably being arranged in a single layer.
25
   18. A process for manufacturing a photovoltaic structure as defined in any one of
       claims 1 to 12, comprising the following steps:
           -    positioning one or more photovoltaic cells in a mold, the bottom of which
       is textured, in particular so as to reproduce the imprint of texturing elements of
30     irregular, preferably random, shape,
           -   injecting or casting a non-opaque material in the fluid state into or in the
       mold.

                                            22
   19. A process for manufacturing a photovoltaic structure as defined in any one of
       claims 1 to 12, comprising the following steps:
           - depositing a transparent polymer film on one or more photovoltaic cells,
 5         - depositing texturing elements, preferably of irregular, preferably random,
       shape, on its surface,
           - subjecting the assembly to a hot pressurized laminator, the heat ensuring the
       softening of the film and enabling the aggregates to be embedded therein.
10 20. A photovoltaic structure suitable for pedestrian and vehicular traffic, comprising
       at least one photovoltaic cell encapsulated in a non-opaque surfacing, having an
       irregular textured outer surface that is suitable for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

