                                      ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to an attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella
comprising a recombinant DNA molecule encoding a VEGF receptor protein. In
particular, the present invention relate to the use of said attenuated mutant strain of
Salmonella in cancer immunotherapy.

       DNA VACCINE FOR USE IN PANCREATIC CANCER PATIENTS
The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number 2013286335 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this
cross-reference.
                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates to an attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella
comprising a recombinant DNA molecule encoding a VEGF receptor protein. In
particular, the present invention relates to the use of said attenuated mutant strain of
Salmonella in cancer immunotherapy.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Attenuated derivatives of Salmonella enterica are attractive vehicles for the
delivery of heterologous antigens, such as tumor antigens or tumor stroma antigens,
to the mammalian immune system. S. enterica strains can potentially be delivered via
mucosal routes of immunization, i.e. orally or nasally, which offers advantages of
simplicity and safety compared to parenteral administration. Furthermore, Salmonella
strains elicit strong humoral and cellular immune responses at the level of both
systemic and mucosal compartments. Batch preparation costs are relatively low and
formulations of live bacterial vaccines are highly stable. Attenuation can be
accomplished by deletion of various genes, including virulence, regulatory and
metabolic genes.
[0003] Several Salmonella typhimurium strains attenuated by aro mutations have
been shown to be safe and effective delivery vehicles for heterologous antigens in
animal models.
                                            1

[0004] Approaches of delivering DNA constructs encoding antigens, in particular
VEGF receptor proteins, via live attenuated Salmonella typhimurium strains into
mouse target cells are described in WO 03/073995. Niethammer et al. (Nature
Medicine 2002, 8(12), 1369) describes an attenuated S. typhimurium aroA strain
SL7207 harboring an expression vector encoding the murine vascular endothelial
growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2 or FLK-1) and its use as cancer vaccine.
[0005] There is however only one attenuated Salmonella enterica serovar strain,
namely Salmonella enterica serovar typhi Ty21a (short: S. typhi Ty21 a), which has
been accepted for use in humans.
[0006] This well-tolerated, live oral vaccine against typhoid fever was derived by
chemical mutagenesis of the wild-type virulent bacterial isolate S. typhi Ty2 and
harbors a loss-of-function mutation in the galE gene, as well as other less defined
mutations. It has been licensed as typhoid vaccine in many countries after it was
shown to be efficacious and safe in field trials.
[0007] Angiogenesis contributes to solid tumor growth and metastasis. Compounds
like bevacizumab and others, for example small molecules such as sunitinib and
axitinib that specifically target the tumor neovasculature have shown efficacy in a
range of tumor indications (Powles et al., Br J Cancer 2011,104(5):741-5); Rini et al.,
Lancet 2011, 378:1931-1939).
[0008] Tumor neovasculature is lined with endothelial cells that overexpress vascular
endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) 2 and are readily accessible via the
blood stream. The genetic stability of these cells and their ability to support hundreds
of tumor cells per endothelial cell make them a prime target for anti-cancer therapy,
be it via antibodies, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or vaccines (Augustin, Trends
                                            2

Pharmacol Sci 1998,19:216-222). Recently, T-cell based immunotherapy has gained
some clinical success in prostate cancer and validated the potential of anti-cancer
vaccination which was often demonstrated pre-clinically (Sharma et al., Nat Rev
Cancer 2011,11:805-812). Activating the immune system against cancer cells faces
multiple challenges. For example, cancerous lesions are often polyclonal and cancer
cells have the propensity to mutate. Antigen specific therapy often only results in a
selection of non-antigen bearing cells. Further hurdles include tumor encapsulation
and loss or down-regulation of MHC molecules. Vaccination approaches that target
the tumor neovasculature should in theory overcome those hurdles.
[0009] In view of the prior art, the present invention provides a novel safe oral VEGF
receptor targeting cancer vaccine. Such a VEGF receptor targeting cancer vaccine
would offer major advantages for improving the treatment options for cancer patients.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0010] Described herein is an anti-angiogenic therapy and vaccination, targeting
VEGFR-2 using a new vaccine (VXM01), which is an attenuated and reengineered
bacterial strain Salmonella typhi Ty2l a comprising a plasmid that encodes the VEGF
receptor protein 2.
[0011] VXM01 represents a novel strategy by targeting not a tumor cell-resident
antigen, but a tumor stroma-resident antigen, overexpressed by non-malignant
endothelial cells of the tumor neovasculature.
[0012] By targeting genetically stable and easily accessible endothelial cells, this
product aims to overcome limitations encountered previously by vaccines targeting
                                            3

tumor cells directly, such as tumor-cell heterogeneity, MHC-loss, immunosuppression
on a cellular level and tumor encapsulation as well as physiological barriers such as
the blood brain barrier. Furthermore, since the therapeutic target is independent of
the tumor type, the vaccine may potentially be active against a variety of different
solid malignancies. The product represents a patient-independent, "off-the-shelf" oral
vaccine, which can be stored and distributed to the clinical sites for use. While anti
angiogenic therapy, either via small molecules or via antibodies, has already been
proven to be effective, the approach according to the present invention differs
significantly by activating the patient's own immune system against the tumor
neovasculature and is as such potentially creating a T-cell memory effect that
provides long-term efficacy. Studies with bevacizumab in colon and ovarian cancer
suggest that continued anti-angiogenic pressure is required to maintain beneficial
treatment effects in the long term (Allegra et al., J Clin Oncol 2011, 29:11-16; Burger
et al., N Engl J Med 2011, 365:2473-2483; Perren et al., N Engl J Med 2011,
365:2484-2496).
[0013] To the inventors' knowledge, this is the first clinical trial of an oral cancer
vaccine. In addition, this vaccine has the potential to be effective against multiple
tumor types.
[0014] It has been shown by this first clinical trial that the vaccine according to this
invention (VXM01) is highly effective in eliciting an immune response that influences
significantly the tumor growth in the patient. It is remarkable and surprising that this
immune response can be triggered by very low doses of orally administered VXM01.
The vaccine is effective at doses starting already with lx105 or 1x1 06 to 1x 07 colony
                                            4

forming units (CFU). First results indicate that vaccination with VXM01 may lead to
the breakdown of existing tumor vasculature and may support the development of an
immune memory against proliferating endothelial cells.
[0015] The vaccine is effective in monotherapy as well as in a combination therapy
with standard chemotherapeutic agents, radiotherapy and/or biological cancer
therapy.
[0016] In the current clinical trial the stage IV patients were treated in advance and/or
simultaneously with the chemotherapeutic agent gemcitabine and VXM01.                The
treatment with VXM01 is however also effective, if the patients have developed a
resistance to chemotherapy (chemo-refractory patients).
[0017] Accordingly, the present invention relates to an attenuated mutant strain of
Salmonella typhi comprising at least one copy of a recombinant DNA molecule
comprising an expression cassette encoding a VEGF receptor protein for use as a
vaccine.
[0018] In particular embodiments, the VEGF receptor protein is selected from the
group consisting of human VEGFR-2 and a homolog thereof that shares at least
about 80% homology therewith.
[0019] In particular embodiments, the VEGF receptor protein is human VEGFR-2
having the amino acid sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 1.
[0020] The present invention also relates to a DNA vaccine comprising the attenuated
mutant strain of Salmonella typhi described herein.
                                              5

[0021] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi is
Salmonella typhi Ty21 a.
[0021 a] Accordingly, in one aspect the present invention provides a DNA vaccine
comprising an attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhiTy2la comprising at least
one copy of a recombinant DNA molecule comprising an expression cassette
encoding human VEGFR-2, when used as a vaccine in anti-angiogenic cancer
immunotherapy, wherein the vaccine is to be administered orally and a single dose of
the vaccine comprises 1x10 colony forming units (CFU) or less than 1x1 09 CFU.
[0022] In particular embodiments, the expression cassette is a eukaryotic expression
cassette.
[0023] As indicated above, the DNA vaccine of the present invention is for use in anti
angiogenic cancer immunotherapy.
[0024] In particular embodiments, the DNA vaccine comprises the attenuated
Salmonella typhi strain Ty2la transformed by a plasmid that contains a DNA
encoding the VEGFR-2 protein of SEQ ID NO 1.
[0025] In particular embodiments, the plasmid is a 7580 bp plasmid comprising the
cDNA of VEGFR-2 under the control of a CMV promoter, the kanamycin resistance
gene, and the pMB1 ori.
[0026] In particular embodiments, the plasmid is the 7580bp pVAX1O.VR2-1 as
depicted in Figure 2 and has the sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 3 and the DNA
vaccine is designated VXM01.
[0027] In particular embodiments, the cancer is pancreatic cancer.
[0028] In particular embodiments, said pancreatic cancer is stage IV or locally
advanced pancreatic cancer.
[0029] In particular embodiments, the cancer includes metastases.
                                          6

[0030] In particular embodiments, the treatment is accompanied by chemotherapy
and/or radiotherapy.
[0031] In particular embodiments, the chemotherapeutic agent is gemcitabine.
[0032] In particular embodiments, the immunotherapeutic treatment with the vaccine
is carried out during the chemotherapy treatment cycle.
[0033] In particular embodiments, the vaccine is administered orally.
[0034] In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is 1x 10 5, 1x10 6 ,
1x10 7, 1x10 8 , 1x10 9,1x10 10, or 1x1011 colony forming units (CFU).
[0035] In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is less than 1x1 09
CFU. In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is from 1x10 8 to
1x1 09 CFU.
[0036] In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is less than lx108
CFU. In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is from 1x10 5 to
1x10 8  CFU, more particularly the single dose of the vaccine is from 1x10 6 tox,07
CFU.
[0037] In particular embodiments, the single dose comprises from about 10 5 to about
1011, particularly form about 106 to about 1010, more particularly from about 106 to
about 109, more particularly from about 106 to about 108, most particularly from about
106 to about 107 colony forming units (CFU).
                                               7

[0038] In another aspect, the present invention relates to the DNA vaccine VXM01,
comprising the attenuated Salmonella typhi strain Ty2la transformed by a plasmid
that contains a DNA encoding the VEGFR-2 protein of SEQ ID NO 1, wherein the
plasmid is a 7580 bp plasmid DNA and comprises the cDNA of VEGFR-2 that is
under the control of the CMV promoter, the kanamycin resistance gene, and the
pMB1 ori, and is designated as pVAX1 0.VR2-1.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0039] The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the
following detailed description of the invention and the examples included therein.
[0040] In one aspect, the present invention relates to an attenuated mutant strain of
Salmonella typhi comprising at least one copy of a recombinant DNA molecule
comprising an expression cassette encoding a VEGF receptor protein.
[0041] According to the invention, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi
functions as the bacterial carrier of the recombinant DNA molecule comprising an
expression cassette encoding a VEGF receptor protein for the delivery of said
recombinant DNA molecule into a target cell.
[0042] In the context of the present invention, the term "attenuated" refers to a
bacterial strain of reduced virulence compared to the parental bacterial strain, not
harboring the attenuating mutation. Attenuated bacterial strains have preferably lost
their virulence but retained their ability to induce protective immunity. Attenuation can
be accomplished by deletion of various genes, including virulence, regulatory, and
metabolic genes. Attenuated bacteria may be found naturally or they may be
                                               8

produced artificially in the laboratory, for example by adaptation to a new medium or
cell culture or they may be produced by recombinant DNA technology.
[0043] In the context of the present invention, the term "mutant strain" refers to a
bacterial strain harboring a mutation in its genome. In this context, the term
"mutation" refers to a change in the nucleic acid sequence, including point mutations,
insertions, deletions, translocations and inversions.
[0044] In the context of the present invention, the term "comprises" or "comprising"
means "including, but not limited to". The term is intended to be open-ended, to
specify the presence of any stated features, elements,              integers, steps or
components, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
features, elements, integers, steps, components or groups thereof. The term
"comprising" thus includes the more restrictive terms "consisting of' and "essentially
consisting of'. In one embodiment the term "comprising" as used throughout the
application and in particular within the claims may be replaced by the term "consisting
of'.
[0045] In the context of the present invention, the term "recombinant DNA molecule"
refers to an engineered DNA construct, preferably composed of DNA pieces of
different origin. The recombinant DNA molecule can be a linear nucleic acid, or
preferably, a circular recombinant DNA plasmid generated by introducing an open
reading frame encoding a VEGF receptor protein into an expression vector plasmid.
[0046] In the context of the present invention, the term "expression cassette" refers to
a nucleic acid unit comprising at least a VEGF receptor protein under the control of
regulatory sequences controlling its expression. The expression cassette comprised
in the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella can preferably mediate transcription of
                                              9

the included open reading frame encoding a VEGF receptor protein in a target cell.
Expression cassettes typically comprise a promoter, at least one open reading frame
and a transcription termination signal.
[0047] VEGF receptor proteins are endothelial cell-specific receptor-tyrosine kinases
that can be bound by the ligand vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) which
causes them to dimerize and become activated through transphosphorylation. The
VEGF family of growth factors (Kd 75-760 pM) encompasses 6 family members,
VEGF-A (also known as VEGF) through E and PLGF (placental growth factor, also
known as PGF or PIGF-2). VEGF growth factors regulate growth and differentiation
of multiple components of the vascular system, especially blood and lymph vessels.
There are three main subtypes of VEGFR, VEGFR-1 (or FLT1), VEGFR-2 (or KDR,
FLK1)    and VEGFR-3       (or FLT4). Membrane-bound     VEGF receptors have an
extracellular   portion  consisting of  7  immunoglobulin-like  domains,     a  single
transmembrane spanning region and an intracellular portion containing a split
tyrosine-kinase domain. VEGFR transcripts give also rise to alternative splice
variants that encode soluble VEGF receptor proteins.
[0048] VEGFR-2, also known as kinase-insert-domain-containing receptor (KDR),
appears to mediate almost all of the known cellular responses to VEGF. For
example, the role of VEGF in angiogenesis appears to be mediated through the
interaction of this protein with VEGFR-2. VEGFR-2 is a 1356 amino acid long, 200
230 kDa molecular weight high-affinity receptor for VEGF, as well as for VEGF-C and
VEGF-D. Identified in humans through the screening of endothelial cDNA for tyrosine
kinase receptors, VEGFR-2 shares 85% sequence identity with the previously
discovered mouse fetal liver kinase 1 (Flk-1). VEGFR-2 is normally expressed in
endothelial and hematopoietic precursors, as well as in endothelial cells, nascent
                                          10

hematopoietic stem cells and the umbilical cord stroma. However, in quiescent adult
vasculature, VEGFR-2 mRNA appears to be down regulated.
[0049] The extracellular domain       of VEGFR-2     contains  18  potential N-linked
glycosylation sites. VEGFR-2 is initially synthesized as a 150 kDa protein and rapidly
glycosylated to a 200 kDa intermediate form, and then further glycosylated at a
slower rate to a mature 230 kDa protein which is expressed on the cell surface.
[0050] The amino acid sequence of the human VEGFR-2 encoding cDNA sequence
cloned into the pVAX1 0.VR2-1 plasmid is presented in Figure 1.
[0051] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi of
the present invention is for use as a medicament.
[0052] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi of
the present invention is for use as a vaccine.
[0053] In the context of the present invention, the term "vaccine" refers to an agent
which is able to induce an immune response in a subject upon administration. A
vaccine can preferably prevent, ameliorate or treat a disease. A vaccine in
accordance with the present invention comprises an attenuated mutant strain of
Salmonella typhi, preferably S. typhi Ty2l a. The vaccine in accordance with the
present invention further comprises at least one copy of a recombinant DNA
molecule comprising an expression cassette, preferably a eukaryotic expression
cassette, encoding a VEGF receptor protein, preferably selected from human
VEGFR-2 or a protein that shares at least about 80% sequence identity therewith.
                                            11

[0054] The live attenuated Salmonella mutant strain according to the present
invention comprising a recombinant DNA molecule encoding a VEGF receptor
protein can be used as a vehicle for the oral delivery of this recombinant DNA
molecule. Such a delivery vector comprising a DNA molecule encoding a
heterologous antigen, such as a VEGF receptor protein, is termed DNA vaccine.
[0055] Genetic immunization might be advantageous over conventional vaccination.
The target DNA can be detected for a considerable period of time thus acting as a
depot of the antigen. Sequence motifs in some plasmids, like GpC islands, are
immunostimulatory and can function as adjuvants furthered by the immunostimulation
due to LPS and other bacterial components. Live bacterial vectors produce their own
immunomodulatory factors such as lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in situ which may
constitute   an    advantage    over    other   forms    of   administration such   as
microencapsulation. Moreover, the use of the natural route of entry proves to be of
benefit since many bacteria, like Salmonella, egress from the gut lumen via the M
cells of Peyer's patches and migrate eventually into the lymph nodes and spleen,
thus allowing targeting of vaccines to inductive sites of the immune system.
[0056] Furthermore, attenuated derivatives of Salmonella enterica are attractive as
vehicles for the delivery of heterologous antigens the mammalian immune system,
because S. enterica strains can potentially be delivered via mucosal routes of
immunization, i.e. orally or nasally, which offers advantages of simplicity and safety
compared to parenteral administration. Furthermore, Salmonella strains elicit strong
humoral and cellular immune responses at the level of both systemic and mucosal
compartments.
[0057] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi is
Salmonella typhi Ty2l a. The vaccine strain Ty2l a has been demonstrated to date to
                                           12

have an excellent safety profile. Upon exit from the gut lumen via the M cells, the
bacteria are taken up by phagocytic cells, such as macrophages and dendritic cells.
These cells are activated by the pathogen and start to differentiate, and probably
migrate, into the lymph nodes and spleen. Due to the attenuating mutations, bacteria
of the S. typhi Ty2l a strain are not able to persist in these phagocytic cells but die at
this time point. The recombinant DNA molecules are released and subsequently
transferred into the cytosol of the phagocytic immune cells, either via a specific
transport system or by endosomal leakage. Finally, the recombinant DNA molecules
enter the nucleus, where they are transcribed, leading to VEGF receptor expression
in the cytosol of the phagocytic cells. Specific cytotoxic T cells against the VEGFR
receptor protein are induced by the activated antigen presenting cells (APCs).
[0058] There is no data available to-date indicating that S. typhi Ty2l a is able to enter
the bloodstream systemically. The live attenuated Salmonella typhi Ty2l a vaccine
strain thus allows specific targeting of the immune system while exhibiting an
excellent safety profile.
[0059] In particular embodiments, the VEGF receptor protein is selected from the
group consisting of human VEGFR-2 and a homolog thereof that shares at least
about 80% homology therewith.
[0060] In this context, the term "about" or "approximately" means within 80% to 120%,
alternatively within 90% to 110%, including within 95% to 105% of a given value or
range.
[0061] In the context of the present invention, the term "protein that has at least about
80% sequence identity with human VEGFR-2" refers to a protein that differs in the
amino acid sequence and/or the nucleic acid sequence encoding the amino acid
                                            13

sequence of human VEGFR-2. The protein may be of natural origin, e.g. a homolog
of VEGFR-2 of a different species, or an engineered protein, e.g. an engineered
VEGFR-2 derivative. It is known that the usage of codons is different between
species. Thus, when expressing a heterologous protein in a target cell, it may be
necessary, or at least helpful, to adapt the nucleic acid sequence to the codon usage
of the target cell. Methods for defining and constructing derivatives of a given protein
are well-known to any one of ordinary skill in the art.
[0062] The protein that shares at least about 80% sequence identity with human
VEGFR-2 may contain one or more mutations comprising an addition, a deletion
and/or a substitution of one or more amino acids. According to the teaching of the
present invention, said deleted, added and/or substituted amino acids may be
consecutive amino acids or may be interspersed over the length of the amino acid
sequence of the protein that shares at least about 80% sequence identity with human
VEGFR-2. According to the teaching of the present invention, a number of amino
acids may be added, deleted, and/or substituted, as long as the sequence identity
with human VEGFR-2 is at least about 80%. In particular embodiments, the
sequence identity with human VEGFR-2 is at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at
least about 90%, or most particularly at least about 95%. Methods and algorithms for
determining sequence identity including the comparison of the parental protein and
its derivatives having deletions, additions and/or substitutions relative to a parental
sequence, are well-known to the practitioner of ordinary skill in the art. On the DNA
level, the nucleic acid sequences encoding the protein that has at least about 80%
sequence identity with human VEGFR-2 may differ to a larger extent due to the
degeneracy of the genetic code.
[0063] In particular embodiments, the VEGF receptor protein is human VEGFR-2
having the amino acid sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 1.
                                            14

[0064] In another aspect, the present invention relates to a DNA vaccine comprising
the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi of the present invention.
[0065] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi is
Salmonella typhi Ty2l a. The attenuated S. typhi Ty2l a strain is an active component
of Typhoral L*, also known as Vivotif* (manufactured by Berna Biotech Ltd., a Crucell
Company, Switzerland). It is currently the only licensed live oral vaccine against
typhoid fever. This vaccine has been extensively tested and has proved to be safe
regarding patient toxicity as well as transmission to third parties (Wahdan et al., J.
Infectious Diseases 1982, 145:292-295). The vaccine is licensed in more than 40
countries. The Marketing Authorization number of Typhoral L* is PL 15747/0001
dated 16 December 1996. One dose of vaccine contains at least 2x1 09 viable S. typhi
Ty2l a colony forming units and at least 5x1 09 non-viable S. typhi Ty21 a cells.
[0066] One of the biochemical properties of the Salmonella typhi Ty21 a bacterial
strain is its inability to metabolize galactose. The attenuated mutant strain is also not
able to reduce sulfate to sulfite which differentiates it from the wild type Salmonella
Ty2 strain. With regard to its serological characteristics, the Salmonella typhi Ty2l a
strain contains the 09-antigen which is a polysaccharide of the outer membrane of
the bacteria and lacks the 05-antigen which is in turn a characteristic component of
Salmonella typhimurium. This serological characteristic supports the rationale for
including the respective test in a panel of identity tests for batch release.
[0067] In particular embodiments, the expression cassette is a eukaryotic expression
cassette. In the context of the present invention, the term "eukaryotic expression
cassette" refers to an expression cassette which allows for expression of the open
reading frame in a eukaryotic cell. It has been shown that the amount of heterologous
                                             15

antigen required to induce an adequate immune response may be toxic for the
bacterium and result in cell death, over-attenuation or loss of expression of the
heterologous antigen. Using a eukaryotic expression cassette that is not expressed in
the bacterial vector but only in the target cell may overcome this toxicity problem and
the protein expressed may exhibit a eukaryotic glycosylation pattern.
[0068] A eukaryotic expression cassette comprises regulatory sequences that are
able to control the expression of an open reading frame in a eukaryotic cell,
preferably a promoter and polyadenylation signal. Promoters and polyadenylation
signals included in the recombinant DNA molecules comprised by the attenuated
mutant strain of Salmonella of the present invention are preferably selected to be
functional within the cells of the subject to be immunized. Examples of suitable
promoters, especially for the production of a DNA vaccine for humans, include but
are not limited to promoters from cytomegalovirus (CMV), such as the strong CMV
immediate early promoter, Simian virus 40 (SV40), Mouse Mammary Tumor Virus
(MMTV), Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), such as the HIF Long Terminal
Repeat (LTR) promoter, Moloney virus, Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), and from Rous
Sarcoma Virus (RSV) as well as promoters from human genes such as human actin,
human     myosin,   human     hemoglobin,     human   muscle   creatine,    and   human
metallothionein. In a particular embodiment, the eukaryotic expression cassette
contains the CMV promoter. In the context of the present invention, the term "CMV
promoter" refers to the strong immediate-early cytomegalovirus promoter.
[0069] Examples of suitable polyadenylation signals, especially for the production of a
DNA vaccine for humans, include but are not limited to the bovine growth hormone
(BGH) polyadenylation site, SV40 polyadenylation signals and LTR polyadenylation
signals. In a particular embodiment, the eukaryotic expression cassette included in
                                            16

the recombinant DNA molecules comprised by the attenuated mutant strain of
Salmonella of the present invention comprises the BGH polyadenylation site.
[0070] In addition to the regulatory elements required for expression of the VEGF
receptor protein, like a promoter and the polyadenylation signal, other elements can
also be included in the recombinant DNA molecule. Such additional elements include
enhancers. The enhancer can be, for example, the enhancer of human actin, human
myosin, human hemoglobin, human muscle creatine and viral enhancers such as
those from CMV, RSV and EBV.
[0071] Regulatory sequences and codons are generally species dependent, so in
order to maximize protein production, the regulatory sequences and codons are
preferably selected to be effective in the species to be immunized. The person skilled
in the art can produce recombinant DNA molecules that are functional in a given
subject species.
[0072] In particular embodiments, the DNA vaccine of the present invention is for use
in cancer immunotherapy.
[0073] In particular embodiments, the DNA vaccine comprises the attenuated
Salmonella typhi strain Ty2la transformed by a plasmid that contains a DNA
encoding the VEGFR-2 protein of SEQ ID NO 1.
[0074] In particular embodiments, the DNA vaccine is for use in an anti-angiogenic
cancer immunotherapy.
[0075] In particular embodiments, the recombinant DNA molecule comprises the
kanamycin antibiotic resistance gene, the pMB1 ori, and a eukaryotic expression
                                            17

cassette encoding human VEGFR-2 or a protein that shares at least 80% sequence
homology therewith, under the control of a CMV promoter. In particular embodiments,
human VEGFR-2 has the nucleic acid sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 2.
[0076] The eukaryotic Cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate-early promoter ensures
efficient translation of the VEGFR-2 protein in the host cell, and the prokaryotic origin
of replication (ori) mediates multiplication within the bacterial host.
[0077] In particular embodiments, the recombinant DNA molecule is derived from
commercially available       pVAX1 TM   expression plasmid       (Invitrogen, San Diego,
California). This expression vector was modified by replacing the high copy pUC
origin of replication by the low copy pMB1 origin of replication of pBR322. The low
copy modification was made in order to reduce the metabolic burden and to make the
construct more stable. Details of the plasmid pVAX1 0.VR2-1 construct are depicted
in Figure 2. The generated expression vector backbone was designated pVAX1 0.
Inserting human VEGFR-2 of the nucleic acid sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 2
into this expression vector backbone yielded the expression plasmid pVAX1 0.VR2-1.
[0078] The expression plasmid pVAX1 0.VR2-1 is schematically depicted in Figure 2.
In particular embodiments, the plasmid is the 7580bp pVAX10.VR2-1 as depicted in
Figure 2 and has the sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 3 and the DNA vaccine is
designated VXM01. VXM01 is an oral cancer vaccine consisting of an attenuated
strain of Salmonella enterica serovar typhi Ty2la carrying at least one copy of a
plasmid DNA, pVAX10.VR2-1, encoding a eukaryotic expression cassette of the
human Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-Receptor 2 (VEGFR-2).
[0079] In particular embodiments, the cancer is pancreatic cancer.
                                             18

[0080] In particular embodiments, said pancreatic cancer is stage IV or locally
advanced pancreatic cancer.
[0081] In particular embodiments, the cancer includes metastases.
[0082] In particular     embodiments,    cancer    immunotherapy   further  comprises
administration of one or more further attenuated mutant strain(s) of Salmonella
comprising at least one copy of a recombinant DNA molecule comprising an
expression cassette encoding a tumor antigen and/or a tumor stroma antigen. In
particular embodiments, said one or more further mutant strain(s) of Salmonella
is/are Salmonella typhi Ty2la comprising a eukaryotic expression cassette. In
particular embodiments, said one or more further strain(s) of Salmonella comprise(s)
an attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella encoding human WT1.
[0083] Combining the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella of the present invention
with a second attenuated mutant strain comprising a DNA molecule encoding a
second tumor stroma antigen or a tumor antigen may have synergistic antitumor
effects. In particular, simultaneous targeting of the tumor and the tumor stroma may
minimize the risk of tumor escape. Combining VEGFR-2 based immunotherapy with
WT1 based cancer immunotherapy may prove especially effective, since WT1
overexpressing human cells and the tumor vasculature are attacked at the same
time.
[0084] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella is co
administered with said one or more further attenuated mutant strain(s) of Salmonella.
[0085] In the context of the present invention, the term "co-administration" or "co
administer" means administration of two different attenuated mutant strains of
                                            19

Salmonella within three consecutive days, more particularly within two consecutive
days, more particularly on the same day, more particularly within 12 hours. Most
particularly, in the context of the present invention, the term "co-administration" refers
to simultaneous administration        of two different attenuated mutant strains of
Salmonella.
[0086] In particular embodiments, the treatment is accompanied by chemotherapy
and/or radiotherapy and/or biological cancer therapy. For cure of cancer, complete
eradication of cancer stem cells may be essential. For maximal efficacy, a
combination of different therapy approaches may be beneficial.
[0087] In the context of the present invention, the term "biological cancer therapy" or
"cancer immunotherapy" refers to the stimulation of the patient's immune system to
attack malignant tumor cells or the tumor stroma. Biological cancer therapy
approaches include delivery of tumor antigens, delivery of therapeutic antibodies as
drugs, administration of immunostimulatory cytokines and administration of immune
cells.
[0088] Chemotherapeutic agents that may be used in combination with the
attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella of the present invention may be, for example:
amifostine    (ethyol),  cabazitaxel, cisplatin,   dacarbazine     (DTIC),  dactinomycin,
docetaxel, mechlorethamine, streptozocin, cyclophosphamide, carrnustine (BCNU),
lomustine (CCNU), doxorubicin (adriamycin), doxorubicin lipo (doxil), folinic acid,
gemcitabine (gemzar), daunorubicin, daunorubicin lipo (daunoxome), procarbazine,
ketokonazole, mitomycin, cytarabine, etoposide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU),
vinblastine, vincristine, bleomycin, paclitaxel (taxol), docetaxel (taxotere), aldesleukin,
asparaginase, busulfan, carboplatin, cladribine, camptothecin, CPT-1 1, 10-hydroxy
7-ethyl-camptothecin (SN38), dacarbazine, floxuridine, fludarabine, hydroxyurea,
                                             20

ifosfamide,    idarubicin,   mesna,     interferon   alpha,    interferon   beta,    irinotecan,
mitoxantrone,      topotecan,    leuprolide,    megestrol,     melphalan,     mercaptopurine,
oxaliplatin, plicamycin, mitotane, pegaspargase, pentostatin, pipobroman, plicamycin,
streptozocin,    tamoxifen,   teniposide, testolactone,       thioguanine, thiotepa, uracil
mustard, vinorelbine, chlorambucil and combinations thereof.
[0089] Most preferred chemotherapeutic agents according to the invention in
combination      with  VXM01      are   cabazitaxel,     carboplatin,   oxaliplatin,    cisplatin,
cyclophosphamide, docetaxel, gemcitabine, doxorubicin, paclitaxel (taxol), irinotecan,
vincristine, vinblastine, vinorelbin, folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil and bleomycin, especially
gemcitabine.
[0090] In particular embodiments, the chemotherapeutic agent is gemcitabine.
[0091] It may be also favorable dependent on the occurrence of possible side effects
to include treatment with antibiotics or anti-inflammatory agents.
[0092] Should adverse events occur that resemble                   hypersensitivity reactions
mediated by histamine, leukotrienes, or cytokines, treatment options for fever,
anaphylaxis, blood pressure instability, bronchospasm, and dyspnoea are available.
Treatment options in case of unwanted T-cell derived auto-aggression are derived
from standard treatment schemes in acute and chronic graft vs. host disease applied
after stem cell transplantation. Cyclosporin and glucocorticoids are proposed as
treatment options.
[0093] In the unlikely case of systemic Salmonella typhi Ty2la type infection,
appropriate antibiotic therapy is recommended, for example with fluoroquinolones
                                               21

including ciprofloxacin or ofloxacin. Bacterial infections of the gastrointestinal tract
are to be treated with respective agents, such as rifaximin.
[0094] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella is
administered during the chemotherapy or the radiotherapy treatment cycle or during
biological cancer therapy.      In particular embodiments,     the immunotherapeutic
treatment with the vaccine is carried out during the chemotherapy treatment cycle.
[0095] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella is
administered before the chemotherapy or the radiotherapy treatment cycle or before
biological cancer therapy. This approach may have the advantage that chemotherapy
or radiotherapy can be performed under conditions of enhanced cancer immunity.
[0096] In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella is
administered after the chemotherapy or the radiotherapy treatment cycle or after
biological cancer therapy.
[0097] In particular    embodiments,     the   vaccine  is  administered   orally. Oral
administration is simpler, safer and more comfortable than parenteral administration.
Adverse effects of parenteral, subcutaneous or intradermal administration may be
overcome by oral administration of the DNA vaccine of the present invention. The
attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella of the present invention may however also be
administered by any other suitable route. Preferably, a therapeutically effective dose
is administered to the subject, and this dose depends on the particular application,
the type of malignancy, the subject's weight, age, sex and state of health, the manner
of administration and the formulation, etc. Administration may be single or multiple,
as required.
                                            22

[0098] The attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella of the present invention may be
provided in the form of a solution, a suspension, lyophilisate, or any other suitable
form. It may be provided in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers,
diluents, and/or excipients. Agents for adjusting the pH value, buffers, agents for
adjusting toxicity, and the like may also be included. In the context of the present
invention, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to molecular entities and
other ingredients of pharmaceutical compositions that are physiologically tolerable
and do not typically produce untoward reactions when administered to a mammal
(e.g., human). The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" may also mean approved by a
regulatory agency of a Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S.
Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in mammals, and,
more particularly, in humans.
[0099] The vaccine of the present invention is surprisingly effective at relatively low
doses. In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is about 1x 10 5,
about 1x10 6 , about 1x10 7, about 1x10 8 , about 1x10 9 , about 1x0   10 , or about 1x101
colony forming units (CFU). Administration of low doses of this live bacterial vaccine
minimizes the risk of excretion and thus of transmission to third parties.
[00100]        In this context, the term "about" or "approximately" means within a
factor of 3, alternatively within a factor of 2, including within a factor of 1.5 of a given
value or range.
[00101]        In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is less than
about 1x109 CFU. In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is from
1x108 to 1x10 9 CFU.
                                             23

[00102]         In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is less than
about 1x108 CFU. In particular embodiments, the single dose of the vaccine is from
1x 105 to 1x 108 CFU, more particularly the single dose of the vaccine is from lx106 to
1x 107 CFU.
[00103]         In particular embodiments, the single dose comprises from about 10 5 to
about 1011, particularly form about 106 to about 1010, more particularly from about 106
to about 109, more particularly from about 106 to about 108, most particularly from
about 106 to about 107 colony forming units (CFU).
[00104]         In particular embodiments, the attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella is
for   use     in    individualized  cancer    immunotherapy.    Individualized   cancer
immunotherapy may comprise the step of assessing the tumor stroma antigen
expression pattern and/or the tumor antigen expression pattern of a patient.
Individualized cancer immunotherapy may also comprise the step of assessing pre
immune responses against a tumor stroma antigen or a tumor antigen, preferably the
pre-immune response against VEGFR-2. In line with this, pre-existing immune
responses against VEGFR-2 were shown to strongly correlate with positive clinical
responses of VXM01, in particular with a decrease in tumor perfusion.
[00105]         VXM01 can be used - either by itself or in combination with other
Salmonella typhi Ty21a based cancer vaccines comprising eukaryotic expression
systems - for the treatment of various cancer types. In particular embodiments,
VXM01 may be used for individualized patient specific cancer treatment. For that
purpose, the patient's stromal and/or tumor antigen expression pattern may be
assessed in a first step for example by companion diagnostics targeting the patient's
specific stromal and/or tumor antigen pattern. Alternatively, pre-existing immune
responses against stromal and/or tumor antigens may be assessed. Depending on
                                            24

the patient's stromal and/or tumor antigen expression pattern, VMX01 may be
administered either alone or in combination with one or more suitable further
Salmonella typhi Ty2la based cancer vaccine(s) comprising eukaryotic expression
systems. Combinations of VXM01 with one or more further Salmonella typhi Ty2la
based cancer vaccine(s) may however also be administered as fixed combinations.
These cocktails combining two or more Salmonella typhi Ty2la based cancer
vaccines can be composed of separate off the shelf products. The combinations,
either fixed or individualized, may contain VXM01 as anti-angiogenic basis therapy.
[00106]        In another aspect, the present invention relates to the DNA vaccine
VXM01, comprising the attenuated Salmonella typhi strain Ty2l a transformed by a
plasmid that contains a DNA encoding the VEGFR-2 protein of SEQ ID NO 1,
wherein the plasmid is a 7580 bp plasmid DNA and comprises the cDNA of VEGFR-2
that is under the control of the CMV promoter, the kanamycin resistance gene, and
the pMB1 ori, and is designated as pVAX1 0.VR2-1.
                  SHORT DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES AND TABLES
Figure 1:      Amino    acid  sequence of VEGFR-2       cDNA   cloned   into  plasmid
pVAX1 0.VR2-1
Figure 2:      Plasmid map of pVAX1 0.VR2-1
Figure 3:      Dose escalating design of vaccine VXM01
Figure 4:      Overall study scheme
Figure 5:      VXM01 specific T cell responses
Figure 6:      Effects of VXM01 on tumor perfusion
Figure 7:      Effects of VXM01 on VEGF A serum levels
Figure 8:      Effects of VXM01 on collagen IV serum levels
                                           25

Figure 9:      Effects of VXM01 on blood pressure
Figure 10:    VXM01 -induced anti-carrier immunity
Figure 11:    Analysis cascade of VXM01 excretion
Figure 12:    VXM01 excretion
Table 1:       Patient selection criteria
Table 2:      VMX01 specific T cell responses
                                         EXAMPLES
Example 1 Salmonella typhi Ty2la strain preparation and plasmid preparation
[00107]        The first step in the preparation of the research seed lot (RSL)
consisted of the isolation of the attenuated Salmonella typhi Ty21 a strain followed by
the transformation of the attenuated bacteria with the plasmid DNA (pVAX1 0.VR2-1).
[00108]        Liquid culture medium was inoculated with a Salmonella typhi Ty21a
isolate and the liquid culture was then plated onto an agar medium for the purpose of
isolating single bacterial colonies. Single colonies were isolated and grown in liquid
culture medium. Two cultures, namely VAX.Ty21-1 and VAX.Ty21-2, were then
formulated with glycerol, aliquoted (1 ml) and stored at -75*C ± 50C pending use.
Identity of each of the two cultures was further confirmed.
[00109]        The principle of plasmid synthesis was based on double strand in vitro
gene synthesis with the following steps:
-   The whole pVAX10-VR2.1          plasmid sequence of 7.58 kb was subdivided (by
    software analysis) in 5 sections of ~1.5 kb. Each section was subdivided into 40
                                            26

    50 bp oligonucleotides each having overlapping regions between oligonucleotides
    of both strands
-   The in vitro synthesized oligonucleotides were then phosphorylated by incubation
    with T4 polynucleotide kinase
-   After the annealing process of overlapping oligonucleotides under appropriate
    conditions, the Taq DNA ligase enzyme connected the aligned oligonucleotides
-   Upon completion of the ligation step, PCR was performed using primers annealed
    at outward positions, to increase the yield of the ligated plasmid fragments
    (-1.5 kb)
-   A preparative agarose gel electrophoresis was performed to isolate the PCR
    products
-   The isolated PCR products were cloned into TOPO vectors (Invitrogen K#4575
    40) and transformed into TOP10 E. coli cells for propagation
-   After TOPO plasmid isolation, a restriction and sequence verification was
    performed
-   The isolated aligned fragments were assembled via overlap PCR. This process
    was followed by linearly assembling the pVAX1 0.VR2-1 plasmid
-   After Xhol restriction digest (single restriction site is present in the pVAX1 0.VR2-1
    plasmid, see Figure 2) and covalent binding via T4 ligase, E. coli was transformed
    with the circular plasmid for propagation
-   After final plasmid sequence verification, the pVAX10.VR2-1                plasmid was
    transformed into the S. typhi Ty2l a bacterial strain.
[00110]        The plasmid pVAX10.VR2-1 was thus successfully synthesized (no
deviation to reference sequence). This plasmid was further used to transform the S.
typhi Ty2l a bacterial strain.
                                             27

Example 2 VXM01 - Phase I clinical trial; Study description
[00111]         This phase I trial examined the safety, tolerability, and immunological
and clinical responses to VXM01. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind
dose-escalation study included 45 patients with locally advanced or stage IV
pancreatic cancer. The patients received four doses of VXM01 or placebo in addition
to gemcitabine as standard of care. Doses from 106 CFU up to 1010 CFU of VXM01
were evaluated in the study. An independent data safety monitoring board (DSMB)
was involved in the dose-escalation decisions. In addition to safety as primary
endpoint, the VXM01-specific immune reaction, as well as clinical response
parameters were evaluated.
Preclinical efficacy assessment:
[00112]         The efficacy and safety of this approach in animals has been validated
multiple times by the inventors. Further experiments by the inventors showed an
activity of this vaccine in two different models of pancreatic cancer.
[00113]         VXM01, the vaccine used in this trial, is a humanized version of the
anti-VEGFR-2 vaccine previously tested in mice. It encodes the human full-length
VEGFR-2 and uses the licensed Salmonella typhi strain Ty2l a instead of Salmonella
typhimurium as a carrier. The vaccine is assumed to lead to VEGFR-2 protein
expression in monocytes and dendritic cells after entry of VXM01 in the Peyer's
patches via M cells of the gut, and internalization by antigen-presenting cells followed
by translation of the encoded DNA.
Preclinical safety assessment:
[00114]          Preclinical toxicity studies in mice included, but were not restricted to a
single dose toxicity study in mice conducted with the human vaccine VXM01. As
                                               28

VXM01 is specific for the human host, the study of the human vaccine in mice
focused on possible effects of process-related impurities and related signs and
symptoms of possible relevance for cardiovascular, respiratory, or central nervous
system impairment. In order to investigate the toxicity profile of an anti-VEGFR-2 T
cell response, a repeated dose toxicity study was conducted using the murine analog
construct of VXM01 which induced a dose-dependent T-cell response in mice. In
accordance to the inventors' previous observations, no treatment-related deaths and
no toxicologically important clinical signs were observed throughout these studies,
which were conducted according to Good Laboratory Practice (GLP).
[00115]        The vector Salmonella typhi Ty21a used here is a live, attenuated
bacterial carrier that allows for the oral delivery of the vaccine VXM01. It is itself an
approved vaccine against typhoid fever (Vivotif*, Crucell, formerly Berna Biotech Ltd.,
Switzerland) that has been extensively tested and has demonstrated its safety
regarding patient toxicity as well as transmission to third parties (Wahdan et al., J.
Infectious Diseases 1982, 145:292-295). VXM01 is classified as a gene transfer
medicinal product and subject to the respective guidance and regulations.
Study descriptions and objectives:
[00116]       The conducted study was a monocenter, placebo controlled, double
blind dose escalation study of the experimental vaccine VXM01 in patients with
inoperable or stage IV pancreatic cancer. The vaccine was given as add-on to a
standard of care gemcitabine treatment.
[00117]       The objectives were to examine the safety and tolerability, and
immunological and clinical responses to the investigational anti-VEGFR-2 vaccine
VXM01, as well as to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VXM01. The
                                            29

MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which less than two of up to six patients
under VXM01 treatment experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).
[00118]       Primary endpoints for safety and tolerability were as follows: Number of
DLTs defined as any adverse event (AE) related to study drug of grade 4 or higher,
or grade 3 or higher for gastrointestinal fistula, diarrhea, gastrointestinal perforation,
multi-organ   failure,  anaphylaxis,    any auto-immune      disorder,  cytokine-release
syndrome, intestinal bleeding, renal failure, proteinuria, thromboembolic events,
stroke, heart failure, or vasculitis according to the National Cancer Institute Common
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).
[00119]       Secondary endpoints, which assess the efficacy of the experimental
vaccine to elicit a specific immune response to VEGFR-2, included the number of
immune positive patients.
[00120]       A further secondary endpoint was the clinical response: Tumor staging
according to the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST), overall
response rate, progression free survival, overall survival, and changes in tumor
perfusion. Tumor perfusion was determined by dynamic contrast-enhanced Magnetic
Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) on a 1.5 Tesla system (Magnetom Aera, Siemens,
Erlangen, Germany).
[00121]       VXM01     had been manufactured according to Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) and was given in a buffered solution. The placebo control consisted
of isotonic sodium chloride solution.
Patient Selection and Clinical Study Design:
                                             30

[00122]         The study included a maximum of 45 patients with either locally
advanced and inoperable or stage IV pancreatic cancer. The eligibility criteria are
summarized in Table 1.
Table 1:
  Inclusion Criteria
                 1.  Written informed consent, signed and dated
                2.   Locally advanced, inoperable and stage IV pancreatic cancer patients according
                     to UICC based on diagnostic imaging using computer-tomography (CT) or
                     histological examinations
                3.   Male or post-menopausal female
                4.   Age 18 years
                5.   Chemotherapy naive within 60 days before screening visit except gemcitabine
                     treatment
                6.   Karnofsky index >70
                7.   Life expectancy >3 months
                8.   Adequate renal, hepatic, and bone marrow function
                9.   Absolute neutrophil count >1 500/pL
                10.  Hemoglobin >10 g/dL
                11.  Platelets >75000/pL
                12.  Prothrombin time and international normalized ratio (INR) <1.5 times upper limit
                     of normal (ULN) (except under anticoagulant treatment)
                13.  Aspartate aminotransferase <4 times ULN
                14.  Alanine aminotransferase <4 times ULN
                15.  Total bilirubin <3 times ULN
                16.  Creatinine clearance estimated according to Cockcroft-Gault > 30 mL/min
                17.  Proteinuria <1 g protein on 24 h urine collection
  Exclusion Criteria
                                                    31

18. State after pancreas resection (complete or partial)
19. Resectable disease
20. Drug trial participation within 60 days before screening visit
21. Other previous or current malignancy except basal or squamous cell skin cancer, in
    situ cervical cancer, or any other cancer from which the patient has been disease
    free for <2 years
22. Prior vaccination with Ty21 a State after pancreas resection (complete or partial)
23. Resectable disease
24. Drug trial participation within 60 days before screening visit
25. Other previous or current malignancy except basal or squamous cell skin cancer, in
    situ cervical cancer, or any other cancer from which the patient has been disease
    free for <2 years
26. Prior vaccination with Ty21 a
27. Cardiovascular disease defined as:
        Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pressure >160 mmHg or diastolic
        blood pressure >100 mmHg)
        Arterial thromboembolic event within 6 months before randomization including:
        - Myocardial infarction
        - Unstable angina pectoris
        - Cerebrovascular accident
        - Transient ischemic attack
28. Congestive heart failure New York Heart Association grade III to IV
29. Serious ventricular arrhythmia requiring medication
30. Clinically significant peripheral artery disease > grade 2b according to Fontaine
31. Hemoptysis within 6 months before randomization
32. Esophageal varices
33. Upper or lower gastrointestinal bleeding within 6 months before randomization
34. Significant traumatic injury within 4 weeks before randomization
35. Non-healing wound, bone fracture or any history of gastrointestinal ulcers within
    three years before inclusion, or positive gastroscopy within 3 months before
    inclusion
36. Gastrointestinal fistula
37. Thrombolysis therapy within 4 weeks before randomization
38. Bowel obstruction within the last 30 days before screening visit
39. Liver cirrhosis > grade B according to Child-Pugh Score-Classification
40. Presence of any acute or chronic systemic infection
41. Radiotherapy within 4 weeks before randomization
42. Major surgical procedures, or open biopsy within 4 weeks before randomization
43. Fine needle aspiration within 7 days before randomization
44. Chronic concurrent therapy within 2 weeks before and during the double-blind study
    period with:
                                         32

                       -     Corticosteroids (except steroids for adrenal failure) or immunosuppressive
                             agents
                       -     Antibiotics
                       -     Bevacizumab
                       -     Any epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor
            45.    Chemotherapy except gemcitabine before Day 10 Multi-drug resistant gram
                   negative germ
            46.    Pregnancy
            47.    Lactation
            48.    Inability to comply with study and/or follow-up procedures
            49.    History of other disease, metabolic dysfunction, physical examination finding, or
                   clinical laboratory finding giving reasonable suspicion of a disease or condition that
                   contraindicates the use of an investigational drug or that might affect the
                   interpretation of the study results or render the patient at high risk for treatment
                   complications
            50.    Women of childbearing potential
            51.    Any history of drug hypersensitivity
            52.    Any condition which results in an undue risk for the patient during the study
                   participation according to the investigator
[00123]         A total of 371 patients were screened for the study. 326 patients were
ineligible because of excluded                  medical therapies (179),                 preexisting    medical
conditions (129) in patient's medical history and personal reasons (18). 45 patients
were enrolled, randomized and completed successfully the 10 days in-house study
phase at the Clinical Research Unit at the University Clinics of Heidelberg (KliPS), in
line with the study protocol. Demographic baseline disease characteristics of the
patients were not significantly different in the two groups, but time since diagnosis
was longer in the VXM01 group (8 vs. 6 months) and patients in the VXM01 group
had a more advanced tumor stage at the time of inclusion (CA1 9.9 > 1000 in 40% vs.
20% and metastatic disease in 83% vs. 53%).
[00124]         Male and postmenopausal female patients were enrolled in this study.
However, differences between the two genders were not investigated. The average
survival time of the patients participating in this trial was under 6 months. However,
the follow-up period for the patients as defined per protocol was up to 24 months.
                                                        33

The study treatment was given first-line as an add-on to standard of care. Taking
further into account other factors, among them the multiple primary and secondary
pharmacodynamic preclinical studies, the risk-benefit analysis was assumed to have
a favorable result for the patient population selected.
[00125]        The starting dose consisted of a solution containing 106 colony forming
units (CFU) of VXM01 or placebo. This VXM01 dose was chosen for safety reasons
and was assumed to be below the minimal effective dose to elicit an immune
response. For comparison, one dose of Typhoral*, the licensed vaccine against
typhoid fever, contains 2x10   9 to 6x10 9 CFU of Salmonella typhi Ty21a, equivalent to
approximately thousand times the VXM01 starting dose. The dose was escalated in
factor-of-ten logarithmic steps, which appears to be justified for a live bacterial
vaccine. The dose escalating design is depicted in Figure 3.
[00126]        Complying with guidelines for first in human trials, the patients of one
dose group were treated in cohorts. The first administration of VXM01 in any dose
group was given to one patient only accompanied by one patient receiving placebo.
The second cohort of each dose group consisted of two patients receiving VXM01
and one patient receiving placebo. This staggered administration with one front
runner, i.e. only one patient receiving VXM01 first, served to mitigate the risks.
[00127]        A third cohort of patients (three receiving VXM01 and one receiving
placebo) were included in the 108, 109, and 1010 dose groups. This approach
minimized exposure to VXM01 doses assumed to be sub-therapeutic. The third
cohort and the first two cohorts of the next higher treatment group were treated in
parallel based on a clearly defined randomization strategy. This strategy allowed for
recruitment of available patients and avoided selection bias for patients treated in
parallel in the lower and higher dose group. In the 106 and 10 7 dose groups, a third
                                             34

cohort of patients was included only if one patient out of the initial three patients
receiving VXM01 of the respective dose group experienced a DLT and required
confirmation by a decision of the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB).
[00128]       All patients completed the seven day vaccination course of 4 doses
every second day in line with the protocol without any dose reduction. Because of no
observed dose limiting toxicities (DLT) the maximum tolerated dose was not reached.
VXM01 was well tolerated at all dose levels. AEs and SAEs where equally distributed
among both groups and there were no obvious signs for dose-dependent side effects
among the groups.
[00129]       The environmental risk inherent to an oral vaccine is the potential of
excretion to the environment and subsequent vaccination of people outside the target
population. All study patients were confined in the study site (KIiPS) for the period
during which vaccinations took place plus three additional days. All feces of study
patients were collected and incinerated. Body fluids and feces samples were
investigated for VXM01 shedding. Fecal excretion of VXM01 was observed in two
patients, one in the 109 and one in the 1010 dose group. VXM01 excretion in feces in
both patients was transient at one occasion after the first or second administration,
respectively, and disappeared without antibiotic treatment. In other body fluids, no
excretion was determined.
[00130]       Hygienic precautions were applied to protect study personnel from
accidental uptake. Study personnel was trained specifically for this aspect of the
study.
[00131]       Patients were only discharged from hospital, if they tested negative for
excretion of the vaccine after the last administration of the study drug. In case a
                                           35

patient tested positive for excretion after the last administration, an antibiotic
decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract was conducted before the patient was
discharged. Excretion was followed up until results were negative. These measures
appear to have been justified and sufficient to protect the environment and study
personnel from exposure to VXM01 until the shedding profile had been elucidated.
[00132]        VXM01 was applied in parallel to the gemcitabine background therapy
as shown in Figure 4 (overall study scheme). In brief, gemcitabine was given on days
1, 8, and 15 of a 28 days chemotherapy cycle. The vaccine was given four times on
days 1, 3, 5, and 7, starting three days after the last dose of gemcitabine. The double
blinded phase of the study ended 31 days after the last patient had received the last
administration.
[00133]        For this phase I trial (advanced or stage IV pancreatic cancer patients)
a patient population with dismal prognosis and the relatively gentle standard of care
with regard to immunosuppression was chosen. Co-regimes of the chemotherapeutic
agent gemcitabine with tumor vaccination may be synergistic. In addition, specific T
cell activation was measured in this patient setting demonstrating effectiveness of the
vaccine VXM01. A placebo control was included in the present trial, in order to gain
further knowledge on specific safety issues related to the active vaccine vs. the
background treatment. In addition, the pooled placebo patients served as a sound
comparator for assessing specific immune activation and other signs of clinical
efficacy. If and when moving into phase 11,a different patient entity with a longer life
expectancy can be envisaged depending on the observed safety profile. Such studies
will also include tumor types that have shown to be more susceptible to anti
angiogenic treatment.
                                            36

Example 3 VXM01 specific T-cell responses
[00134]       Responses to VXM01 were assessed by monitoring the frequencies of
VEGFR2 specific T-cells in peripheral blood of VXM01 and placebo treated patients,
detected by INFy ELISpot, at different time points prior during and post vaccination.
[00135]       Firstly, T-cells and peptide pulsed DC were added to wells coated with
anti-INFy antibodies. After a period of incubation, cells were removed with secreted
INFy left binding with the coat antibodies. Then detection antibody was added to
detect the bound INFy, and after a signal amplification, the final yield could be viewed
as "color spots" representing single activated and specific T-cells.
[00136]       Positivity of ELISpot samples was graded according to predefined rules
defining signal increase resulting in grade 0 to 3 per sample:
No increase:                  grade 0
Clear increase but < 3x:      grade 1
2 3x but < 5x increase:       grade 2
2 5x increase:                grade 3
[00137]       The ELISpot immune response of study patients is depicted in Table 2:
Table 2: VEGFR-2 specific T-cell response (Patients w/ grading score       3)
              106              10'           108            109             1 010
Placebo      CFUs/admin        CFUs/admin    CFUs/admin     CFUs/admin      CFUs/admin
1/11         2/6               3/5           1/6            0/6             2/6
[00138]       The results of the ELISpot immune response of study patients is
graphically depicted in Figure 5.
                                           37

Example 4 Effects on tumor Perfusion
[00139]       Tumor perfusion was evaluated by contrast media transit time (Ktrans)
during dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCEMRI) to
characterize treatment response. Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced T1 -weighted imaging
was performed. DCE -MRI was assessed on a 1.5 Tesla System (Magnetom Aera,
Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) on day 0, 38 and 3 months after treatment. Dynamic
contrast -enhanced MR- imaging was performed with VIBE(volumetric interpolated
breath-hold) sequences. For that purpose, a dose of 8 ml Gadovist was injected.
[00140]       For every examination, regions of interest were manually drawn within
the tumor-tissue followed by pixel-by-pixel analysis using a Siemens software
package (Tissue 4D). ROI-modeling was based on the Tofts model with assumed
T10 (10OOms) and Parker AIF. For the estimation of tumor-perfusion Ktrans was
regarded as primary endpoint.
[00141]       Mean changes in tumor perfusion were -9% in the VXM01 group (n=26)
vs. +18% in the placebo group (n=1 1). A greater than 33% drop in tumor perfusion
was detected in 35% of evaluable VXM01 treated patients vs. 10% in the placebo
group. The strongest responders were further analyzed in a subgroup analysis.
Maximum average effects were detected at the d38 time point. The effects of various
doses of VXM01 on tumor perfusion are graphically depicted in Figure 6.
Example 5 Biomarkers of angioqenesis
[00142]       In order to further characterize the VEGFR-2 specific T-cell mediated,
anti-angiogenic   activity of   VXM01,    accompanying   changes   in  angiogenesis
biomarkers VEGF A, human collagen IV and blood pressure were monitored.
                                          38

VEGF A:
[00143]        VEGF A was measured in human serum samples by ELISA using a
commercial assay kit (ELISA Kit Quantikine Human VEGF A Immunoassay, R&D
Systems, Cat.-No.: DVE00). The assay was used as described in the package insert
and as modified as part of this study plan according to the foregoing validation study
580.132.2786.
[00144]        This assay employs the quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay
technique. A monoclonal antibody specific for human VEGF A had been pre-coated
onto a microplate. Standards, quality controls (commercially obtained) and samples
were pipetted into the wells and any VEGF A present was bound by the immobilized
antibody. Calibrator, quality control samples, and samples were analyzed as
duplicates. After washing away any unbound substances, an enzyme-linked
polyclonal antibody specific for VEGF A was added to the wells. Following a wash to
remove any unbound antibody-enzyme reagent, a substrate solution was added to
the wells and color developed in proportion to the amount of VEGF A bound in the
initial step. The color development was stopped and the intensity of the color was
measured using a spectrophotometric microtiter plate reader at 450 nm. A standard
curve was generated by plotting the absorbance versus the respective VEGF A
concentration for each standard. The concentration of VEGF A in the sample was
determined directly from this curve.
[00145]        VEGF-A serum levels increased in the VXM01 group by 235% on both
d38 and m3 vs. 17% and 31%            in the placebo group (p=0.05 at m3). The
quantification of VEGF A in patient serum samples is graphically depicted in Figure 7.
Collagen IV:
                                          39

[00146]        Human Collagen IV was measured in human serum samples by ELISA
using a commercial assay kit (Human Collagen               IV ELISA, Serum, KAMIYA
BIOMEDICAL COMPANY, Cat.-No.: KT-035). The assay was used as described in
the package insert and as modified as part of this study report according to the
foregoing validation study 580.132.3645.
[00147]        The human Collagen IV ELISA was a solid phase one-step sandwich
ELISA. Collagen IV in the sample was bound simultaneously by a solid phase
monoclonal antibody and a monoclonal antibody-enzyme conjugate, each directed at
different antigenic sites. This resulted in the collagen IV molecule being sandwiched
between the solid phase and enzyme-labeled antibodies. After removing unbound
enzyme-labeled antibody and sample, the plate was incubated with chromogenic
substrate (TMB). The resultant color development was directly proportional to the
amount of collagen IV in the sample.
[00148]        Serum levels of collagen IV increased on d38 and m3 in average by 7%
and 22%, respectively, in the VXM01 group vs. changes of 2% and -7% in the
placebo group (p=0.02 at m3). The quantification of collagen IV in patient serum
samples is graphically depicted in Figure 8.
Blood pressure:
[00149]        Blood    pressure   (systolic    and   diastolic) and  pulse   rate  as
pharmacodynamic markers of anti-angiogenic efficacy were measured after 5
minutes rest in supine position. Average systolic blood pressure changes were
+3.6mmHg and +3.9mmHg in the treatment group vs. -8.8mHg and 9.1mmHg under
placebo (p=0.08 at d38). Effects on average blood pressure after the first vaccination
dose (up to day 38) are graphically depicted in Figure 9.
                                             40

Example 6 Anti-Carrier Immunity
[00150]        In order to assess immune responses to the bacterial vehicle, anti
Salmonella typhi IgG and IgM immunoglobulins were detected by ELISA using two
commercial assay kits (Salmonella typhi IgG ELISA, Cat. No. ST0936G and
Salmonella typhi IgM ELISA, Cat. No. ST084M; Calbiotech. Inc., 10461 Austin Dr,
Spring Valley, CA 91978, USA). These assays were qualitative assays. The assays
were used as described in the package inserts respectively App. I/I) and as modified
as part of the study plan according to the foregoing validation study 580.132.2785.
[00151]        Both assays employed the enzyme-linked immunosorbent              assay
technique. Calibrator, negative control, positive control and samples were analyzed
as duplicates. Diluted patient serum (dilution 1:101) was added to wells coated with
purified antigen. IgG or IgM specific antibody, if present, bound to the antigen. All
unbound materials were washed away and the enzyme conjugate was added to bind
to the antibody-antigen complex, if present. Excess enzyme conjugate was washed
off and substrate was added. The plate was incubated to allow for hydrolysis of the
substrate by the enzyme. The intensity of the color generated was proportional to the
amount of IgG or IgM specific antibody in the sample. The intensity of the color was
measured using a spectrophotometric microtiter plate reader at 450 nm. The cut off
was calculated as follows:
Calibrator OD x Calibrator Factor (CF).
[00152]       The antibody index of each determination was determined by dividing
the OD value of each sample by cut-off value.
[00153]       Antibody index interpretation:
<0.9           No detectable antibody to Salmonella typhi IgG or IgM by ELISA
                                           41

0.9-1.1        Borderline positive
>1.1           Detectable antibody to Salmonella typhi IgG or IgM by ELISA
[00154]        The number of patients with detectable anti-Salmonella typhi IgG
immunoglobulins are depicted in Figure 10.
Example 7 Excretion
[00155]        The shedding of bacteria in stool and body fluids, tears, saliva, urine
and blood was monitored in the study VXM01 -01 -DE according to methods validated
transferred as formerly validated according to GLP at an established central service
laboratory (Huntingdon Life Sciences, Huntingdon, UK). Shedding and biodistribution
in body fluids of VXM01 were determined by plate and enrichment cultivation. Identity
of the VXM01 carrier bacterium was determined by serological agglutination and
PCR methods.
[00156]        Test samples (blood, tears, urine, saliva and faeces) were collected at
the site in Heidelberg and same-day delivery of post-vaccination samples took place
to MicroMol GmbH located in Karlsruhe, Germany. The bacterial vector shedding and
biodistribution analysis cascade was designed to detect live CFU of VXM01 or
horizontal plasmid transfer. It consists of two separate analysis branches (Branch I
and Branch II):
Branch 1:      Plating method to detect any horizontal plasmid transfer
Branch II:     Liquid enrichment culture to detect live CFU of VXM01
[00157]        The analysis cascade is followed by a matrix decision in order to
determine the excretion of live bacteria VXM01 or observation of a horizontal plasmid
transfer. The cascade is outlined in Figure 11.
                                            42

Analysis Branch I for detection of horizontal plasmid transfer:
    -  Day 0: Plating of the 5 test samples on 3 TSA (+ kanamycin) plates each,
       incubation over night at 370C
    -  Day 1: Visual discrimination between VXM01            (Ty2la) and non-VXM01
       morphotypes on the selective plates. Selection of non-VXM01 morphotypes (9
       colonies each), streaking on agar plates (+ kanamycin) for agglutination and
       parallel liquid culture (+ kanamycin) for each pooled morphotype for PCR
       analysis the following day
    -  Day 2: PCR of each liquid morphotype pool
Analysis Branch II for detection of VXM01:
    -  Day 0: Preparation of liquid enrichment cultures (+ kanamycin) for each of the
       5 test samples
    -  Day 1: Direct PCR on each liquid enrichment culture. Streaking of each
       enrichment culture on agar plates (+ kanamycin) for serological analysis the
       following day in case PCR is positive for plasmid
    -  Day 2: Serological confirmation of presence of VXM01 (Ty2l a)
[00158]        Due to the fact that PCR of any test sample would not be discriminative
between live CFU and/or free-floating plasmid or Ty2la genomic DNA and as
agglutination cannot be applied directly on test samples,           PCR as well as
agglutination methods were used as second-line methods after plating method was
applied. Identified live colonies grown on kanamycin-containing plates were further
characterized by these methods. Only the plating method enables discrimination
between live and dead cells (either VXM01            or foreign non-VXM01     plasmid
transformants due to horizontal plasmid transfer).
                                           43

[00159]        Fecal excretion of VXM01 was observed in two patients, one in the 109
and one in the 1010 dose group. VXM01 excretion in feces in both patients was
transient at one occasion after the first or second administration, respectively, and
disappeared without antibiotic treatment. The numbers of VMX01 excreting patients
in the various dose groups are graphically depicted in Figure 12.
[00160]        In summary, VXM01 has the potential to target a variety of tumor types
and to overcome multiple hurdles encountered by other present cancer vaccine
approaches. A tempting vision is the possibility of combining the vaccine of the
present invention with a multitude of other anti-cancer and immune-modulatory
agents. The results of the here presented study motivate the inventors to move
forward this highly interesting approach.
[00161]        The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the
like is included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for
the present invention.     It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these
matters formed part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each
claim of this application.
[00162]        Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word
"comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                            44

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.   A DNA vaccine comprising an attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella typhi
     Ty2la comprising at least one copy of a recombinant DNA molecule
     comprising an expression cassette encoding human VEGFR-2, when used as
     a vaccine in anti-angiogenic cancer immunotherapy, wherein the vaccine is to
     be administered orally and a single dose of the vaccine comprises 1x10 9
     colony forming units (CFU) or less than 1x1 09 CFU.
2.   The DNA vaccine of claim 1, wherein the expression cassette is a eukaryotic
     expression cassette.
3.   The DNA vaccine of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the plasmid is a 7580 bp
     plasmid comprising the cDNA of VEGFR-2 under the control of a CMV
     promoter, the kanamycin resistance gene, and the pMB1 ori.
4.   The DNA vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the cancer is pancreatic
     cancer.
5.   The DNA vaccine of claim 4, wherein said pancreatic cancer is stage IV or
     locally advanced pancreatic cancer.
6.   The DNA vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the cancer includes
     metastases.
7.   The DNA vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the treatment is
     accompanied by chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy.
8.   The DNA vaccine of claim 7, wherein the chemotherapeutic agent is
     gemcitabine.
9.   The DNA vaccine of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the immunotherapeutic
     treatment with the vaccine is carried out during the chemotherapy treatment
     cycle.
10.  The DNA vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the single dose of the
     vaccine is 1x10 6, 1x10 7, 1x10 8, or 1x10 9 CFU.
                                            45

11. The DNA vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the single dose of the
    vaccine is less than 1x1 09 CFU.
12. The DNA vaccine of claim 11, wherein the single dose of the vaccine is less
    than 1x108 CFU.
13. The DNA vaccine of claim 12, wherein the single dose of the vaccine is from
    1x105 to less than 1x108 CFU.
14. The DNA vaccine of claim 13, wherein the single dose of the vaccine is from
    1x10 6 to 1x10 7 CFU.
                                     46

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
