ABSTRACT
A method of controlling the delivery of fluid from a medical delivery device, comprising:
providing a medical device comprising a distal delivery region comprising a first valve
element having a first fluid control extending therethrough and a second valve element
having a second fluid control and a third fluid control spaced apart from the second fluid
control; and selectively regulating the flow of a fluid by moving the first valve element
relative to the second valve element until the first fluid control is aligned with the second
fluid control or the third fluid control to flow fluid therethrough, wherein the second and
third fluid controls are each independently addressable by the first fluid control.

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
                           INTRAVASCULAR TISSUE DISRUPTION
                                          CROSS-REFERENCE
   [00011       This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/317,231,
 5 filed March 24, 2010, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/324,461, filed April 15, 2010, the
   disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]       Various treatments to bodily tissue have been attempted. Devices that can deliver a
   fluid from a distal end port of a catheter have been described. Devices have been described that
10 have a valve at a distal port that allows fluid to flow through the valve in an open configuration
   and prevents fluid from flowing through the valve in a closed configuration. Devices have also
   been described that can create microfluidic pulsed jets at the distal end of a catheter.
   Additionally, intravascular devices that include elements that pierce lumen walls can be
   deployed within a lumen and deliver medication into a lumen wall. Some devices have a
15 plurality of delivery ports through which fluids are delivered simultaneously. These devices and
   methods of use have one or more shortcomings for which the disclosure herein compensates.
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [00031       One aspect of the disclosure is a method of controlling the delivery of fluid from a
   medical delivery device, comprising: a medical device comprising a distal delivery region
20 comprising a plurality of fluid controls; and selectively regulating the flow of a fluid through the
   plurality of fluid controls. In some embodiments selectively regulating comprises allowing the
   fluid to be delivered from a first fluid control while minimizing the fluid that is delivered from a
   second fluid control. In some embodiments selectively regulating comprises increasing the flow
   of fluid from a first fluid control without increasing the flow of fluid through a second fluid
25 control. In some embodiments selectively regulating comprises increasing the fluid flow from a
   first fluid control a first amount and increasing the flow of fluid from a second fluid control a
   second amount, wherein the first amount is different than the second amount. In some
   embodiments selectively regulating comprising moving a first fluid control from a closed
   configuration to an open configuration without moving a second fluid control from a closed
30 configuration to an open configuration. Moving the first control to the open configuration can
   comprise moving a first valve element with a first aperture therein relative to a second valve
   element with a second aperture therein until the apertures are in alignment. Moving the first
   fluid control to the open configuration can cause the fluid to flow from the first control at a high
                                                     - 1-

        WO 2011/119857                                                          PCT/US2011/029829
    velocity, while the fluid flows out of the second fluid control at a low velocity. In some
    embodiments selectively regulating comprises flowing the fluid out of a first fluid control at a
    high velocity and flowing the fluid out of a second fluid control at a low velocity.
    [0004]        One aspect of the disclosure is a method of regulating the volume of a fluid delivered
  5 from a medical device, comprising: a medical device comprising a distal delivery region
    comprising a fluid control in communication with a fluid source, wherein the fluid control
    comprises a first control element with a first aperture therein and a second control element with a
    second aperture therein; positioning the distal delivery region near a target location within a
    patient; and regulating the volume of fluid released from the fluid control by moving the
 10 apertures into alignment to increase the flow of the fluid through the fluid control. In some
    embodiments the regulating step occurs independently of transience generated at a fluid pressure
    source. In some embodiments the fluid source is disposed external to the patient, further
    comprising maintaining a substantially constant pressure at the fluid source. The method can
    further comprise varying the fluid velocity at the fluid control to regulate the volume of fluid
 15 released. In some embodiments regulating the volume of fluid released further comprises
    moving the apertures out of alignment to decrease the flow of fluid out of the fluid control. In
    some embodiments the first control element comprises a first tubular member and the second
    control element comprises a second tubular member disposed within the first tubular member,
    and wherein moving the apertures into alignment comprises moving the first tubular member
 ?o relative to the second tubular member to thereby move the first aperture relative to the second
    aperture. Moving the first tubular member relative to the second tubular member can comprise
    at least one of axial movement and rotational movement.
    [0005]       One aspect of the disclosure is a method of periluminal tissue damage, comprising
    positioning a delivery device within a lumen without piercing the lumen wall; delivering a fluid
25  agent from the delivery device through the lumen wall; and damaging tissue peripheral to the
    lumen wall with the fluid agent. In some embodiments the lumen wall comprises an intimal
    layer, and wherein the damaging step comprises damaging nerve cells peripheral to the intimal
    layer of the lumen wall. Damaging can comprise damaging nerves cells while minimally
    damaging tissue in the intimal layer of the vessel wall. The lumen wall can comprise a medial
30  layer, and wherein damaging comprises damaging tissue within the medial layer. Damaging
    tissue can comprise damaging cells in at least one of a medial layer of the lumen and nerve cells
    disposed within the adventitial layer. A damage cross section can increases as the radial distance
    from the intimal layer increases.
    [00061       In some embodiments the delivery device comprises a first fluid control and a second
35  fluid control, wherein delivering comprises delivering the fluid agent from the first fluid control
                                                     -2-

       WO 2011/119857                                                             PCT/US2011/029829
    to create a first damage region, and delivering the fluid agent from the second fluid control
    creates a second damage region, wherein portions of the first and second regions overlap. In
    some embodiments damaging comprises damaging tissue with the direct mechanical interaction
    of the fluid. In some embodiments damaging is caused by chemical interactions with the fluid,
  5 such as a hypotonic, a hypertonic fluid, a fluid that self-heats on interaction with tissue, a fluid
    that has a pH significantly different from the pH of the tissue, a fluid that comprises material
    toxic to the tissue, a fluid that comprises material toxic to a particular tissue, a fluid that
    comprises material which becomes toxic on interaction with the tissue, or a fluid that comprises
    material which is capable of absorbing energy delivered from a source external to the body.
 10 [00071       In some embodiments delivering a fluid agent from the delivery device through the
    lumen wall comprises delivering the fluid agent towards neural tissue peripheral to an intimal
    layer of the lumen. In some embodiments damaging comprises damaging renal nerve tissue
    peripheral to a lumen of a renal artery. In some embodiments damaging renal nerve tissue
    reduces hypertension.
 15 [0008]       One aspect of the disclosure is an apparatus for releasing fluid within a patient's
    body, comprising: an elongate member comprising a distal region comprising a plurality of fluid
    controls, a lumen extending through the distal region and in fluid communication with the
    plurality of fluid controls, wherein the lumen is adapted to be in fluid communication with a
    fluid source, wherein each of the plurality of fluid controls is adapted to be selectively
 w  addressable to regulate the volume of a fluid that is released from the lumen and out the plurality
    of fluid controls.
    [0009]       In some embodiments the fluid control has a closed configuration and an open
    configuration, wherein in the closed configuration a substantially smaller volume of fluid, such
    as no fluid, is allowed to be released out of the fluid control than in the open configuration. In the
25  open configuration the fluid control can be adapted to release the fluid at high velocity. In some
    embodiments the distal region comprises a plurality of fluid controls in fluid communication
    with the lumen, each fluid control has open and closed configurations, and wherein each fluid
    control is adapted to regulate the volume of fluid that is released from the fluid control when the
    fluid is delivered at high velocity. The plurality of fluid controls can be adapted to be
30  individually opened. In some embodiments the fluid control is adapted to be in fluid
    communication with a fluid source maintained at a substantially constant pressure. The fluid
    control can control the volume of fluid that is released from the fluid control while the fluid
    source is maintained at the substantially constant pressure.
    [0010]       One aspect of the disclosure is an apparatus for controllably releasing fluid within a
35  patient's body, comprising: a first tubular element with a first aperture therein; a second tubular
                                                     -3-

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
    element with a second aperture therein, wherein the second tubular element is disposed within
    the first tubular element and movable relative to the first tubular element, wherein the second
    tubular element has a lumen therethrough adapted to be in fluid communication with a fluid
    source, and wherein the apertures have an aligned configuration that allows a fluid to pass from
  5 the lumen through the first and second apertures. In some embodiments the apertures have an
    aligned configuration that allows a fluid to pass through the apertures at a high velocity. In some
    embodiments the second aperture has a smaller maximum dimension than a maximum
    dimension of the first aperture. In some embodiments the apparatus further comprises a fluid
    source maintained at substantially a constant pressure. The apertures can be adapted to release a
 10 fluid therethrough at high velocity. The apertures can have an aligned configuration that allows
    fluid to pass therethrough when the fluid source is maintained at a substantially constant first
    pressure during a first delivery cycle and when the fluid source is maintained at a substantially
    constant second pressure during a second delivery cycle, wherein the first and second pressure
    are different. In some embodiments the first tubular element has a deformed treatment
 15 configuration wherein at least a portion of the first tubular element is adapted to engage a lumen
    wall in which it is positioned. The deformed treatment configuration can be substantially spiral
    shaped. The apparatus can further comprise an expandable element that is adapted to deform
    the first tubular element into contact with the lumen wall. The expandable element can comprise
    a balloon. The expandable element can be moveable relative to the first tubular element to cause
 !0 the first tubular element to be deformed into the treatment configuration. In some embodiments
    the apparatus further comprises a piercing element in fluid communication with the first aperture
    and extending from the first aperture, wherein the piercing element is adapted to pierce tissue
    and allow for the fluid to flow from the aperture and out of the piercing element. In some
    embodiments the apertures have a non-aligned configuration that is adapted to allow fluid to
25  flow therethrough at a low velocity.
    [00111       One aspect of the disclosure is an apparatus for controllably releasing fluid within a
    patient's body, comprising: an elongate member comprising a distal end, a proximal end, and a
    therapy portion in between the ends; the therapy portion comprises a plurality of expandable
    elongate elements, each with a delivery configuration and a treatment configuration, wherein
30  each of the plurality of expandable elongate elements comprises a fluid control, and in the
    delivery configuration the control faces a first direction and in the treatment configuration the
    control faces a second direction different than first direction. In some embodiments the second
    direction is generally orthogonal to a longitudinal axis of the elongate member. In some
    embodiments the first direction is substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the elongate
35  member. In some embodiments the expandable elongate elements are tubular elements, and
                                                     -4-

       WO 2011/119857                                                            PCT/US2011/029829
   wherein the fluid controls are provided by removing sections from the tubular elements. In some
   embodiments the fluid controls are proximal to distal ends of the elongate elements. In some
   embodiments the expandable elongate elements are adapted to preferentially bend in the region
   of the fluid ports in the treatment configurations. In some embodiments the expandable elongate
 5 elements are self-expanding. In some embodiments the expandable elongate elements are
   actuatable.
                                  INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
   [00121      All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein
   incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent
10 application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0013]      A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present disclosure will
   be obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative
   embodiments, in which the principles of the disclosure are utilized, and the accompanying
15 drawings of which:
   [00141       Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary delivery system adapted to remodel tissue.
   [00151       Figure 2 illustrates an exemplary delivery system including a fluid system.
   [0016]       Figures 3 - 6 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a delivery system incorporating a
   fluid system and a plurality of expandable tubular elements.
20 [0017]       Figures 7 - 10 illustrate an exemplary method of remodeling renal nerves surrounding
   a renal artery.
   [00181       Figure 11 illustrates an exemplary reconfigurable distal delivery region that is an
   extension of an elongate delivery member.
   [00191       Figure 12 illustrates a distal delivery region including an elongate tubular element
25 that has a spiral procedural configuration.
    [0020]      Figure 13 illustrates a distal delivery region including first and second tubular
   elements that have spiral procedural configurations.
    [00211      Figure 14 illustrates an exemplary portion of a distal delivery region, wherein a spiral
   element comprises two spring elements on either side of a valve.
30  [0022]      Figures 15 and 16 illustrate perspective and end views, respectively, of an exemplary
   embodiment of the distal delivery region that includes a tubular element, and includes a plurality
   of penetrating remodeling elements.
    [0023]      Figures 17 and 18 illustrate exemplary embodiments of distal delivery region
   including a plurality of expandable tubular elements.
                                                      -5-

      WO 2011/119857                                                             PCT/US2011/029829
   [0024]       Figures 19 and 20 illustrate exemplary distal delivery regions incorporating
   expandable balloons.
   [00251       Figures 21- 24 illustrate distal delivery regions that include incorporates one or more
   apertures on outer and inner tubular members.
 5 [0026]       Figures 25 and 26 illustrate a spiraled distal delivery region expanded in a renal
   artery.
   [0027]       Figures 27 - 32 illustrate exemplary needle valves that can be activated from a
   proximal end of the delivery system.
   [0028]       Figures 33 - 35 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a metering valve
10 configuration.
   [0029]       Figures 36 and 37 illustrate a distal delivery region including penetrating remodeling
   agents deployed within a section of a renal artery.
   [00301       Figure 38 illustrates an exemplary distal delivery region incorporating a remodeling
   element that is a needle with a helical configuration.
15 [0031]       Figure 39 illustrate a representation of the fluidic performance of the exemplary valve
   shown in Figure 42.
   [0032]       Figure 40 is a figurative representation of the delivery system in terms of its resistive
   fluidic characteristics.
   [0033]       Figure 41 illustrates a representation of the expected outflow rate as a function d
20 given the resistance characteristics represented in Figure 40 and a constant pressure supply.
   [00341       Figure 42 provides a figurative representation of a delivery system incorporating a
   distal fluid control configured as a shuttle valve.
    [0035]      Figure 43 illustrates the system of Figure 39, wherein the shuttle valve is replaced by
   a needle valve.
25  [0036]      Figure 44 illustrates an exemplary distal delivery region wherein a fluid or gas may
   be used to eject a component capable of external excitation or alternatively a component which
   upon ejection springs into a shape different than its delivery shape and in so doing damages
   tissue in its vicinity, thereby causing tissue remodeling.
    [0037]      Figure 45 illustrates a distal delivery region comprising slicing hooks or simple
30 blades which cut tissue on being advanced.
    [00381      Figure 46 illustrates an exemplary distal delivery region comprising an atherectomy
   blade that can be spun to facilitate the requisite tissue remodeling.
    [0039]      Figure 47 illustrates an exemplary distal delivery region similar to that in Figure 36.
                                                      -6-

       WO 2011/119857                                                            PCT/US2011/029829
                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0040]      The disclosure herein relates generally to disrupting tissue and devices and systems
   for disrupting tissue. More specifically, the disclosure describes ways to deliver moieties to a
   target tissue, where the target tissue in general is not at the point of introduction, in such a way
 5 that minimal damage is produced in the tissue at the point of introduction. In some embodiments
   this is accomplished by jetting fluid at high velocity into the target tissue. The disclosure further
   describes novel agents deliverable in such systems for use in remodeling tissues. Some of these
   agents comprise a liquid while others do not. Additionally, although not specifically described
   in detail much of the disclosure may additionally be used in the delivery of therapeutic drugs.
10 [0041]       Procedures that allow for the disruption or remodeling of tissues peripheral to body
   lumens, particularly while minimizing disruption to the inner surface of the body lumen and
   often the tissues comprising the wall of the body lumen are advantageous in a number of medical
   procedures. Such procedures include but are not limited to: disruption of nerves in the medial
   and adventitial tissue surrounding body lumens such as arteries and veins, including the renal
15 arteries and pulmonary arteries and veins, disruption of cancerous tissues surrounding body
   lumens such as the esophagus for the treatment of various cancers, and urethra for treatment of
   various cancers such as prostate cancer. Such remodeling treatments may additionally be used to
   shrink tissues such as sphincters of the bowel, urethra, stomach, or intestines, amongst others.
   Further advantage is obtained when such procedures can be achieved percutaneously, which
Zo include endovascular, or minimally invasive delivery of the apparatus required to facilitate the
   procedure. Additionally, the ability to refine or continue the remodeling of the target tissue after
   the completion of the percutaneous or minimally invasive procedure has advantages where the
   outcome of the initial procedure is unclear for some period of time following the procedure or
   where some level of healing obviates the damage and further remodeling is required. The
25 various configurations of the apparatus and associated methods described below facilitate such
   procedures.
   [00421      Although the devices described herein are particularly useful for delivering agents to
   tissues peripheral to body lumens from within the body lumen, they also will have application in
   the delivery of agents via pathways and/or in locations independent of body lumens. Such uses
30 include treatment of tumor such as those of the liver or lung.
   [00431      The embodiments described herein associated with the delivery of moieties
   comprising fluids provide one or more of the following advantages over that which has been
   described: improved ways for controlling the consistency in dose and or velocity for multi-jet
   systems across the jets; ways for controlling the dose; use of a constant pressure source while
35 achieving metered bolus delivery while maintaining high initial fluid velocity and control of
                                                     -7-

       WO 2011/119857                                                            PCT/US2011/029829
   fluid velocity; and minimizing leakage of delivered material while not in delivery cycle.
   Additionally, in some embodiments the delivery of the fluid jets is controlled in a distal region of
   the delivery system, thereby minimizing negative effects of system capacitance and long fluid
   channels on rate at which peak fluid velocity is attained at an exit aperture and delivered dosage.
 5 Additionally, damage that is caused by moving a fluid jet while it is constantly activated and
   slicing large areas of tissue may be minimized by minimizing the duration of on cycles.
   [00441       In some embodiments mechanical disruption of the tissue is effected by high velocity
   fluid jets situated at or near the target site. The jets may be located at the inner surface of a body
   lumen and directed thru the body lumen towards the target tissue. The jets, as they enter the
10 body lumen, are highly focused and therefore interact with a small area of the adjoining lumen
   wall and volume of adjoining tissue. As the jet passes through the lumen wall, the fluid interacts
   with the tissue and is spread over a larger volume of tissue, disrupting an increasingly larger area
   of tissue. However, as the area of interaction is increased the fluid's direct interaction is
   dissipated and so is the associated damage. The direct interaction of the fluid may be to cut,
15 separate, or swell. In some embodiments the jet may be moved to create a slice in adjoining
   tissue. The jets may additionally be designed such that the shape of the injected fluid volume
   would be caused to spread in one or two directions normal to the forward direction as it enters
   the tissue.
   [0045]       Alternatively, in some embodiments, the source of the high velocity jets may be
Z0 passed through the inner surface of the lumen wall and into the wall of the body lumen, or the
   source of the high velocity jets may be passed completely through the body lumen into the tissue
   surrounding the body wall. The apparatus may also be configured such that combinations of
   these approaches may be performed.
   [0046]       In some embodiments the fluid delivered via the high velocity injection system is an
25 ablative media such as one of those described below. An ablative material may be delivered to
   the target tissue without passing any portion of the delivery structure through the wall of the
   body lumen. Since needles or other structures capable of fraying or tearing the body lumen are
   not passing through the body lumen, no motions associated with the delivery of the delivery
   structure or those associated with movement of the patient can cause damage to the body lumen.
30 This may be especially important where the body lumen is frail or where a tear in the body
   lumen could cause uncontrollable bleeding. Additionally, the cross section of ajet will be
   smaller than a delivery needle of comparable lumen size.
   [0047]       Some moieties or agents that can necrose tissue, capable of delivery in the fashion
   described, are hypertonic or hypotonic solutions which induce drying or bursting of cells. In the
35 case of hypertonic, simple salt solutions and alcohols may be used to these ends. ETOH and
                                                     -8-

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   mixtures of ETOH and H202 are particularly useful as such ablative fluids. The H202 in this
   mixture brings about additional damage as a result of oxidative stress.
   [0048]      Another set of agents useful for necrosing tissues are those which generate heat and
   can be delivered in the fashion so far described. These materials, upon interaction with each
 5 other or the environment of the target tissue, generate heat as a result of an ensuing chemical
   reaction or solubilization. Examples of materials which when contacted with water in the target
   tissue begin a reaction which is exothermic include; iron particles, exothermic salts, An
   exemplary, but incomplete, lists of salts which can be used to this purpose are CaCl2, CaSO4,
   MgSO4, K2CO3, Na2SO4. These salts when delivered as a suspension in a non-aqueous carrier,
10 such as a light oil or alcohol amongst others, generate heat upon rehydration. When appropriate
   masses of salt are delivered to a small volume of tissue the heat generated from the hydration of
   the salt and the consumption of water in the local environment will both necrose the tissues
   adjacent to the delivery zone. The conformation of the salts as delivered for this purpose can
   further add to the heat generating capability. For example, the salts can be finely divided such
15 that surface to volume ratio is increased and therefore the rate of rehydration and heat generation
   is enhanced. Finely divided salt particles can range in size from about 0.1 to about 100 microns.
   Especially useful for this purpose would be the suspensions of nanoparticle sized particles of the
   salts in which the surface to volume ratio is even further enhanced. These nanoparticles having a
   size range of 1Onm to 100nm. Nanoparticles of NaCl, delivered in a light oil or reagent grade
20 alcohol, upon delivery to a target tissue will upon solubilization create both an endothermic
   reaction and a hypertonic local environment. The oxidation of iron particles provides another
   system which will behave in a fashion similar to that just described for the exothermic salts.
   Any such system which relies on such reactions and incorporates a particle as part of the
   delivered material will behave in much the same fashion as the salts and iron particles described
25 above and will also benefit from an increase in surface to volume ratio such as that associated
   with decreasing the size from micron to nano dimensions. Other examples of materials which
   may be mixed at the target location include acids and bases such as: HCl and NaOH, or weak
   acids and metals such as HCl and Mg, catalyzed polymerization reactions such as that for methyl
   methacrylate resins, many others can be chosen form, which are familiar to those skilled in the
30 art. An acid or base may also be delivered independently of the other. The use of acetic acid is
   such an example which has a demonstrated usefulness in ablating tumors.
   [0049]      Yet another set of agents useful for tissue remodeling, where the target tissue are
   specifically nerve tissues, are nerve toxins such as the botulinun neurotoxins or capsacin. Many
   other irreversibly acting nerve toxins, known to those familiar with the art, may be delivered in
35 this fashion.
                                                    -9-

       WO 2011/119857                                                            PCT/US2011/029829
   [0050]       In other circumstances blood or blood products may used as an agent. In this
   circumstance the blood may be separated and only plasma used, or alternatively the platelets and
   cellular material may be used. When preparations containing cells are used the preparation may
   be homogenized to break down the cell structures. The preparation may also be thinned with
 5 sodium citrate and or heparin or other anti clotting agents may be added. In yet other
   circumstances enzymes including neurolytic and necrotizing may be used. Detergents may also
   be used independently or in combination with any of the fluids described herein.
   [0051]       In some instances it may be advantages for the agent to be deliverable in a low
   viscosity form and then on interaction with the environment on the target tissue increases in
10 viscosity possibly becoming a gel. An acid solution comprising collagen, on introduction to the
   roughly normal pH of a target tissue, will polymerize forming a resorbable gel like material
   which may additionally comprise nanoparticles or other materials described herein.
   [0052]       In some embodiments disruption or remodeling is achieved by an externally induced
   interaction between a material delivered to the target tissue and the target tissue. Such materials
15 are configured to be delivered to the target site by percutaneous or minimally invasive
   procedures. Upon completion of material delivery, the material is induced to facilitate the
   remodeling by an energy field which is created at a site external to the body and directed to the
   target site by non-invasive means. The induced interactions may be creation or release of toxins
   or necrosing agents, the generation of heat, mechanical disruption or any other means which
20 eventuates the necroses or loss in functionality of cells in the target tissue. These materials may
   additionally contain agents to enhance their contrast when viewed by radiographic, acoustic, or
   MRI means. It should be noted that these materials may also be energized from energy sources
   delivered minimally invasively or percutaneous to locations near the target tissue.
   [00531       One set of materials which may be used for the generation of heat are induced to heat
25 by the application of acoustic energy. Examples of such materials include ethyl vinyl acetate,
   silicone, urethanes and other materials known in the art.
   [00011       Yet another set of materials that can be induced to generate heat are those capable of
   absorbing electromagnetic energy, in particular changing magnetic fields (inductive heating).
   Examples of such materials include ferrites and other iron bearing materials and materials
30 containing Nickel. As an example, heating occurs when an alternating, uniformly high flux
   density magnetic field induces an alternating current in a lossy conductor. A gapped toroid can
   generate such a magnetic field. A solenoid's magnetic field can produce the required magnetic
   field for inductive heating of discrete particles. In addition to heating particles that have been
   distributed in the lumen of the body, the external magnetic field could also be used to couple
                                                    - 10 -

      WO 2011/119857                                                             PCT/US2011/029829
   energy into a catheter in place of electrical conductors. The external magnetic field could also be
   used to actuate or position features of the catheter in place of mechanisms (e.g., pull wires etc.)
   [00021       Yet another use for a magnetic field would be the physical manipulation of a
   magnetic dipole (or multitude thereof). One use of such a manipulation would be to move a
 5 magnetic particle to a desired location in order to deliver a payload. Another use of such a
   manipulation would be to move a magnetic particle in such a fashion to be disruptive to the
   surrounding tissue. A means for inducing said magnetic manipulation could be through the use
   of a 3 dimensional (3D) array of solenoids whose magnetic fields intersect and form a magnetic
   field vector that manipulates a magnetic particle(s).
10 100031       In another class of materials the necrosing agent is designed to be released or to
   convert as a function of energy absorption.
   [0004]       The fluid delivery means described herein may be used for the delivery of therapeutic
   agents in addition to ablative agents. One such therapeutic agent is Taxol, which may be used to
   minimize post treatment stenosis. Hypertensive drugs may also be delivered in this fashion.
15 [0005]       Any of these materials can be configured for delivery by the mechanisms described
   above or by more conventional means commonly practiced today, such as the use of simple
   injection from a needle or system of needles delivered to the body lumen in the vicinity of the
   target tissue. In such systems the final spacial geometry of the delivered material may be
   important. Such a situation exists for example with regard to the denervation or necrosing of
20 adventitial and medial tissue surrounding the renal artery for the treatment of hypertension. In
   this situation it can be advantages to deliver the material in a spiral pattern about the vessel in the
   adventitial tissue surrounding the vessel.
   [0006]       In some methods of use, an agent can be delivered to renal nerve tissue to disrupt the
   neural tissue to treat hypertension. The treatment of hypertension can be accomplished by
25 modulating of neural signal transmission along the renal nerve. Modulation includes activation
   of neural activity, suppression of neural activity, denervation of tissue, ablation of tissue, etc.
   The relationship between renal nerve signal transmission and hypertension may be found in, for
   example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,978,174, U.S. Pat. No. 7,162,303, U.S. Pat. No. 7,617,005, U.S. Pat.
   No. 7,620,451, U.S. Pat. No. 7,653,438, U.S. Pat. No.7,756,583, U.S. Pat. No. 7,853,333, and
30 U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0041277, U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0206150, U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0212076, U.S.
   Pub. No. 2006/0212078, U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0265014, U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0265015, U.S. Pub.
   No. U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0271111, U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0276852, U.S. Pub. No. 2007/0129760,
   and U.S. Pub. No. 2007/0135875, the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
   reference. The systems and methods of use herein can be used to disrupt the tissue to modulate
35 neural transmission along a renal nerve in order to treat hypertension.
                                                    - 11 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   [0007]       The above materials may be delivered as solutions with a wide range of viscosities or
   be viscous gels. The materials either ablative or otherwise so far described may contain contrast
   agents and or anesthetics. Additionally, materials may be designed such that on interacting with
   the target site the viscosity increases or the material gels, or mixed on delivery such that they the
 5 viscosity increases or the material gels at the target site. Alternatively the materials can be
   formed as a solid designed to be projected into the target tissue thru the body lumen wall and
   into the target tissue. Such a mechanism could be driven by high velocity fluids, gases, or by
   mechanical means such as springs.
   [0008]       Any of the above materials can be combined such that they possess any of the
10 following characteristics to fit the particular application: bioresorbable, biocompatible, or
   designed to remain in place for extended periods of time.
   [00091       Agents which may be added to enhance contrast for imaging procedures will be
   dependent on the particular imaging procedure. Examples of such materials which enhance MRI
   imaging are Gadolinium, magnetic materials especially those containing nickel, and or ferrites.
15 Examples of those for use with acoustical procedures are silicones, metal or metal oxide
   particles, amongst others known in the art. Examples of such materials useful for radiological
   procedures are barium sulfate, tantalum powder, or the like. These examples are not exhaustive
   and many alternatives, familiar to those skilled in the art may be chosen.
    [0010]      Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary delivery system adapted to disrupt tissue peripheral
20 to a body lumen. Delivery system 10 includes handle 11 and elongate delivery member 13.
   Associated with a distal portion of elongate member 13 is distal delivery region 14. Distal
   delivery region 14 includes one or more fluid controls 16. Handle 11 includes at least one
   delivery member actuation element 12 (two shown), and at least one fluid control actuation
   element 15 (two shown). Delivery member actuation element 12 can be adapted to steer delivery
25 member 13, including distal delivery region 14, to a target location within the body. Delivery
   member actuation element 12 can also be adapted to reconfigure distal delivery region 14
   between a delivery configuration and one or more procedural configurations. Fluid control
   actuation element 15 is adapted to actuate fluid controls 16 to effect peripheral tissue
   remodeling.
30  [0011]      Figure 2 illustrates an exemplary delivery system with a fluid system. Although
    system 20 is represented as an assembly of components separate from handle 11, fluid system 20
   may be incorporated within handle 11. Fluid system 20 includes fluid reservoir 21 and optional
    additional reservoirs 22. Reservoir(s) interface with pressure source 23 which provides the
    motive force for delivering an agent to fluid controls 16 (see Figure 1). Tissue disruption is
                                                    -12-

      WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   mediated by the delivery of an agent from the fluid reservoirs to fluid controls 16. Fluid control
   actuation element 15 may alternatively be located within fluid system 20.
   [0012]      Figures 3 - 6 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a delivery system incorporating a
   fluid system. Although the exemplary fluid system shown can be incorporated with any of the
 5 elongate delivery members herein, as shown in Figure 3 the fluid system is incorporated into
   handle 11. Pressure source 23 includes a gas cartridge, such as a C02 cartridge, which is in fluid
   communication with fluid reservoir 21, which in turn is in fluid communication with valve 38,
   which functions as the fluid control actuation element. In Figure 3 delivery member actuation
   element 39 facilitates the reconfiguration of distal delivery region 14 from the delivery
10 configuration shown in Figure 4 to a procedural, or treatment, configuration shown in Figure 5.
   Distal delivery region 14 comprises a plurality of expandable tubular elements 31 that are
   adapted to be reconfigured from respective delivery configuration as shown in Figure 4 to
   expanded configurations shown in Figure 5. In the delivery configurations the tubular elements
   are generally straight, and in substantial alignment with the longitudinal axis of the delivery
15 member 13. Distal delivery region 14 is shown comprising four tubular elements 31 but any
   suitable number may be incorporated. Tubular elements 31 may be sealed at their distal ends,
   and are secured to a distal portion of outer sheath 36. Tubular elements 31 include ports 35 in
   fluid communication with a fluid source. In the embodiments shown, the ports are formed by
   removing a portion of the tube wall proximal to the distal ends of tubular elements 31. The
20 system includes control member 33 (see Figure 5), which is disposed within a portion of sheath
   36 proximal to distal delivery region 14. Control member 33 is axially moveable with respect to
   the proximal portion of sheath 36 and is fixed to the sheath and tubular elements 31 distal to the
   distal delivery region. When control member 33 is actuated in the proximal direction, such as by
   actuation of delivery member actuation element 39, the distal and proximal ends of tubular
25 elements 31 are urged closer together, causing tubular elements 31 to bend at bending regions 34
   radially outward from the control member. When bent, the ports 35 are brought into contact, or
   at least pointed towards the lumen wall in which the distal delivery region is positioned. Fluid or
   agent can then be delivered from the fluid source through ports 35 to disrupt the tissue, which is
   described in more detail above. After the treatment has been administered, control member 33 is
30 advanced distally with respect to the proximal portion of sheath 36 to move the ends of the
   tubular elements away from one another, reconfiguring the tubular elements back towards their
   delivery configurations. When the tubular elements are in their expanded configurations,
   ejection ports 35 are disposed in a plane substantially normal to that of the longitudinal axis of
   elongate delivery member 13. More or fewer elongate tubes can be in the distal delivery regions.
35 Alternatively to the configuration depicted in Figures 3 - 6, the ports 35 can be staggered, which
                                                   - 13 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                          PCT/US2011/029829
   may be appropriate for different tissue disruption treatments. Flexible tubes 31 may be
   fabricated from any suitable flexible materials, such as nitinol. In this embodiment control
   member 33 has a lumen and thereby also provides the function of a guide wire lumen.
   [0013]      Figures 7 - 10 illustrate an exemplary method of remodeling of renal nerve plexus 43
 5 surrounding renal artery 40 of kidney 44 using the exemplary system shown in Figures 3 - 6.
   Although the renal nerve plexus is depicted as two nerves for ease of representation, the renal
   nerve plexus actually wraps around the renal artery. Elongate delivery member 13 with distal
   delivery region 14 is delivered from a femoral artery or other suitable location, using known
   techniques, to descending aorta 41, then into renal artery 40. The delivery is facilitated by
10 guidewire 17 which has been previously delivered by traditional means to the renal artery.
   Alternatively, for embodiments which incorporate steering capabilities the delivery may be
   facilitated without the use of a guide wire. Or in yet other alternative embodiments the delivery
   may be facilitated by the use of a steerable introducer catheter such as those described in U.S.
   Patent App. No. 12/823,049, filed June 24, 2009, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein
15 by reference. Upon delivery the distal delivery region 14 is expanded to a delivered
   configuration as shown in Figure 8 by actuating the delivery member actuation element. In some
   embodiments the actuation element is advanced distally. The pressure source control element
   (see element 38 in Figure 3) is activated thereby initiating the delivery of a dose configured as a
   high velocity jet of fluid 51 as indicated in Figure 9. Single or multiple jets may be delivered
20 while the distal deliver region is in any given location. The distal delivery region may be moved
   to a new location by releasing (or further actuating) tissue expansion control element 12 (see
   Figure 3), which reconfigures the distal delivery region. The distal delivery region can then be
   moved to a second location, followed by actuation of the tissue interface expansion control
   element 12. The volume of tissue affected by the delivered fluid can be controlled by the volume
25 of each individual fluid jet, the number of jets delivered at any given location, and the number
   and density of locations at which jets are delivered. After a desired number of jets are delivered
   to an appropriate number of locations, the action of the delivered fluid will affect a large enough
   volume of tissue to affect at least a portion of the renal nerve plexus, herein described as renal
   nerves, passing through the affected volumes of tissue and indicated in Figure 10. Any of the
30  systems described herein can be used in the method shown in the exemplary method of Figures
   7- 10.
    [00141     Figures 11 - 19 illustrate various distal delivery regions 14. Figure 11 represents a
   reconfigurable distal delivery region which is an extension of elongate delivery member 13. In
    Figure 11 the distal delivery region comprises an elongate tubular element in a treatment, or
35  expanded, configuration. In the delivery configuration (not shown), the elongate tubular element
                                                    - 14 -

        WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
    is in a substantially straight configuration. During delivery the distal delivery region 14
    substantially co-aligns with elongate delivery member 13 and upon exiting a delivery catheter
    assumes the configuration in Figure 11 because of the resilient characteristics of the material.
    For example, the distal delivery region can be comprised of nitinol and utilize the superelastic
  5 property of nitinol to self-expand when deployed from a delivery catheter. The elongate tubular
    element has a generally circular or elliptical configuration such that the contact region between
    the tubular element and the lumen wall falls roughly in a plane and has an elliptical or circular
    shape. Some embodiments use devices and methods shown in co-owned pending U.S. Pat. App.
    No. 12/823,049, filed June 24, 2009, wherein a tensioning element and a compression element
 10 are operated in opposition to one another. The compression element incorporates a laser cut
    pattern which collapses into the indicated shape. In such a configuration the resultant shape and
    delivery system can maintain a great degree of stiffness both along the delivery axis, in torsion,
    and in maintaining the shape of the tubular element. In Figure 11, distal delivery region 14 also
    includes fluid control 16, which includes at least one fluid jet aperture, discussed in more detail
 15 below. When distal delivery region 14 transfers from its delivery configuration to its procedural
    configuration, fluid control 16 is urged against the lumen wall of the target tissue. Distal
    delivery region 14 may be moved from position to position by allowing it to return to its delivery
    configuration or in some cases by moving it in its procedural configuration.
     [0015]      The tissue interface of Figure 11, although shown with the looped tissue interface
 w  sitting in a plane normal to the delivery axis, may alternatively be configured such that it is in a
    plane upon which the delivery axis exists. Such a configuration may be comprised of a
    sinusoidal tissue interface incorporating one or more cycles of the sinusoid. Additionally each
    cycle or half cycle may fall on a different plane rotated from the previous one around the
    delivery axis.
25   [00161      Figure 12 illustrates a distal delivery region including an elongate tubular element
    that has a spiral procedural configuration (as shown), such that the contact regions between the
    tissue and the tubular element have a spiral configuration. The device in Figure 12 is adapted to
    be actuated in similar manner to the device in 11. Figure 13 illustrates a distal delivery region 14
    including first and second tubular elements, which are adapted to be actuated in similar fashion
30  to the device in Figure 12. The elongate tubular elements in Figure 13 have spiral configuration
    when expanded, and their contact regions with the target lumen are spiral. The elongate tubular
    elements shown in Figures 12 and 13 include a plurality of fluid controls 16. The expanded
    spiral structures of Figures 12 and 13 urge the associated remodeling elements 16 into contact
    with the target lumen. With a plurality of elongate elements as in Figure 13, forces from the
                                                      -15-

       WO 2011/119857                                                          PCT/US2011/029829
   plurality of tubular elements against the lumen wall may create more stable contact regions
   between the tubular elements and the lumen wall.
   [00171      Figure 14 illustrates an exemplary portion of a distal delivery region. Distal delivery
   region 14 is a variation of that of Figure 12, wherein the spiral element comprises two spring
 5 elements 18 arranged on either side of shuttle valve 50 incorporating a plurality of fluid controls
   16.
   [0018]      Figures 15 and 16 illustrate perspective and end views, respectively, of an alternative
   embodiment of the distal delivery region. Distal delivery region 14 includes a tubular element
   with a general spiral treatment configuration, and includes a plurality of penetrating remodeling
10 elements 19. Remodeling elements 19 can be used to remodel tissue in a number of different
   ways. Procedurally, the distal delivery region is delivered to a target lumen with penetrating
   remodeling elements 19 retracted with the distal delivery region in a delivery configuration. The
   elongate element is then reconfigured into a spiral configuration. Remodeling elements 19,
   which were retracted during delivery, are then advanced distally through the elongate element
15 into the configuration as shown in Figures 15 and 16. The remodeling elements may then be
   used to remodel the target tissue by any of mechanical damage resulting from high velocity jet
   interactions such as cutting or swelling and/or physical interaction of a cutting or macerating
   element, delivering a tissue disruption agent therethrough, delivering RF energy, or any
   combination thereof. Penetrating remodeling elements 19 may comprise fluid controls as
20 described below.
   [0019]      Figures 17 and 18 illustrate two variations on the distal delivery region shown in
   Figures 3 - 6. In both designs, the distal delivery region control element 37 (which has a guide
   wire lumen therethrough) is retracted proximally relative to outer sheath 36, which foreshortens
   the distal delivery region 14. This in turn causes tubular elements 31 to expand and engage the
25 lumen wall. In Figure 17, each flexible tube incorporates needle valves including apertures 52,
   as described herein. When tubular elements 31 are expanded, fluid apertures 52 are moved into
   contact with the lumen wall. In Figure 17 a section of the outer sheath 36 has been removed to
   show valve control wires 64 extending through the fluid supply lines 65. The device of Figure
   18 expands in the same fashion, but comprises shuttle valves (described in more detail herein)
30 rather than needle valves.
   [0020]      The exemplary alternative distal delivery region shown in Figure 18 is shown
   incorporating four shuttle valves, each comprised of valve movable member 57 (see Figures 21
   and 23), a valve stationary member 58 (see Figures 21 and 23), and a plurality of apertures 60.
   An alternate way to expand a distal delivery region is to incorporate a balloon. Figures 19 and
35 20 show two exemplary distal delivery regions incorporating shuttle valves. Both embodiments
                                                   - 16 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                          PCT/US2011/029829
   comprise a balloon which is contoured to allow blood flow when the balloon is inflated. Blood
   flow is maintained in a spiral fluid path adjacent to the lumen contact zone comprising the
   shuttle valve. In Figure 19 fluid control 60 is a shuttle valve incorporated within the balloon 24
   and in Figure 20 fluid control 60 is a shuttle valve incorporated on the balloon. These
 5 embodiments may alternatively comprise traditional non perfusion balloons.
   [0021]      In some situations the delivery devices described herein may be configured such that
   a single fluid control actuates a plurality of apertures 60.
   [0022]      Figures 21 - 24 illustrate two variations on shuttle valves capable of being
   incorporated in a distal delivery region. The valve of Figures 21 and 22 (Figure 22 is a close up
10 view of a portion of the device in Figure 21) incorporates one or more apertures 52 on outer
   member 56 of the valve, and an inner member 55, axially moveable with respect to outer
   member 56, incorporating a masking aperture 53. Apertures 52 are smaller than masking
   aperture 53. An individual aperture 52 is selectively addressed when the sliding inner masking
   aperture 53 is slid into a position adjacent aperture 52. In one configuration, members 55 and 56
15 are sealed at their distal ends 57 and 58 respectively. Alternatively, the member adapted to be
   moved with respect to the other member may be left open when the design is such that the length
   of tubing distal to masking aperture 53 is long enough to cover all of apertures 52 distal to the
   addressed aperture. Inner member 55 and outer member 56 are configured such that the outer
   diameter of the inner member and the inner diameter of the outer member are closely matched
20 thereby creating an annular region of minimum cross section and high fluid resistance.
   Alternatively, or in addition to, the inner movable member or sections thereof may be designed
   such that under the loads experienced while pressurized it expands and thereby decreases the
   annular cross section thereby further increasing the fluid resistance.
    [0023]     In Figure 21, by moving larger aperture 53 with respect to smaller apertures 52 such
25 that aperture 53 is in alignment with a given smaller aperture, that smaller apertures 52 can be
   selectively addressable, increasing the amount of fluid that flows from that valve. When a given
   valve is addressed, the other valves are not addressed. In this embodiment the valves may be
   selectively addressable in series. That is, as aperture 53 is moved from a first aperture 52 to a
   second aperture 52, the first and second apertures are selectively addressed in series.
30 Alternatively, when movable member 53 is allowed a rotational degree of freedom around the
   axis defined by its central lumen, the movable member 53 may be rotated 90 degrees and moved
   past smaller apertures 52 without addressing them, then rotated 90 degrees in the reverse
   direction when aligned with the aperture intended to be addressed.
    [00241      Figures 23 and 24 depict an alternative variation on a shuttle valve wherein masking
35 aperture 53 is located on outer stationary member 56 and aperture 52 is located on inner movable
                                                    -17-

       WO 2011/119857                                                            PCT/US2011/029829
   member 55. Masking aperture 53 can be used to an additional advantage as a mask that creates a
   field of view 54 addressable by inner aperture 52. The aperture 52 may be rotated about the
   cylindrical axis of the outer stationary member 56 within the mask forming a field of view 54.
   The field of view 54 forms the core of the remodeled volume of damaged tissue peripheral to the
 5 lumen. The field of view 54 may alternatively describe a slice in the tissue resulting from the jet
   interaction with the tissue. By rotating aperture 52 out of the field of view of masking apertures
   not intended to be addressed, any selection of fields of view 54 defined by masks 53 may be
   addressed for fluid delivery.
    [0025]       In some embodiments, the fields of views illustrated in Figures 23 and 24, and in
10 other embodiments herein, illustrate exemplary patterns in which tissue is cut or severed by the
   tissue remodeling therapies described herein.
    [00261       The apertures 52 described herein can fall within a range of diameters, or surface
   areas when not circular in cross section. For delivery flows in the range of about 1 to about 20
   mL/min, diameters of about 0.005in to about .0005in will be of particular value. The aperture
15 should be sized such that the peak velocity of the outflow reaches a minimum of about 1Om/sec,
   with about 75 to about 150 m/sec being more optimal for greater penetration and minimizing
   erosion. In some situations velocities of greater than about 150 m/sec will be useful in achieving
    even greater penetration.
    [0027]       The tissue interface means described herein provide for a means of stabilizing the
20  fluid apertures in contact with tissue in a manner that minimizes movement of the aperture
    relative to the adjacent tissue. The risk of dissections associated with the use of fluid jets is
   thereby minimized. Additionally, by incorporating of distal fluid controls, the period over which
    agents are delivered can be controlled. By providing jets of agent in short bursts of 1 second or
    less, preferably 1O0msec or less, unexpected movements will result in multiple punctate wounds
25  as opposed to a linear dissection.
    [00281       Given the relatively small cross sectional areas associated with the fluid apertures in
    the devices described herein, it is generally advisable to filter liquid agents prior to use and/or to
    incorporate filters proximal to the distal fluid controls.
    [00291       Figure 25 illustrates the spiraled distal delivery region from Figure 12 incorporated
30  with a shuttle valve design from Figure 23, and expanded in renal artery 40. The pattern of
    tissue damage is indicated by fields of view 54. Figure 26 illustrates a view normal to the
    direction of blood flow demonstrating how the projection of such patterns normal to the axis of
    the lumen can produce both dense and overlapping coverage further from the lumen and spaced
    non-overlapping coverage closer to the lumen. The density of jetting structures and associated
35  fields of view may be increased to a point where the remodeled zones themselves overlap. The
                                                      - 18 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   associated density and field of view required will be dependent on the particular way in which
   the damage is created. Given an aperture of relatively small dimension, as illustrated in the
   smaller apertures described herein, the ratio of the volume of damaged tissue close to the
   aperture, seeded by the field of view 54, can be minimized relative to volume of damage further
 5 away. As illustrated, where the lumen is that of a renal artery, this means minimizing damage to
   endothelium, tunica intima 46, the tunica media, and tunica adventitia 47, with extensive damage
   to adventitia 48. When desired, the aperture's field of view 54 may be increased to
   correspondingly increase the damage at the tunica media 47. As indicated above any of the
   fields of view indicated may be addressed in any sequence by appropriately controlling the
10 movable member of shuttle valve 23. In this way more or less of the renal nerve may be
   disrupted.
    [0030]      The devices of Figures 21 and 23 may be configured such that only a single fluid
    control may be addressed at one time or such that multiple fluid controls may be addressed at
    one time.
15  [0031]      Figures 27 - 32 illustrate various configurations and aspects of exemplary needle
    valves that can be activated from the proximal end of the delivery system, allow for minimal
    leakage in a closed configuration or high fluid resistance when not activated, allow minimal fluid
    resistance in an open configuration, provide the ability to provide a metered dose from the valve,
    and are capable of both serial or parallel activation. All valves are activated by a valve control
20  member 64, which is adapted to be axially moved (forward and back) within fluid supply section
    65, both of which terminate in a handle (not shown). In some instances there is also a metering
    or delivery section 66. In Figures 27 - 29, the needle valve is supplied by a pressurized fluid
    source maintained at relatively constant pressure which is in fluid communication with the
    aperture 52 via supply section 65, within which is valve control element 64. In any cross section
25  within which valve control member 64 is contained within the fluid supply section, there is a
    relatively non-restrictive fluid flow cross section, shown in Figure 27 as annular region 63.
    Distal to the fluid supply section is delivery valve section 66, which in the embodiment of
    Figures 27 - 29 is of smaller diameter than the supply section. In association with the valve
    section is needle element 61 which is disposed within delivery section 66. The clearance
30  between the needle and delivery section lumen is small, such that it forms a narrow restrictive
    annular region of relatively high fluid resistance 62 as compared to that of the lumen with the
    needle removed. Additionally, the fluid flow cross section of supply section 62 is much smaller
    than 63. For instance, for a particular concentration of ETOH and water, a restrictive fluid flow
    cross section created by a 0.5 inch long .004 inch inner diameter needle in a .005 inch inner
35  diameter tube will have a fluid resistance of 450 psi/mL/min. The corresponding resistance for
                                                     - 19 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   the same tube without the needle will be approximately 5 psi/mL/min. In comparison, a supply
   section created by a 32 inch long tube with a .015 inch outer diameter and a .010 inch outer
   diameter control wire will have a corresponding fluid resistance of approximately 1 psi/mL/min.
   In this example the fluid resistance of the system in the open configuration is approximately 75
 5 times less than that of the closed system, and in a constant pressure environment would leak at a
   rate of about 1/75 the open rate in the closed configuration. In the configurations represented in
   Figures 27 and 28, an aperture 52 is created on the side of delivery section 66 near the sealed
   distal end. In the configuration represented in Figure 29, the aperture is the open distal end of
   the delivery section.
10  [00321      A variation on the example of Figures 27 - 29 is represented in Figures 30 - 32.
   Figure 30 shows a needle valve in an open configuration where the end of the needle is
   maintained just within the lumen of the delivery section 66. In Figure 31, the valve is partially
   closed with a section of a restrictive fluid flow cross section 62 indicated. Figure 32 shows the
   valve fully closed with the distal face of the guide 69 seated against the proximal face of the end
15 seal of the supply section 65. If required, further increases in fluid resistance can be attained in
   the fully closed position by incorporating an elastomeric guide 69 or an elastomeric distal face to
   guide 69 which would seal against the proximal face of the end seal on the supply section 65.
   Guide 69 additionally incorporates relieved areas to create a large fluid flow cross section 63.
    [0033]      Figures 33 - 35 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a metering valve
20 configuration. Guide 69 is configured such that it forms a narrow restrictive annular aperture
   with the end of the delivery section 66, which in this configuration may be the end of the supply
   section 65. When the valve control member 64 is actuated proximally, fluid leaks across the
   restrictive fluid flow cross section 62, filling the distal metered volume 67. At this point the
   fluid resistance between the supply side and the delivery side is the sum of that associated with
25 the exit aperture 52 and the restrictive cross section 62. When the valve control member 64 is
   released the resistance associated with fluid flow across cross section 62 goes to zero and the
   guide moves as a plug of delivery fluid. The movement of the guide imparts minimal additional
   fluid resistance to the system, thereby allowing the pressure across aperture 52 to attain levels
   comparable to those seen with no guide in place. This state remains in effect until the guide runs
30 into the distal sealed end 68 of the delivery section 66, as shown in Figure 35. At this point the
   outflow resistance becomes that associated with the restrictive fluid flow cross section 62 and
   aperture 52 again. In this way, the delivered volume - that volume delivered under high pressure
   and at high velocity which penetrates the intima - is that which was disposed distal to the guide
   plug prior to its release. The delivered volume can therefore be regulated and controlled, and can
35 be adjustable. If required, the rate at which the guide is withdrawn during the fill cycle can be
                                                     -20  -

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   matched to that of the expected fluid flow across restrictive fluid flow cross section 62 such that
   there is minimal negative pressure generated across the guide 69. This configuration behaves
   differently than other control elements in that the fluid resistance across the control element
   remains constant but the position of the control element is allowed to change. As illustrated the
 5 travel of the guide 69 is defined by the amount of proximal displacement of the guide from the
   distal end seal 68 which acts as its stop. In an alternate embodiment, not shown, the
   displacement of the guide 69 may be controlled by alternate mechanisms and the guides
   displacement may terminate proximal to the end seal 68.
    [00341      Figures 36 and 37 illustrate the distal delivery region of Figures 15 and 16 deployed
10 within a section of renal artery 40. In Figure 36 the end of elongate delivery member 13 just
   distal to distal delivery region 14 can be seen centered in the vessel. Penetrating remodeling
   elements 19 have been deployed from their non-deployed configuration within the distal delivery
   region to their deployed state, penetrating through intimal 46 and medial layer 47 of the vessel
   and terminating in the adventitial layer 48. Volumes of remodeled tissue 45 spiral through the
15 adventitia, with one intersecting nerve 43. Figure 37 depicts a view normal to the axis of blood
   flow for the vessel in which can be seen that the primary volume of remodeled tissue occurs
   beyond the intimal and adventitial layers.
   [0035]       In yet another embodiment as depicted in Figure 38, a penetrating remodeling
   element 19 is a needle. The needle has a helical configuration and delivered while contained
20 with an outer sheath of a delivery section 13 of a delivery system, not shown. In this
   configuration, the outer sheath of the delivery section has a stiffness sufficient to maintain the
   spring element in a straightened configuration. On delivery the remodeling element is pushed
   distally out of the distal end of the outer sheath of the delivery system until the distal end of the
   remodeling element has passed into the vessel wall. The remodeling element is then twisted,
25 which in combination with the pre-set spiral configuration allows the remodeling element 16 to
   screw its way around the vessel within the adventitial layer. The remodeling element can be
   comprised of a number of different configurations. In many of these configurations it is a
   conductor that may be powered with RF to deliver energy sufficient to ablate the surrounding
   tissue. Alternatively, it may be powered in such a way as to electroporate the surrounding tissue.
30 The remodeling element may additionally be porous such that an ablating agent (described
   herein) may be delivered through the porous structure. It may alternatively be coated with an
   ablative agent. In those embodiments where it is used to deliver an ablative agent on or through
   its walls and it is conductive the electroporative capability may be used to enhance the action of
   the ablative compound delivered. When the remodeling element is comprised of a needle, it may
35 also be used to leave an ablative element in the tract of its path as the element is removed by a
                                                    - 21 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                            PCT/US2011/029829
   procedure in reverse of that by which it was delivered. The material left may alternatively be
   one designed to absorb energy provided by an external source such as a gel containing a ferrite
   as mentioned elsewhere in this application.
   [0036]       In any of the configurations relying on the delivery of a fluid agent at high velocity,
 5 the pressure may be adjusted between delivery cycles. In this manner the volume and spatial
   characteristics of the remodeled tissue volume may be adjusted. Of particular value in such a
   situation is the incorporation of a contrast agent within the delivered media which will provide
   visual feedback on the remodeled volume via the particular imaging means. Such imaging
   means include but are not limited to CT, MRI, and ultrasound.
10 [0037]       Figure 42 provides a figurative representation of a delivery system incorporating a
   distal fluid control configured as a shuttle valve, while a representation of its fluidic performance
   is illustrated in Figure 39. The system comprises a fluid and pressure source 20, which feeds a
   delivery system 10, as generally described above. The delivery system is comprised of elongate
   delivery member 13 comprising a fluid supply section feeding into distal delivery region 14,
15 which comprises a fluid control terminating in aperture 52 from which ajet of fluid 51 is ejected
   under appropriate conditions of alignment. Figure 40 is a figurative representation of the
   delivery system in terms of its resistive fluidic characteristics. The elements are the fluid
   resistance of the fluid source 83 contained within elongate delivery member 13, the fluid
   resistance of the fluid path within the tissue interface portion 84, and the fluid resistance of
20 control port 80. Each of these elements has an associated capacitance which is not shown in this
   representation. The control port behaves as a variable resistance which is the primary
   characteristic under control. Figures 40 and 41 illustrate various aspects of the resistive fluidic
   performance of these components. Figure 40 represents the resistance associated with the fluid
   control port 80, as a function of the displacement "d" of its control element position, and the
25 resistances for the supply section and tissue interface portions of the system 83 and 84
   respectively, which are not directly controllable in this configuration and are essentially fixed.
   Key positions for the jet aperture 52 relative to the masking aperture 53 are indicated on the
   displacement axis d as "4W", "a", and "b". The point "0" corresponds to the position where the
   proximal edge of the jet exit aperture aligns with the proximal edge of the jet masking aperture.
30 The position "a" corresponds to the point at which the distal edge of the jet aperture aligns with
   the distal edge of the masking aperture, and b represents a point where the proximal edge of the
   jet exit aperture is distal to the distal edge of the jet masking aperture by some distance a-b. As
   seen in the illustration, the fluid resistance versus displacement characteristics of the shuttle
   valve fluid control 80 has two distinct performance features. A constant resistance 82 is
35 demonstrated initially which is equal to that associated with the cross section of the jet exit
                                                      - 22 -

       WO 2011/119857                                                             PCT/US2011/029829
   aperture. A second increasing resistance 81 is demonstrated when the jet aperture passes out of
   the masking aperture. This resistance increases as the distance d increases. Figure 41 illustrates
   a representation of the expected outflow rate 90 as a function d given the resistance
   characteristics represented in Figure 40 and a constant pressure supply. Outflow rate 90 is
 5 comprised of a high constant rate of outflow 91 for displacements "0" to "a" and a decreasing
   rate of outflow 92 for displacements "a" to "b". The regions represented by displacements "0" to
   "a" correspond to the on state and the displacement "b" correspond to the off state. The system
   resistance will be the sum of the component resistances. The scales indicated should be
   understood as arbitrary and the magnitude of the difference in flow and resistance in the off state
to versus the on state may be a few times to multiple orders of magnitude.
   [00381       Figure 43 shows the system of Figure 39 wherein the shuttle valve is replaced by a
   needle valve. This system demonstrates fluidic behavior similarly to that described for the
   shuttle valve variation. However certain differences associated with actuation and fabrication
   are notable and delineated below. In a system incorporating multiple individually and
15 selectively addressable fluid controls, the shuttle valve based system may be configured such
   that control elements are comprised of two parts as is illustrated in Figures 21 - 24 above. The
   needle valve and metered valve variations by contrast require a separate control element and
   associated controllable member for each valve separately addressable. In the needle valve
   variation the variable resistance associated with the control element 80 is shifted to the position
20 of the tissue interface 84, the resistance of the tissue interface and the jet exit apertures in the
   most distal position. Such an arrangement does not lend itself to a serial arrangement as the
   multiple valves require a common source which is proximal to the control element.
    [0039]      Given the small size of many of the critical features associated with the above
   described fluid controls and the extreme sensitivity of the performance of the fluid controls to the
25  dimensions of these features, the ability to serially and or individually address each fluid control
   has particular value where uniformity of delivery is required. For instance, an individual device
    may be calibrated in such a fashion that the outflow resistance for each outflow is known and
    used to adjust the either or both the static source pressure or the on time such that each outflow
    behaves similarly with reference to the fluid delivery during an injection cycle. In addition, as
30  noted above, the fluid media delivered may contain a contrast agent and the operator can use the
    visual information to change the source pressure to vary depth of penetration, duration of
    injection to adjust volume delivered, or provide multiple injection cycles at a given location to
    adjust volume of targeted tissue. The delivery cycle may additionally be spread out over time
    such that an initial volume is injected at an initial time, then an additional volume is injected at a
35  later time where enough time is allowed such that information on the rate of diffusion of the
                                                     - 23  -

       WO 2011/119857                                                           PCT/US2011/029829
   delivered fluid is gained and additional volumes may then be delivered in a fashion wherein the a
   concentration of ablatant sufficient to ablate is maintained in the remodeled target volume for a
   sufficient time to remodel the tissue.
   [00401       Figure 44 represents yet another alternative for effecting tissue remodeling where a
 5 fluid, gas, or mechanical rod may be used to eject a component capable of external excitation as
   described herein or alternatively a component which upon ejection springs into a shape different
   than its delivery shape and in so doing damages tissue in its vicinity, thereby causing tissue
   remodeling. In Figure 44 spring elements 101 are shown after ejection from distal delivery
   region 30 through the wall of renal artery 40. As shown, multiple spring elements 101 have been
10 ejected from two separate positions of distal delivery region 30. Spring elements 101 may be
   configured such that the tines are held together for a period of time past the ejection cycle. For
   instance they may be held together by a water soluble binder and injected in a gas, oil, or alcohol
   carrier. In this fashion, on residing within the tissue for a period of time the binder will be
   solubalized and the tines released. The release of the tines may be used to cut or macerate the
15 tissue surrounding the tines.
   [0041]       It has been demonstrated in the literature that the volume of tissue affected by a
   needleless injection will be dependent on the spatial velocity and temporal velocity profiles of
   the injectate at the time of delivery. In particular, delivering a volume of fluid into a tissue mass
   at high initial velocity minimizes tissue damage at the entry point while allowing fluid to
20 penetrate deep into the tissue. Maintaining the outflow at a lower velocity after the initial
   penetration facilitates an increase in volume delivered through the initial wound. In the above
   described fluid delivery systems, the control mechanism has been incorporated at the distal
   region of the delivery system. This allows the delivery system to be maintained at delivery
   pressures and thereby minimizes the filtering effects of the long narrow delivery lumens and
25 system capacitance on the velocity profile of ejected fluid at the exit aperture.
    [0042]      In another alternative embodiment of a tissue remodeling device cutting or
   macerating devices may be delivered through or in the manner that needles 16 in Figures 36 and
   37 are delivered. Such devices may be configured as slicing hooks or simple blades which cut
   on being pushed as represented in Figure 45. Additionally such devices may be spun as an
30 atherectomy blade to facilitate the requisite remodeling as depicted in Figure 46 through which
   the rotatable cutting device of Figure 45 is delivered. Figure 47 shows a device as in Figure 36.
   While preferred embodiments of the present disclosure have been shown and described herein, it
   will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example
   only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art
35 without departing from the disclosure. It should be understood that various alternatives to the
                                                    - 24 -

  WO 2011/119857                                                      PCT/US2011/029829
embodiments of the disclosure described herein may be employed in practicing the disclosure.
                                             - 25 -

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      A method of controlling the delivery of fluid from a medical delivery device,
comprising:
         providing a medical device comprising a distal delivery region comprising a first valve
                 element having a first fluid control extending therethrough and a second valve
                 element having a second fluid control and a third fluid control spaced apart from
                 the second fluid control; and
         selectively regulating the flow of a fluid by moving the first valve element relative to the
                 second valve element until the first fluid control is aligned with the second fluid
                 control or the third fluid control to flow fluid therethrough,
         wherein the second and third fluid controls are each independently addressable by the first
                 fluid control.
         2.      The method of claim 1 wherein selectively regulating comprises allowing the fluid
to be delivered from the second fluid control while minimizing the fluid that is delivered from the
third fluid control.
         3.      The method of claim 1 wherein moving the first valve element comprises increasing
the flow of fluid from the second fluid control without increasing the flow of fluid through the
third fluid control.
         4.      The method of claim 1 wherein moving the first valve element comprises increasing
the fluid flow from the second fluid control a first amount and increasing the flow of fluid from
the third fluid control a second amount, wherein the first amount is different than the second
amount.
         5.      The method of claim 1 wherein moving the first valve element comprises moving
the first fluid control from a closed configuration to an open configuration without moving the
third fluid control from a closed configuration to an open configuration.
                                                -26-

         6.     The method of claim 5 wherein moving the first fluid control to the open
configuration comprises rotating and/or axially moving the first valve element relative to the
second valve element.
         7.     The method of claim 5 wherein moving the first fluid control to the open
configuration causes the fluid to flow from the second fluid control at a high velocity, while the
fluid flows out of the third fluid control at a low velocity.
         8.     The method of claim 1 wherein selectively regulating comprises flowing the fluid
out of the second fluid control at a high velocity and flowing the fluid out of the third fluid control
at a low velocity.
         9.     An apparatus for releasing fluid within a patient's body, comprising:
         an elongate member comprising
                a distal region comprising a first valve element having a first fluid control
                         extending therethrough and a second valve element having a second fluid
                         control and a third fluid control laterally spaced apart from the second
                         fluid control, and
                a lumen extending through the distal region and in fluid communication with the
                         first fluid control,
                wherein the lumen is adapted to be in fluid communication with a fluid source, and
                         wherein the second valve element is adapted to move relative to the first
                         valve element thereby allowing the first fluid control to be aligned with one
                         of the second fluid control or the third fluid control to regulate the volume
                         of a fluid that is released from the lumen,
                wherein the second and third fluid controls are each independently addressable by
                         the first fluid control.
         10.    The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the distal region of the elongate member has a
closed configuration and an open configuration, wherein in the closed configuration a substantially
                                                  -27-

smaller volume of fluid is allowed to be released out of the second fluid control than in the open
configuration.
         11.    The apparatus of claim 10 wherein substantially smaller is substantially no fluid.
         12.    The apparatus of claim 10 wherein in the open configuration the distal region of the
elongate member is adapted to release the fluid at high velocity via the first and second fluid
controls.
         13.    The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the first valve element is adapted to be rotated
and/or laterally moved relative to the second valve element to allow the first fluid control to be
individually aligned with the second fluid control or the third fluid control.
         14.    The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the first fluid control is a first aperture, the second
fluid control is a second aperture, and the third fluid control is a third aperture, and wherein the
third aperture is smaller than the second aperture such that the third aperture is adapted to flow
less fluid therethrough compared to the second aperture.
         15.    The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the first fluid control is adapted to be in fluid
communication with a fluid source maintained at a substantially constant pressure.
         16.    The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the first and second fluid controls control the
volume of fluid that is released therethrough while the fluid source is maintained at the
substantially constant pressure.
                                             -28-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
