      CELLULOSIC AND LIGNOCELLULOSIC STRUCTURAL MATERIALS AND
      METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANUFACTURING SUCH MATERIALS BY
                                         IRRADIATION
 5
                                             Abstract
            Biomass (e.g. plant biomass, animal biomass, and municipal waste biomass) is
10 processed to produce useful products, such as fuels. For example, systems can use
   feedstock materials, such as cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials and/or starchy or
   sugary materials, to produce ethanol and/or butanol, e.g. by fermentation.

                                                   1
      CELLULOSIC AND LIGNOCELLULOSIC STRUCTURAL MATERIALS AND
     METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANUFACTURING SUCH MATERIALS BY
                                             IRRADIATION
                                    TECHNICAL FIELD
         This invention relates to processing biomass, such as methods and systems for
 processing biomass.
Divisional Status
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                       BACKGROUND
         Various carbohydrates, such as cellulosic and lignocellulosic materials, e.g., in
 fibrous form, are produced, processed, and used in large quantities in a number of
 applications. Often such materials are used once, and then discarded as waste, or are
 simply considered to be waste materials, e.g., sewage, bagasse, sawdust, and stover.
                                          SUMMARY
          Biomass can be processed to alter its structure at one or more levels. The
 processed biomass can then be used, for example as a source of materials and/or fuel.
          In general, the invention pertains to methods of changing a molecular and/or a
 supramolecular structure of a biomass feedstock. As will be discussed below, in some
 implementations, the methods include irradiating and quenching the biomass feedstock.
 In other implementations, the methods include irradiating the feedstock, cooling the
 feedstock, and again irradiating the feedstock.
          Carbohydrate-containing materials (e.g., biomass materials or biomass-derived
 materials, such as starchy materials, cellulosic materials, lignocellulosic materials, or
 biornass materials that are or that include significant amounts of low molecular weight
 sugars (e.g., monosaccharides, disaccharides, or trisaccharides), can be processed to
 change their structure, and products can be made from the structurally changed materials.
 For example, many of the methods described herein can provide cellulosic and/or
 lignocellulosic materials that have a lower molecular weight and/or crystallinity relative
 to a native material. Many of the methods provide materials that can be more readily
 utilized by a variety of microorganisms to produce useful products, such as hydrogen,
 alcohols (e.g., ethanol or butanol), organic acids (e.g., acetic acid), hydrocarbons, co
 products (e.g., proteins) or mixtures of any of these. Many of the products obtained, such

   as ethanol or n-butanol, can be utilized as a fuel for powering cars, trucks, tractors, ships
   or trains, e.g., as an internal combustion fuel or as a fuel cell feedstock. Many of the
   products obtained can also be utilized to power aircraft, such as planes, e.g., having jet
   engines or helicopters. In addition, the products described herein can be utilized for
 5 electrical power generation, e.g., in a conventional steam generating plant or in a fuel cell
   plant.
           In one aspect, the invention features methods that include quenching a biomass
   feedstock that has been irradiated to ionize the biomass feedstock so that the feedstock
   has a first level of radicals which are detectable with an electron spin resonance
10 spectrometer, to an extent that the radicals are at a second level lower than the first level.
           In another aspect, the invention features methods that include irradiating a
   biomass feedstock to ionize the biomass feedstock so that the feedstock has a first level
   of radicals which are detectable with an electron spin resonance spectrometer, and
   quenching the irradiated biomass feedstock to an extent that the radicals are at a second
15 level, lower than the first level, in the quenched biomass feedstock.
            Some methods further include processing the irradiated and quenched biomass
   feedstock to produce a product.
            Some implementations include one or more of the following features.
            Quenching can include quenching the radicals to a level that is no longer
20 detectable with the electron spin resonance spectrometer, e.g., less than about 1014 spins.
   Quenching can include applying pressure to the biomass, e.g., a pressure of greater than
   about 1000 psi. Pressure can be applied together with the application of heat. Quenching
   can include contacting the biomass with a gas capable of reacting with the radicals, e.g.,
   contacting the biomass with a fluid capable of penetrating into the biomass and reacting
25 with the radicals. Quenching can also, or alternatively, include contacting the biomass
   with an antioxidant. In some cases, the biomass feedstock includes an antioxidant
   dispersed therein, and quenching includes contacting the antioxidant dispersed in the
   biomass feedstock with the radicals.
           In another aspect, the invention features a method including irradiating a biomass
30 feedstock that has been prepared by reducing one or more dimensions of individual
   pieces of the biomass feedstock, using an apparatus comprising an accelerator configured
                                                  2

   to accelerate particles, such as electrons or ions, wherein the apparatus is capable of
   processing greater than 1,000 tons of biomass material per year, e.g., greater than 10,000,
   25,000, 50,000, 100,000, or even greater than 1,000,000 tons of biomass per year.
            In a further aspect, the invention features irradiating a biomass feedstock, e.g.,
 5 with ionizing radiation of electrons or ions, to change a molecular and/or supramolecular
   structure of the biomass feedstock, cooling the biomass feedstock, and then re-irradiating
   the biomass feedstock. The two applications of radiation can be the same or different,
   e.g., the same kind, such as electrons at the same level.
            The invention also features products formed by these methods, and systems for
10 performing the methods.
            Some implementations of these methods include one or more of the following
   features.
            The biomass feedstock can be cooled to an extent that after cooling the biomass is
   at a temperature below its initial temperature prior to irradiation. Cooling of the biomass
15 can include contacting the biomass with a fluid at a temperature below the initial
   temperature of the biomass or below the temperature of the biomass after irradiation.
            Each irradiation of the biomass feedstock can be performed as the biomass
   feedstock is being pneumatically conveyed in a fluid. Radiation can be applied as the
   biomass feedstock falls under the influence of gravity. For example, the biomass can be
20 conveyed from a first belt at a first height and captured by a second belt at a second level,
   lower than the first level, the trailing edge of the first belt and the leading edge of the
   second belt defining a gap, and ionizing radiation can be applied to the biomass feedstock
   in the defined gap. During irradiation the biomass can be conveyed past a particle gun
   and through a beam of charged particles. The biomass feedstock may have a bulk density
25 of less than about 0.25 g/cm 3 in a region under and/or above the beam.
            In another aspect, the invention features methods of changing a molecular
   structure and/or a supramolecular structure of a starchy material or of a low molecular
   weight sugar, such as sucrose, in a biomass feedstock comprising at least about 10
   percent by weight of the low molecular weight sugar. The methods include processing a
30 treated biomass feedstock to produce a product, the treated biomass feedstock having
   been prepared by pretreating a biomass feedstock using a pretreatment method that
                                                   3

   changes the molecular structure and/or supramolecular structure of the starchy material or
   of the low molecular weight sugar portion, selected from radiation, sonication, pyrolysis,
   and oxidation.
           In another aspect, the invention features methods of treating a biomass feedstock
 5 including a starchy material to change the molecular structure and/or supramolecular
   structure of the starchy material, with at least one method selected from the group
   consisting of radiation, sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation.
           Any of the above aspects of the invention can, in some implementations, include
   one or more of the following features.
10         The method can further include treating the biomass feedstock with one or more
   other pretreatment methods, wherein the other pretreatment methods are selected from
   sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation.
           Radiation can be in the form of an electron beam, which can be applied, for
   example, at a total dosage of between about 10 MRad and about 50 MRad. The radiation
15 can be ionizing radiation.
           Processing can include making a combustible fuel. In some cases, processing
   includes converting the irradiated material utilizing a microorganism having the ability to
   convert at least about 1 percent by weight of the biomass to the fuel.
           In some implementations, processing comprises fermenting the feedstock,
20 aerobically or anaerobically, to produce a product such as a fuel, e.g., ethanol. For
   example, processing may comprise contacting the feedstock with a microorganism
   having the ability to convert at least a portion, e.g., at least about 1 percent by weight, of
   the feedstock to the product. The microorganism can be a natural microorganism or an
   engineered microorganism. For example, the microorganism can be a bacterium, e.g., a
25 cellutolytic bacterium, a fungus, e.g., a yeast, a plant or a protist, e.g., an algae, a
   protozoa or a fungus-like protist, e.g., a slime mold. When the organisms are compatible,
   mixtures may be utilized.
           The product can include one or more of hydrogen, organic acids, proteins,
   hydrocarbons, and alcohols, e.g., ethanol, n-propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, and
30 mixtures thereof. Other examples of products that may be produced by the methods
   disclosed herein include mono- and polyfunctional CI -C6 alkyl alcohols, mono- and
                                                  4

   poly-functional carboxylic acids, C1 -C6 hydrocarbons, and combinations thereof. Other
   examples of alcohols include methanol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butane
   diol, glycerin, and combinations thereof. Carboxylic acids include formic acid, acetic
   acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, valeric acid, caproic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid,
 5 oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, glycolic
   acid, lactic acid, y-hydroxybutyric acid, and combinations thereof. Hydrocarbons include
   methane, ethane, propane, pentane, n-hexane, and combinations thereof. Many of these
   products may be used as fuels.
           The method can further include preparing the biomass feedstock by reducing one
10 or more dimensions of individual pieces of the biomass feedstock.
           In some cases, the biomass feedstock has internal fibers, and the biomass
   feedstock has been sheared to an extent that its internal fibers are substantially exposed.
   The biomass feedstock can in some cases include or be made up of discrete fibers and/or
   particles having a maximum dimension of not more than about 0.5 mm.
15         The biomass feedstock can be prepared and then pretreated, or pretreated and then
   prepared. The pretreatment method can be selected from, e.g., radiation, such as
   radiation from a beam of electrons or ions, sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation. In some
   embodiments, at least one of the pretreatment methods, e.g., radiation, is performed on
   the biomass feedstock while the biomass feedstock is exposed to air, nitrogen, oxygen,
20 helium, or argon. In some embodiments, pretreatment can include pretreating the
   biomass feedstock with steam explosion.
           In some embodiments, the biomass is prepared by reducing one or more
   dimensions of individual pieces of biomass includes shearing, wet or dry grinding,
   cutting, squeezing, compressing or mixtures of any of these processes. For example,
25 shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter. The shearing can produce fibers
   having an average length-to-diameter ratio of greater than 5/1.    In some embodiments, the
   prepared biomass can have a BET surface area of greater than 0.25 m2/g.        The biomass
   can be sheared to an extent that internal fibers of the biomass are substantially exposed.
   The biomass can be sheared to an extent that it has a bulk density of less than about 0.35
30 g/cm3
                                                  5

            In some embodiments, two or more pretreatment methods can be applied to the
   biomass feedstock, for example radiation and sonication, radiation and oxidation,
   radiation and pyrolization, sonication and oxidation, sonication and pyrolization, or
   oxidation and pyrolization. The two or more processes can be performed in any order or
 5 at or about the same time.
            In some embodiments, the change in molecular structure and/or change in
   supramolecular structure of the biomass, e.g., the cellulosic or lignocellulosic material or
   low molecular weight sugar or starchy material, can include a change in any one or more
   of an average molecular weight, average crystallinity, surface area, degree of
10 polymerization, porosity, branching, grafting, domain size or number, a change in kind or
   number of chemical functional groups, and a change in formula weight. For example, the
   change in molecular structure and/or supramolecular structure can include a decrease in
   either one or both of an average molecular weight and average crystallinity or an increase
   in either one or both of surface area and porosity.
15          In some instances, functionalized biomass (biomass in which the number and/or
   kind of functional groups has been changed) is more soluble and more readily utilized by
   microorganisms in comparison to un-functionalized biomass. In addition, many of the
   functionalized materials described herein are less prone to oxidation and can have
   enhanced long-term stability under ambient conditions.
20          In some embodiments, at least one pretreatment method can be performed on
   biomass in which less than about 25 percent by weight of the biomass is in a swollen
   state, the swollen state being characterized as having a volume of more than about 2.5
   percent higher than an unswollen state. In other embodiments, the biomass is mixed with
   or includes a swelling agent. For example, in any method described herein, the biomass
25 can be mixed with or and include a swelling agent, and the biomass can receive a dose of
   less than about 10 Mrad of radiation.
            The pretreated biomass material can further include, optionally, a buffer, such as
   sodium bicarbonate or ammonium chloride, an electrolyte, such as potassium chloride or
   sodium chloride, a growth factor, such as biotin, and/or a base pair such as uracil, a
30 surfactant, a mineral, or a chelating agent.
                                                 6

            In some cases, pretreatment is performed while the biomass feedstock is exposed
   to air, nitrogen, oxygen, helium or argon. Pretreatment may be performed under
   pressure, e.g., under a pressure of greater than about 2.5 atmospheres. The methods
   described herein may further include oxidizing the biomass prior to pretreatment.
 5          The biomass feedstock may include, for example, paper, paper products, paper
   waste, wood, particle board, sawdust, agricultural waste, sewage, silage, grasses, rice
   hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn cobs, corn
   stover, switchgrass, alfalfa, hay, rice hulls, coconut hair, cotton, synthetic celluloses,
   seaweed, algae, and mixtures thereof. The biomass may in some cases include a
10 synthetic material.
            The biomass can in some cases include a carbohydrate that includes one or more
   p-1,4-linkages and has a number average molecular weight between about 3,000 and
   50,000.
            In some implementations, the biomass material includes a starch, e.g., corn starch,
15 wheat starch, potato starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a material that includes
   starch, such as an edible food product or a crop. For example the starchy material can be
   arracacha, buckwheat, banana, barley, cassava, kudzu, oca, sago, sorghum, regular
   household potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as fava beans,
   lentils, or peas.
20          In other implementations, the biomass material is or includes a low molecular
   weight sugar. For example, the biomass materials can include at least about 0.5 percent
   by weight of a low molecular weight sugar, e.g., at least about 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
   12.5, 25, 35, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or even at least about 95 percent by weight of the low
   molecular weight sugar. In some instances, the biomass is composed substantially of the
25 low molecular weight sugar, e.g., greater than 95 percent by weight, such as 96, 97, 98,
   99 or substantially 100 percent by weight of the low molecular weight sugar. Biomass
   materials that include low molecular weight sugars can be agricultural products or food
   products, such as sugarcane and sugar beets, or an extract therefrom, e.g., juice from
   sugarcane or sugar beets. Specific examples of low molecular weight sugars include
30 cellobiose, lactose, sucrose, glucose and xylose, along with derivatives thereof.
                                                   7

   Processing low molecular weight sugars by any of the methods described herein can
   make the resulting products more soluble and/or easier to utilize by microbes.
            In one aspect, a method of converting an intermediate to a product includes
   treating an irradiated intermediate product with a microorganism, the intermediate having
 5 been prepared by irradiating a starchy material and treating the starchy material with an
   enzyme.
            In another aspect, a method of converting an intermediate to a product includes
   preparing an intermediate by irradiating a starchy material and treating the starchy
   material with an enzyme, and treating the irradiated intermediate product with a
10 microorganism.
            Another aspect includes a product produced by any one of the above methods.
            In one aspect, a biomass feedstock processing system includes an irradiating
   device configured to ionize a biomass feedstock so that the feedstock has a first level of
   radicals detectable with an electron spin resonance spectrometer; and a quenching device
15 configured to quench the ionized biomass feedstock to an extent that the radicals are at a
   second level lower than the first level.
            In another aspect, a biomass feedstock processing system includes one or more
   irradiating devices configured to irradiate a biomass feedstock with at least two separate
   doses of radiation; and a cooling device configured to cool the biomass feedstock
20 between doses of radiation.
            In some implementations, a system also includes a biomass feedstock positioned
   to be ionized by the irradiating device(s).
            In any of the methods or systems disclosed herein, radiation may be applied from
   a device that is in a vault.
25          The term "fibrous material," as used herein, is a material that includes numerous
   loose, discrete and separable fibers. For example, a fibrous material can be prepared
   from a bleached Kraft paper fiber source by shearing, e.g., with a rotary knife cutter.
            The term "screen," as used herein, means a member capable of sieving material
   according to size. Examples of screens include a perforated plate, cylinder or the like, or
30 a wire mesh or cloth fabric.
                                                  8

           The term "pyrolysis," as used herein, means to break bonds in a material by the
   application of heat energy. Pyrolysis can occur while the subject material is under
   vacuum, or immersed in a gaseous material, such as an oxidizing gas, e.g., air or oxygen,
   or a reducing gas, such as hydrogen.
 5         Oxygen content is measured by elemental analysis by pyrolyzing a sample in a
   furnace operating at 1300 0C or above.
           The terms "biomass" refers to any non-fossilized, i.e., renewable, organic matter.
   The various types of biomass include plant biomass (defined below), microbial biomass,
   animal biomass (any animal by-product, animal waste, etc.) and municipal waste biomass
10 (residential and light commercial refuse with recyclables such as metal and glass
   removed).
           The term "plant biomass" and "lignocellulosic biomass" refer to virtually any
   plant-derived organic matter (woody or non-woody). Plant biomass can include, but is
   not limited to, agricultural or food crops (e.g., sugarcane, sugar beets or corn kernels) or
15 an extract therefrom (e.g., sugar from sugarcane and corn starch from corn), agricultural
   crop wastes and residues such as corn stover, wheat straw, rice straw, sugar cane bagasse,
   and the like. Plant biomass further includes, but is not limited to, trees, woody energy
   crops, wood wastes and residues such as softwood forest thinnings, barky wastes,
   sawdust, paper and pulp industry waste streams, wood fiber, and the like. Additionally,
20 grass crops, such as switchgrass and the like have potential to be produced on a large
   scale as another plant biomass source. For urban areas, the best potential plant biomass
   feedstock includes yard waste (e.g., grass clippings, leaves, tree clippings, and brush) and
   vegetable processing waste.
           "Lignocellulosic feedstock," is any type of plant biomass such as, but not limited
25 to, non-woody plant biomass, cultivated crops, such as, but not limited to, grasses, for
   example, but not limited to, C4 grasses, such as switchgrass, cord grass, rye grass,
   miscanthus, reed canary grass, or a combination thereof, or sugar processing residues
   such as bagasse, or beet pulp, agricultural residues, for example, soybean stover, corn
   stover, rice straw, rice hulls, barley straw, corn cobs, wheat straw, canola straw, rice
30 straw, oat straw, oat hulls, corn fiber, recycled wood pulp fiber, sawdust, hardwood, for
   example aspen wood and sawdust, softwood, or a combination thereof. Further, the
                                                   9

   lignocellulosic feedstock may include cellulosic waste material such as, but not limited
   to, newsprint, cardboard, sawdust, and the like.
           Lignocellulosic feedstock may include one species of fiber or alternatively,
   lignocellulosic feedstock may include a mixture of fibers that originate from different
 5 lignocellulosic feedstocks. Furthermore, the lignocellulosic feedstock may comprise
   fresh lignocellulosic feedstock, partially dried lignocellulosic feedstock, fully dried
   lignocellulosic feedstock or a combination thereof.
           For the purposes of this disclosure, carbohydrates are materials that are composed
   entirely of one or more saccharide units or that include one or more saccharide units. The
10 saccharide units can be functionalized about the ring with one or more functional groups,
   such as carboxylic acid groups, amino groups, nitro groups, nitroso groups or nitrile
   groups and still be considered carbohydrates. Carbohydrates can be polymeric (e.g.,
   equal to or greater than 1O-mer, 100-mer, 1,000-mer, 10,000-mer, or 100,000-mer),
   oligomeric (e.g., equal to or greater than a 4-mer, 5-mer, 6-mer, 7-mer, 8-mer, 9-mer or
15 1 0-mer), trimeric, dimeric, or monomeric. When the carbohydrates are formed of more
   than a single repeat unit, each repeat unit can be the same or different.
           Examples of polymeric carbohydrates include cellulose, xylan, pectin, and starch,
   while cellobiose and lactose are examples of dimeric carbohydrates. Examples of
   monomeric carbohydrates include glucose and xylose.
20         Carbohydrates can be part of a supramolecular structure, e.g., covalently bonded
   into the structure. Examples of such materials include lignocellulosic materials, such as
   those found in wood.
           A starchy material is one that is or includes significant amounts of starch or a
   starch derivative, such as greater than about 5 percent by weight starch or starch
25 derivative. For purposes of this disclosure, a starch is a material that is or includes an
   amylose, an amylopectin, or a physical and/or chemical mixture thereof, e.g., a 20:80 or
   30:70 percent by weight mixture of amylose to amylopectin. For example, rice, corn, and
   mixtures thereof are starchy materials. Starch derivatives include, e.g., maltodextrin,
   acid-modified starch, base-modified starch, bleached starch, oxidized starch, acetylated
30 starch, acetylated and oxidized starch, phosphate-modified starch, genetically-modified
   starch and starch that is resistant to digestion.
                                                   10

            For purposes of this disclosure, a low molecular weight sugar is a carbohydrate or
   a derivative thereof that has a formula weight (excluding moisture) that is less than about
   2,000, e.g., less than about 1,800, 1,600, less than about 1,000, less than about 500, less
   than about 350 or less than about 250. For example, the low molecular weight sugar can
 5 be a monosaccharide, e.g., glucose or xylose, a disaccharide, e.g., cellobiose or sucrose,
   or a trisaccharide.
            A combustible fuel is a material capable of burning in the presence of oxygen.
   Examples of combustible fuels include ethanol, n-propanol, n-butanol, hydrogen and
   mixtures of any two or more of these.
10          Swelling agents as used herein are materials that cause a discernable swelling,
   e.g., a 2.5 percent increase in volume over an unswollen state of cellulosic and/or
   lignocellulosic materials, when applied to such materials as a solution, e.g., a water
   solution. Examples include alkaline substances, such as sodium hydroxide, potassium
   hydroxide, lithium hydroxide and ammonium hydroxides, acidifying agents, such as
15 mineral acids (e.g., sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid and phosphoric acid), salts, such as
   zinc chloride, calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, benzyltrimethylammonium sulfate,
   and basic organic amines, such as ethylene diamine.
            A "sheared material," as used herein, is a material that includes discrete fibers in
   which at least about 50% of the discrete fibers have a length/diameter (L/D) ratio of at
20 least about 5, and that has an uncompressed bulk density of less than about 0.6 g/cm3 . A
   sheared material is thus different from a material that has been cut, chopped or ground.
            Changing a molecular structure of a biomass feedstock, as used herein, means to
   change the chemical bonding arrangement, such as the type and quantity of functional
   groups, or conformation of the structure. For example, the change in the molecular
25 structure can include changing the supramolecular structure of the material, oxidation of
   the material, changing an average molecular weight, changing an average crystallinity,
   changing a surface area, changing a degree of polymerization, changing a porosity,
   changing a degree of branching, grafting on other materials, changing a crystalline
   domain size, or an changing an overall domain size.
30          This application incorporates by reference herein the entire contents of
   International Application No. PCT/US2007/022719, filed on October 26, 2007. The full
                                                  11

   disclosures of each of the following U.S. Patent Applications are hereby incorporated by
   reference herein: U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos. 61/049,391; 61/049,394;
   61/049,395; 61/049,404; 61/049,405; 61/049,406; 61/049,407; 61/049,413; 61/049,415;
   and 61/049,419, all filed April 30, 2008; U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos.
 5 61/073,432; 61/073,436; 61/073,496; 61/073,530; 61/073,665; and 61/073,674, all filed
   June 18, 2008; U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/106,861, filed October 20,
   2008; U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos. 61/139,324 and 61/139,453, both filed
   December 19, 2008, and U.S. Patent Application Ser. Nos.12/417,707; 12/417,720;
   12/417,840; 12/417,699; 12/417,731; 12/417,900; 12/417,880; 12/417,723; 12/417,786;
10 and 12/417,904, all filed April 3, 2009.
           Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable
15 methods and materials are described below. All publications, Appendices, patent
   applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein or attached hereto are
   incorporated by reference in their entirety for all that they contain. In case of conflict, the
   present specification, including definitions, will control. In addition, the materials,
   methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
20         Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
   following detailed description, and from the claims.
                                DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
           FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating conversion of biomass into products and co
   products.
25         FIG. 2 is block diagram illustrating conversion of a fiber source into a first and
   second fibrous material.
           FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of a rotary knife cutter.
           FIG. 4 is block diagram illustrating conversion of a fiber source into a first,
   second and third fibrous material.
30         FIG. 5 is block diagram illustrating densification of a material.
                                                 12

            FIG. 6 is a perspective view of a pellet mill.
            FIG. 7A is a densified fibrous material in pellet form.
            FIG. 7B is a transverse cross-section of a hollow pellet in which a center of the
   hollow is in-line with a center of the pellet.
 5          FIG. 7C is a transverse cross-section of a hollow pellet in which a center of the
   hollow is out of line with the center of the pellet.
            FIG. 7D is a transverse cross-section of a tri-lobal pellet.
            FIG. 8 is a block diagram illustrating a treatment sequence for processing
   feedstock.
10          FIG. 9 is a perspective, cut-away view of a gamma irradiator housed in a concrete
   vault.
            FIG. 10 is an enlarged perspective view of region R of FIG. 9.
            FIG. 11 is a block diagram illustrating an electron beam irradiation feedstock
   pretreatment sequence.
15          FIG. 11 A is a schematic representation of biomass being ionized, and then
   oxidized or quenched.
            FIG. 11 B is a schematic side view of a system for irradiating a low bulk density
   material, while FIG. I IC is cross-sectional of the system taken along I IC-I IC.
            FIG. 1 ID is a schematic cross-sectional view of a fluidized bed system for
20 irradiating a low bulk density material.
            FIG. 1 IE is a schematic side-view of another system for irradiating a low bulk
   density material.
            FIG. 12 is a schematic view of a system for sonicating a process stream of
   cellulosic material in a liquid medium.
25          FIG. 13 is a schematic view of a sonicator having two transducers coupled to a
   single horn.
            FIG. 14 is a block diagram illustrating a pyrolytic feedstock pretreatment system.
            FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional side view of a pyrolysis chamber.
            FIG. 16 is a cross-sectional side view of a pyrolysis chamber.
30          FIG. 17 is a cross-sectional side view of a pyrolyzer that includes a heated
   filament.
                                                  13

           FIG. 18 is a schematic cross-sectional side view of a Curie-Point pyrolyzer.
           FIG. 19 is a schematic cross-sectional side view of a furnace pyrolyzer.
           FIG. 20 is a schematic cross-sectional top view of a laser pyrolysis apparatus.
           FIG. 21 is a schematic cross-sectional top view of a tungsten filament flash
 5 pyrolyzer.
           FIG. 22 is a block diagram illustrating an oxidative feedstock pretreatment
   system.
           FIG. 23 is block diagram illustrating a general overview of the process of
   converting a fiber source into a product, e.g., ethanol.
10         FIG. 24 is a cross-sectional view of a steam explosion apparatus.
           FIG. 25 is a schematic cross-sectional side view of a hybrid electron
   beam/sonication device.
           FIG. 26 is a block diagram illustrating a dry milling process for corn kernels.
           FIG. 27 is a block diagram illustrating a wet milling process for corn kernels.
15         FIG. 28 is a scanning electron micrograph of a fibrous material produced from
   polycoated paper at 25 X magnification. The fibrous material was produced on a rotary
   knife cutter utilizing a screen with 1/8 inch openings.
           FIG. 29 is a scanning electron micrograph of a fibrous material produced from
   bleached Kraft board paper at 25 X magnification. The fibrous material was produced on
20 a rotary knife cutter utilizing a screen with 1/8 inch openings.
           FIG. 30 is a scanning electron micrograph of a fibrous material produced from
   bleached Kraft board paper at 25 X magnification. The fibrous material was twice
   sheared on a rotary knife cutter utilizing a screen with 1/16 inch openings during each
   shearing.
25         FIG. 31 is a scanning electron micrograph of a fibrous material produced from
   bleached Kraft board paper at 25 X magnification. The fibrous material was thrice
   sheared on a rotary knife cutter. During the first shearing, a 1/8 inch screen was used;
   during the second shearing, a 1/16 inch screen was used, and during the third shearing a
   1/32 inch screen was used.
30         FIG. 32 is a schematic side view of a sonication apparatus, while FIG. 33 is a
   cross-sectional view through the processing cell of FIG. 32.
                                                  14

            FIG. 34 is a scanning electron micrograph at 1000 X magnification of a fibrous
   material produced from shearing switchgrass on a rotary knife cutter, and then passing
   the sheared material through a 1/32 inch screen.
            FIGS. 35 and 36 are scanning electron micrographs of the fibrous material of FIG.
 5 34 after irradiation with 10 Mrad and 100 Mrad gamma rays, respectively, at 1000 X
   magnification.
            FIG. 37 is a scanning electron micrographs of the fibrous material of FIG. 34 after
   irradiation with 10 Mrad and sonication at 1000 X magnification.
            FIG. 38 is a scanning electron micrographs of the fibrous material of FIG. 34 after
10 irradiation with 100 Mrad and sonication at 1000 X magnification.
            FIG. 39 is an infrared spectrum of Kraft board paper sheared on a rotary knife
   cutter.
            FIG. 40 is an infrared spectrum of the Kraft paper of FIG. 39 after irradiation with
   100 Mrad of gamma radiation.
15          FIG. 41 is a schematic view of a process for biomass conversion.
            FIG. 42 is schematic view of another process for biomass conversion.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Systems and processes are described herein that can use various biomass
   materials, such as cellulosic materials, lignocellulosic materials, starchy materials or
20 materials that are or that include low molecular weight sugars, as feedstock materials.
   Such materials are often readily available, but can be difficult to process, e.g., by
   fermentation, or can gives sub-optimal yields at a slow rate. In some cases, the difficulty
   in processing stems at least in part from the recalcitrance of the feedstock. Processing
   steps are described herein that can reduce this recalcitrance and thereby facilitate
25 conversion of the biomass feedstock to a desired product.
            In the processes described herein, feedstock materials are first physically prepared
   for processing, often by size reduction of raw feedstock materials. Physically prepared
   feedstock can then be pretreated or processed using one or more of radiation (which may
   in some cases be under controlled thermal conditions), sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis,
30 and steam explosion. The various pretreatment systems and methods can be used in
                                                 15

   combinations of two, three, or even four of these technologies. Other techniques which
   may be used to enhance the processing of the feedstock are described herein, for example
   cooling the feedstock between irradiating steps and quenching the biomass feedstock
   after irradiation.
 5          Functionalized materials are also disclosed herein, having desired types and
   amounts of functionality, such as carboxylic acid groups, enol groups, aldehyde groups,
   ketone groups, nitrile groups, nitro groups, or nitroso groups, which can be prepared
   using the methods described herein. Such functionalized materials can be, e.g., more
   soluble, easier to utilize by various microorganisms or can be more stable over the long
10 term, e.g., less prone to oxidation.
            In some cases, the feedstock can include low molecular weight sugars or starchy
   materials, as will be discussed in detail herein.
   TYPES OF BIOMASS
            Generally, any biomass material that is or includes carbohydrates composed
15 entirely of one or more saccharide units or that include one or more saccharide units can
   be processed by any of the methods described herein. For example, the biomass material
   can be cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials, starchy materials, such as kernels of corn,
   grains of rice or other foods, or materials that are or that include one or more low
   molecular weight sugars, such as sucrose or cellobiose.
20          For example, such materials can include paper, paper products, wood, wood
   related materials, particle board, grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax,
   bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn cobs, rice hulls, coconut hair, algae, seaweed, cotton,
   synthetic celluloses, or mixtures of any of these. Suitable materials include those listed in
   the Summary section, above.
25          Fiber sources include cellulosic fiber sources, including paper and paper products
   (e.g., polycoated paper and Kraft paper), and lignocellulosic fiber sources, including
   wood, and wood-related materials, e.g., particle board. Other suitable fiber sources
   include natural fiber sources, e.g., grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax,
   bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn cobs, rice hulls, coconut hair; fiber sources high in aX
30 cellulose content, e.g., cotton; and synthetic fiber sources, e.g., extruded yarn (oriented
                                                  16

   yarn or un-oriented yarn). Natural or synthetic fiber sources can be obtained from virgin
   scrap textile materials, e.g., remnants or they can be post consumer waste, e.g., rags.
   When paper products are used as fiber sources, they can be virgin materials, e.g., scrap
   virgin materials, or they can be post-consumer waste. Aside from virgin raw materials,
 5 post-consumer, industrial (e.g., offal), and processing waste (e.g., effluent from paper
   processing) can also be used as fiber sources. Also, the fiber source can be obtained or
   derived from human (e.g., sewage), animal or plant wastes. Additional fiber sources have
   been described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,448,307, 6,258,876, 6,207,729, 5,973,035 and
   5,952,105.
10         Microbial biomass includes biomass derived from naturally occurring or
   genetically modified unicellular organisms and/or multicellular organisms, e.g.,
   organisms from the ocean, lakes, bodies of water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or on
   land, and that contains a source of carbohydrate (e.g., cellulose). Microbial biomass can
   include, but is not limited to, for example protists (e.g., animal (e.g., protozoa such as
15 flagellates, amoeboids, ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant (e.g., algae such alveolates,
   chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red algae,
   stramenopiles, and viridaeplantae)), seaweed, plankton (e.g., macroplankton,
   mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton, picoplankton, and femptoplankton),
   phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive bacteria, gram negative bacteria, and
20 extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of these. In some instances, microbial biomass can
   be obtained from natural sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of water, e.g., salt water or
   fresh water, or on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial biomass can be obtained
   from culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture systems.
           Animal biomass includes any organic waste material such as animal-derived
25 waste material or excrement or human waste material or excrement (e.g., manure and
   sewage).
           In some embodiments, the carbohydrate is or includes a material having one or
   more   p-1,4-linkages  and having a number average molecular weight between about 3,000
   and 50,000. Such a carbohydrate is or includes cellulose (I), which is derived from (P
30 glucose 1) through condensation of 0(1->4)-glycosidic bonds. This linkage contrasts
   itself with that for a(1->4)-glycosidic bonds present in starch and other carbohydrates.
                                                  17

                             HO
                        HO                             0             OH
                             HO
                                     OHO                 OH
                               OH
                                                       HO                           OH
                                                       O0
                                           0
                     HOOH                                                          0    OH
 5
   Starchy Materials
           Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn starch, wheat starch, potato
   starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a material that includes starch, such as an
10 edible food product or a crop. For example, the starchy material can be arracacha,
   buckwheat, banana, barley, cassava, kudzu, oca, sago, sorghum, regular household
   potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas. A
   blend of any two or more starchy materials is also a starchy material. Starch sources
   include, e.g., wheat, barley, corn and potatoes. In particular embodiments, the starchy
15 material is derived from corn. Various corn starches and derivatives are described in
   "Corn Starch," Corn Refiners Association (1 1 Edition, 2006), which is attached hereto
   as Appendix A.
           A starch (e.g., CAS# 9005-25-8 and chemical formula (C6 H       1 oO5 )) generally
   comprises a mixture of amylose and amylopectin (usually in 20:80 or 30:70 ratios) and
20 generally exists as a homopolymer of repeating anhydroglucose units joined by an a
                                                   18

   glucosidic on the next starch unit through hemiacetal linkages. Starch molecules typically
   are made up of 1,4-linkages are referred to as amylose while 1,6-linkages serve as the
   branching point in branched starch molecules called amylopectin.
 5 Granular Structure
                           Table 1. Granule Size of Various Starches
                                          Granule Size Range (pm)      Average size
                    Starch Species
                                              (Coulter Counter)             (m)
               Waxy Rice                             2-13                    5.5
               High Amylose Corn                     4-22                    9.8
               Corn                                  5-25                    14.3
               Cassava                               3-28                     14
               Sorghum                               3-27                     16
               Wheat                                 3-34                 6.5, 19.5
               Sweet Potato                          4-40                    18.5
               Arrowroot                             9-40                     23
               Sago                                  15-50                    33
               Potato                                10-70                    36
               Canna (Aust. Arrowroot)               22-85                    53
           Plants store starch within specialized organelles called amyloplasts where they are
   deposited to form granules. These granules are comprised of newly-synthesized starch
10 layered around a hilum nucleus, and vary in diameter from 2 to 130 microns. The size
   and shape of the granule is characteristic of the plant's origin and serves as a way of
   identifying the source of a particular starch (Table 1). The structure of the granule of
   grain is crystalline with the starch molecules orienting in such a way as to form radially
   oriented crystals giving rise to the phenomenon of birefringence. When a beam of
15 polarized light is directed through a starch granule, the granule is divided by dark lines
   into four wedge-shaped sections. This cross-hatching or cross is characteristic of
   spherocrystalline structures.
   Amylose
20
                                                  19

                                                                         HO
                                                OH             H      H
                 H       OH                    HO        al   O0
                           H'H
                        O~~~~~                              H
                      HO
                               O0 a            H          H          OH               O
                          H
                   HO
                                                                       H
                     H                              OH
                                          __                     n
                      Figure 2. Representative Partial Structure of Amylose
           Amylose molecules consist of single mostly-unbranched chains with 500-20,000
 5 a -(1,4)-D-glucose units depending on the source. The a(1,4) bonds promote the
   formation of a helix structure. The structural formula of amylose is pictured in Figure 2
   where the number of repeated glucose subunits (n) can be many thousands (usually in the
   range of 300 to 3000). Amylose starch is less readily digested than amylopectin;
   however, it takes up less space so is preferred for storage in plants. Amylose makes up
10 about 30% of the stored starch in plants. The digestive enzyme amylase works on the
   ends of the starch molecule, breaking it down into sugars.
           Amylose molecules contribute to gel formation because the linear chains can
   orient parallel to each other, moving close enough together to bond. Probably due to the
   ease with which amylose molecules slip past each other in the cooked paste, they do not
15 contribute significantly to viscosity.
   Amylopectin
                                                 20

            H    OH
                    H                OH
                     -O   H        H                     OH
       O                                 H            H
        HO       |         l-                 H              H
                 H     OH     0                    4l      ~   - O        H
               H                HO
                                      H    OH   0                                       HOa
                                     H           HO          H     OH         H        HH
                                           H    OH         H                    alO         H
                                              HOH
                                                  H                 6 O.0
                                                              H   H              OH HO          1 H
                                      \O
                                                 H |       al     4            H             OH
                                                H       OH             H               H
                                              H                            OH
                       Figure 3. Representative partial structure of amylopectin
            Amylopectin is formed by non-random a-(1,6)-branching of the amylose-type a
 5 (1,4)-D-glucose structure. As can be seen in Figure 3, glucose units are linked in a linear
   way with a (1,4) bonds. Branching takes place with a (1,6) bonds occurring every 24 to
   30 glucose units and is determined by branching enzymes. Each amylopectin molecule
   contains a million or so residues, about 5% of which form the branch points.
            The branched amylopectin molecules give viscosity to the cooked paste due to the
10 role it serves in maintaining the swollen granule. Their side chains and bulky shape keep
   amylopectin molecules from orienting closely enough to hydrogen bond together, so they
   do not usually contribute to gel formation.
   Source
15          Plants hydrolyze starch releasing the glucose subunits when energy is required.
   By far the largest source of starch is corn (maize) with other commonly used sources
   being wheat, potato, tapioca and rice. The relative proportions of amylose to amylopectin
   and 1,6-linkage branch-points are established genetically and are relatively constant for
   each species of starch. For example, amylomaizes contain over 50% amylase, whereas
20 "waxy" maize has almost none (~3%).
   Unprocessed Starch
            Starch that is produced by the corn wet milling process and then dried is referred
   to as common, regular, or unmodified corn starch. Various forms of corn starch exist
                                                      21

   including, fine or coarse powders, flakes, pearls or even larger particles. Unmodified
   starch can be minimally processed by adjusting the pH, by mild heat treatment, or by
   adding small quantities of chemicals or adjuvants before or after drying in order to
   optimize performance. As an example, enzyme conversion of starch to sugars can be
 5 accelerated by adjusting the pH of the starch.
            By far the most consumed polysaccharide in the human diet is starch. Starch (in
   particular cornstarch) is used in cooking for thickening foods such as sauces. In industry,
   it is used in the manufacturing of adhesives, paper, textiles, and as a mold in the
   manufacture of sweets such as wine gums and jelly beans. Papermaking is the largest
10 non-food application for starches globally, consuming millions of metric tons annually.
   In a typical sheet of copy paper for example, the starch content may be as high as 8%.
   Both chemically modified and unmodified starches are used in papermaking.
            The chemical composition of starch, highly oxygenated carbon molecules, makes
   starch an excellent product for use as a chemical feedstock.
15
   Genetically Modified Starch
            Genetically modified starch, which refers to starch from genetically engineered
   plants, has been modified to reduce the need for chemical processing (reducing cost,
   toxicity, or environmentally hazardous processes), or in order to produce novel
20 carbohydrates which might not naturally occur in the plant species being harvested. The
   modification in this sense refers to the genetic engineering of the plant DNA, and not the
   later processing or treatment of the starch or starch granules.
            Genetically modified starch is of particular interest in the manufacture of
   biodegradable polymers and non-cellulose feedstock in the paper industry, as well as the
25 creation of new food additives. For example, waxy maize was studied extensively in the
   1950's for it's desirable properties. Waxy maize starch, which is essentially 100%
   amylopectin, yields pastes that are almost clear when cool, non-congealing, and when
   dried in thin films, yields a translucent, water-soluble coating often used for thickening a
   wide variety of prepared foods. Genetic modification of this starch to try and increase the
30 amylose content could potentially result in an excellent film former and might be spun
   into a fiber. Research in this area resulted in the commercial development of two corn
                                                  22

   hybrids, one containing about 55%, the other about 70% amylose, and recently research
   has resulted in developing a starch with 80% amylose.
   Modified Starch
 5          Modified starch is a food additive which is prepared by treating starch or starch
   granules, causing the starch to be partially degraded. Modified starch is used as a
   thickening agent, stabilizer, or an emulsifier. Apart from food products, modified starch
   is also found in pharmaceuticals. Starches are modified for a number of reasons
   including, to increase their stability to excessive heat, acid, and freezing; to change their
10 texture; or to lengthen or shorten gelatinization time.
   Acid-Modified Starch
            Acid-treated starch, usually simply referred to as "modified starch", is prepared by
   treating starch or starch granules with inorganic acids. The primary reaction taking place
15 during acid treatment is hydrolysis of glucosidic bonds in starch molecules. Acid
   modification reduces the chain length of the starch, but does not substantially change the
   molecular configuration. In this method, a starch-water suspension is agitated while
   being subjected to mild treatment with dilute mineral acid at temperatures elevated but
   below the starch gelatinization temperature. Upon achieving the desired viscosity, the
20 acid is neutralized with sodium carbonate and the starch is filtered, washed, and dried.
   Oxidized Corn Starch
            Another method for reducing viscosity is oxidation. Although oxidizing agents
   such as chlorine, hydrogen peroxide and potassium permanganate can be used, oxidized
25 starches produced by the wet milling process are almost always made using sodium
   hypochlorite as the oxidizing agent. Aqueous starch suspensions under agitation are
   treated with dilute sodium hypochlorite containing a small excess of sodium hydroxide
   (NaOH) and heated to 120 'F. When the desired viscosity is achieved, the oxidized
   starch slurry is treated with a reducing agent such as sodium bisulfite to remove excess
30 hypochlorite, the pH is adjusted, and the starch is filtered, washed and finally dried.
   Treatment of starch with an oxidizing agent randomly converts hydroxyl groups to
                                                  23

   carboxyl or carbonyl groups, which results in the cleavage of the adjacent glucosidic
   bond. Oxidized starches are used in batters and breading as they adhere quite well to
   meats.
 5 Dextrins
           Dextrins are a group of low molecular weight carbohydrates produced by the dry
   heating or roasting of unmodified starch, with or without an acid or alkaline catalyst.
   Other dextrinization methods utilize a fluid bed, in which unmodified starch is placed in a
   reactor and suspended or "fluidized" in a stream of heated air. The starch is then
10 acidified and heated until the desired end product is obtained. During dextrinization, the
   granule is not destroyed but granule integrity is disrupted. When dextrins are suspended
   in water and heated, the granules swell and separate into layers that eventually break free
   and disperse. Dextrins are mixtures of linear a-(1,4)-linked D-glucose polymers starting
   with an a-(1,6) bond. Industrial production is, in general, performed by acidic hydrolysis
15 of potato starch. Dextrins are water-soluble, white to slightly yellow solids that are
   optically active. Under analysis, dextrins can be detected with iodine solution, giving a
   red coloration.
           There are three major types of dextrins: white, yellow, and British gums. White
   dextrins have a white color and have reduced viscosities, and cold water solubilities
20 ranging from 5 to over 90%. White dextrins are used to make very soft gels. Yellow
   dextrins (produced with less acid, higher temperatures, and more time) are yellow in
   color and have higher water solubility. Yellow dextrins are used for making high solids
   pastes that are very tacky and, when applied in thin films, dry rapidly. Finally, British
   gums are produced by adding little or no acid to very dry starch and then roasting while
25 gradually increasing the temperature. They are tan to light brown in color and are used to
   prepare nearly solid gels through very soft gels to viscous liquids.
   Cyclodextrins
           Cyclodextrins are non-reducing cyclic glucose oligosaccharides resulting from the
30 cyclomaltodextrin glucanotransferase catalyzed degradation of starch. There are three
   common cyclodextrins with 6, 7 or 8 D-glucopyranonsyl residues (a-, P-, and y
                                                24

   cyclodextrin, respectively) linked by a-1,4 glycosidic bonds (Figure 4). All three
   cyclodextrins have similar structures (bond lengths and orientations) apart from the
   structural necessities of accommodating a different number of glucose residues. They
   present a bottomless bowl-shaped (truncated cone) molecule stiffened by hydrogen
 5 bonding between the 3-OH and 2-OH groups around the outer rim. Cyclodextrins are
   used for encapsulation for controlled flavor release, masking odors and tastes, stabilizing
   emulsions, increasing foaming power, and controlling or masking color.
   Starch Derivatives (Crosslinked and Stabilization)
10          Starch can be chemically derivatized at the primary and secondary hydroxyl
   positions, which imparts different properties than those found in the parent starch. This is
   presumably due to disruption of hydrogen bonds. Two types of derivatives are prepared
   commercially, crosslinked/inhibited and stabilization. Crosslinked starches, sometimes
   referred to as inhibited starches, are made by reacting hydroxyl groups on two different
15 molecules within a granule with a bifunctional agent. Reagents such as phosphorus
   oxychloride or sodium trimetaphosphate may be used as crosslinking agents. Very small
   amounts of these agents can exert a marked effect on the behavior of the cooked starch.
            Starch can be stabilized against gelling using monofunctional reagents. These
   reagents react with hydroxyl groups on the starch to introduce substituent groups that
20 interfere with hydrogen bonding effects thereby increasing their water combining
   capacity or viscosity, or imparting a positive charge to the starch molecule. Reagents
   used in the stabilization of starch through disruption of hydrogen bonding include,
   ethylene oxide to produce hydroxyethyl starch, acetic anhydride to produce starch
   acetates, succinic anhydride to produce starch succinates, monosodium orthophosphate or
25 sodium tripolyphosphate to produce starch phosphates, and propylene oxide to produce
   hydroxypropyl starches. Reagents that impart a positive charge to the starch molecule
   include tertiary or quaternary amines to produce cationic starches.
   Pregelatinized Starch
30          Suspensions of many starches and starch derivatives can be gelatinized and dried
   to yield a broad variety of pregelatinized starches. This is done on a single drum dryer
                                                  25

   with applicator rolls. The starch slurry is heated to gelatinize it, instantaneously dried
   and ground to desired granulation requirement. Pregelatinized starch is used to thicken
   instant desserts such as puddings, allowing the food to thicken with the addition of cold
   water or milk. Similarly, cheese sauce granules (such as in Macaroni and Cheese or
 5 lasagna) or gravy granules may be thickened with boiling water without the product
   going lumpy. Commercial pizza toppings containing modified starch will thicken when
   heated in the oven, keeping them on top of the pizza, and then become runny when
   cooled.
10 Bleached Starches
            Bleaching by very light oxidation is carried out using sodium hypochlorite,
   sodium chlorite, hydrogen peroxide, potassium permanganate, peracetic acid, or
   ammonium persulfate with sulfur dioxide. Interaction with the starch molecules must be
   very small since no change occurs in the physical properties of the starch or its solution
15 except in its color. Theoretically, there will be production of a few aldehyde or carboxyl
   groups. Only trace amounts of sodium chloride, sodium sulfate or sodium acetate remain
   in the final product. The bleached starch is recovered on continuous filters or centrifuges
   using copious amounts of water to remove trace amounts of inorganic salts formed from
   the bleaching agent, dried and packaged.
20
   Low Molecular Weight Sugars
            Biomass materials that include low molecular weight sugars can, e.g., include at
   least about 0.5 percent by weight of the low molecular sugar, e.g., at least about 2, 3, 4, 5,
   6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12.5, 25, 35, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or even at least about 95 percent by weight
25 of the low molecular weight sugar. In some instances, the biomass is composed
   substantially of the low molecular weight sugar, e.g., greater than 95 percent by weight,
   such as 96, 97, 98, 99 or substantially 100 percent by weight of the low molecular weight
   sugar.
            Biomass materials that include low molecular weight sugars can be agricultural
30 products or food products, such as sugarcane and sugar beets or an extract therefrom,
   e.g., juice from sugarcane, or juice from sugar beets. Biomass materials that include low
                                                   26

   molecular weight sugars can be substantially pure extracts, such as raw or crystallized
   table sugar (sucrose). Low molecular weight sugars include sugar derivatives. For
   example, the low molecular weight sugars can be oligomeric (e.g., equal to or greater
   than a 4-mer, 5-mer, 6-mer, 7-mer, 8-mer, 9-mer or 10-mer), trimeric, dimeric, or
 5 monomeric. When the carbohydrates are formed of more than a single repeat unit, each
   repeat unit can be the same or different.
           Specific examples of low molecular weight sugars include cellobiose, lactose,
   sucrose, glucose and xylose, along with derivatives thereof. In some instances, sugar
   derivatives are more rapidly dissolved in solution or utilized by microbes to provide a
10 useful material, such as ethanol or butanol. Several such sugars and sugar derivatives are
   shown below.
                              HO
                                              OH
                                 0               HO           O        OH
                          HO2C
                                           OH       HO               "OH
           HO
                                                      glucose   H
                                                                   HO2C
                  HO,1/            OH,,0
                                                                 OHO
                  HO\\\O'H                                         H11"                00
                         OH
                           I'-M AS                                       s'
                   (I-ionoacid of sucrose)                             HO            OH
                                                                     2-keto-gluconic acid
15
                                                 27

                             HO
                                              OH
                                0
                       HO
                                      S=r             HO2 C       0          %OH
                                                                                     HH
                      HOCO5HO
                                                                          "IIOH     OH
                                                                                                 OH
                                                                    HOH                  0
                                                            glucuronic acid   HOW"
                        OH
                    6-MAS
              6-monoacid of sucrose                                              HO           OH
                                                                                     fructose
                                 HO
                                                   OH
                                    0
                          HO
                                                OH
           HO0
                                         sucrose
                        0".O
                            OH
 5 Ethanol from Low Molecular Weight Sugars
           More than half of world ethanol production is produced from sugar and sugar
   byproducts, with Brazil being by far the world leader. Currently, there is no commercial
   production of ethanol from sugarcane or sugar beets in the United States, where 97
   percent of ethanol is produced from corn.
10         Technologically, the process of producing ethanol from sugar is simpler than
   converting corn into ethanol. Converting corn into ethanol requires additional cooking
   (wet milling process) and the application of enzymes, whereas the conversion of sugar
   requires only a yeast fermentation process. The energy requirement for converting sugar
   into ethanol is about half that for corn. However, the technology and direct energy costs
                                                      28

   are but one of several factors that determine the feasibility of ethanol production. Other
   factors include relative production costs (including feedstocks), conversion rates,
   proximity to processing facilities, alternative prices and government policies, facility
   construction and processing costs. As other countries have shown that it can be
 5 economically feasible to produce ethanol from sugar and other new feedstocks are
   researched, interest in the United States in ethanol production from sugar has increased.
           In response to the growing interest around sugar and ethanol, USDA released a
   study in July 2006 titled: "The Economic Feasibility of Ethanol Production from Sugar in
   the United States" which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The report
10 found that at the current market prices for ethanol, converting sugarcane, sugar beets and
   molasses to ethanol would be profitable (see Table 1).
   Table 1. Current Market Prices for Ethanol
                          Feedstock                Total Costs*  Processing Costs*
                 Corn (wet milling/dry milling):    $ 1.03/1.05   $      0.63/0.52
                       Raw Sugarcane                $      2.40   $           0.92
                      Raw Sugar beets               $      2.35   $           0.77
                          Molasses**                $      1.27   $           0.36
                         Raw Sugar**                $      3.48   $           0.36
                       Refined sugar**              $      3.97   $           0.36
                   *Per gallon
15                 **Excludes transportation costs
   Sugar Beets
           Sugar beets are an annual crop grown in 11 states across a variety of climatic
   conditions, from the hot climate of the Imperial Valley of California to the colder
20 climates of Montana and North Dakota. Sugar beet byproducts include beet pulp, which
   can be sold for animal feed, and molasses, which is also sold for animal feed or further
   processed to extract more sugar.
           Sugar beet processing facilities convert raw sugar beets directly into refined sugar
   in a 1-step process. While planted sugar beet acreage has fallen slightly since the 1990s,
25 sugar production actually increased due to investments in new processing equipment, the
   adoption of new technologies, improved crop varieties and enhanced technologies for the
   de-sugaring of molasses. Sugar beets are very bulky and relatively expensive to transport
                                                    29

   and must be processed fairly quickly before the sucrose deteriorates. Therefore, all sugar
   beet processing plants are located in the production areas.
   Sugarcane
 5          Sugarcane is a perennial tropical crop produced in four states: Florida, Hawaii,
   Louisiana and Texas. Byproducts of sugarcane processing include molasses and bagasse,
   the fibrous material that remains after sugar is pressed from the sugarcane. Bagasse is
   often burned as fuel to help power the sugarcane mills. Sugarcane is initially processed
   into raw sugar at mills near the cane fields. Like beets, cane is bulky and relatively
10 expensive to transport and must be processed as soon as possible to minimize sucrose
   deterioration. The raw sugar is then shipped to refineries to produce refined sugar.
            Sugar beets have gained a greater share of U.S. sugar production over the past
   decade, now accounting for 58.8 percent of the nation's sugar output while sugarcane fell
   to 41.2 percent.
15
   Molasses
            The most widely used sugar for ethanol fermentation is blackstrap molasses
   which contains about 35 - 40 wt% sucrose, 15 - 20 wt% invert sugars such as glucose
   and fructose, and 28 - 35 wt% of non-sugar solids. Blackstrap (syrup) is collected as a
20 by-product of cane sugar manufacture. The molasses is diluted to a mash containing ca
   10 -20 wt% sugar. After the pH of the mash is adjusted to about 4 - 5 with mineral acid,
   it is inoculated with the yeast, and the fermentation is carried out non-aseptically at 20
   32'C for about 1 - 3 days. The fermented beer, which typically contains approximately 6
   - 10 wt% ethanol, is then set to the product recovery in purification section of the plant.
25          Ethanol production (using 141 gallons per ton of sucrose conversion factor) was
   calculated for sugarcane, sugar beets and molasses below.
   Sugarcane:
             12.24% raw sugar recovery rate, plus 41.6 pounds of sucrose from cane molasses
30                  1 ton of sugarcane = 235.0 pounds of sucrose from raw sugar
                                          and 41.6 lbs of sucrose from molasses
                                       = 276.6 pounds (0.1383 tons) sucrose
                                       = 19.5 gallons of ethanol
                                                 30

                            or 0.051 tons of sugarcane per gallon of ethanol produced
   Sugar beets:
           15.58% refined sugar recovery rate, plus 40.0 pounds of sucrose from beet
 5         molasses
                   1 ton of sugar beets = 311.6 pounds of sucrose from refined sugar
                                           and 40.0 pounds of sucrose from beet molasses
                                         = 351.6 pounds (0.1758 tons) of sucrose
                                         = 24.8 gallons of ethanol
10                          or 0.040 tons of sugar beets per gallon of ethanol produced
   Molasses:
                   49.2% total sugars as sucrose
                   1 ton of molasses = 984 pounds (0.492 tons) of sucrose
15                                     = 69.4 gallons of ethanol
                            or 28.8 pounds of molasses per gallon of ethanol produced
                            or 2.45 gallons of molasses per gallon of ethanol produced
                            (using a conversion of 1.0 gallon of molasses = 11.74 pounds of
                            weight)
20
   Raw sugar:
                   96.0% totals sugars as sucrose
                   1 ton of raw sugar = 1920 pounds (0.96 tons) of sucrose
                                       = 135.4 gallons of ethanol
25                          or 14.77 pounds of raw sugar per gallon of ethanol produced
   Refined beet sugar:
                   100.0% total sugars as sucrose
                   1 ton of refined sugar = 2000 pounds (1.0 ton) of sucrose
30                                         = 141.0 gallons of ethanol
                            or 14.18 pounds of refined sugar per gallon of ethanol produced
           Results from this study have several important implications concerning the
   production of ethanol from sugar crops in the United States. First, under existing
35 fermentation technology, corn is currently the cheapest feedstock available for use in the
   production of ethanol in the United States. Second, given current and future projected
   sugar and ethanol market prices, it appears that the production of sugar is the most
   profitable use of sugarcane or sugar beets. Third, cellulosic conversion of biomass into
   ethanol offers the potential for a wide variety of feedstocks to be used in ethanol
40 production.
                                                  31

   Systems and processes are described herein that can utilize these low molecular weight to
   produce ethanol more rapidly and more cost effectively.
   Blends of any biomass materials described herein can be utilized for making any of the
 5 products described herein, such as ethanol. For example, blends of cellulosic materials
   and starchy materials can be utilized for making any product described herein.
   SYSTEMS FOR TREATING BIOMASS
            FIG. 1 shows a system 100 for converting biomass, particularly biomass with
   significant cellulosic and lignocellulosic components and/or starchy components, into useful
10 products and co-products. System 100 includes a feed preparation subsystem 110, a
   pretreatment subsystem 114, a primary process subsystem 118, and a post-processing
   subsystem 122. Feed preparation subsystem 110 receives biomass in its raw form,
   physically prepares the biomass for use as feedstock by downstream processes (e.g., reduces
   the size of and homogenizes the biomass), and stores the biomass both in its raw and
15 feedstock forms. Biomass feedstock with significant cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic
   components, or starchy components can have a high average molecular weight and
   crystallinity that can make processing the feedstock into useful products (e.g., fermenting
   the feedstock to produce ethanol) difficult. For example, others have used acids, bases and
   enzymes to process cellulosic, lignocellulosic or starchy feedstocks. As described herein, in
20 some embodiments, such treatments are unnecessary, or are necessary only in small or
   catalytic amounts.
            Pretreatment subsystem 114 receives feedstock from the feed preparation subsystem
   110 and prepares the feedstock for use in primary production processes by, for example,
   reducing the average molecular weight and crystallinity of the feedstock. Primary process
25 subsystem 118 receives pretreated feedstock from pretreatment subsystem 114 and produces
   useful products (e.g., ethanol, other alcohols, pharmaceuticals, and/or food products). In
   some cases, the output of primary process subsystem 118 is directly useful but, in other
   cases, requires further processing provided by post-processing subsystem 122. Post
   processing subsystem 122 provides further processing to product streams from primary
30 process system 118 which require it (e.g., distillation and denaturation of ethanol) as well as
                                                   32

   treatment for waste streams from the other subsystems. In some cases, the co-products of
   subsystems 114, 118, 122 can also be directly or indirectly useful as secondary products
   and/or in increasing the overall efficiency of system 100. For example, post-processing
   subsystem 122 can produce treated water to be recycled for use as process water in other
 5 subsystems and/or can produce burnable waste which can be used as fuel for boilers
   producing steam and/or electricity.
           The optimum size for biomass conversion plants is affected by factors including
   economies of scale and the type and availability of biomass used as feedstock. Increasing
   plant size tends to increase economies of scale associated with plant processes. However,
10 increasing plant size also tends to increase the costs (e.g., transportation costs) per unit of
   feedstock. Studies analyzing these factors suggest that the appropriate size for biomass
   conversion plants can range from 1000 to 10,000 or more dried tons of feedstock per day
   depending at least in part on the type of feedstock used. The type of feedstock can also
   impact plant storage requirements with plants designed primarily for processing feedstock
15 whose availability varies seasonally (e.g., corn stover) requiring more on- or of-site
   feedstock storage than plants designed to process feedstock whose availability is relatively
   steady (e.g., waste paper).
   PHYSICAL PREPARATION
           In some cases, methods of processing begin with a physical preparation of the
20 feedstock, e.g., size reduction of raw feedstock materials, such as by cutting, grinding,
   shearing, ball milling, nip-roll processing, or chopping. In some cases, the material can
   be reduced into particles using a hammermill, disk-refiner, or flaker. In some cases,
   loose feedstock (e.g., recycled paper, starchy materials, or switchgrass) is prepared by
   shearing or shredding. Screens and/or magnets can be used to remove oversized or
25 undesirable objects such as, for example, rocks or nails from the feed stream.
           Feed preparation systems can be configured to produce feed streams with specific
   characteristics such as, for example, specific maximum sizes, specific length-to-width, or
   specific surface areas ratios. As a part of feed preparation, the bulk density of feedstocks
   can be controlled (e.g., increased or decreased).
                                                  33

   Size Reduction
           In some embodiments, the material to be processed is in the form of a fibrous
   material that includes fibers provided by shearing a fiber source. For example, the
   shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter.
 5         For example, and by reference to FIG. 2, a fiber source 210 is sheared, e.g., in a
   rotary knife cutter, to provide a first fibrous material 212. The first fibrous material 212
   is passed through a first screen 214 having an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less
   (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch) to provide a second fibrous material 216. If desired, fiber source
   can be cut prior to the shearing, e.g., with a shredder. For example, when a paper is used
10 as the fiber source, the paper can be first cut into strips that are, e.g., 1/4- to 1/2-inch
   wide, using a shredder, e.g., a counter-rotating screw shredder, such as those
   manufactured by Munson (Utica, N.Y.). As an alternative to shredding, the paper can be
   reduced in size by cutting to a desired size using a guillotine cutter. For example, the
   guillotine cutter can be used to cut the paper into sheets that are, e.g., 10 inches wide by
15 12 inches long.
           In some embodiments, the shearing of the fiber source and the passing of the
   resulting first fibrous material through the first screen are performed concurrently. The
   shearing and the passing can also be performed sequentially, e.g., in a batch-type process.
           For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently shear the fiber
20 source and screen the first fibrous material. Referring to FIG. 3, a rotary knife cutter 220
   includes a hopper 222 that can be loaded with a shredded fiber source 224 prepared by
   shredding the fiber source. Shredded fiber source is sheared between stationary blades
   230 and rotating blades 232 to provide a first fibrous material 240. First fibrous material
   240 passes through screen 242, and the resulting second fibrous material 244 is captured
25 in bin 250. To aid in the collection of the second fibrous material, the bin can have a
   pressure below nominal atmospheric pressure, e.g., at least 10 percent below nominal
   atmospheric pressure, e.g., at least 25 percent below nominal atmospheric pressure, at
   least 50 percent below nominal atmospheric pressure, or at least 75 percent below
   nominal atmospheric pressure. In some embodiments, a vacuum source 252 is utilized to
30 maintain the bin below nominal atmospheric pressure.
                                                   34

            Shearing can be advantageous for "opening up," "stressing," or even reducing the
   molecular weight of the fibrous materials, making the cellulose of the materials more
   susceptible to chain scission and/or reduction of crystallinity. The open materials can
   also be more susceptible to oxidation when irradiated.
 5          The fiber source can be sheared in a dry state, a hydrated state (e.g., having up to
   ten percent by weight absorbed water), or in a wet state, e.g., having between about 10
   percent and about 75 percent by weight water. The fiber source can even be sheared
   while partially or fully submerged under a liquid, such as water, ethanol, or isopropanol.
            The fiber source can also be sheared in a gas (such as a stream or atmosphere of
10 gas other than air), e.g., oxygen or nitrogen, or steam.
            Other methods of making the fibrous materials include, e.g., stone grinding,
   mechanical ripping or tearing, pin grinding, ball milling, nip-roll processing, or air
   attrition milling.
            If desired, the fibrous materials can be separated, e.g., continuously or in batches,
15 into fractions according to their length, width, density, material type, or some
   combination of these attributes.
            For example, ferrous materials can be separated from any of the fibrous materials
   by passing a fibrous material that includes a ferrous material past a magnet, e.g., an
   electromagnet, and then passing the resulting fibrous material through a series of screens,
20 each screen having different sized apertures.
            The fibrous materials can also be separated, e.g., by using a high velocity gas,
   e.g., air. In such an approach, the fibrous materials are separated by drawing off different
   fractions, which can be characterized photonically, if desired. Such a separation
   apparatus is discussed, e.g., in Lindsey et al, U.S. Patent No. 6,883,667.
25          The fibrous materials can have a low moisture content, e.g., less than about 7.5, 5,
   3, 2.5, 2, 1.5, 1, or 0.5% by weight before processing. This material can be irradiated
   with a beam of particles, such as electrons or protons. The irradiation can be
   immediately following preparation of the material, or after a moisture reduction step, e.g.,
   drying at approximately 105 'C for 4-18 hours, so that the moisture content is, e.g., less
30 than about 0.5% before use.
                                                  35

            If desired, lignin can be removed from any of the fibrous materials that include
   lignin. Also, to aid in the breakdown of the materials that include the cellulose, the
   material can be treated prior to irradiation with heat, a chemical (e.g., mineral acid, base
   or a strong oxidizer such as sodium hypochlorite) and/or an enzyme.
 5          In some embodiments, the average opening size of the first screen is less than
   0.79 mm (1/32 inch, 0.03125 inch), e.g., less than 0.51 mm (1/50 inch, 0.02000 inch),
   less than 0.40 mm (1/64 inch, 0.0 15625 inch), less than 0.23 mm (0.009 inch), less than
   0.20 mm (1/128 inch, 0.0078125 inch), less than 0.18 mm (0.007 inch), less than 0.13
   mm (0.005 inch), or even less than less than 0.10 mm (1/256 inch, 0.00390625 inch).
10 The screen is prepared by interweaving monofilaments having an appropriate diameter to
   give the desired opening size. For example, the monofilaments can be made of a metal,
   e.g., stainless steel. As the opening sizes get smaller, structural demands on the
   monofilaments may become greater. For example, for opening sizes less than 0.40 mm,
   it can be advantageous to make the screens from monofilaments made from a material
15 other than stainless steel, e.g., titanium, titanium alloys, amorphous metals, nickel,
   tungsten, rhodium, rhenium, ceramics, or glass. In some embodiments, the screen is
   made from a plate, e.g., a metal plate, having apertures, e.g., cut into the plate using a
   laser. In some embodiments, the open area of the mesh is less than 52%, e.g., less than
   41%, less than 36%, less than 31 %, less than 30%.
20          In some embodiments, the second fibrous material is sheared and passed through
   the first screen, or a different sized screen. In some embodiments, the second fibrous
   material is passed through a second screen having an average opening size equal to or
   less than that of first screen.
            Referring to FIG. 4, a third fibrous material 220 can be prepared from the second
25 fibrous material 216 by shearing the second fibrous material 216 and passing the
   resulting material through a second screen 222 having an average opening size less than
   the first screen 214.
            Generally, the fibers of the fibrous materials can have a relatively large average
   length-to-diameter ratio (e.g., greater than 20-to-1), even if they have been sheared more
30 than once. In addition, the fibers of the fibrous materials described herein may have a
   relatively narrow length and/or length-to-diameter ratio distribution.
                                                    36

            As used herein, average fiber widths (i.e., diameters) are those determined
   optically by randomly selecting approximately 5,000 fibers. Average fiber lengths are
   corrected length-weighted lengths. BET (Brunauer, Emmet and Teller) surface areas are
   multi-point surface areas, and porosities are those determined by mercury porosimetry.
 5          The average length-to-diameter ratio of the second fibrous material 14 can be,
   e.g., greater than 8/1, 10/1, 15/1, 20/1, 25/1, or even greater than 50/1. An average length
   of the second fibrous material 14 can be, e.g., between about 0.5 mm and 2.5 mm, e.g.,
   between about 0.75 mm and 1.0 mm, and an average width (i.e., diameter) of the second
   fibrous material 14 can be, e.g., between about 5 pim and 50 Lm, e.g., between about 10
10 ptm and 30 pm.
            In some embodiments, a standard deviation of the length of the second fibrous
   material 14 is less than 60 percent of an average length of the second fibrous material 14,
   e.g., less than 50 percent of the average length, less than 40 percent of the average length,
   less than 25 percent of the average length, less than 10 percent of the average length, less
15 than 5 percent of the average length, or even less than 1 percent of the average length.
            In some embodiments, a BET surface area of the second fibrous material is
   greater than 0.1 m2/g, e.g., greater than 0.25 m 2/g, greater than 0.5 m 2 /g, greater than 1.0
   m 2/g, greater than 1.5 m2/g, greater than 1.75 m 2/g, greater than 5.0 m2/g, greater than 10
   m 2/g, greater than 25 m 2/g, greater than 35 m 2/g, greater than 50m 2/g, greater than 60
20 m2/g, greater than 75 m 2/g, greater than 100 m 2/g, greater than 150 m 2/g, greater than 200
   m2/g, or even greater than 250 m2/g. A porosity of the second fibrous material 14 can be,
   e.g., greater than 20 percent, greater than 25 percent, greater than 35 percent, greater than
   50 percent, greater than 60 percent, greater than 70 percent, e.g., greater than 80 percent,
   greater than 85 percent, greater than 90 percent, greater than 92 percent, greater than 94
25 percent, greater than 95 percent, greater than 97.5 percent, greater than 99 percent, or
   even greater than 99.5 percent.
            In some embodiments, a ratio of the average length-to-diameter ratio of the first
   fibrous material to the average length-to-diameter ratio of the second fibrous material is,
   e.g., less than 1.5, e.g., less than 1.4, less than 1.25, less than 1.1, less than 1.075, less
30 than 1.05, less than 1.025, or even substantially equal to 1.
                                                     37

            In particular embodiments, the second fibrous material is sheared again and the
   resulting fibrous material passed through a second screen having an average opening size
   less than the first screen to provide a third fibrous material. In such instances, a ratio of
   the average length-to-diameter ratio of the second fibrous material to the average length
 5 to-diameter ratio of the third fibrous material can be, e.g., less than 1.5, e.g., less than 1.4,
   less than 1.25, or even less than 1.1.
            In some embodiments, the third fibrous material is passed through a third screen
   to produce a fourth fibrous material. The fourth fibrous material can be, e.g., passed
   through a fourth screen to produce a fifth material. Similar screening processes can be
10 repeated as many times as desired to produce the desired fibrous material having the
   desired properties.
   Densification
            Densified materials can be processed by any of the methods described herein, or
   any material described herein, e.g., any fibrous material described herein, can be
15 processed by any one or more methods described herein, and then densified as described
   herein.
            A material, e.g., a fibrous material, having a low bulk density can be densified to a
   product having a higher bulk density. For example, a material composition having a bulk
   density of 0.05 g/ cm 3 can be densified by sealing the fibrous material in a relatively gas
20 impermeable structure, e.g., a bag made of polyethylene or a bag made of alternating
   layers of polyethylene and a nylon, and then evacuating the entrapped gas, e.g., air, from
   the structure. After evacuation of the air from the structure, the fibrous material can have,
   e.g., a bulk density of greater than 0.3 g/cm3 , e.g., 0.5 g/cm 3 , 0.6 g/cm 3 , 0.7 g/cm3 or
   more, e.g., 0.85 g/ cm 3 . After densification, the product can processed by any of the
25 methods described herein, e.g., irradiated, e.g., with gamma radiation. This can be
   advantageous when it is desirable to transport the material to another location, e.g., a
   remote manufacturing plant, where the fibrous material composition can be added to a
   solution, e.g., to produce ethanol. After piercing the substantially gas impermeable
   structure, the densified fibrous material can revert to nearly its initial bulk density, e.g.,
30 greater than 60 percent of its initial bulk density, e.g., 70 percent, 80 percent, 85 percent
                                                   38

   or more, e.g., 95 percent of its initial bulk density. To reduce static electricity in the
   fibrous material, an anti-static agent can be added to the material.
            In some embodiments, the structure, e.g., bag, is formed of a material that
   dissolves in a liquid, such as water. For example, the structure can be formed from a
 5 polyvinyl alcohol so that it dissolves when in contact with a water-based system. Such
   embodiments allow densified structures to be added directly to solutions that include a
   microorganism, without first releasing the contents of the structure, e.g., by cutting.
            Referring to FIG. 5, a biomass material can be combined with any desired
   additives and a binder, and subsequently densified by application of pressure, e.g., by
10 passing the material through a nip defined between counter-rotating pressure rolls or by
   passing the material through a pellet mill. During the application of pressure, heat can
   optionally be applied to aid in the densification of the fibrous material. The densified
   material can then be irradiated.
            In some embodiments, the material prior to densification has a bulk density of less
15 than 0.25 g/cm 3 , e.g., 0.20 g/cm 3 , 0.15 g/cm 3 , 0.10 g/cm 3, 0.05 g/cm 3
                                                                                 or less, e.g., 0.025
   g/cm 3 . Bulk density is determined using ASTM D1895B. Briefly, the method involves
   filling a measuring cylinder of known volume with a sample and obtaining a weight of
   the sample. The bulk density is calculated by dividing the weight of the sample in grams
   by the known volume of the cylinder in cubic centimeters.
20          The preferred binders include binders that are soluble in water, swollen by water,
   or that has a glass transition temperature of less 25 'C, as determined by differential
   scanning calorimetry. By water-soluble binders, we mean binders having a solubility of
   at least about 0.05 weight percent in water. By water swellable binders, we mean binders
   that increase in volume by more than 0.5 percent upon exposure to water.
25          In some embodiments, the binders that are soluble or swollen by water include a
   functional group that is capable of forming a bond, e.g., a hydrogen bond, with the fibers
   of the fibrous material, e.g., cellulosic fibrous material. For example, the functional
   group can be a carboxylic acid group, a carboxylate group, a carbonyl group, e.g., of an
   aldehyde or a ketone, a sulfonic acid group, a sulfonate group, a phosphoric acid group, a
30 phosphate group, an amide group, an amine group, a hydroxyl group, e.g., of an alcohol,
   and combinations of these groups, e.g., a carboxylic acid group and a hydroxyl group.
                                                    39

   Specific monomeric examples include glycerin, glyoxal, ascorbic acid, urea, glycine,
   pentaerythritol, a monosaccharide or a disaccharide, citric acid, and tartaric acid.
   Suitable saccharides include glucose, sucrose, lactose, ribose, fructose, mannose,
   arabinose and erythrose. Polymeric examples include polyglycols, polyethylene oxide,
 5 polycarboxylic acids, polyamides, polyamines and polysulfonic acids polysulfonates.
   Specific polymeric examples include polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyethylene glycol
   (PEG), polyethylene oxide, e.g., POLYOX*, copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene
   oxide, polyacrylic acid (PAA), polyacrylamide, polypeptides, polyethylenimine,
   polyvinylpyridine, poly(sodium-4-styrenesulfonate) and poly(2-acrylamido-methyl- 1
10 propanesulfonic acid).
           In some embodiments, the binder includes a polymer that has a glass transition
   temperature less than 25 'C. Examples of such polymers include thermoplastic
   elastomers (TPEs). Examples of TPEs include polyether block amides, such as those
   available under the tradename PEBAX*, polyester elastomers, such as those available
15 under the tradename HYTREL*, and styrenic block copolymers, such as those available
   under the tradename KRATON*. Other suitable polymers having a glass transition
   temperature less than 25 'C include ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer (EVA), polyolefins,
   e.g., polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene-propylene copolymers, and copolymers of
   ethylene and alpha olefins, e.g., 1-octene, such as those available under the tradename
20 ENGAGE . In some embodiments, e.g., when the material is a fiberized polycoated
   paper, the material is densified without the addition of a separate low glass transition
   temperature polymer.
           In a particular embodiment, the binder is a lignin, e.g., a natural or synthetically
   modified lignin.
25         A suitable amount of binder added to the material, calculated on a dry weight
   basis, is, e.g., from about 0.01 percent to about 50 percent, e.g., 0.03 percent, 0.05
   percent, 0.1 percent, 0.25 percent, 0.5 percent, 1.0 percent, 5 percent, 10 percent or more,
   e.g., 25 percent, based on a total weight of the densified material. The binder can be
   added to the material as a neat, pure liquid, as a liquid having the binder dissolved
30 therein, as a dry powder of the binder, or as pellets of the binder.
                                                 40

            The densified fibrous material can be made in a pellet mill. Referring to FIG. 6, a
   pellet mill 300 has a hopper 301 for holding undensified material 310 that includes
   carbohydrate-containing materials, such as cellulose. The hopper communicates with an
   auger 312 that is driven by variable speed motor 314 so that undensified material can be
 5 transported to a conditioner 320 that stirs the undensified material with paddles 322 that
   are rotated by conditioner motor 330. Other ingredients, e.g., any of the additives and/or
   fillers described herein, can be added at inlet 332. If desired, heat may be added while
   the fibrous material is in the conditioner. After being conditioned, the material passes
   from the conditioner through a dump chute 340, and to another auger 342. The dump
10 chute, as controlled by actuator 344, allows for unobstructed passage of the material from
   conditioner to auger. Auger is rotated by motor 346, and controls the feeding of the
   fibrous material into die and roller assembly 350. Specifically, the material is introduced
   into a hollow, cylindrical die 352, which rotates about a horizontal axis and which has
   radially extending die holes 250. Die 352 is rotated about the axis by motor 360, which
15 includes a horsepower gauge, indicating total power consumed by the motor. Densified
   material 370, e.g., in the form of pellets, drops from chute 372 and are captured and
   processed, such as by irradiation.
            The material, after densification, can be conveniently in the form of pellets or
   chips having a variety of shapes. The pellets can then be irradiated. In some
20 embodiments, the pellets or chips are cylindrical in shape, e.g., having a maximum
   transverse dimension of, e.g., 1 mm or more, e.g., 2 mm, 3 mm, 5 mm, 8 mm, 10 mm, 15
   mm or more, e.g., 25 mm. Other convenient shapes include pellets or chips that are
   plate-like in form, e.g., having a thickness of 1 mm or more, e.g., 2 mm, 3 mm, 5 mm, 8
   mm, 10 mm or more, e.g., 25 mm; a width of, e.g., 5 mm or more, e.g., 10 mm, 15 mm,
25 25 mm, 30 mm or more, e.g., 50 mm; and a length of 5 mm or more, e.g., 10 mm, 15 mm,
   25 mm, 30 mm or more, e.g., 50 mm.
            Referring now FIG. 7A-7D, pellets can be made so that they have a hollow inside.
   As shown, the hollow can be generally in-line with the center of the pellet (FIG. 7B), or
   out of line with the center of the pellet (FIG. 7C). Making the pellet hollow inside can
30 increase the rate of dissolution in a liquid after irradiation.
                                                  41

           Referring now to FIG. 7D, the pellet can have, e.g., a transverse shape that is
   multi-lobal, e.g., tri-lobal as shown, or tetra-lobal, penta-lobal, hexa-lobal or deca-lobal.
   Making the pellets in such transverse shapes can also increase the rate of dissolution in a
   solution after irradiation.
 5         Alternatively, the densified material can be in any other desired form, e.g., the
   densified material can be in the form of a mat, roll or bale.
   Examples
           In one example, half-gallon juice cartons made of un-printed white Kraft board
   having a bulk density of 20 lb/ft3 can be used as a feedstock. Cartons can be folded flat
10 and then fed into a shredder to produce a confetti-like material having a width of between
   0.1 inch and 0.5 inch, a length of between 0.25 inch and 1 inch and a thickness equivalent
   to that of the starting material (about 0.075 inch). The confetti-like material can be fed to
   a rotary knife cutter, which shears the confetti-like pieces, tearing the pieces apart and
   releasing fibrous material.
15         In some cases, multiple shredder-shearer trains can be arranged in series with
   output. In one embodiment, two shredder-shearer trains can be arranged in series with
   output from the first shearer fed as input to the second shredder. In another embodiment,
   three shredder-shearer trains can be arranged in series with output from the first shearer
   fed as input to the second shredder and output from the second shearer fed as input to the
20 third shredder. Multiple passes through shredder-shearer trains are anticipated to
   decrease particle size and increase overall surface area within the feedstream.
           In another example, fibrous material produced from shredding and shearing juice
   cartons can be treated to increase its bulk density. In some cases, the fibrous material can
   be sprayed with water or a dilute stock solution of POLYOXT, WSR N10 (polyethylene
25 oxide) prepared in water. The wetted fibrous material can then be processed through a
   pellet mill operating at room temperature. The pellet mill can increase the bulk density of
   the feedstream by more than an order of magnitude.
                                                   42

   PRETREATMENT
            Physically prepared feedstock can be pretreated for use in primary production
   processes by, for example, reducing the average molecular weight and crystallinity of the
   feedstock and/or increasing the surface area and/or porosity of the feedstock.
 5          In some embodiments, the cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material includes a
   first cellulose having a first number average molecular weight and the resulting
   carbohydrate includes a second cellulose having a second number average molecular
   weight lower than the first number average molecular weight. For example, the second
   number average molecular weight is lower than the first number average molecular
10 weight by more than about twenty-five percent, e.g., 2x, 3x, 5x, 7x, lOx, 25x, even 100x
   reduction.
            In some embodiments, the first cellulose has a first crystallinity and the second
   cellulose has a second crystallinity lower than the first crystallinity, such as lower than
   about two, three, five, ten, fifteen or twenty-five percent lower.
15          In some embodiments, the first cellulose has a first level of oxidation and the
   second cellulose has a second level of oxidation higher than the first level of oxidation,
   such as two, three, four, five, ten or even twenty-five percent higher.
            Pretreatment processes can include one or more of irradiation, sonication,
   oxidation, pyrolysis, and steam explosion. The various pretreatment systems and
20 methods can be used in combinations of two, three, or even four of these technologies.
   Pretreatment Combinations
            In some embodiments, biomass can be processed by applying two or more of any
   of the processes described herein, such as two, three, four or more of radiation, sonication
   (or any other disruption technique described herein, e.g., treatment with a rotor-stator
25 disruptor), oxidation, pyrolysis, and steam explosion either with or without prior,
   intermediate, or subsequent feedstock preparation as described herein. The processes can
   be applied to the biomass in any order or concurrently For example, a carbohydrate can
   be prepared by applying radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis, and, optionally, steam
   explosion to a cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material (in any order or concurrently).
30 The provided carbohydrate-containing material can then be converted by one or more
   microorganisms, such as bacteria, yeast, or mixtures of yeast and bacteria, to a number of
                                                  43

   desirable products, as described herein. Multiple processes can provide materials that can
   be more readily utilized by a variety of microorganisms because of their lower molecular
   weight, lower crystallinity, and/or enhanced solubility. Multiple processes can provide
   synergies and can reduce overall energy input required in comparison to any single
 5 process.
            For example, in some embodiments, feedstocks are provided that include a
   carbohydrate that is produced by a process that includes irradiating and sonicating,
   irradiating and oxidizing, irradiating and pyrolyzing, or irradiating and steam-exploding
   (in either order or concurrently) a cellulosic and/or a lignocellulosic material. The
10 provided feedstock can then be contacted with a microorganism having the ability to
   convert at least a portion, e.g., at least about 1 percent by weight, of the feedstock to the
   product, such as the combustible fuel.
   Pretreatment Conditions
15          In some embodiments, the process does not include hydrolyzing the cellulosic
   and/or lignocellulosic material, such as with an acid, e.g., a mineral acid, such as
   hydrochloric or sulfuric acid, an enzyme or a base. If desired, some or none of the
   feedstock can include a hydrolyzed material. For example, in some embodiments, at least
   about seventy percent by weight of the feedstock is an unhydrolyzed material, e.g., at
20 least at 95 percent by weight of the feedstock is an unhydrolyzed material. In some
   embodiments, substantially all of the feedstock is an unhydrolyzed material. For
   example, treatment with alkali can be avoided.
            Any feedstock or any reactor or fermentor charged with a feedstock can include a
   buffer, such as sodium bicarbonate, ammonium chloride or Tris; an electrolyte, such as
25 potassium chloride, sodium chloride, or calcium chloride; a growth factor, such as biotin
   and/or a base pair such as uracil or an equivalent thereof; a surfactant, such as Tween or
   polyethylene glycol; a mineral, such as such as calcium, chromium, copper, iodine, iron,
   selenium, or zinc; or a chelating agent, such as ethylene diamine, ethylene diamine
   tetraacetic acid (EDTA) (or its salt form, e.g., sodium or potassium EDTA), or
30 dimercaprol.
                                                   44

            When radiation is utilized, it can be applied to any sample that is dry or wet, or
   even dispersed in a liquid, such as water. For example, irradiation can be performed on
   cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material in which less than about 25 percent by weight of
   the cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material has surfaces wetted with a liquid, such as
 5 water. In some embodiments, irradiating is performed on cellulosic and/or
   lignocellulosic material in which substantially none of the cellulosic and/or
   lignocellulosic material is wetted with a liquid, such as water.
            In some embodiments, any processing described herein occurs with the cellulosic
   and/or lignocellulosic material remaining dry as acquired or after the material has been
10 dried, e.g., using heat and/or reduced pressure. For example, in some embodiments, the
   cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material has less than about five percent by weight
   retained water, measured at 25 0C and at fifty percent relative humidity.
            The feedstock can be treated so that it has a low moisture content, e.g., less than
   about 7.5, 5, 3, 2.5, 2, 1.5, 1, or 0.5% by weight. This material can be irradiated with a
15 beam of particles, such as electrons or protons. The irradiation can be immediately
   following preparation of the material or after a moisture reduction step, e.g., drying at
   approximately 105 'C for 4-18 hours.
            If desired, a swelling agent, as defined herein, can be utilized in any process
   described herein. In some embodiments, when a cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic
20 material is processed using radiation, less than about 25 percent by weight of the
   cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material is in a swollen state, the swollen state being
   characterized as having a volume of more than about 2.5 percent higher than an
   unswollen state, e.g., more than 5.0, 7.5, 10, or 15 percent higher than the unswollen
   state. In specific embodiments when radiation is utilized, the cellulosic and/or
25 lignocellulosic material includes a swelling agent, and swollen cellulosic and/or
   lignocellulosic receives a dose of less than about 10 Mrad. In other embodiments, when
   radiation is utilized on a cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material, substantially none of
   the cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material is in a swollen state.
            In some embodiments, no chemicals, e.g., no swelling agents, are added to the
30 biomass prior to irradiation. For example, in some of these embodiments no alkaline
   substances (such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide and
                                                  45

   ammonium hydroxides), acidifying agents (such as mineral acids (e.g., sulfuric acid,
   hydrochloric acid and phosphoric acid)), salts, such as zinc chloride, calcium carbonate,
   sodium carbonate, benzyltrimethylammonium sulfate, or basic organic amines, such as
   ethylene diamine, are added prior to irradiation or other processing. In some cases, no
 5 additional water is added. For example, the biomass prior to processing can have less
   than 0.5 percent by weight added chemicals, e.g., less than 0.4, 0.25, 0.15 or 0.1 percent
   by weight added chemicals. In some instances, the biomass has no more than a trace,
   e.g., less than 0.05 percent by weight added chemicals, prior to irradiation. In other
   instances, the biomass prior to irradiation has substantially no added chemicals or
10 swelling agents. Avoiding the use of such chemicals can also be extended throughout
   processing, e.g., at all times prior to fermentation, or at all times.
            When radiation is utilized in any process, it can be applied while the cellulosic
   and/or lignocellulosic is exposed to air, oxygen-enriched air, or even oxygen itself, or
   blanketed by an inert gas such as nitrogen, argon, or helium. When maximum oxidation
15 is desired, an oxidizing environment is utilized, such as air or oxygen. The distance from
   the radiation source can also be optimized to maximize reactive gas formation, e.g.,
   ozone and/or oxides of nitrogen.
            When radiation is utilized, it may be applied to biomass, such as cellulosic and/or
   lignocellulosic material, under a pressure of greater than about 2.5 atmospheres, such as
20 greater than 5, 10, 15, 20 or even greater than about 50 atmospheres.
            When the process includes radiation, the irradiating can be performed utilizing an
   ionizing radiation, such as gamma rays, x-rays, energetic ultraviolet radiation, such as
   ultraviolet C radiation having a wavelength of from about 100 nm to about 280 nm, a
   beam of particles, such as a beam of electrons, slow neutrons or alpha particles. In some
25 embodiments, irradiating includes two or more radiation sources, such as gamma rays
   and a beam of electrons, which can be applied in either order or concurrently.
            Any processing technique described herein can be used at a pressure above or
   below normal, earth-bound atmospheric pressure. For example, any process that utilizes
   radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis, steam explosion, or combinations of any of
30 these processes to provide materials that include a carbohydrate can be performed under
   high pressure, which can increase reaction rates. For example, any process or
                                                  46

   combination of processes can be performed at a pressure greater than about normal
   atmospheric pressure, e.g., at a pressure of greater than about 25 MPa, e.g., greater than
   50 MPa, 75 MPa, 100 MPa, 150 MPa, 200 MPa, 250 MPa, 350 MPa, 500 MPa, 750
   MPa, 1,000 MPa, or greater than 1,500 MPa.
 5 Radiation Treatment
            One or more irradiation processing sequences can be used to process raw
   feedstock from a wide variety of different sources to extract useful substances from the
   feedstock, and to provide partially degraded organic material which functions as input to
   further processing steps and/or sequences. Irradiation can reduce the molecular weight
10 and/or crystallinity of feedstock. In some embodiments, energy deposited in a material
   that releases an electron from its atomic orbital is used to irradiate the materials. The
   radiation may be provided by 1) heavy charged particles, such as alpha particles or
   protons, 2) electrons, produced, for example, in beta decay or electron beam accelerators,
   or 3) electromagnetic radiation, for example, gamma rays, x rays, or ultraviolet rays. In
15 one approach, radiation produced by radioactive substances can be used to irradiate the
   feedstock. In some embodiments, any combination in any order or concurrently of (1)
   through (3) may be utilized. In another approach, electromagnetic radiation (e.g.,
   produced using electron beam emitters) can be used to irradiate the feedstock. The doses
   applied depend on the desired effect and the particular feedstock. For example, high
20 doses of radiation can break chemical bonds within feedstock components and low doses
   of radiation can increase chemical bonding (e.g., cross-linking) within feedstock
   components. In some instances when chain scission is desirable and/or polymer chain
   functionalization is desirable, particles heavier than electrons, such as protons, helium
   nuclei, argon ions, silicon ions, neon ions carbon ions, phoshorus ions, oxygen ions or
25 nitrogen ions can be utilized. When ring-opening chain scission is desired, positively
   charged particles can be utilized for their Lewis acid properties for enhanced ring
   opening chain scission. For example, when oxygen-containing functional groups are
   desired, irradiation in the presence of oxygen or even irradiation with oxygen ions can be
   performed. For example, when nitrogen-containing functional groups are desirable,
30 irradiation in the presence of nitrogen or even irradiation with nitrogen ions can be
   performed.
                                                 47

            Referring to FIG. 8, in one method, a first material 2 that is or includes cellulose
   having a first number average molecular weight       (TMNl)  is irradiated, e.g., by treatment
   with ionizing radiation (e.g., in the form of gamma radiation, X-ray radiation, 100 nm to
   280 nm ultraviolet (UV) light, a beam of electrons or other charged particles) to provide a
 5 second material 3 that includes cellulose having a second number average molecular
   weight   (TMN 2 ) lower than the first number average molecular weight. The second
   material (or the first and second material) can be combined with a microorganism (e.g., a
   bacterium or a yeast) that can utilize the second and/or first material to produce a product,
   e.g., a fuel 5 that is or includes hydrogen, an alcohol (e.g., ethanol or butanol, such as n-,
10 sec- or t-butanol), an organic acid, a hydrocarbon or mixtures of any of these.
            Since the second material 3 has cellulose having a reduced molecular weight
   relative to the first material, and in some instances, a reduced crystallinity as well, the
   second material is generally more dispersible, swellable and/or soluble in a solution
   containing a microorganism. These properties make the second material 3 more
15 susceptible to chemical, enzymatic and/or biological attack relative to the first material 2,
   which can greatly improve the production rate and/or production level of a desired
   product, e.g., ethanol. Radiation can also sterilize the materials.
            In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight            (MN2)  is
   lower than the first number average molecular weight       (TMN1)   by more than about 10
20 percent, e.g., 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50 percent, 60 percent, or even more than about 75
   percent.
            In some instances, the second material has cellulose that has as crystallinity (TC2)
   that is lower than the crystallinity (TC1 ) of the cellulose of the first material. For
   example, (TC2 ) can be lower than (TC1) by more than about 10 percent, e.g., 15, 20, 25,
25 30, 35, 40, or even more than about 50 percent.
            In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity index (prior to irradiation) is from
   about 40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60
   to about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after irradiation is from about 10 to about
   50 percent, e.g., from about 15 to about 45 percent or from about 20 to about 40 percent.
30 However, in some embodiments, e.g., after extensive irradiation, it is possible to have a
                                                    48

   crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material after
   irradiation is substantially amorphous.
            In some embodiments, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to
   irradiation) is from about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about
 5 1,000,000 or from about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular
   weight after irradiation is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to
   about 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments,
   e.g., after extensive irradiation, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight
   of less than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
10          In some embodiments, the second material can have a level of oxidation         (102)
   that is higher than the level of oxidation   (T 0 1) of the first material. A higher level of
   oxidation of the material can aid in its dispersibility, swellability and/or solubility, further
   enhancing the materials susceptibility to chemical, enzymatic or biological attack. In
   some embodiments, to increase the level of the oxidation of the second material relative
15 to the first material, the irradiation is performed under an oxidizing environment, e.g.,
   under a blanket of air or oxygen, producing a second material that is more oxidized than
   the first material. For example, the second material can have more hydroxyl groups,
   aldehyde groups, ketone groups, ester groups or carboxylic acid groups, which can
   increase its hydrophilicity.
20 Ionizing Radiation
            Each form of radiation ionizes the biomass via particular interactions, as
   determined by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged particles primarily ionize
   matter via Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these interactions produce energetic
   electrons that may further ionize matter. Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a
25 helium atom and are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as
   isotopes of bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such
   as actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and
   plutonium.
            When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged), positively charged or
30 negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles can bear a single positive or
   negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two, three or even four or more charges.
                                                     49

   In instances in which chain scission is desired, positively charged particles may be
   desirable, in part, due to their acidic nature. When particles are utilized, the particles can
   have the mass of a resting electron, or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, or 2000 or more
   times the mass of a resting electron. For example, the particles can have a mass of from
 5 about 1 atomic unit to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic unit to about 50
   atomic units, or from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15 amu.
   Accelerators used to accelerate the particles can be electrostatic DC, electrodynamic DC,
   RF linear, magnetic induction linear or continuous wave. For example, cyclotron type
   accelerators are available from IBA, Belgium, such as the Rhodotron@ system, while DC
10 type accelerators are available from RDI, now IBA Industrial, such as the Dynamitron.
   Ions and ion accelerators are discussed in Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S.
   Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1988), Krsto Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206, a
   copy of which is attached hereto as Appendix B, Chu, William T., "Overview of Light
   Ion Beam Therapy", Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006, a copy
15 of which is attached hereto as Appendix C, Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating-Phase-Focused
   IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical Accelerators", Proceedings of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh,
   Scotland, a copy of which is attached hereto as Appendix D, and Leitner, C.M. et al.,
   "Status of the Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus", Proceedings of EPAC 2000,
   Vienna, Austria, a copy of which is attached hereto as Appendix E.
20         Electrons interact via Coulomb scattering and bremsstrahlung radiation produced
   by changes in the velocity of electrons. Electrons may be produced by radioactive nuclei
   that undergo beta decay, such as isotopes of iodine, cesium, technetium, and iridium.
   Alternatively, an electron gun can be used as an electron source via thermionic emission.
           Electromagnetic radiation interacts via three processes: photoelectric absorption,
25 Compton scattering, and pair production. The dominating interaction is determined by
   the energy of the incident radiation and the atomic number of the material. The
   summation of interactions contributing to the absorbed radiation in cellulosic material
   can be expressed by the mass absorption coefficient.
           Electromagnetic radiation is subclassified as gamma rays, x rays, ultraviolet rays,
30 infrared rays, microwaves, or radiowaves, depending on its wavelength.
                                                  50

            For example, gamma radiation can be employed to irradiate the materials.
   Referring to FIGS. 9 and 10 (an enlarged view of region R), a gamma irradiator 10
   includes gamma radiation sources 408, e.g.,     60Co pellets, a working table 14 for holding
   the materials to be irradiated and storage 16, e.g., made of a plurality iron plates, all of
 5 which are housed in a concrete containment chamber (vault) 20 that includes a maze
   entranceway 22 beyond a lead-lined door 26. Storage 16 includes a plurality of channels
   30, e.g., sixteen or more channels, allowing the gamma radiation sources to pass through
   storage on their way proximate the working table.
            In operation, the sample to be irradiated is placed on a working table. The
10 irradiator is configured to deliver the desired dose rate and monitoring equipment is
   connected to an experimental block 31. The operator then leaves the containment
   chamber, passing through the maze entranceway and through the lead-lined door. The
   operator mans a control panel 32, instructing a computer 33 to lift the radiation sources
   12 into working position using cylinder 36 attached to a hydraulic pump 40.
15          Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration depth into a
   variety of material in the sample. Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such
   as isotopes of cobalt, calcium, technicium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron,
   krypton, samarium, selenium, sodium, thalium, and xenon.
            Sources of x rays include electron beam collision with metal targets, such as
20 tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such as those produced
   commercially by Lyncean.
            Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium lamps.
            Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide window ceramic
   lamps.
25          Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources, or atom beam
   sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
            Various other irradiating devices may be used in the methods disclosed herein,
   including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators, field ionization generators,
   thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion sources, recirculating or static
30 accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff accelerators, and folded tandem
   accelerators. Such devices are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Provisional Application
                                                  51

   Serial No. 61/073,665, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
   Electron Beam
           In some embodiments, a beam of electrons is used as the radiation source. A
 5 beam of electrons has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per
   second), high throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment. Electron
   beams can also have up to 80 percent electrical efficiency, allowing for a low energy
   usage, which can translate into a low cost of operation and low greenhouse gas emissions
   corresponding to the small amount of energy used. Electrons can also be more efficient
10 at causing chain scission. In addition, electrons having energies of 4-10 MeV can have a
   penetration depth of 5 to 30 mm or more, such as 40 mm. In low bulk density materials,
   such as many of the materials described herein, e.g., materials having a bulk density of
   less than about 0.5 g/cm 3, electrons having energies in the 4-10 MeV range can penetrate
   4-8 inches or even more.
15         Electron beams can be generated, e.g., by electrostatic generators, cascade
   generators, transformer generators, low energy accelerators with a scanning system, low
   energy accelerators with a linear cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
   Electrons as an ionizing radiation source can be useful, e.g., for relatively thin piles of
   materials, e.g., less than 0.5 inch, e.g., less than 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.2 inch, or less than
20 0.1 inch. In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron beam is from
   about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about 0.5 MeV to
   about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV.
           FIG. 11 shows a process flow diagram 3000 that includes various steps in an
   electron beam irradiation feedstock pretreatment sequence. In first step 3010, a supply of
25 dry feedstock is received from a feed source. As discussed above, the dry feedstock from
   the feed source may be pre-processed prior to delivery to the electron beam irradiation
   devices. For example, if the feedstock is derived from plant sources, certain portions of
   the plant material may be removed prior to collection of the plant material and/or before
   the plant material is delivered by the feedstock transport device. Alternatively, or in
30 addition, as expressed in optional step 3020, the biomass feedstock can be subjected to
                                                    52

   mechanical processing (e.g., to reduce the average length of fibers in the feedstock) prior
   to delivery to the electron beam irradiation devices.
           In step 3030, the dry feedstock is transferred to a feedstock transport device (e.g.,
   a conveyor belt) and is distributed over the cross-sectional width of the feedstock
 5 transport device approximately uniformly by volume. This can be accomplished, for
   example, manually or by inducing a localized vibration motion at some point in the
   feedstock transport device prior to the electron beam irradiation processing.
           In some embodiments, a mixing system introduces a chemical agent 3045 into the
   feedstock in an optional process 3040 that produces a slurry. Combining water with the
10 processed feedstock in mixing step 3040 creates an aqueous feedstock slurry that may be
   transported through, for example, piping rather than using, for example, a conveyor belt.
           The next step 3050 is a loop that encompasses exposing the feedstock (in dry or
   slurry form) to electron beam radiation via one or more (say, A) electron beam irradiation
   devices. The feedstock slurry is moved through each of the N "showers" of electron
15 beams at step 3052. The movement may either be at a continuous speed through and
   between the showers, or there may be a pause through each shower, followed by a sudden
   movement to the next shower. A small slice of the feedstock slurry is exposed to each
   shower for some predetermined exposure time at step 3053.
           Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially from Ion Beam
20 Applications, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium or the Titan Corporation, San Diego, CA.
   Typical electron energies can be 1 MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10 MeV.
   Typical electron beam irradiation device power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20 kW, 50
   kW, 100 kW, 250 kW, or 500 kW. Effectiveness of depolymerization of the feedstock
   slurry depends on the electron energy used and the dose applied, while exposure time
25 depends on the power and dose. Typical doses may take values of 1 kGy, 5 kGy, 10 kGy,
   20 kGy, 50 kGy, 100 kGy, or 200 kGy.
           Tradeoffs in considering electron beam irradiation device power specifications
   include cost to operate, capital costs, depreciation, and device footprint. Tradeoffs in
   considering exposure dose levels of electron beam irradiation would be energy costs and
30 environment, safety, and health (ESH) concerns. Typically, generators are housed in a
   vault, e.g., of lead or concrete. Tradeoffs in considering electron energies include energy
                                                 53

   costs; here, a lower electron energy may be advantageous in encouraging
   depolymerization of certain feedstock slurry (see, for example, Bouchard, et al, Cellulose
   (2006) 13: 601-610).
           It may be advantageous to provide a double-pass of electron beam irradiation in
 5 order to provide a more effective depolymerization process. For example, the feedstock
   transport device could direct the feedstock (in dry or slurry form) underneath and in a
   reverse direction to its initial transport direction. Double-pass systems can allow thicker
   feedstock slurries to be processed and can provide a more uniform depolymerization
   through the thickness of the feedstock slurry.
10         The electron beam irradiation device can produce either a fixed beam or a
   scanning beam. A scanning beam may be advantageous with large scan sweep length
   and high scan speeds, as this would effectively replace a large, fixed beam width.
   Further, available sweep widths of 0.5 m, Im, 2 m or more are available.
           Once a portion of feedstock slurry has been transported through the N electron
15 beam irradiation devices, it may be necessary in some embodiments, as in step 3060, to
   mechanically separate the liquid and solid components of the feedstock slurry. In these
   embodiments, a liquid portion of the feedstock slurry is filtered for residual solid particles
   and recycled back to the slurry preparation step 3040. A solid portion of the feedstock
   slurry is then advanced on to the next processing step 3070 via the feedstock transport
20 device. In other embodiments, the feedstock is maintained in slurry form for further
   processing.
   Heavy Ion Particle Beams
           Particles heavier than electrons can be utilized to irradiate carbohydrates or
25 materials that include carbohydrates, e.g., cellulosic materials, lignocellulosic materials,
   starchy materials, or mixtures of any of these and others described herein. For example,
   protons, helium nuclei, argon ions, silicon ions, neon ions carbon ions, phoshorus ions,
   oxygen ions or nitrogen ions can be utilized. In some embodiments, particles heavier
   than electrons can induce higher amounts of chain scission. In some instances, positively
30 charged particles can induce higher amounts of chain scission than negatively charged
   particles due to their acidity.
                                                   54

           Heavier particle beams can be generated, e.g., using linear accelerators or
   cyclotrons. In some embodiments, the energy of each particle of the beam is from about
   1.0 MeV/atomic unit to about 6,000 MeV/atomic unit, e.g., from about 3 MeV/ atomic
   unit to about 4,800 MeV/atomic unit, or from about 10 MeV/atomic unit to about 1,000
 5 MeV/atomic unit.
   Electromagnetic Radiation
           In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
   radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in electron
10 volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 10 3 , 10 4, 105, 106, or even greater than 107
   eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has energy per photon of
   between 104 and 107, e.g., between 105 and 106 eV. The electromagnetic radiation can
   have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 hz, greater than 1017 hz, 1018, 1019, 102, or
   even greater than 1021 hz. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has a
15 frequency of between 1018 and 102 2 hz, e.g., between 1019 to 1021 hz.
   Doses
           In some embodiments, the irradiating (with any radiation source or a combination
   of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at
   least 0.1, 0.25, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 Mrad. In some embodiments, the irradiating is
20 performed until the material receives a dose of between 1.0 Mrad and 6.0 Mrad, e.g.,
   between 1.5 Mrad and 4.0 Mrad. In other embodiments, irradiating is performed at a
   dose between about 0.1 MRad and about 10 MRad, e.g., between about 0.25 MRad and
   about 9 MRad, between about 0.5 MRad and about 7.5 MRad or between about 0.75
   MRad and about 5 MRad.
25         In some embodiments, the irradiating is performed at a dose rate of between 5.0
   and 1500.0 kilorads/hour, e.g., between 10.0 and 750.0 kilorads/hour or between 50.0 and
   350.0 kilorads/hours.
           In some embodiments, two or more radiation sources are used, such as two or
   more ionizing radiations. For example, samples can be treated, in any order, with a beam
30 of electrons, followed by gamma radiation and UV light having wavelengths from about
                                                  55

   100 nm to about 280 nm. In some embodiments, samples are treated with three ionizing
   radiation sources, such as a beam of electrons, gamma radiation, and energetic UV light.
            In one example of the use of radiation as a pretreatment, half-gallon juice cartons
   made of un-printed polycoated white Kraft board having a bulk density of 20 lb/ft3 are
 5 used as a feedstock. Cartons are folded flat and then fed into a sequence of three
   shredder-shearer trains arranged in series with output from the first shearer fed as input to
   the second shredder, and output from the second shearer fed as input to the third shredder.
   The fibrous material produced by the shredder-shearer train can be sprayed with water
   and processed through a pellet mill operating at room temperature. The densified pellets
10 can be placed in a glass ampoule which is evacuated under high vacuum and then back
   filled with argon gas. The ampoule is sealed under argon. Alternatively, in another
   example, the ampoule is sealed under an atmosphere of air. The pellets in the ampoule
   are irradiated with gamma radiation for about 3 hours at a dose rate of about 1 Mrad per
   hour to provide an irradiated material in which the cellulose has a lower molecular weight
15 than the starting material.
   Additives to Enhance Molecular Weight Breakdown During Irradiation
            In some embodiments, prior to irradiation, various materials, e.g., solids or
   liquids, can be added to the biomass to enhance molecular weight reduction. In those
20 instances in which a liquid is utilized, the liquid can be in contact with outer surfaces of
   the biomass and/or the liquid can be in interior portions of the biomass, e.g., infused into
   the biomass.
            For example, the material can be a neutral weak base, such as alanine, ammonia,
   ammonia/water mixture, e.g., 25 percent by weight ammonia in water, water, methyl
25 amine, dimethyl amine, trimethyl amine, pyridine, or a anionic base, such as a salt of
   acetic acid (e.g., sodium acetate), sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate or a salt of an
   ion of hydrogen sulfide (e.g., sodium hydrosulfide).
            Alternatively, the material can be a neutral weak acid, such as formic acid, acetic
   acid, trichloroacetic acid, water, hydrogen sulfide or a cationic acid, such as an
30 ammonium salt.
                                                  56

   Quenching and Controlled Functionalization of Biomass
            After treatment with one or more ionizing radiations, such as photonic radiation
   (e.g., X-rays or gamma-rays), e-beam radiation or particles heavier than electrons that are
   positively or negatively charged (e.g., protons or carbon ions), any of the carbohydrate
 5 containing materials or mixtures described herein become ionized; that is, they include
   radicals at levels that are detectable with an electron spin resonance spectrometer. The
   current limit of detection of the radicals is about 1014 spins at room temperature. After
   ionization, any biomass material that has been ionized can be quenched to reduce the
   level of radicals in the ionized biomass, e.g., such that the radicals are no longer
10 detectable with the electron spin resonance spectrometer. For example, the radicals can
   be quenched by the application of a sufficient pressure to the biomass and/or by utilizing
   a fluid in contact with the ionized biomass, such as a gas or liquid, that reacts with
   (quenches) the radicals. Using a gas or liquid to at least aid in the quenching of the
   radicals can be used to functionalize the ionized biomass with a desired amount and kind
15 of functional groups, such as carboxylic acid groups, enol groups, aldehyde groups, nitro
   groups, nitrile groups, amino groups, alkyl amino groups, alkyl groups, chloroalkyl
   groups or chlorofluoroalkyl groups. In some instances, such quenching can improve the
   stability of some of the ionized biomass materials. For example, quenching can improve
   the resistance of the biomass to oxidation. Functionalization by quenching can also
20 improve the solubility of any biomass described herein, can improve its thermal stability,
   and can improve material utilization by various microorganisms. For example, the
   functional groups imparted to the biomass material by the quenching can act as receptor
   sites for attachment by microorganisms, e.g., to enhance cellulose hydrolysis by various
   microorganisms.
25          FIG. 11 A illustrates changing a molecular and/or a supramolecular structure of a
   biomass feedstock by pretreating the biomass feedstock with ionizing radiation, such as
   with electrons or ions of sufficient energy to ionize the biomass feedstock, to provide a
   first level of radicals. As shown in FIG. 11 A, if ionized biomass remains in the
   atmosphere, it will be oxidized, such as to an extent that carboxylic acid groups are
30 generated by reacting with the atmospheric oxygen. In some instances with some
   materials, such oxidation is desired because it can aid in the further breakdown in
                                                  57

   molecular weight of the carbohydrate-containing biomass, and the oxidation groups, e.g.,
   carboxylic acid groups can be helpful for solubility and microorganism utilization in
   some instances. However, since the radicals can "live" for some time after irradiation,
   e.g., longer than 1 day, 5 days, 30 days, 3 months, 6 months or even longer than 1 year,
 5 materials properties can continue to change over time, which in some instances, can be
   undesirable. Detecting radicals in irradiated samples by electron spin resonance
   spectroscopy and radical lifetimes in such samples is discussed in Bartolotta et al.,
   Physics in Medicine and Biology, 46 (2001), 461-471 and in Bartolotta et al., Radiation
   Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 84, Nos. 1-4, pp. 293-296 (1999) which are attached hereto as
10 Appendix F and Appendix G, respectively. As shown in FIG. I IA, the ionized biomass
   can be quenched to functionalize and/or to stabilize the ionized biomass. At any point,
   e.g., when the material is "alive", "partially alive" or fully quenched, the pretreated
   biomass can be converted into a product, e.g., a fuel, a food, or a composite.
            In some embodiments, the quenching includes an application of pressure to the
15 biomass, such as by mechanically deforming the biomass, e.g., directly mechanically
   compressing the biomass in one, two, or three dimensions, or applying pressure to a fluid
   in which the biomass is immersed, e.g., isostatic pressing. In such instances, the
   deformation of the material itself brings radicals, which are often trapped in crystalline
   domains, in close enough proximity so that the radicals can recombine, or react with
20 another group. In some instances, the pressure is applied together with the application of
   heat, such as a sufficient quantity of heat to elevate the temperature of the biomass to
   above a melting point or softening point of a component of the biomass, such as lignin,
   cellulose or hemicellulose. Heat can improve molecular mobility in the polymeric
   material, which can aid in the quenching of the radicals. When pressure is utilized to
25 quench, the pressure can be greater than about 1000 psi, such as greater than about 1250
   psi, 1450 psi, 3625 psi, 5075 psi, 7250 psi, 10000 psi or even greater than 15000 psi.
            In some embodiments, quenching includes contacting the biomass with a fluid,
   such as a liquid or gas, e.g., a gas capable of reacting with the radicals, such as acetylene
   or a mixture of acetylene in nitrogen, ethylene, chlorinated ethylenes or
30 chlorofluoroethylenes, propylene or mixtures of these gases. In other particular
   embodiments, quenching includes contacting the biomass with a liquid, e.g., a liquid
                                                  58

   soluble in, or at least capable of penetrating into the biomass and reacting with the
   radicals, such as a diene, such as 1,5-cyclooctadiene. In some specific embodiments, the
   quenching includes contacting the biomass with an antioxidant, such as Vitamin E. If
   desired, the biomass feedstock can include an antioxidant dispersed therein, and the
 5 quenching can come from contacting the antioxidant dispersed in the biomass feedstock
   with the radicals.
            Other methods for quenching are possible. For example, any method for
   quenching radicals in polymeric materials described in Muratoglu et al., U.S. Patent
   Application Publication No. 2008/0067724 and Muratoglu et al., U.S. Patent No.
10 7,166,650, which are attached as Appendix H and Appendix I, respectively, can be
   utilized for quenching any ionized biomass material described herein. Furthermore any
   quenching agent (described as a "sensitizing agent" in the above-noted Muratoglu
   disclosures) and/or any antioxidant described in either Muratoglu reference can be
   utilized to quench any ionized biomass material.
15          Functionalization can be enhanced by utilizing heavy charged ions, such as any of
   the heavier ions described herein. For example, if it is desired to enhance oxidation,
   charged oxygen ions can be utilized for the irradiation. If nitrogen functional groups are
   desired, nitrogen ions or anions that includes nitrogen can be utilized. Likewise, if sulfur
   or phosphorus groups are desired, sulfur or phosphorus ions can be used in the
20 irradiation.
            In some embodiments, after quenching any of the quenched ionized materials
   described herein can be further treated with one or more of radiation, such as ionizing or
   non-ionizing radiation, sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation for additional molecular
   and/or supramolecular structure change.
25
   Particle Beam Exposure in Fluids
            In some cases, the cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials can be exposed to a
   particle beam in the presence of one or more additional fluids (e.g., gases and/or liquids).
   Exposure of a material to a particle beam in the presence of one or more additional fluids
30 can increase the efficiency of the treatment.
                                                  59

            In some embodiments, the material is exposed to a particle beam in the presence
   of a fluid such as air. Particles accelerated in any one or more of the types of accelerators
   disclosed herein (or another type of accelerator) are coupled out of the accelerator via an
   output port (e.g., a thin membrane such as a metal foil), pass through a volume of space
 5 occupied by the fluid, and are then incident on the material. In addition to directly
   treating the material, some of the particles generate additional chemical species by
   interacting with fluid particles (e.g., ions and/or radicals generated from various
   constituents of air, such as ozone and oxides of nitrogen). These generated chemical
   species can also interact with the material, and can act as initiators for a variety of
10 different chemical bond-breaking reactions in the material. For example, any oxidant
   produced can oxidize the material, which can result in molecular weight reduction.
            In certain embodiments, additional fluids can be selectively introduced into the
   path of a particle beam before the beam is incident on the material. As discussed above,
   reactions between the particles of the beam and the particles of the introduced fluids can
15 generate additional chemical species, which react with the material and can assist in
   functionalizing the material, and/or otherwise selectively altering certain properties of the
   material. The one or more additional fluids can be directed into the path of the beam
   from a supply tube, for example. The direction and flow rate of the fluid(s) that is/are
   introduced can be selected according to a desired exposure rate and/or direction to control
20 the efficiency of the overall treatment, including effects that result from both particle
   based treatment and effects that are due to the interaction of dynamically generated
   species from the introduced fluid with the material. In addition to air, exemplary fluids
   that can be introduced into the ion beam include oxygen, nitrogen, one or more noble
   gases, one or more halogens, and hydrogen.
25
   Irradiating Low Bulk Density Biomass Materials and Coolinq Irradiated Biomass
            During treatment of biomass materials with ionizing radiation, especially at high
   dose rates, such as at rates greater then 0.15 Mrad per second, e.g., 0.25 Mrad/s, 0.35
   Mrad/s, 0.5 Mrad/s, 0.75 Mrad/s or even greater than 1 Mrad/sec, biomass materials can
30 retain significant quantities of heat so that the temperature of the biomass materials
   becomes elevated. While higher temperatures can, in some embodiments, be
                                                   60

   advantageous, e.g., when a faster reaction rate is desired, it is advantageous to control the
   heating of the biomass to retain control over the chemical reactions initiated by the
   ionizing radiation, such as crosslinking, chain scission and/or grafting, e.g., to maintain
   process control. Low bulk density materials, such as those having a bulk density of less
 5 than about 0.4 g/cm 3 , e.g., less than about 0.35, 0.25 or less about 0.15 g/cm 3, especially
   when combined with materials that have thin cross-sections, such as fibers having small
   transverse dimensions, are generally easier to cool. In addition, photons and particles can
   generally penetrate further into and through materials having a relatively low bulk
   density, which can allow for the processing of larger volumes of materials at higher rates,
10 and can allow for the use of photons and particles that having lower energies, e.g., 0.25
   Mev, 0.5 MeV, 0.75 MeV or 1.0 MeV, which can reduce safety shielding requirements.
   Many of the biomass materials described herein can be processed in one or more of the
   systems shown in FIGS. 11B, 1 IC, lI D and 1IE, which are described below. The
   systems shown allow one or more types of ionizing radiation, such as relativistic
15 electrons or electrons in combination with X-rays, to be applied to low bulk density
   biomass materials at high dose rates, such as at a rate greater than 1.0, 1.5, 2.5 Mrad/s or
   even greater than about 5.0 Mrad/s, and then to allow for cooling of the biomass prior to
   applying radiation for a second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth or even a
   tenth time.
20         For example, in one method of changing a molecular and/or a supramolecular
   structure of a biomass feedstock, the biomass is pretreated at a first temperature with
   ionizing radiation, such as photons, electrons or ions (e.g., singularly or multiply charged
   cations or anions), for a sufficient time and/or a sufficient dose to elevate the biomass
   feedstock to a second temperature higher than the first temperature. The pretreated
25 biomass is then cooled to a third temperature below the second temperature. Finally, if
   desired, the cooled biomass can be treated one or more times with radiation, e.g., with
   ionizing radiation. If desired, cooling can be applied to the biomass after and/or during
   each radiation treatment.
           The biomass feedstock can be physically prepared as discussed above, e.g., by
30 reducing one or more dimensions of individual pieces of the biomass feedstock so that
                                                   61

   the feedstock can be more efficiently processed, e.g., more easily cooled and/or more
   easily penetrated by an ionizing radiation.
            In some implementations, the ionizing radiation is applied at a total dose of less
   than 25 Mrad or less than10 Mrad, such as less than 5 Mrad or less than 2.5 Mrad, and at
 5 a rate of more than 0.25 Mrad per second, such as more than 0.5, 0.75 or greater than 1.0
   Mrad/s, prior to cooling the biomass.
            The pretreating of the biomass feedstock with ionizing radiation can be performed
   as the biomass feedstock is being pneumatically conveyed in a fluid, such as a in a gas,
   e.g., nitrogen or air. To aid in molecular weight breakdown and/or functionalization of
10 the materials, the gas can be saturated with any swelling agent described herein and/or
   water vapor. For example, acidic water vapor can be utilized. To aid in molecular
   weight breakdown, the water can be acidified with an organic acid, such as formic, or
   acetic acid, or a mineral acid, such as sulfuric or hydrochloric acid.
            The pretreating of the biomass feedstock with ionizing radiation can be performed
15 as the biomass feedstock falls under the influence of gravity. This procedure can
   effectively reduce the bulk density of the biomass feedstock as it is being processed and
   can aid in the cooling of the biomass feedstock. For example, the biomass can be
   conveyed from a first belt at a first height above the ground and then can be captured by a
   second belt at a second level above the ground lower than the first level. For example, in
20 some embodiments, the trailing edge of the first belt and the leading edge of the second
   belt define a gap. Advantageously, the ionizing radiation, such as a beam of electrons,
   protons, or other ions, can be applied at the gap to prevent damage to the biomass
   conveyance system.
            Cooling of the biomass can include contacting the biomass with a fluid, such as a
25 gas, at a temperature below the first or second temperature, such as gaseous nitrogen at or
   about 77 K. Even water, such as water at a temperature below nominal room temperature
   (e.g., 25 degrees Celsius) can be utilized.
            Often advantageously, the biomass feedstock has internal fibers, and prior to
   irradiation with the ionizing radiation, the biomass feedstock has been sheared to an
30 extent that its internal fibers are substantially exposed. This shearing can provide a low
   bulk density material having small cross-sectional dimensions, which can aid in the
                                                   62

   breakdown and/or functionalization of the biomass. For example, in some embodiments,
   the biomass is or includes discrete fibers and/or particles having a maximum dimension
   of not more than about 0.5 mm, such as not more than about 0.25 mm, not more than
   about 0.1 mm or not more than about 0.05 mm.
 5          In some embodiments, the biomass feedstock to which the ionizing radiation is
   applied has a bulk density of less than about 0.35 g/cm3 , such as less than about 0.3, 0.25,
   0.20, or less than about 0.15 g/cm 3 during the application of the ionizing radiation. In
   such embodiments, the biomass feedstock can be cooled, and then ionizing radiation can
   be applied to the cooled biomass. In some advantageous embodiments, the biomass
10 feedstock is or includes discrete fibers and/or particles having a maximum dimension of
   not more than about 0.5 mm, such as not more than about 0.25 mm, not more than about
   0.1 mm, not more than about 0.05 mm, or not more than about 0.025 mm.
            FIGS. 11 B and I1C show a fibrous material generating, treating, conveying and
   irradiating device 1170 (shielding not illustrated in the drawings). In operation, paper
15 sheet 1173, e.g., scrap bleached Kraft paper sheet, is supplied from a roll 1172 and
   delivered to a fiberizing apparatus 1174, such as a rotary shearer. The sheet 1173 is
   converted into fibrous material 1112 and is delivered to a fiber-loading zone 1180 by
   conveyer 1178. If desired, the fibers of the fibrous material can be separated, e.g., by
   screening, into fractions having different L/D ratios. In some embodiments, the fibrous
20 material 1112 of generally a low bulk density and advantageously thin cross-section, is
   delivered continuously to zone 1180; in other embodiments, the fibrous material is
   delivered in batches. A blower 1182 in loop 1184 is positioned adjacent to the fiber
   loading zone 1180 and is capable of moving a fluid medium, e.g., air, at a velocity and
   volume sufficient to pneumatically circulate the fibrous material 1112 in a direction
25 indicated by arrow 1188 through loop 1184.
            In some embodiments, the velocity of air traveling in the loop is sufficient to
   uniformly disperse and transport the fibrous material around the entire loop 1184. In
   some embodiments, the velocity of flow is greater than 2,500 feet/minute, e.g., 5,000
   feet/minute, 6,000 feet/minute or more, e.g., 7,500 feet/minute or 8,500 feet/minute.
30          The entrained fibrous material 1112 traversing the loop passes an application zone
   1190, which forms part of loop 1184. Here, any desired additives described herein are
                                                 63

   applied, such as a liquid, such as water, which may be acidified or made basic. In
   operation, application zone 1190 applies an additive, such as a liquid solution 1196, to the
   circulating fibrous material via nozzles 98, 99 and 11100. When a liquid is applied, the
   nozzles produce an atomized spray or mist, which impacts the fibers as the fibers pass in
 5 proximity to the nozzles. Valve 11102 is operated to control the flow of liquid to the
   respective nozzles 1198, 1199, and 11100. After a desired quantity of additive is applied,
   the valve 11102 is closed.
            In some embodiments, the application zone 1190 is two to one hundred feet long
   or more, e.g., 125 feet, 150 feet, 250 feet long or more, e.g., 500 feet long. Longer
10 application zones allow for application of liquid over a longer period of time during
   passage of fibrous material through application zone 1190. In some embodiments, the
   nozzles are spaced apart, e.g., by from about three to about four feet, along the length of
   loop 1184.
            As the fibrous material moves in loop 1184 and through the irradiating portion of
15 the loop 11107 that includes a horn 11109 for delivering ionizing radiation, ionizing
   radiation is applied to the fibrous material (shielding is not shown).
            As the irradiated fibrous material moves around loop 1184, it cools by the action
   of gases, such as air, circulating at high speeds in the loop. The material is bathed in
   reactive gases, such as ozone and/or oxides of nitrogen, that are produced from the action
20 of the ionizing radiation on the circulating gases, such as air. After passing through the
   irradiating portion 11107, a cooling fluid, such as a liquid (e.g., water) or a gas, such as
   liquid nitrogen at 77 K, can be injected into loop 1184 to aid in the cooling of the fibrous
   material. This process can be repeated more than one time if desired, e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
   8, 9, 10 times or more, e.g., 15 times, to deliver the desired dose to the fibrous material.
25 While, as shown, the long axis of the horn is along the direction of flow, in some
   implementations, the long axis of the horn is transverse to the direction of the flow. In
   some implementations, a beam of electrons is utilized as a principal ionizing radiation
   source and X-rays as a secondary ionizing radiation source. X-rays can be generated by
   having a metal target, such as a tantalum target 11111, on the inside of loop 1184 such
30 that when electrons strike the target, X-rays are emitted.
                                                  64

            After a desired dose is delivered to the fibrous material, the fibrous material can
   be removed from loop 1184 via a separator 11112, which is selectively connected to loop
   1184 by section 11114 and gate valve 11116. When valve 11116 is opened, another valve
   is also opened to allow air to enter the loop 1184 to compensate for air exiting through
 5 separator 11112.
            FIG. 1ID shows a fluidized bed fibrous irradiating device 11121 with shielding.
   Fibrous material in a fluid, such as a gas, such as air under pressure, is delivered to a
   shielded containment vessel 11123 via piping 11125 and into a shielded fluidized bed
   portion 11127. Counter-current streams 11131 of fluid, such as a gas, and transverse
10 streams 11133 of fluid, such as a gas, that can be the same as or different from the fluid
   delivered counter-currently, combine to cause turbulence in the bed portion. Ionizing
   radiation is applied to the fluidized bed portion as the fibrous material is conveyed
   through the bed portion. For example, as shown, three beams of electrons from three
   Rhodotron machines 11135, 11136 and 11137 can be utilized. Advantageously, each
15 beam can penetrate into the fluidized bed a different depth and/or each beam can emit
   electrons of a different energy, such as 1, 3, and 5 MeV. As the irradiated fibrous material
   moves through the system, it cools by the action of gases, such as air, circulating at high
   speeds in the system and it is bathed in reactive gases, such as ozone and/or oxides of
   nitrogen, that are produced from the action of the ionizing radiation on the circulating
20 gases, such as air. If desired, the process can be repeated a desired number of times until
   the fibrous material has received a desired dose. While the fluidized bed has been
   illustrated such that its long axis is horizontal with the ground, in other implementations,
   the long axis of the bed is perpendicular to the ground so that the fibrous material falls
   under the influence of gravity.
25          FIG. 1 IE shows another fibrous material conveying and irradiating device 11140
   without shielding. Fibrous material 11144 is delivered from a bin 11142 to a first
   conveyer 11150 at a first level above the ground and then the material is transferred to a
   second conveyer 11152 at a lower height than the first conveyer. The trailing edge 11160
   of the first conveyer and the leading edge 11161 of the second conveyer 11152 define a
30 gap with a spacing S. For example, the spacing S can be between 4 inches and about 24
   inches. Material 11144 has enough momentum to free fall under gravity and then to be
                                                   65

   captured by the second conveyer 11152 without falling into the gap. During the free fall,
   ionizing radiation is applied to the material. This arrangement can be advantageous in
   that the ionizing radiation is less likely to damage the conveying system because the
   conveying system is not directly contacted by the radiation.
 5          After the material passes through the irradiating portion, a cooling fluid, such as a
   liquid (e.g., water) or a gas, such as liquid nitrogen at 77 K, can be applied to the material
   to aid in the cooling of the fibrous material. This process can be repeated more than one
   time if desired, e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 times or more, e.g., 15 times, to deliver the
   desired dose to the fibrous material. While, as shown, the long axis of the horn is
10 transverse to the direction of the material flow, other beam arrangements are possible. In
   some implementations, a beam of electrons is utilized as a principal ionizing radiation
   source and X-rays as a secondary ionizing radiation source. X-rays can be generated by
   having a metal target, such as a tantalum target, in the gap on the opposite side of the
   material, such that as the electrons that pass through the material they strike the target,
15 generating X-rays.
   Sonication and other Biomass Disruption Processes
            One or more sonication processing sequences can be used to process raw
   feedstock from a wide variety of different sources to extract useful substances from the
   feedstock, and to provide partially degraded organic material which functions as input to
20 further processing steps and/or sequences. Sonication can reduce the molecular weight
   and/or crystallinity of feedstock, such as one or more of any of the biomass materials
   described herein, e.g., one or more carbohydrate sources, such as cellulosic or
   lignocellulosic materials, or starchy materials.
            Referring again to FIG. 8, in one method, a first material 2 that includes cellulose
25 having a first number average molecular weight (TMNl) is dispersed in a medium, such as
   water, and sonicated and/or otherwise cavitated, to provide a second material 3 that
   includes cellulose having a second number average molecular weight (TMN2 ) lower than
   the first number average molecular weight. The second material (or the first and second
   material in certain embodiments) can be combined with a microorganism (e.g., a
30 bacterium or a yeast) that can utilize the second and/or first material to produce a fuel 5
                                                     66

   that is or includes hydrogen, an alcohol, an organic acid, a hydrocarbon or mixtures of
   any of these.
            Since the second material has cellulose having a reduced molecular weight
   relative to the first material, and in some instances, a reduced crystallinity as well, the
 5 second material is generally more dispersible, swellable, and/or soluble in a solution
   containing the microorganism, e.g., at a concentration of greater than 106
   microorganisms/mL. These properties make the second material 3 more susceptible to
   chemical, enzymatic, and/or microbial attack relative to the first material 2, which can
   greatly improve the production rate and/or production level of a desired product, e.g.,
10 ethanol. Sonication can also sterilize the materials, but should not be used while the
   microorganisms are supposed to be alive.
            In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight               (TMN2)  is
   lower than the first number average molecular weight          (TMN1)   by more than about 10
   percent, e.g., 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50 percent, 60 percent, or even more than about 75
15 percent.
            In some instances, the second material has cellulose that has as crystallinity       (TC 2)
   that is lower than the crystallinity   (TC 1 ) of the cellulose of the first material. For
   example,    (T C 2 ) can be lower than (TC1)   by more than about 10 percent, e.g., 15, 20, 25,
   30, 35, 40, or even more than about 50 percent.
20          In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity index (prior to sonication) is from
   about 40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60
   to about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after sonication is from about 10 to about
   50 percent, e.g., from about 15 to about 45 percent or from about 20 to about 40 percent.
   However, in certain embodiments, e.g., after extensive sonication, it is possible to have a
25 crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material after
   sonication is substantially amorphous.
            In some embodiments, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to
   sonication) is from about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about
   1,000,000 or from about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular
30 weight after sonication is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to
   about 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments,
                                                       67

   e.g., after extensive sonication, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight
   of less than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
            In some embodiments, the second material can have a level of oxidation          (102)
   that is higher than the level of oxidation  (T 0  1) of the first material. A higher level of
 5 oxidation of the material can aid in its dispersibility, swellability and/or solubility, further
   enhancing the materials susceptibility to chemical, enzymatic or microbial attack. In
   some embodiments, to increase the level of the oxidation of the second material relative
   to the first material, the sonication is performed in an oxidizing medium, producing a
   second material that is more oxidized than the first material. For example, the second
10 material can have more hydroxyl groups, aldehyde groups, ketone groups, ester groups or
   carboxylic acid groups, which can increase its hydrophilicity.
            In some embodiments, the sonication medium is an aqueous medium. If desired,
   the medium can include an oxidant, such as a peroxide (e.g., hydrogen peroxide), a
   dispersing agent and/or a buffer. Examples of dispersing agents include ionic dispersing
15 agents, e.g., sodium lauryl sulfate, and non-ionic dispersing agents, e.g., poly(ethylene
   glycol).
            In other embodiments, the sonication medium is non-aqueous. For example, the
   sonication can be performed in a hydrocarbon, e.g., toluene or heptane, an ether, e.g.,
   diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran, or even in a liquefied gas such as argon, xenon, or
20 nitrogen.
            Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that
   sonication breaks bonds in the cellulose by creating bubbles in the medium containing the
   cellulose, which grow and then violently collapse. During the collapse of the bubble,
   which can take place in less than a nanosecond, the implosive force raises the local
25 temperature within the bubble to about 5100 K (even higher in some instance; see, e.g.,
   Suslick et al., Nature 434, 52-55) and generates pressures of from a few hundred
   atmospheres to over 1000 atmospheres or more. It is these high temperatures and
   pressures that break the bonds. In addition, without wishing to be bound by any
   particular theory, it is believed that reduced crystallinity arises, at least in part, from the
30 extremely high cooling rates during collapse of the bubbles, which can be greater than
   about 1011 K/second. The high cooling rates generally do not allow the cellulose to
                                                    68

   organize and crystallize, resulting in materials that have reduced crystallinity. Ultrasonic
   systems and sonochemistry are discussed in, e.g., Olli et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,766,764;
   Roberts, U.S. Patent No. 5,828,156; Mason, Chemistry with Ultrasound, Elsevier,
   Oxford, (1990); Suslick (editor), Ultrasound: its Chemical, Physical and Biological
 5 Effects, VCH, Weinheim, (1988); Price, "Current Trends in Sonochemistry" Royal
   Society of Chemistry, Cambridge, (1992); Suslick et al., Ann. Rev. Mater. Sci. 29,
   295, (1999); Suslick et al., Nature 353, 414 (1991); Hiller et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 69,
   1182 (1992); Barber et al., Nature, 352, 414 (1991); Suslick et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc.,
   108, 5641 (1986); Tang et al., Chem. Comm., 2119 (2000); Wang et al., Advanced
10 Mater., 12, 1137 (2000); Landau et al., J. of Catalysis, 201, 22 (2001); Perkas et al.,
   Chem. Comm., 988 (2001); Nikitenko et al., Angew. Chem. Inter. Ed. (December
   2001); Shafi et al., J. Phys. Chem B 103, 3358 (1999); Avivi et al., J. Amer. Chem.
   Soc. 121, 4196 (1999); and Avivi et al., J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 122, 4331 (2000).
   Sonication Systems
15         FIG. 12 shows a general system in which a cellulosic material stream 1210 is
   mixed with a water stream 1212 in a reservoir 1214 to form a process stream 1216. A
   first pump 1218 draws process stream 1216 from reservoir 1214 and toward a flow cell
   1224. Ultrasonic transducer 1226 transmits ultrasonic energy into process stream 1216 as
   the process stream flows through flow cell 1224. A second pump 1230 draws process
20 stream 1216 from flow cell 1224 and toward subsequent processing.
           Reservoir 1214 includes a first intake 1232 and a second intake 1234 in fluid
   communication with a volume 1236. A conveyor (not shown) delivers cellulosic material
   stream 1210 to reservoir 1214 through first intake 1232. Water stream 1212 enters
   reservoir 1214 through second intake 1234. In some embodiments, water stream 1212
25 enters volume 1236 along a tangent establishing a swirling flow within volume 1236. In
   certain embodiments, cellulosic material stream 1210 and water stream 1212 can be
   introduced into volume 1236 along opposing axes to enhance mixing within the volume.
           Valve 1238 controls the flow of water stream 1212 through second intake 1232 to
   produce a desired ratio of cellulosic material to water (e.g., approximately 10% cellulosic
30 material, weight by volume). For example, 2000 tons/day of cellulosic material can be
                                                 69

   combined with 1 million to 1.5 million gallons/day, e.g., 1.25 million gallons/day, of
   water.
           Mixing of cellulosic material and water in reservoir 1214 is controlled by the size
   of volume 1236 and the flow rates of cellulosic material and water into the volume. In
 5 some embodiments, volume 1236 is sized to create a minimum mixing residence time for
   the cellulosic material and water. For example, when 2000 tons/day of cellulosic
   material and 1.25 million gallons/day of water are flowing through reservoir 1214,
   volume 1236 can be about 32,000 gallons to produce a minimum mixing residence time
   of about 15 minutes.
10         Reservoir 1214 includes a mixer 1240 in fluid communication with volume 1236.
   Mixer 1240 agitates the contents of volume 1236 to disperse cellulosic material
   throughout the water in the volume. For example, mixer 1240 can be a rotating vane
   disposed in reservoir 1214. In some embodiments, mixer 1240 disperses the cellulosic
   material substantially uniformly throughout the water.
15         Reservoir 1214 further includes an exit 1242 in fluid communication with volume
   1236 and process stream 1216. The mixture of cellulosic material and water in volume
   1236 flows out of reservoir 1214 via exit 1242. Exit 1242 is arranged near the bottom of
   reservoir 1214 to allow gravity to pull the mixture of cellulosic material and water out of
   reservoir 1214 and into process stream 1216.
20         First pump 1218 (e.g., any of several recessed impeller vortex pumps made by
   Essco Pumps & Controls, Los Angeles, California) moves the contents of process stream
   1216 toward flow cell 1224. In some embodiments, first pump 1218 agitates the contents
   of process stream 1216 such that the mixture of cellulosic material and water is
   substantially uniform at inlet 1220 of flow cell 1224. For example, first pump 1218
25 agitates process stream 1216 to create a turbulent flow that persists along the process
   stream between the first pump and inlet 1220 of flow cell 1224.
           Flow cell 1224 includes a reactor volume 1244 in fluid communication with inlet
   1220 and outlet 1222. In some embodiments, reactor volume 1244 is a stainless steel
   tube capable of withstanding elevated pressures (e.g., 10 bars). In addition or in the
30 alternative, reactor volume 1244 includes a rectangular cross section.
                                                70

           Flow cell 1224 further includes a heat exchanger 1246 in thermal communication
   with at least a portion of reactor volume 1244. Cooling fluid 1248 (e.g., water) flows into
   heat exchanger 1246 and absorbs heat generated when process stream 1216 is sonicated
   in reactor volume 1244. In some embodiments, the flow rate and/or the temperature of
 5 cooling fluid 1248 into heat exchanger 1246 is controlled to maintain an approximately
   constant temperature in reactor volume 1244. In some embodiments, the temperature of
   reactor volume 1244 is maintained at 20 to 50 'C, e.g., 25, 30, 35, 40, or 45 C.
   Additionally or alternatively, heat transferred to cooling fluid 1248 from reactor volume
   1244 can be used in other parts of the overall process.
10         An adapter section 1226 creates fluid communication between reactor volume
   1244 and a booster 1250 coupled (e.g., mechanically coupled using a flange) to ultrasonic
   transducer 1226. For example, adapter section 1226 can include a flange and O-ring
   assembly arranged to create a leak tight connection between reactor volume 1244 and
   booster 1250. In some embodiments, ultrasonic transducer 1226 is a high-powered
15 ultrasonic transducer made by Hielscher Ultrasonics of Teltow, Germany.
           In operation, a generator 1252 delivers electricity to ultrasonic transducer 1252.
   Ultrasonic transducer 1226 includes a piezoelectric element that converts the electrical
   energy into sound in the ultrasonic range. In some embodiments, the materials are
   sonicated using sound having a frequency of from about 16 kHz to about 110 kHz, e.g.,
20 from about 18 kHz to about 75 kHz or from about 20 kHz to about 40 kHz. (e.g., sound
   having a frequency of 20 kHz to 40 kHz). In some implementations, sonication is
   performed, for example, at a frequency of between about 15 kHz and about 25 kHz, such
   as between about 18 kHz and 22 kHz. In specific embodiments, sonicating can
   performed utilizing a 1 KW or larger horn, e.g., a 2, 3, 4, 5, or even a 10 KW horn.
25         The ultrasonic energy is then delivered to the working medium through booster
   1248. The ultrasonic energy traveling through booster 1248 in reactor volume 1244
   creates a series of compressions and rarefactions in process stream 1216 with an intensity
   sufficient to create cavitation in process stream 1216. Cavitation disaggregates the
   cellulosic material dispersed in process stream 1216. Cavitation also produces free
30 radicals in the water of process stream 1216. These free radicals act to further break
   down the cellulosic material in process stream 1216.
                                                  71

            In general, 5 to 4000 MJ/m 3 , e.g., 10, 25, 50, 100, 250, 500, 750, 1000, 2000, or
   3000 MJ/m 3 , of ultrasonic energy is applied to process stream 16 flowing at a rate of
   about 0.2 m3/s (about 3200 gallons/min). After exposure to ultrasonic energy in reactor
   volume 1244, process stream 1216 exits flow cell 1224 through outlet 1222. Second
 5 pump 1230 moves process stream 1216 to subsequent processing (e.g., any of several
   recessed impeller vortex pumps made by Essco Pumps & Controls, Los Angeles,
   California).
            While certain embodiments have been described, other embodiments are possible.
            As an example, while process stream 1216 has been described as a single flow
10 path, other arrangements are possible. In some embodiments for example, process stream
   1216 includes multiple parallel flow paths (e.g., flowing at a rate of 10 gallon/min). In
   addition or in the alternative, the multiple parallel flow paths of process stream 1216 flow
   into separate flow cells and are sonicated in parallel (e.g., using a plurality of 16 kW
   ultrasonic transducers).
15          As another example, while a single ultrasonic transducer 1226 has been described
   as being coupled to flow cell 1224, other arrangements are possible. In some
   embodiments, a plurality of ultrasonic transducers 1226 are arranged in flow cell 1224
   (e.g., ten ultrasonic transducers can be arranged in a flow cell 1224). In some
   embodiments, the sound waves generated by each of the plurality of ultrasonic
20 transducers 1226 are timed (e.g., synchronized out of phase with one another) to enhance
   the cavitation acting upon process stream 1216.
            As another example, while a single flow cell 1224 has been described, other
   arrangements are possible. In some embodiments, second pump 1230 moves process
   stream to a second flow cell where a second booster and ultrasonic transducer further
25 sonicate process stream 1216.
            As still another example, while reactor volume 1244 has been described as a
   closed volume, reactor volume 1244 is open to ambient conditions in certain
   embodiments. In such embodiments, sonication pretreatment can be performed
   substantially simultaneously with other pretreatment techniques. For example, ultrasonic
30 energy can be applied to process stream 1216 in reactor volume 1244 while electron
   beams are simultaneously introduced into process stream 1216.
                                                   72

           As another example, while a flow-through process has been described, other
   arrangements are possible. In some embodiments, sonication can be performed in a batch
   process. For example, a volume can be filled with a 10% (weight by volume) mixture of
   cellulosic material in water and exposed to sound with intensity from about 50 W/cm2 to
 5 about 600 W/cm 2 , e.g., from about 75 W/cm 2 to about 300 W/cm 2 or from about 95
   W/cm 2 to about 200 W/cm 2 . Additionally or alternatively, the mixture in the volume can
   be sonicated from about 1 hour to about 24 hours, e.g., from about 1.5 hours to about 12
   hours, or from about 2 hours to about 10 hours. In certain embodiments, the material is
   sonicated for a pre-determined time, and then allowed to stand for a second pre
10 determined time before sonicating again.
           Referring now to FIG. 13, in some embodiments, two electroacoustic transducers
   are mechanically coupled to a single horn. As shown, a pair of piezoelectric transducers
   60 and 62 is coupled to a slotted bar horn 64 by respective intermediate coupling horns
   70 and 72, the latter also being known as booster horns. The mechanical vibrations
15 provided by the transducers, responsive to high frequency electrical energy applied
   thereto, are transmitted to the respective coupling horns, which may be constructed to
   provide a mechanical gain, such as a ratio of 1 to 1.2. The horns are provided with a
   respective mounting flange 74 and 76 for supporting the transducer and horn assembly in
   a stationary housing.
20         The vibrations transmitted from the transducers through the coupling or booster
   horns are coupled to the input surface 78 of the horn and are transmitted through the horn
   to the oppositely disposed output surface 80, which, during operation, is in forced
   engagement with a workpiece (not shown) to which the vibrations are applied.
           The high frequency electrical energy provided by the power supply 82 is fed to
25 each of the transducers, electrically connected in parallel, via a balancing transformer 84
   and a respective series connected capacitor 86 and 90, one capacitor connected in series
   with the electrical connection to each of the transducers. The balancing transformer is
   known also as "balun" standing for "balancing unit." The balancing transformer includes
   a magnetic core 92 and a pair of identical windings 94 and 96, also termed the primary
30 winding and secondary winding, respectively.
                                                 73

           In some embodiments, the transducers include commercially available
   piezoelectric transducers, such as Branson Ultrasonics Corporation models 105 or 502,
   each designed for operation at 20 kHz and a maximum power rating of 3 kW. The
   energizing voltage for providing maximum motional excursion at the output surface of
 5 the transducer is 930 volt rms. The current flow through a transducer may vary between
   zero and 3.5 ampere depending on the load impedance. At 930 volt rms the output
   motion is approximately 20 microns. The maximum difference in terminal voltage for
   the same motional amplitude, therefore, can be 186 volt. Such a voltage difference can
   give rise to large circulating currents flowing between the transducers. The balancing
10 unit 430 assures a balanced condition by providing equal current flow through the
   transducers, hence eliminating the possibility of circulating currents. The wire size of the
   windings must be selected for the full load current noted above and the maximum voltage
   appearing across a winding input is 93 volt.
           While ultrasonic transducer 1226 has been described as including one or more
15 piezoelectric active elements to create ultrasonic energy, other arrangements are possible.
   In some embodiments, ultrasonic transducer 1226 includes active elements made of other
   types of magnetostrictive materials (e.g., ferrous metals). Design and operation of such a
   high-powered ultrasonic transducer is discussed in Hansen et al., U.S. Patent No.
   6,624,539. In some embodiments, ultrasonic energy is transferred to process stream 16
20 through an electrohydraulic system.
           While ultrasonic transducer 1226 has been described as using the electromagnetic
   response of magnetorestrictive materials to produce ultrasonic energy, other
   arrangements are possible. In some embodiments, acoustic energy in the form of an
   intense shock wave can be applied directly to process stream 16 using an underwater
25 spark. In some embodiments, ultrasonic energy is transferred to process stream 16
   through a thermohydraulic system. For example, acoustic waves of high energy density
   can be produced by applying power across an enclosed volume of electrolyte, thereby
   heating the enclosed volume and producing a pressure rise that is subsequently
   transmitted through a sound propagation medium (e.g., process stream 1216). Design
30 and operation of such a thermohydraulic transducer is discussed in Hartmann et al., U.S.
   Patent 6,383,152.
                                                 74

            Some embodiments use a high frequency, rotor-stator device. This type of device
   produces high-shear, microcavitation forces, which can disintegrate biomass in contact
   with such forces. Two commercially available high-frequency, rotor-stator dispersion
   devices are the Supraton TM devices manufactured by Krupp Industrietechnik GmbH and
 5 marketed by Dorr-Oliver Deutschland GmbH of Connecticut, and the Dispax TM devices
   manufactured and marketed by Ika-Works, Inc. of Cincinnati, Ohio. Operation of such a
   microcavitation device is discussed in Stuart, U.S. Patent No. 5,370,999.
           In another biomass disruption technique, microwave or radiowave energy is
   applied to a treated or untreated biomass material, such as a lignocellulosic material, in a
10 manner that water within the biomass material is vaporized, but overall the biomass
   material undergoes little bulk heating. For example, a frequency of from about 10 MHz
   to about 300,000 MHz can be applied to the biomass material. In some instances the
   microwave or radiowave energy is applied in short pulses, e.g., having a duration of less
   than 0.1 seconds, e.g., less than 0.05 seconds, less than 0.03 seconds, less than 0.01
15 seconds or even less, e.g., 0.005 seconds. Without wishing to be bound by any particular
   theory, it is believed when the microwave or radiowave energy is applied in this manner,
   water is vaporized within the biomass material with explosive force, which disrupts the
   lignin and "peels" it away from the cellulose. At the same time, since application of such
   energy does not heat the bulk material, the lignin does not tend to re-apply onto the
20 cellulose, which could block access to the cellulose, e.g., by an enzyme or microbe.
   Many of the properties of lignin are described Carter Fox in a thesis entitled "Chemical
   and Thermal Characterization of Three Industrial Lignin and Their Corresponding Esters
   (May 2006, University of Idaho).
           In another biomass disruption technique, treated (e.g., using any treatment method
25 described herein) or untreated biomass material is subjected to a hot, compressed fluid,
   such as water. In such a method, the biomass is placed in a pressure vessel containing a
   fluid, such as water, at an elevated temperature, e.g., above 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110,
   120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, or above 180 'C. The pressure vessel is placed under gas
   pressure, such as under argon, nitrogen or air, and then stirred, e.g., with a two blade
30 turbine propeller for a period of time, e.g., 10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes, 45
   minutes, 60 minutes or 90 minutes. In some embodiments, the pressure is between about
                                                  75

   500 psig and 2000 psig, e.g., between about 650 psig and about 1500 psig or between
   about 700 psig and about 1200 psig. In some embodiments, the temperature is at or 5 or
   10 'C above a glass transition temperature for the lignin. Without wishing to be bound
   by any particular theory, it is believed that when the temperature is above the glass
 5 transition temperature of the lignin, the conditions in the pressure vessel cause the lignin
   to "peel" away from the cellulose, making the cellulose more exposed for breakdown,
   e.g., by an enzyme.
            In another biomass disruption technique, treated, e.g., irradiated, or untreated
   biomass material is delivered to a nip defined between two counter rotating pressure rolls,
10 which can be optionally heated. Pressure in the nip can be adjusted by the amount of
   biomass material fed into the nip and the spacing between the pressure rolls. In some
   embodiments, the pressure in the nip can be greater than 1,000 psi per linear inch, e.g.,
   greater than 2,500 psi, greater than 5,000 psi, greater than 7,500 psi, greater than 10,000
   psi, or even greater than 15,000 psi per linear inch. In some embodiments, the pressure
15 rolls are operated at an elevated temperature, e.g., above 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110,
   120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, or above 180 'C. In some embodiments, the rolls are
   operated at a temperature above a glass transition temperature of the lignin. Without
   wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that the pressure and heat in
   the nip can disrupt any lignin of the biomass material, making the cellulose more
20 accessible and available to an enzyme.
   Pyrolysis
            One or more pyrolysis processing sequences can be used to process raw feedstock
   from a wide variety of different sources to extract useful substances from the feedstock,
25 and to provide partially degraded organic material which functions as input to further
   processing steps and/or sequences.
            Referring again to the general schematic in FIG. 8, a first material 2 that includes
   cellulose having a first number average molecular weight     (TMN1)  is pyrolyzed, e.g., by
   heating the first material in a tube furnace, to provide a second material 3 that includes
30 cellulose having a second number average molecular weight       (TMN 2 ) lower than the first
                                                  76

   number average molecular weight. The second material (or the first and second material
   in certain embodiments) is/are combined with a microorganism (e.g., a bacterium or a
   yeast) that can utilize the second and/or first material to produce a fuel 5 that is or
   includes hydrogen, an alcohol (e.g., ethanol or butanol, such as n-, see or t-butanol), an
 5 organic acid, a hydrocarbon or mixtures of any of these.
            Since the second material has cellulose having a reduced molecular weight
   relative to the first material, and in some instances, a reduced crystallinity as well, the
   second material is generally more dispersible, swellable and/or soluble in a solution
   containing the microorganism, e.g., at a concentration of greater than 106
10 microorganisms/mL. These properties make the second material 3 more susceptible to
   chemical, enzymatic and/or microbial attack relative to the first material 2, which can
   greatly improve the production rate and/or production level of a desired product, e.g.,
   ethanol. Pyrolysis can also sterilize the first and second materials.
            In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight (TMN2) is
15 lower than the first number average molecular weight (TMN1) by more than about 10
   percent, e.g., 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50 percent, 60 percent, or even more than about 75
   percent.
            In some instances, the second material has cellulose that has as crystallinity (TC 2)
   that is lower than the crystallinity (TC1 ) of the cellulose of the first material. For
20 example, (TC2 ) can be lower than (TCt) by more than about 10 percent, e.g., 15, 20, 25,
   30, 35, 40, or even more than about 50 percent.
            In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity (prior to pyrolysis) is from about
   40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60 to
   about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after pyrolysis is from about 10 to about 50
25 percent, e.g., from about 15 to about 45 percent or from about 20 to about 40 percent.
   However, in certain embodiments, e.g., after extensive pyrolysis, it is possible to have a
   crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material after
   pyrolysis is substantially amorphous.
            In some embodiments, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to
30 pyrolysis) is from about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about
   1,000,000 or from about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular
                                                    77

   weight after pyrolysis is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to
   about 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments,
   e.g., after extensive pyrolysis, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight
   of less than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
 5          In some embodiments, the second material can have a level of oxidation         (102)
   that is higher than the level of oxidation   (To  1) of the first material. A higher level of
   oxidation of the material can aid in its dispersibility, swellability and/or solubility, further
   enhancing the materials susceptibility to chemical, enzymatic or microbial attack. In
   some embodiments, to increase the level of the oxidation of the second material relative
10 to the first material, the pyrolysis is performed in an oxidizing environment, producing a
   second material that is more oxidized than the first material. For example, the second
   material can have more hydroxyl groups, aldehyde groups, ketone groups, ester groups or
   carboxylic acid groups, which can increase its hydrophilicity.
            In some embodiments, the pyrolysis of the materials is continuous. In other
15 embodiments, the material is pyrolyzed for a pre-determined time, and then allowed to
   cool for a second pre-determined time before pyrolyzing again.
   Pyrolysis Systems
            FIG. 14 shows a process flow diagram 6000 that includes various steps in a
   pyrolytic feedstock pretreatment system. In first step 6010, a supply of dry feedstock is
20 received from a feed source.
            As described above, the dry feedstock from the feed source may be pre-processed
   prior to delivery to the pyrolysis chamber. For example, if the feedstock is derived from
   plant sources, certain portions of the plant material may be removed prior to collection of
   the plant material and/or before the plant material is delivered by the feedstock transport
25 device. Alternatively, or in addition, the biomass feedstock can be subjected to
   mechanical processing 6020 (e.g., to reduce the average length of fibers in the feedstock)
   prior to delivery to the pyrolysis chamber.
            Following mechanical processing, the feedstock undergoes a moisture adjustment
   step 6030. The nature of the moisture adjustment step depends upon the moisture content
30 of the mechanically processed feedstock. Typically, pyrolysis of feedstock occurs most
   efficiently when the moisture content of the feedstock is between about 10% and about
                                                    78

   30% (e.g., between 15% and 25%) by weight of the feedstock. If the moisture content of
   the feedstock is larger than about 40% by weight, the extra thermal load presented by the
   water content of the feedstock increases the energy consumption of subsequent pyrolysis
   steps.
 5         In some embodiments, if the feedstock has a moisture content which is larger than
   about 30% by weight, drier feedstock material 6220, which has a low moisture content,
   can be blended in, creating a feedstock mixture in step 6030 with an average moisture
   content that is within the limits discussed above. In certain embodiments, feedstock with
   a high moisture content can simply be dried by dispersing the feedstock material on a
10 moving conveyor that cycles the feedstock through an in-line heating unit. The heating
   unit evaporates a portion of the water present in the feedstock.
           In some embodiments, if the feedstock from step 6020 has a moisture content
   which is too low (e.g., lower than about 10% by weight), the mechanically processed
   feedstock can be combined with wetter feedstock material 6230 with a higher moisture
15 content, such as sewage sludge. Alternatively, or in addition, water 6240 can be added to
   the dry feedstock from step 6020 to increase its moisture content.
           In step 6040, the feedstock - now with its moisture content adjusted to fall within
   suitable limits - can be preheated in an optional preheating step 6040. Preheating step
   6040 can be used to increase the temperature of the feedstock to between 75 C and 150
20  C in preparation for subsequent pyrolysis of the feedstock. Depending upon the nature
   of the feedstock and the particular design of the pyrolysis chamber, preheating the
   feedstock can ensure that heat distribution within the feedstock remains more uniform
   during pyrolysis, and can reduce the thermal load on the pyrolysis chamber.
           The feedstock is then transported to a pyrolysis chamber to undergo pyrolysis in
25 step 6050. In some embodiments, transport of the feedstock is assisted by adding one or
   more pressurized gases 6210 to the feedstock stream. The gases create a pressure
   gradient in a feedstock transport conduit, propelling the feedstock into the pyrolysis
   chamber (and even through the pyrolysis chamber). In certain embodiments, transport of
   the feedstock occurs mechanically; that is, a transport system that includes a conveyor
30 such as an auger transports the feedstock to the pyrolysis chamber.
                                                 79

            Other gases 6210 can also be added to the feedstock prior to the pyrolysis
   chamber. In some embodiments, for example, one or more catalyst gases can be added to
   the feedstock to assist decomposition of the feedstock during pyrolysis. In certain
   embodiments, one or more scavenging agents can be added to the feedstock to trap
 5 volatile materials released during pyrolysis. For example, various sulfur-based
   compounds such as sulfides can be liberated during pyrolysis, and an agent such as
   hydrogen gas can be added to the feedstock to cause desulfurization of the pyrolysis
   products. Hydrogen combines with sulfides to form hydrogen sulfide gas, which can be
   removed from the pyrolyzed feedstock.
10         Pyrolysis of the feedstock within the chamber can include heating the feedstock to
   relatively high temperatures to cause partial decomposition of the feedstock. Typically,
   the feedstock is heated to a temperature in a range from 150 C to 1100 C. The
   temperature to which the feedstock is heated depends upon a number of factors, including
   the composition of the feedstock, the feedstock average particle size, the moisture
15 content, and the desired pyrolysis products. For many types of biomass feedstock, for
   example, pyrolysis temperatures between 300 C and 550 C are used.
           The residence time of the feedstock within the pyrolysis chamber generally
   depends upon a number of factors, including the pyrolysis temperature, the composition
   of the feedstock, the feedstock average particle size, the moisture content, and the desired
20 pyrolysis products. In some embodiments, feedstock materials are pyrolyzed at a
   temperature just above the decomposition temperature for the material in an inert
   atmosphere, e.g., from about 2 'C above to about 10 0C above the decomposition
   temperature or from about 3 C above to about 7 C above the decomposition
   temperature. In such embodiments, the material is generally kept at this temperature for
25 greater than 0.5 hours, e.g., greater than 1.0 hour or greater than about 2.0 hours. In other
   embodiments, the materials are pyrolyzed at a temperature well above the decomposition
   temperature for the material in an inert atmosphere, e.g., from about 75 C above to about
   175 0C above the decomposition temperature or from about 85 0C above to about 150 C
   above the decomposition temperature. In such embodiments, the material is generally
30 kept at this temperature for less than 0.5 hour, e.g., less 20 minutes, less than 10 minutes,
   less than 5 minutes or less than 2 minutes. In still other embodiments, the materials are
                                                  80

   pyrolyzed at an extreme temperature, e.g., from about 200 'C above to about 500 0C
   above the decomposition temperature of the material in an inert environment or from
   about 250 0C above to about 400 0C above the decomposition temperature. In such
   embodiments, the material us generally kept at this temperature for less than 1 minute,
 5 e.g., less than 30 seconds, 15 seconds, 10 seconds, 5 seconds, 1 second or less than 500
   ms. Such embodiments are typically referred to as flash pyrolysis.
            In some embodiments, the feedstock is heated relatively rapidly to the selected
   pyrolysis temperature within the chamber. For example, the chamber can be designed to
   heat the feedstock at a rate of between 500 'C/s and 11,000 'C/s, for example from 500
10 0C/s  to 1000 0C/s.
            A turbulent flow of feedstock material within the pyrolysis chamber is usually
   advantageous, as it ensures relatively efficient heat transfer to the feedstock material from
   the heating sub-system. Turbulent flow can be achieved, for example, by blowing the
   feedstock material through the chamber using one or more injected carrier gases 6210. In
15 general, the carrier gases are relatively inert towards the feedstock material, even at the
   high temperatures in the pyrolysis chamber. Exemplary carrier gases include, for
   example, nitrogen, argon, methane, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide. Alternatively,
   or in addition, mechanical transport systems such as augers can transport and circulate the
   feedstock within the pyrolysis chamber to create a turbulent feedstock flow.
20          In some embodiments, pyrolysis of the feedstock occurs substantially in the
   absence of oxygen and other reactive gases. Oxygen can be removed from the pyrolysis
   chamber by periodic purging of the chamber with high pressure nitrogen (e.g., at nitrogen
   pressures of 2 bar or more). Following purging of the chamber, a gas mixture present in
   the pyrolysis chamber (e.g., during pyrolysis of the feedstock) can include less than 4
25 mole% oxygen (e.g., less than 1 mole% oxygen, and even less than 0.5 mole% oxygen).
   The absence of oxygen ensures that ignition of the feedstock does not occur at the
   elevated pyrolysis temperatures.
            In certain embodiments, relatively small amounts of oxygen can be introduced
   into the feedstock and are present during pyrolysis. This technique is referred to as
30 oxidative pyrolysis. Typically, oxidative pyrolysis occurs in multiple heating stages. For
   example, in a first heating stage, the feedstock is heated in the presence of oxygen to
                                                   81

   cause partial oxidation of the feedstock. This stage consumes the available oxygen in the
   pyrolysis chamber. Then, in subsequent heating stages, the feedstock temperature is
   further elevated. With all of the oxygen in the chamber consumed, however, feedstock
   combustion does not occur, and combustion-free pyrolytic decomposition of the
 5 feedstock (e.g., to generate hydrocarbon products) occurs. In general, the process of
   heating feedstock in the pyrolysis chamber to initiate decomposition is endothermic.
   However, in oxidative pyrolysis, formation of carbon dioxide by oxidation of the
   feedstock is an exothermic process. The heat released from carbon dioxide formation can
   assist further pyrolysis heating stages, thereby lessening the thermal load presented by the
10 feedstock.
           In some embodiments, pyrolysis occurs in an inert environment, such as while
   feedstock materials are bathed in argon or nitrogen gas. In certain embodiments,
   pyrolysis can occur in an oxidizing environment, such as in air or argon enriched in air.
   In some embodiments, pyrolysis can take place in a reducing environment, such as while
15 feedstock materials are bathed in hydrogen gas. To aid pyrolysis, various chemical
   agents, such as oxidants, reductants, acids or bases can be added to the material prior to
   or during pyrolysis. For example, sulfuric acid can be added, or a peroxide (e.g., benzoyl
   peroxide) can be added.
           As discussed above, a variety of different processing conditions can be used,
20 depending upon factors such as the feedstock composition and the desired pyrolysis
   products. For example, for cellulose-containing feedstock material, relatively mild
   pyrolysis conditions can be employed, including flash pyrolysis temperatures between
   375 C and 450 C, and residence times of less than 1 second. As another example, for
   organic solid waste material such as sewage sludge, flash pyrolysis temperatures between
25 500 C and 650 C are typically used, with residence times of between 0.5 and 3 seconds.
   In general, many of the pyrolysis process parameters, including residence time, pyrolysis
   temperature, feedstock turbulence, moisture content, feedstock composition, pyrolysis
   product composition, and additive gas composition can be regulated automatically by a
   system of regulators and an automated control system.
30         Following pyrolysis step 6050, the pyrolysis products undergo a quenching step
   6250 to reduce the temperature of the products prior to further processing. Typically,
                                                  82

   quenching step 6250 includes spraying the pyrolysis products with streams of cooling
   water 6260. The cooling water also forms a slurry that includes solid, undissolved
   product material and various dissolved products. Also present in the product stream is a
   mixture that includes various gases, including product gases, carrier gases, and other
 5 types of process gases.
           The product stream is transported via in-line piping to a gas separator that
   performs a gas separation step 6060, in which product gases and other gases are separated
   from the slurry formed by quenching the pyrolysis products. The separated gas mixture
   is optionally directed to a blower 6130, which increases the gas pressure by blowing air
10 into the mixture. The gas mixture can be subjected to a filtration step 6140, in which the
   gas mixture passes through one or more filters (e.g., activated charcoal filters) to remove
   particulates and other impurities. In a subsequent step 6150, the filtered gas can be
   compressed and stored for further use. Alternatively, the filtered gas can be subjected to
   further processing steps 6160. For example, in some embodiments, the filtered gas can
15 be condensed to separate different gaseous compounds within the gas mixture. The
   different compounds can include, for example, various hydrocarbon products (e.g.,
   alcohols, alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, ethers) produced during pyrolysis. In certain
   embodiments, the filtered gas containing a mixture of hydrocarbon components can be
   combined with steam gas 6170 (e.g., a mixture of water vapor and oxygen) and subjected
20 to a cracking process to reduce molecular weights of the hydrocarbon components.
           In some embodiments, the pyrolysis chamber includes heat sources that burn
   hydrocarbon gases such as methane, propane, and/or butane to heat the feedstock. A
   portion 6270 of the separated gases can be recirculated into the pyrolysis chamber for
   combustion, to generate process heat to sustain the pyrolysis process.
25         In certain embodiments, the pyrolysis chamber can receive process heat that can
   be used to increase the temperature of feedstock materials. For example, irradiating
   feedstock with radiation (e.g., gamma radiation, electron beam radiation, or other types of
   radiation) can heat the feedstock materials to relatively high temperatures. The heated
   feedstock materials can be cooled by a heat exchange system that removes some of the
30 excess heat from the irradiated feedstock. The heat exchange system can be configured
                                                 83

   to transport some of the heat energy to the pyrolysis chamber to heat (or pre-heat)
   feedstock material, thereby reducing energy cost for the pyrolysis process.
            The slurry containing liquid and solid pyrolysis products can undergo an optional
   de-watering step 6070, in which excess water can be removed from the slurry via
 5 processes such as mechanical pressing and evaporation. The excess water 6280 can be
   filtered and then recirculated for further use in quenching the pyrolysis decomposition
   products in step 6250.
            The de-watered slurry then undergoes a mechanical separation step 6080, in
   which solid product material 6110 is separated from liquid product material 6090 by a
10 series of increasingly fine filters. In step 6100, the liquid product material 6090 can then
   be condensed (e.g., via evaporation) to remove waste water 6190, and purified by
   processes such as extraction. Extraction can include the addition of one or more organic
   solvents 6180, for example, to separate products such as oils from products such as
   alcohols. Suitable organic solvents include, for example, various hydrocarbons and halo
15 hydrocarbons. The purified liquid products 6200 can then be subjected to further
   processing steps. Waste water 6190 can be filtered if necessary, and recirculated for
   further use in quenching the pyrolysis decomposition products in step 6250.
            After separation in step 6080, the solid product material 6110 is optionally
   subjected to a drying step 6120 that can include evaporation of water. Solid material
20 6110 can then be stored for later use, or subjected to further processing steps, as
   appropriate.
            The pyrolysis process parameters discussed above are exemplary. In general,
   values of these parameters can vary widely according to the nature of the feedstock and
   the desired products. Moreover, a wide variety of different pyrolysis techniques,
25 including using heat sources such as hydrocarbon flames and/or furnaces, infrared lasers,
   microwave heaters, induction heaters, resistive heaters, and other heating devices and
   configurations can be used.
            A wide variety of different pyrolysis chambers can be used to decompose the
   feedstock. In some embodiments, for example, pyrolyzing feedstock can include heating
30 the material using a resistive heating member, such as a metal filament or metal ribbon.
                                                  84

   The heating can occur by direct contact between the resistive heating member and the
   material.
            In certain embodiments, pyrolyzing can include heating the material by induction,
   such as by using a Curie-Point pyrolyzer. In some embodiments, pyrolyzing can include
 5 heating the material by the application of radiation, such as infrared radiation. The
   radiation can be generated by a laser, such as an infrared laser.
            In certain embodiments, pyrolyzing can include heating the material with a
   convective heat. The convective heat can be generated by a flowing stream of heated
   gas. The heated gas can be maintained at a temperature of less than about 1200 0C, such
10 as less than 1000 0C, less than 750 'C, less than 600 'C, less than 400 0C or even less than
   300 0C. The heated gas can be maintained at a temperature of greater than about 250 0C.
   The convective heat can be generated by a hot body surrounding the first material, such
   as in a furnace.
            In some embodiments, pyrolyzing can include heating the material with steam at a
15 temperature above about 250 'C.
            An embodiment of a pyrolysis chamber is shown in FIG. 15. Chamber 6500
   includes an insulated chamber wall 6510 with a vent 6600 for exhaust gases, a plurality
   of burners 6520 that generate heat for the pyrolysis process, a transport duct 6530 for
   transporting the feedstock through chamber 6500, augers 6590 for moving the feedstock
20 through duct 6530 in a turbulent flow, and a quenching system 6540 that includes an
   auger 6610 for moving the pyrolysis products, water jets 6550 for spraying the pyrolysis
   products with cooling water, and a gas separator for separating gaseous products 6580
   from a slurry 6570 containing solid and liquid products.
            Another embodiment of a pyrolysis chamber is shown in FIG. 16. Chamber 6700
25 includes an insulated chamber wall 6710, a feedstock supply duct 6720, a sloped inner
   chamber wall 6730, burners 6740 that generate heat for the pyrolysis process, a vent 6750
   for exhaust gases, and a gas separator 6760 for separating gaseous products 6770 from
   liquid and solid products 6780. Chamber 6700 is configured to rotate in the direction
   shown by arrow 6790 to ensure adequate mixing and turbulent flow of the feedstock
30 within the chamber.
                                                 85

           A further embodiment of a pyrolysis chamber is shown in FIG. 17. Filament
   pyrolyzer 1712 includes a sample holder 1713 with resistive heating element 1714 in the
   form of a wire winding through the open space defined by the sample holder 1713.
   Optionally, the heated element can be spun about axis 1715 (as indicated by arrow 1716)
 5 to tumble the material that includes the cellulosic material in sample holder 1713. The
   space 1718 defined by enclosure 1719 is maintained at a temperature above room
   temperature, e.g., 200 to 250 'C. In a typical usage, a carrier gas, e.g., an inert gas, or an
   oxidizing or reducing gas, traverses through the sample holder 1713 while the resistive
   heating element is rotated and heated to a desired temperature, e.g., 325 'C. After an
10 appropriate time, e.g., 5 to 10 minutes, the pyrolyzed material is emptied from the sample
   holder. The system shown in FIG. 17 can be scaled and made continuous. For example,
   rather than a wire as the heating member, the heating member can be an auger screw.
   Material can continuously fall into the sample holder, striking a heated screw that
   pyrolizes the material. At the same time, the screw can push the pyrolyzed material out
15 of the sample holder to allow for the entry of fresh, unpyrolyzed material.
           Another embodiment of a pyrolysis chamber is shown in FIG. 18, which features
   a Curie-Point pyrolyzer 1820 that includes a sample chamber 1821 housing a
   ferromagnetic foil 1822. Surrounding the sample chamber 1821 is an RF coil 1823. The
   space 1824 defined by enclosure 1825 is maintained at a temperature above room
20 temperature, e.g., 200 to 250 'C. In a typical usage, a carrier gas traverses through the
   sample chamber 1821 while the foil 1822 is inductively heated by an applied RF field to
   pyrolize the material at a desired temperature.
           Yet another embodiment of a pyrolysis chamber is shown in FIG. 19. Furnace
   pyrolyzer 130 includes a movable sample holder 131 and a furnace 132. In a typical
25 usage, the sample is lowered (as indicated by arrow 137) into a hot zone 135 of furnace
   132, while a carrier gas fills the housing 136 and traverses through the sample holder
   131. The sample is heated to the desired temperature for a desired time to provide a
   pyrolyzed product. The pyrolyzed product is removed from the pyrolyzer by raising the
   sample holder (as indicated by arrow 134).
30         In certain embodiments, as shown in FIG. 20, a cellulosic target 140 can be
   pyrolyzed by treating the target, which is housed in a vacuum chamber 141, with laser
                                                 86

   light, e.g., light having a wavelength of from about 225 nm to about 1500 nm. For
   example, the target can be ablated at 266 nm, using the fourth harmonic of a Nd-YAG
   laser (Spectra Physics, GCR170, San Jose, Calif.). The optical configuration shown
   allows the nearly monochromatic light 143 generated by the laser 142 to be directed
 5 using mirrors 144 and 145 onto the target after passing though a lens 146 in the vacuum
   chamber 141. Typically, the pressure in the vacuum chamber is maintained at less than
   about   10-6 mm Hg. In some embodiments, infrared radiation is used, e.g., 1.06 micron
   radiation from an Nd-YAG laser. In such embodiments, an infrared sensitive dye can be
   combined with the cellulosic material to produce a cellulosic target. The infrared dye can
10 enhance the heating of the cellulosic material. Laser ablation is described by Blanchet
   Fincher et al., in U.S. Patent No. 5,942,649.
            Referring to FIG. 21, in some embodiments, a cellulosic material can be flash
   pyrolyzed by coating a tungsten filament 150, such as a 5 to 25 mil tungsten filament,
   with the desired cellulosic material while the material is housed in a vacuum chamber
15 151. To affect pyrolysis, current is passed through the filament, which causes a rapid
   heating of the filament for a desired time. Typically, the heating is continued for seconds
   before allowing the filament to cool. In some embodiments, the heating is performed a
   number of times to effect the desired amount of pyrolysis.
            In certain embodiments, carbohydrate-containing biomass material can be heated
20 in an absence of oxygen in a fluidized bed reactor. If desired, the carbohydrate
   containing biomass can have relatively thin cross-sections, and can include any of the
   fibrous materials described herein, for efficient heat transfer. The material can be heated
   by thermal transfer from a hot metal or ceramic, such as glass beads or sand in the
   reactor, and the resulting pyrolysis liquid or oil can be transported to a central refinery for
25 making combustible fuels or other useful products.
            In some embodiments, irradiating the biomass material, e.g., with a beam of
   particles, such as electrons, prior to pyrolysis can lower the pyrolysis temperature,
   resulting in less energy being consumed during pyrolysis.
   Oxidation
30          One or more oxidative processing sequences can be used to process raw feedstock
   from a wide variety of different sources to extract useful substances from the feedstock,
                                                  87

   and to provide partially degraded organic material which functions as input to further
   processing steps and/or sequences.
           Referring again to FIG. 8, a first material 2 that includes cellulose having a first
   number average molecular weight      (TMN1)     and having a first oxygen content  (T 0 1 ) is
 5 oxidized, e.g., by heating the first material in a tube furnace in stream of air or oxygen
   enriched air, to provide a second material 3 that includes cellulose having a second
   number average molecular weight      (TMN2)     and having a second oxygen content      (T 0 2)
   higher than the first oxygen content   (T 0 1).  The second material (or the first and second
   material in certain embodiments) can be, e.g., combined with a resin, such as a molten
10 thermoplastic resin or a microorganism, to provide a composite 4 having desirable
   mechanical properties, or a fuel 5
           Such materials can also be combined with a solid and/or a liquid. For example,
   the liquid can be in the form of a solution and the solid can be particulate in form. The
   liquid and/or solid can include a microorganism, e.g., a bacterium, and/or an enzyme.
15 For example, the bacterium and/or enzyme can work on the cellulosic or lignocellulosic
   material to produce a fuel, such as ethanol, or a coproduct, such as a protein. Fuels and
   coproducts are described in FIBROUS MATERIALS AND COMPOSITES," USSN
   11/453,951, filed June 15, 2006. The entire contents of each of the foregoing
   applications are incorporated herein by reference.
20         In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight is not more
   than 97 percent lower than the first number average molecular weight, e.g., not more than
   95 percent, 90, 85, 80, 75, 70, 65, 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 30, 20, 12.5, 10.0, 7.5, 5.0, 4.0, 3.0,
   2.5, 2.0 or not more than 1.0 percent lower than the first number average molecular
   weight. The amount of reduction of molecular weight will depend upon the application.
25         In some embodiments in which the materials are used to make a fuel or a
   coproduct, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to oxidation) is from
   about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about 1,000,000 or from
   about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular weight after
   oxidation is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to about
30 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments, e.g.,
                                                     88

   after extensive oxidation, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight of less
   than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
            In some embodiments, the second oxygen content is at least about five percent
   higher than the first oxygen content, e.g., 7.5 percent higher, 10.0 percent higher, 12.5
 5 percent higher, 15.0 percent higher or 17.5 percent higher. In some preferred
   embodiments, the second oxygen content is at least about 20.0 percent higher than the
   oxygen content of the first material. Oxygen content is measured by elemental analysis
   by pyrolyzing a sample in a furnace operating 1300 0C or higher. A suitable elemental
   analyzer is the LECO CHNS-932 analyzer with a VTF-900 high temperature pyrolysis
10 furnace.
            In some embodiments, oxidation of first material 200 does not result in a
   substantial change in the crystallinity of the cellulose. However, in some instances, e.g.,
   after extreme oxidation, the second material has cellulose that has as crystallinity    (TC 2)
   that is lower than the crystallinity (TC1 ) of the cellulose of the first material. For
15 example,   (T C 2 ) can be lower than (TCt) by more than about 5 percent, e.g., 10, 15, 20, or
   even 25 percent. This can be desirable to enhance solubility of the materials in a liquid,
   such as a liquid that includes a bacterium and/or an enzyme.
            In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity index (prior to oxidation) is from
   about 40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60
20 to about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after oxidation is from about 30 to about
   75.0 percent, e.g., from about 35.0 to about 70.0 percent or from about 37.5 to about 65.0
   percent. However, in certain embodiments, e.g., after extensive oxidation, it is possible
   to have a crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material
   after oxidation is substantially amorphous.
25          Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that oxidation
   increases the number of hydrogen-bonding groups on the cellulose, such as hydroxyl
   groups, aldehyde groups, ketone groups carboxylic acid groups or anhydride groups,
   which can increase its dispersibility and/or its solubility (e.g., in a liquid). To further
   improve dispersibility in a resin, the resin can include a component that includes
30 hydrogen-bonding groups, such as one or more anhydride groups, carboxylic acid groups,
   hydroxyl groups, amide groups, amine groups or mixtures of any of these groups. In
                                                    89

   some preferred embodiments, the component includes a polymer copolymerized with
   and/or grafted with maleic anhydride. Such materials are available from Dupont under
   the tradename FUSABOND".
           Generally, oxidation of first material 200 occurs in an oxidizing environment. For
 5 example, the oxidation can be effected or aided by pyrolysis in an oxidizing environment,
   such as in air or argon enriched in air. To aid in the oxidation, various chemical agents,
   such as oxidants, acids or bases can be added to the material prior to or during oxidation.
   For example, a peroxide (e.g., benzoyl peroxide) can be added prior to oxidation.
   Oxidation Systems
10         FIG. 22 shows a process flow diagram 5000 that includes various steps in an
   oxidative feedstock pretreatment system. In first step 5010, a supply of dry feedstock is
   received from a feed source. The feed source can include, for example, a storage bed or
   container that is connected to an in-line oxidation reactor via a conveyor belt or another
   feedstock transport device.
15         As described above, the dry feedstock from the feed source may be pre-processed
   prior to delivery to the oxidation reactor. For example, if the feedstock is derived from
   plant sources, certain portions of the plant material may be removed prior to collection of
   the plant material and/or before the plant material is delivered by the feedstock transport
   device. Alternatively, or in addition, the biomass feedstock can be subjected to
20 mechanical processing (e.g., to reduce the average length of fibers in the feedstock) prior
   to delivery to the oxidation reactor.
           Following mechanical processing 5020, feedstock 5030 is transported to a mixing
   system which introduces water 5150 into the feedstock in a mechanical mixing process.
   Combining water with the processed feedstock in mixing step 5040 creates an aqueous
25 feedstock slurry 5050, which can then be treated with one or more oxidizing agents.
           Typically, one liter of water is added to the mixture for every 0.02 kg to 1.0 kg of
   dry feedstock. The ratio of feedstock to water in the mixture depends upon the source of
   the feedstock and the specific oxidizing agents used further downstream in the overall
   process. For example, in typical industrial processing sequences for lignocellulosic
30 biomass, aqueous feedstock slurry 5050 includes from about 0.5 kg to about 1.0 kg of dry
   biomass per liter of water.
                                                 90

           In some embodiments, one or more fiber-protecting additives 5170 can also be
   added to the feedstock slurry in feedstock mixing step 5040. Fiber-protecting additives
   help to reduce degradation of certain types of biomass fibers (e.g., cellulose fibers) during
   oxidation of the feedstock. Fiber-protecting additives can be used, for example, if a
 5 desired product from processing a lignocellulosic feedstock includes cellulose fibers.
   Exemplary fiber-protecting additives include magnesium compounds such as magnesium
   hydroxide. Concentrations of fiber-protecting additives in feedstock slurry 5050 can be
   from 0.1% to 0.4% of the dry weight of the biomass feedstock, for example.
           In certain embodiments, aqueous feedstock slurry 5050 can be subjected to an
10 optional extraction 5180 with an organic solvent to remove water-insoluble substances
   from the slurry. For example, extraction of slurry 5050 with one or more organic
   solvents yields a purified slurry and an organic waste stream 5210 that includes water
   insoluble materials such as fats, oils, and other non-polar, hydrocarbon-based substances.
   Suitable solvents for performing extraction of slurry 5050 include various alcohols,
15 hydrocarbons, and halo-hydrocarbons, for example.
           In some embodiments, aqueous feedstock slurry 5050 can be subjected to an
   optional thermal treatment 5190 to further prepare the feedstock for oxidation. An
   example of a thermal treatment includes heating the feedstock slurry in the presence of
   pressurized steam. In fibrous biomass feedstock, the pressurized steam swells the fibers,
20 exposing a larger fraction of fiber surfaces to the aqueous solvent and to oxidizing agents
   that are introduced in subsequent processing steps.
           In certain embodiments, aqueous feedstock slurry 5050 can be subjected to an
   optional treatment with basic agents 5200. Treatment with one or more basic agents can
   help to separate lignin from cellulose in lignocellulosic biomass feedstock, thereby
25 improving subsequent oxidation of the feedstock. Exemplary basic agents include alkali
   and alkaline earth hydroxides such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and
   calcium hydroxide. In general, a variety of basic agents can be used, typically in
   concentrations from about 0.010%to about 0.50%of the dry weight of the feedstock.
           Aqueous feedstock slurry 5050 is transported (e.g., by an in-line piping system) to
30 a chamber, which can be an oxidation preprocessing chamber or an oxidation reactor. In
   oxidation preprocessing step 5060, one or more oxidizing agents 5160 are added to
                                                  91

   feedstock slurry 5050 to form an oxidizing medium. In some embodiments, for example,
   oxidizing agents 5160 can include hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide can be added
   to slurry 5050 as an aqueous solution, and in proportions ranging from 3% to between
   30% and 35% by weight of slurry 5050. Hydrogen peroxide has a number of advantages
 5 as an oxidizing agent. For example, aqueous hydrogen peroxide solution is relatively
   inexpensive, is relatively chemically stable, and is not particularly hazardous relative to
   other oxidizing agents (and therefore does not require burdensome handling procedures
   and expensive safety equipment). Moreover, hydrogen peroxide decomposes to form
   water during oxidation of feedstock, so that waste stream cleanup is relatively
10 straightforward and inexpensive.
           In certain embodiments, oxidizing agents 5160 can include oxygen (e.g., oxygen
   gas) either alone, or in combination with hydrogen peroxide. Oxygen gas can be bubbled
   into slurry 5050 in proportions ranging from 0.5% to 10% by weight of slurry 5050.
   Alternatively, or in addition, oxygen gas can also be introduced into a gaseous phase in
15 equilibrium with slurry 5050 (e.g., a vapor head above slurry 5050). The oxygen gas can
   be introduced into either an oxidation preprocessing chamber or into an oxidation reactor
   (or into both), depending upon the configuration of the oxidative processing system.
   Typically, for example, the partial pressure of oxygen in the vapor above slurry 5050 is
   larger than the ambient pressure of oxygen, and ranges from 0.5 bar to 35 bar, depending
20 upon the nature of the feedstock.
           The oxygen gas can be introduced in pure form, or can be mixed with one or more
   carrier gases. For example, in some embodiments, high-pressure air provides the oxygen
   in the vapor. In certain embodiments, oxygen gas can be supplied continuously to the
   vapor phase to ensure that a concentration of oxygen in the vapor remains within certain
25 predetermined limits during processing of the feedstock. In some embodiments, oxygen
   gas can be introduced initially in sufficient concentration to oxidize the feedstock, and
   then the feedstock can be transported to a closed, pressurized vessel (e.g., an oxidation
   reactor) for processing.
           In certain embodiments, oxidizing agents 5160 can include nascent oxygen (e.g.,
30 oxygen radicals). Typically, nascent oxygen is produced as needed in an oxidation
   reactor or in a chamber in fluid communication with an oxidation reactor by one or more
                                                 92

   decomposition reactions. For example, in some embodiments, nascent oxygen can be
   produced from a reaction between NO and       02  in a gas mixture or in solution. In certain
   embodiments, nascent oxygen can be produced from decomposition of HOCI in solution.
   Other methods by which nascent oxygen can be produced include via electrochemical
 5 generation in electrolyte solution, for example.
            In general, nascent oxygen is an efficient oxidizing agent due to the relatively
   high reactivity of the oxygen radical. However, nascent oxygen can also be a relatively
   selective oxidizing agent. For example, when lignocellulosic feedstock is treated with
   nascent oxygen, selective oxidation of lignin occurs in preference to the other
10 components of the feedstock such as cellulose. As a result, oxidation of feedstock with
   nascent oxygen provides a method for selective removal of the lignin fraction in certain
   feedstocks. Typically, nascent oxygen concentrations of between about 0.5% and 5% of
   the dry weight of the feedstock are used to effect efficient oxidation.
            Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that nascent oxygen reacts
15 with lignocellulosic feedstock according to at least two different mechanisms. In a first
   mechanism, nascent oxygen undergoes an addition reaction with the lignin, resulting in
   partial oxidation of the lignin, which solubilizes the lignin in aqueous solution. As a
   result, the solubilized lignin can be removed from the rest of the feedstock via washing.
   In a second mechanism, nascent oxygen disrupts butane cross-links and/or opens
20 aromatic rings that are connected via the butane cross-links. As a result, solubility of the
   lignin in aqueous solution increases, facilitating separation of the lignin fraction from the
   remainder of the feedstock via washing.
            In some embodiments, oxidizing agents 5160 include ozone (03). The use of
   ozone can introduce several chemical handling considerations in the oxidation processing
25 sequence. If heated too vigorously, an aqueous solution of ozone can decompose
   violently, with potentially adverse consequences for both human system operators and
   system equipment. Accordingly, ozone is typically generated in a thermally isolated,
   thick-walled vessel separate from the vessel that contains the feedstock slurry, and
   transported thereto at the appropriate process stage.
30          Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that ozone decomposes into
   oxygen and oxygen radicals, and that the oxygen radicals (e.g., nascent oxygen) are
                                                  93

   responsible for the oxidizing properties of ozone in the manner discussed above. Ozone
   typically preferentially oxidizes the lignin fraction in lignocellulosic materials, leaving
   the cellulose fraction relatively undisturbed.
            Conditions for ozone-based oxidation of biomass feedstock generally depend
 5 upon the nature of the biomass. For example, for cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic
   feedstocks, ozone concentrations of from 0.1 g/m 3 to 20 g/m 3 of dry feedstock provide for
   efficient feedstock oxidation. Typically, the water content in slurry 5050 is between 10%
   by weight and 80% by weight (e.g., between 40% by weight and 60% by weight).
   During ozone-based oxidation, the temperature of slurry 5050 can be maintained between
10 0 'C and 100 'C to avoid violent decomposition of the ozone.
           In some embodiments, feedstock slurry 5050 can be treated with an aqueous,
   alkaline solution that includes one or more alkali and alkaline earth hydroxides such as
   sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and calcium hydroxide, and then treated
   thereafter with an ozone-containing gas in an oxidation reactor. This process has been
15 observed to significantly increase decomposition of the biomass in slurry 5050.
   Typically, for example, a concentration of hydroxide ions in the alkaline solution is
   between 0.0010% and 10% by weight of slurry 5050. After the feedstock has been wetted
   via contact with the alkaline solution, the ozone-containing gas is introduced into the
   oxidation reactor, where it contacts and oxidizes the feedstock.
20          Oxidizing agents 5160 can also include other substances. In some embodiments,
   for example, halogen-based oxidizing agents such as chlorine and oxychlorine agents
   (e.g., hypochlorite) can be introduced into slurry 5050. In certain embodiments,
   nitrogen-containing oxidizing substances can be introduced into slurry 5050. Exemplary
   nitrogen-containing oxidizing substances include NO and NO 2, for example. Nitrogen
25 containing agents can also be combined with oxygen in slurry 5050 to create additional
   oxidizing agents. For example, NO and NO 2 both combine with oxygen in slurry 5050 to
   form nitrate compounds, which are effective oxidizing agents for biomass feedstock.
   Halogen- and nitrogen-based oxidizing agents can, in some embodiments, cause
   bleaching of the biomass feedstock, depending upon the nature of the feedstock. The
30 bleaching may be desirable for certain biomass-derived products that are extracted in
   subsequent processing steps.
                                                  94

           Other oxidizing agents can include, for example, various peroxyacids,
   peroxyacetic acids, persulfates, percarbonates, permanganates, osmium tetroxide, and
   chromium oxides.
           Following oxidation preprocessing step 5060, feedstock slurry 5050 is oxidized in
 5 step 5070. If oxidizing agents 5160 were added to slurry 5050 in an oxidation reactor,
   then oxidation proceeds in the same reactor. Alternatively, if oxidizing agents 5160 were
   added to slurry 5050 in a preprocessing chamber, then slurry 5050 is transported to an
   oxidation reactor via an in-line piping system. Once inside the oxidation reactor,
   oxidation of the biomass feedstock proceeds under a controlled set of environmental
10 conditions. Typically, for example, the oxidation reactor is a cylindrical vessel that is
   closed to the external environment and pressurized. Both batch and continuous operation
   is possible, although environmental conditions are typically easier to control in in-line
   batch processing operations.
           Oxidation of feedstock slurry 5050 typically occurs at elevated temperatures in
15 the oxidation reactor. For example, the temperature of slurry 5050 in the oxidation
   reactor is typically maintained above 100 C, e.g., in a range from 120 C to 240 C. For
   many types of biomass feedstock, oxidation is particularly efficient if the temperature of
   slurry 5050 is maintained between 150 C and 220 C. Slurry 5050 can be heating using
   a variety of thermal transfer devices. For example, in some embodiments, the oxidation
20 reactor contacts a heating bath that includes oil or molten salts. In certain embodiments,
   a series of heat exchange pipes surround and contact the oxidation reactor, and circulation
   of hot fluid within the pipes heats slurry 5050 in the reactor. Other heating devices that
   can be used to heat slurry 5050 include resistive heating elements, induction heaters, and
   microwave sources, for example.
25         The residence time of feedstock slurry 5050 in the oxidation reactor can be varied
   as desired to process the feedstock. Typically, slurry 5050 spends from 1 minute to 60
   minutes undergoing oxidation in the reactor. For relatively soft biomass material such as
   lignocellulosic matter, the residence time in the oxidation reactor can be from 5 minutes
   to 30 minutes, for example, at an oxygen pressure of between 3 and 12 bars in the reactor,
30 and at a slurry temperature of between 160 C and 210 C. For other types of feedstock,
   however, residence times in the oxidation reactor can be longer, e.g., as long 48 hours.
                                                 95

   To determine appropriate residence times for slurry 5050 in the oxidation reactor,
   aliquots of the slurry can be extracted from the reactor at specific intervals and analyzed
   to determine concentrations of particular products of interest such as complex
   saccharides. Information about the increase in concentrations of certain products in
 5 slurry 5050 as a function of time can be used to determine residence times for particular
   classes of feedstock material.
           In some embodiments, during oxidation of feedstock slurry 5050, adjustment of
   the slurry pH may be performed by introducing one or more chemical agents into the
   oxidation reactor. For example, in certain embodiments, oxidation occurs most
10 efficiently in a pH range of about 9-11. To maintain a pH in this range, agents such as
   alkali and alkaline earth hydroxides, carbonates, ammonia, and alkaline buffer solutions
   can be introduced into the oxidation reactor.
           Circulation of slurry 5050 during oxidation can be important to ensure sufficient
   contact between oxidizing agents 5160 and the feedstock. Circulation of the slurry can
15 be achieved using a variety of techniques. For example, in some embodiments, a
   mechanical stirring apparatus that includes impeller blades or a paddle wheel can be
   implemented in the oxidation reactor. In certain embodiments, the oxidation reactor can
   be a loop reactor, in which the aqueous solvent in which the feedstock is suspended is
   simultaneously drained from the bottom of the reactor and recirculated into the top of the
20 reactor via pumping, thereby ensuring that the slurry is continually re-mixed and does not
   stagnate within the reactor.
           After oxidation of the feedstock is complete, the slurry is transported to a
   separation apparatus where a mechanical separation step 5080 occurs. Typically,
   mechanical separation step 5080 includes one or more stages of increasingly fine filtering
25 of the slurry to mechanically separate the solid and liquid constituents.
           Liquid phase 5090 is separated from solid phase 5100, and the two phases are
   processed independently thereafter. Solid phase 5100 can optionally undergo a drying
   step 5120 in a drying apparatus, for example. Drying step 5120 can include, for example,
   mechanically dispersing the solid material onto a drying surface, and evaporating water
30 from solid phase 5100 by gentle heating of the solid material. Following drying step
                                                 96

   5120 (or, alternatively, without undergoing drying step 5120), solid phase 5100 is
   transported for further processing steps 5140.
           Liquid phase 5090 can optionally undergo a drying step 5110 to reduce the
   concentration of water in the liquid phase. In some embodiments, for example, drying
 5 step 5110 can include evaporation and/or distillation and/or extraction of water from
   liquid phase 5090 by gentle heating of the liquid. Alternatively, or in addition, one or
   more chemical drying agents can be used to remove water from liquid phase 5090.
   Following drying step 5110 (or alternatively, without undergoing drying step 5110),
   liquid phase 5090 is transported for further processing steps 5130, which can include a
10 variety of chemical and biological treatment steps such as chemical and/or enzymatic
   hydrolysis.
           Drying step 5110 creates waste stream 5220, an aqueous solution that can include
   dissolved chemical agents such as acids and bases in relatively low concentrations.
   Treatment of waste stream 5220 can include, for example, pH neutralization with one or
15 more mineral acids or bases. Depending upon the concentration of dissolved salts in
   waste stream 5220, the solution may be partially de-ionized (e.g., by passing the waste
   stream through an ion exchange system). Then, the waste stream - which includes
   primarily water - can be re-circulated into the overall process (e.g., as water 5150),
   diverted to another process, or discharged.
20         Typically, for lignocellulosic biomass feedstocks following separation step 5070,
   liquid phase 5090 includes a variety of soluble poly- and oligosaccharides, which can
   then be separated and/or reduced to smaller-chain saccharides via further processing
   steps. Solid phase 5100 typically includes primarily cellulose, for example, with smaller
   amounts of hemicellulose- and lignin-derived products.
25         In some embodiments, oxidation can be carried out at elevated temperature in a
   reactor such as a pyrolysis chamber. For example, referring again to FIG. 17, feedstock
   materials can be oxidized in filament pyrolyzer 1712. In a typical usage, an oxidizing
   carrier gas, e.g., air or an air/argon blend, traverses through the sample holder 1713 while
   the resistive heating element is rotated and heated to a desired temperature, e.g., 325 'C.
30 After an appropriate time, e.g., 5 to 10 minutes, the oxidized material is emptied from the
   sample holder. The system shown in FIG. 17 can be scaled and made continuous. For
                                                   97

   example, rather than a wire as the heating member, the heating member can be an auger
   screw. Material can continuously fall into the sample holder, striking a heated screw that
   pyrolizes the material. At the same time, the screw can push the oxidized material out of
   the sample holder to allow for the entry of fresh, unoxidized material.
 5         Feedstock materials can also be oxidized in any of the pyrolysis systems shown in
   FIGS. 18-20 and described above in the Pyrolysis Systems section.
           Referring again to FIG. 21, feedstock materials can be rapidly oxidized by coating
   a tungsten filament 150, together with an oxidant, such as a peroxide, with the desired
   cellulosic material while the material is housed in a vacuum chamber 151. To affect
10 oxidation, current is passed through the filament, which causes a rapid heating of the
   filament for a desired time. Typically, the heating is continued for seconds before
   allowing the filament to cool. In some embodiments, the heating is performed a number
   of times to effect the desired amount of oxidation.
           Referring again to FIG. 12, in some embodiments, feedstock materials can be
15 oxidized with the aid of sound and/or cavitation. Generally, to effect oxidation, the
   materials are sonicated in an oxidizing environment, such as water saturated with oxygen
   or another chemical oxidant, such as hydrogen peroxide.
           Referring again to FIGS. 9 and 10, in certain embodiments, ionizing radiation is
   used to aid in the oxidation of feedstock materials. Generally, to effect oxidation, the
20 materials are irradiated in an oxidizing environment, such as air or oxygen. For example,
   gamma radiation and/or electron beam radiation can be employed to irradiate the
   materials.
   Other Processes
           Steam explosion can be used alone without any of the processes described herein,
25 or in combination with any one or more of the processes described herein.
           FIG. 23 shows an overview of the entire process of converting a fiber source or
   feedstock 400 into a product 450, such as ethanol, by a process that includes shearing and
   steam explosion to produce a fibrous material 401, which is then hydrolyzed and
   converted, e.g., fermented, to produce the product. The fiber source can be transformed
30 into the fibrous material 401 through a number of possible methods, including at least
   one shearing process and at least one steam explosion process.
                                                98

           For example, one option includes shearing the fiber source, followed by optional
   screening step(s) and optional additional shearing step(s) to produce a sheared fiber
   source 402, which can then be steam exploded to produce the fibrous material 401. The
   steam explosion process is optionally followed by a fiber recovery process to remove
 5 liquids or the "liquor" 404, resulting from the steam exploding process. The material
   resulting from steam exploding the sheared fiber source may be further sheared by
   optional additional shearing step(s) and/or optional screening step(s).
           In another method, the fibrous material 401 is first steam exploded to produce a
   steam exploded fiber source 410. The resulting steam exploded fiber source is then
10 subjected to an optional fiber recovery process to remove liquids, or the liquor. The
   resulting steam exploded fiber source can then be sheared to produce the fibrous material.
   The steam exploded fiber source can also be subject to one or more optional screening
   steps and/or one or more optional additional shearing steps. The process of shearing and
   steam exploding the fiber source to produce the sheared and steam exploded fibrous
15 material will be further discussed below.
           The fiber source can be cut into pieces or strips of confetti material prior to
   shearing or steam explosion. The shearing processes can take place with the material in a
   dry state (e.g., having less than 0.25 percent by weight absorbed water), a hydrated state,
   or even while the material is partially or fully submerged in a liquid, such as water or
20 isopropanol. The process can also optimally include steps of drying the output after
   steam exploding or shearing to allow for additional steps of dry shearing or steam
   exploding. The steps of shearing, screening, and steam explosion can take place with or
   without the presence of various chemical solutions.
           In a steam explosion process, the fiber source or the sheared fiber source is
25 contacted with steam under high pressure, and the steam diffuses into the structures of the
   fiber source (e.g., the lignocellulosic structures). The steam then condenses under high
   pressure thereby "wetting" the fiber source. The moisture in the fiber source can
   hydrolyze any acetyl groups in the fiber source (e.g., the acetyl groups in the
   hemicellulose fractions), forming organic acids such as acetic and uronic acids. The
30 acids, in turn, can catalyze the depolymerization of hemicellulose, releasing xylan and
   limited amounts of glucan. The "wet" fiber source (or sheared fiber source, etc.) is then
                                                  99

   "exploded" when the pressure is released. The condensed moisture instantaneously
   evaporates due to the sudden decrease in pressure and the expansion of the water vapor
   exerts a shear force upon the fiber source (or sheared fiber source, etc.). A sufficient
   shear force will cause the mechanical breakdown of the internal structures (e.g., the
 5 lignocellulosic structures) of the fiber source.
           The sheared and steam exploded fibrous material is then converted into a useful
   product, such as ethanol. In some embodiments, the fibrous material is converted into a
   fuel. One method of converting the fibrous material into a fuel is by hydrolysis to
   produce fermentable sugars, 412, which are then fermented to produce the product.
10 Other methods of converting fibrous materials into fuels may also be used.
           In some embodiments, prior to combining with the microorganism, the sheared
   and steam exploded fibrous material 401 is sterilized to kill any competing
   microorganisms that may be on the fibrous material. For example, the fibrous material
   can be sterilized by exposing the fibrous material to radiation, such as infrared radiation,
15 ultraviolet radiation, or an ionizing radiation, such as gamma radiation. The
   microorganisms can also be killed using chemical sterilants, such as bleach (e.g., sodium
   hypochlorite), chlorhexidine, or ethylene oxide.
           One method to hydrolyze the sheared and steam exploded fibrous material is by
   the use of cellulases. Cellulases are a group of enzymes that act synergistically to
20 hydrolyze cellulose. Commercially available Accellerase@ 1000 enzyme complex,
   which contains a complex of enzymes that reduces lignocellulosic biomass into
   fermentable sugars, can also be used.
           According to current understanding, the components of cellulase include
   endoglucanases, exoglucanases (cellobiohydrolases), and b-glucosidases (cellobiases).
25 Synergism between the cellulase components exists when hydrolysis by a combination of
   two or more components exceeds the sum of the activities expressed by the individual
   components. The generally accepted mechanism of action of a cellulase system
   (particularly of T longibrachiatum)on crystalline cellulose is that endoglucanase
   hydrolyzes intemal    p-1,4-glycosidic bonds of the amorphous regions, thereby increasing
30 the number of exposed non-reducing ends. Exoglucanases then cleave off cellobiose
   units from the non-reducing ends, which in turn are hydrolyzed to individual glucose
                                                  100

   units by b-glucosidases. There are several configurations of both endo- and exo
   glucanases differing in stereospecificities. In general, the synergistic action of the
   components in various configurations is required for optimum cellulose hydrolysis.
   Cellulases, however, are more inclined to hydrolyze the amorphous regions of cellulose.
 5 A linear relationship between crystallinity and hydrolysis rates exists whereby higher
   crystallinity indices correspond to slower enzyme hydrolysis rates. Amorphous regions
   of cellulose hydrolyze at twice the rate of crystalline regions. The hydrolysis of the
   sheared and steam exploded fibrous material may be performed by any hydrolyzing
   biomass process.
10          Steam explosion of biomass sometimes causes the formation of by-products, e.g.,
   toxicants, that are inhibitory to microbial and enzymatic activities. The process of
   converting the sheared and steam exploded fibrous material into a fuel can therefore
   optionally include an overliming step prior to fermentation to precipitate some of the
   toxicants. For example, the pH of the sheared and steam exploded fibrous material may
15 be raised to exceed the pH of 10 by adding calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH) 2) followed by a
   step of lowering the pH to about 5 by adding H2 SO 4 . The overlimed fibrous material
   may then be used as is without the removal of precipitates. As shown in FIG. 23, the
   optional overliming step occurs just prior to the step of hydrolysis of the sheared and
   steam exploded fibrous material, but it is also contemplated to perform the overliming
20 step after the hydrolysis step and prior to the fermenting step.
           FIG. 24 depicts an example of a steam explosion apparatus 460. The steam
   explosion apparatus 460 includes a reaction chamber 462, in which the fiber source
   and/or the fibrous material is placed through a fiber source inlet 464. The reaction
   chamber is sealed by closing fiber source inlet valve 465. The reaction chamber further
25 includes a pressurized steam inlet 466 that includes a steam valve 467. The reaction
   chamber further includes an explosive depressurization outlet 468 that includes an outlet
   valve 469 in communication with the cyclone 470 through the connecting pipe 472.
   Once the reaction chamber contains the fiber source and/or sheared fiber source and is
   sealed by closing valves 465, 467 and 469, steam is delivered into the reaction chamber
30 462 by opening the steam inlet valve 467 allowing steam to travel through steam inlet
   466. Once the reaction chamber reaches target temperature, which can take about 20 - 60
                                                 101

   seconds, the holding time begins. The reaction chamber is held at the target temperature
   for the desired holding time, which typically lasts from about 10 seconds to 5 minutes.
   At the end of the holding time period, outlet valve is opened to allow for explosive
   depressurization to occur. The process of explosive depressurization propels the contents
 5 of the reaction chamber 462 out of the explosive depressurization outlet 468, through the
   connecting pipe 472, and into the cyclone 470. The steam exploded fiber source or
   fibrous material then exits the cyclone in a sludge form into the collection bin 474 as
   much of the remaining steam exits the cyclone into the atmosphere through vent 476.
   The steam explosion apparatus further includes wash outlet 478 with wash outlet valve
10 479 in communication with connecting pipe 472. The wash outlet valve 479 is closed
   during the use of the steam explosion apparatus 460 for steam explosion, but opened
   during the washing of the reaction chamber 462.
            The target temperature of the reaction chamber 462 is preferably between 180 and
   240 degrees Celsius or between 200 and 220 degrees Celsius. The holding time is
15 preferably between 10 seconds and 30 minutes, or between 30 seconds and 10 minutes, or
   between 1 minute and 5 minutes.
            Because the steam explosion process results in a sludge of steam exploded fibrous
   material, the steam exploded fibrous material may optionally include a fiber recovery
   process where the "liquor" is separated from the steam exploded fibrous material. This
20 fiber recovery step is helpful in that it enables further shearing and/or screening processes
   and can allow for the conversion of the fibrous material into fuel. The fiber recovery
   process occurs through the use of a mesh cloth to separate the fibers from the liquor.
   Further drying processes can also be included to prepare the fibrous material or steam
   exploded fiber source for subsequent processing.
25
   Combined Irradiating, Pyrolyzing, Sonicating, and/or Oxidizing Devices
            In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to combine two or more separate
   irradiation, sonication, pyrolization, and/or oxidation devices into a single hybrid
   machine. Using such a hybrid machine, multiple processes may be performed in close
30 juxtaposition or even simultaneously, with the benefit of increasing pretreatment
   throughput and potential cost savings.
                                                  102

           For example, consider the electron beam irradiation and sonication processes.
   Each separate process is effective in lowering the mean molecular weight of cellulosic
   material by an order of magnitude or more, and by several orders of magnitude when
   performed serially.
 5         Both irradiation and sonication processes can be applied using a hybrid electron
   beam/sonication device as is illustrated in FIG. 25. Hybrid electron beam/sonication
   device 2500 is pictured above a shallow pool (depth ~ 3-5 cm) of a slurry of cellulosic
   material 2550 dispersed in an aqueous, oxidant medium, such as hydrogen peroxide or
   carbamide peroxide. Hybrid device 2500 has an energy source 2510, which powers both
10 electron beam emitter 2540 and sonication horns 2530.
           Electron beam emitter 2540 generates electron beams, which pass though an
   electron beam aiming device 2545 to impact the slurry 2550 containing cellulosic
   material. The electron beam aiming device can be a scanner that sweeps a beam over a
   range of up to about 6 feet in a direction approximately parallel to the surface of the
15 slurry 2550.
            On either side of the electron beam emitter 2540 are sonication horns 2530, which
   deliver ultrasonic wave energy to the slurry 2550. The sonication horns 2530 end in a
   detachable endpiece 2535 that is in contact with the slurry 2550.
           The sonication horns 2530 are at risk of damage from long-term residual exposure
20 to the electron beam radiation. Thus, the horns can be protected with a standard shield
   2520, e.g., made of lead or a heavy-metal-containing alloy such as Lipowitz metal, which
   is impervious to electron beam radiation. Precautions must be taken, however, to ensure
   that the ultrasonic energy is not affected by the presence of the shield. The detachable
   endpieces 2535, which are constructed of the same material and attached to the horns
25 2530, are in contact with the cellulosic material 2550 during processing and are expected
   to be damaged. Accordingly, the detachable endpieces 2535 are constructed to be easily
   replaceable.
           A further benefit of such a simultaneous electron beam and ultrasound process is
   that the two processes have complementary results. With electron beam irradiation alone,
30 an insufficient dose may result in cross-linking of some of the polymers in the cellulosic
   material, which lowers the efficiency of the overall depolymerization process. Lower
                                                 103

   doses of electron beam irradiation and/or ultrasound radiation may also be used to
   achieve a similar degree of depolymerization as that achieved using electron beam
   irradiation and sonication separately. An electron beam device can also be combined
   with one or more of high frequency, rotor-stator devices, which can be used as an
 5 alternative to ultrasonic sonication devices.
            Further combinations of devices are also possible. For example, an ionizing
                                                                            60
   radiation device that produces gamma radiation emitted from, e.g.,          Co pellets, can be
   combined with an electron beam source and/or an ultrasonic wave source. Shielding
   requirements may be more stringent in this case.
10          The radiation devices for pretreating biomass discussed above can also be
   combined with one or more devices that perform one or more pyrolysis processing
   sequences. Such a combination may again have the advantage of higher throughput.
   Nevertheless, caution must be observed, as there may be conflicting requirements
   between some radiation processes and pyrolysis. For example, ultrasonic radiation
15 devices may require the feedstock be immersed in a liquid oxidizing medium. On the
   other hand, as discussed previously, it may be advantageous for a sample of feedstock
   undergoing pyrolysis to be of a particular moisture content. In this case, the new systems
   automatically measure and monitor for a particular moisture content and regulate the
   same. Further, some or all of the above devices, especially the pyrolysis device, can be
20 combined with an oxidation device as discussed previously.
   PRIMARY PROCESSES
   Fermentation
            Generally, various microorganisms can produce a number of useful products, such
   as a fuel, by operating on, e.g., fermenting the pretreated biomass materials. For
25 example, alcohols, organic acids, hydrocarbons, hydrogen, proteins or mixtures of any of
   these materials can be produced by fermentation or other processes.
            The microorganism can be a natural microorganism or an engineered
   microorganism. For example, the microorganism can be a bacterium, e.g., a cellulolytic
   bacterium, a fungus, e.g., a yeast, a plant or a protist, e.g., an algae, a protozoa or a
                                                 104

   fungus-like protist, e.g., a slime mold. When the organisms are compatible, mixtures of
   organisms can be utilized.
           To aid in the breakdown of the materials that include the cellulose, one or more
   enzymes, e.g., a cellulolytic enzyme can be utilized. In some embodiments, the materials
 5 that include the cellulose are first treated with the enzyme, e.g., by combining the
   material and the enzyme in an aqueous solution. This material can then be combined
   with the microorganism. In other embodiments, the materials that include the cellulose,
   the one or more enzymes and the microorganism are combined at the concurrently, e.g.,
   by combining in an aqueous solution.
10         Also, to aid in the breakdown of the materials that include the cellulose, the
   materials can be treated post irradiation with heat, a chemical (e.g., mineral acid, base or
   a strong oxidizer such as sodium hypochlorite), and/or an enzyme.
           During the fermentation, sugars released from cellulolytic hydrolysis or the
   saccharification step, are fermented to, e.g., ethanol, by a fermenting microorganism such
15 as yeast. Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert carbohydrates,
   such as glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, oligosaccharides or
   polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting microorganisms include strains
   of the genus Sacchromyces spp. e.g., Sacchromyces cerevisiae (baker's yeast),
   Saccharomyces distaticus,Saccharomyces uvarum; the genus Kluyveromyces, e.g.,
20 species Kluyveromyces marxianus, Kluyveroinycesfragilis; the genus Candida, e.g.,
   Candidapseudotropicalis,and Candida brassicae,Pichia stipitis (a relative of Candida
   shehatae, the genus Clavispora,e.g., species Clavisporalusitaniae and Clavispora
   opuntiae the genus Pachysolen, e.g., species Pachysolen tannophilus, the genus
   Bretannomyces, e.g., species Bretannomyces clausenii(Philippidis, G. P., 1996,
25 Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on Bioethanol: Production and
   Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis, Washington, DC, 179-212). In
   particular embodiments, such as when xylose is present, Pichiastipitis (ATCC 66278) is
   utilized in fermentation.
           Commercially available yeast include, for example, Red Star@/Lesaffre Ethanol
30 Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA) FALI" (available from Fleischmann's
   Yeast, a division of Burns Philip Food Inc., USA), SUPERSTART* (available from
                                                  105

   Alltech, now Lallemand), GERT STRAND (available from Gert Strand AB, Sweden)
   and FERMOL* (available from DSM Specialties).
            Bacteria that can ferment biomass to ethanol and other products include, e.g.,
   Zymomonas mobilis and Clostridium thermocellum (Philippidis, 1996, supra). Leschine
 5 et al. (InternationalJournalof Systematic and EvolutionaryMicrobiology 2002, 52,
   1155-1160) isolated an anaerobic, mesophilic, cellulolytic bacterium from forest soil,
   Clostridiumphytofermentans sp. nov., which converts cellulose to ethanol.
            Fermentation of biomass to ethanol and other products may be carried out using
   certain types of thermophilic or genetically engineered microorganisms, such
10 Thermoanaerobacter species, including T. mathranii, and yeast species such as Pichia
   species. An example of a strain of T. mathraniiis A3M4 described in Sonne-Hansen et
   al. (AppliedMicrobiology and Biotechnology 1993, 38, 537-541) or Ahring et al. (Arch.
   Microbiol. 1997, 168, 114-119). Other genetically engineered microorganisms are
   discussed in U.S. Patent No 7,192,772.
15          Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria can be used for fermentation or conversion. The
   optimum pH for yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum pH for Zymomonas is
   from about pH 5 to 6. Typical fermentation times are about 24 to 96 hours with
   temperatures in the range of 26 'C to 40 'C, however thermophilic microorganisms
   prefer higher temperatures.
20          Enzymes which break down biomass, such as cellulose, to lower molecular
   weight carbohydrate-containing materials, such as glucose, during saccharification are
   referred to as cellulolytic enzymes or cellulase. These enzymes may be a complex of
   enzymes that act synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose. Examples of cellulolytic
   enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and cellobiases (j-glucosidases).
25 A cellulosic substrate is initially hydrolyzed by endoglucanases at random locations
   producing oligomeric intermediates. These intermediates are then substrates for exo
   splitting glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the
   cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water-soluble p-1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally
   cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose.
30          A cellulase is capable of degrading biomass and may be of fungal or bacterial
   origin. Suitable enzymes include cellulases from the genera Bacillus, Pseudomonas,
                                                 106

   Humicola, Fusariuni,Thielavia, Acremonium, Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, and
   include species of Humicola, Coprinus, Thielavia, Fusarium,Myceliophthora,
   Acremonium, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium, Penicilliumor Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP
   458162), especially those produced by a strain selected from the species Humicola
 5 insolens (reclassified as Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,435,307),
   Coprinus cinereus, Fusarium oxysporum, Myceliophthora thermophila,Meripilus
   giganteus, Thielavia terrestris,Acremonium sp., Acremonium persicinum,Acremonium
   acremonium, Acremonium brachypenium, Acremonium dichromosporum,Acrenoniun
   obclavatum, Acreinonium pinkertoniae,Acremonium roseogriseuni,Acremonium
10 incoloratum, and Acremoniunifuratum; preferably from the species Hunicola insolens
   DSM 1800, Fusarium oxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS 117.65,
   Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94, Acremonium sp. CBS
   265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremoniuni acremonium AHU 9519,
   Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium
15 dichromosporum CBS 683.73, Acremonium obclavatun CBS 311.74, Acremonium
   pinkertoniae CBS 157.70, Acremonium roseogriseum CBS 134.56, Acremonium
   incoloratum CBS 146.62, and Acremoniumfuratuni CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic enzymes
   may also be obtained from Chrysosporium,preferably a strain of Chrysosporiuni
   lucknowense. Additionally, Trichoderma (particularlyTrichoderma viride, Trichoderna
20 reesei, and Trichodernakoningii), alkalophilicBacillus (see, for example, U.S. Patent
   No. 3,844,890 and EP 458162), and Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP 458162) may be used.
   The bacterium, Saccharophagusdegradans,produces a mixture of enzymes capable of
   degrading a range of cellulosic materials and may also be used in this process.
            Anaerobic cellulolytic bacteria have also been isolated from soil, e.g., a novel
25 cellutolytic species of Clostiridium, Clostridiun phytofernentans sp. nov. (see Leschine
   et. al, InternationalJournalofSystematic and EvolutionaryMicrobiology (2002), 52,
   1155-1160).
            Cellulolytic enzymes using recombinant technology can also be used (see, e.g.,
   WO 2007/071818 and WO 2006/110891).
                                                107

           Other enzyme and enzyme formulations that can be used are discussed in
   Published U.S. Patent Application Nos. 2006/0008885 and 2006/0068475, and in PCT
   Application No. WO 2006/128304.
           The cellulolytic enzymes used can be produced by fermentation of the above
 5 noted microbial strains on a nutrient medium containing suitable carbon and nitrogen
   sources and inorganic salts, using procedures known in the art (see, e.g., Bennett, J.W.
   and LaSure, L. (eds.), More Gene Manipulationsin Fungi,Academic Press, CA 1991).
   Suitable media are available from commercial suppliers or may be prepared according to
   published compositions (e.g., in catalogues of the American Type Culture Collection).
10 Temperature ranges and other conditions suitable for growth and cellulase production are
   known in the art (see, e.g., Bailey, J.E., and Ollis, D.F., Biochemical Engineering
   Fundamentals,McGraw-Hill Book Company, NY, 1986).
           Treatment of cellulose with cellulase is usually carried out at temperatures
   between 30 'C and 65 'C. Cellulases are active over a range of pH of about 3 to 7. A
15 saccharification step may last up to 120 hours. The cellulase enzyme dosage achieves a
   sufficiently high level of cellulose conversion. For example, an appropriate cellulase
   dosage is typically between 5.0 and 50 Filter Paper Units (FPU or IU) per gram of
   cellulose. The FPU is a standard measurement and is defined and measured according to
   Ghose (1987, Pure and Appl. Chem. 59:257-268).
20         In particular embodimements, ACCELERASE" 1000 enzyme complex
   (Genencor) is utilized as the enzyme system at a loading of 0.25 mL per gram of
   substrate. ACCELERASE 1000 enzyme complex is a multiple enzyme cocktail with
   multiple activities, mainly exoglucanase, endoglucanase, hemicellulase and beta
   glucosidase. The cocktail has a minimum endoglucanase activity of 2500 CMC U/g and
25 a minimum beta-glucosidase activity of 400 pNPG U/g. The pH of the cocktail is from
   about 4.8 to about 5.2. In other particular embodiments, the enzyme system utilized is a
   blend of CELLUCLAST* 1.5L and Novozyme 188. For example, 0.5 mL of
   CELLUCLAST* 1.5L and 0.1 mL of Novozyme 188 can be used for each gram of
   substrate. When a higher hemicellulase (xylanase) activity is desired, OPTIMASHTM BG
30 can be utilized.
                                                  108

           Mobile fermentors can be utilized, as described in U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial 60/832,735, now Published International Application No. WO
   2008/011598.
 5 Ethanol Fermentation
           Ethanol is a product of fermentation. Fermentation is a sequence of reactions
   which release energy from organic molecules in the absence of oxygen. In this
   application of fermentation, energy is obtained when sugar is changed to ethanol and
   carbon dioxide. All beverage ethanol, and more than half of industrial ethanol, is made
10 by this process. Changing corn to ethanol by fermentation takes many steps. Starch in
   corn must be broken down into simple sugars before fermentation can occur. This can be
   achieved, for example, by cooking the corn and adding the enzymes alpha amylase and
   gluco amylase. These enzymes function as catalysts to speed up the chemical changes.
   Once a simple sugar is obtained, yeast is added. Yeast is a single-celled fungus, which
15 feeds on the sugar and causes the fermentation. As the fungi feeds on the sugar, it
   produces alcohol (ethanol) and carbon dioxide. In fermentation, the ethanol retains much
   of the energy that was originally in the sugar, which explains why ethanol is an excellent
   fuel.
           The fermentation reaction is represented by the simple equation:
20
                              C6 H120 6  -    2 CH 3CH 2OH + 2 C0    2
           Ethanol can be made from a wide variety of available feedstocks. Fuel ethanol
   can be made from crops which contain starch such as feed grains, food grains, such as
25 corn, and tubers, such as potatoes and sweet potatoes. Crops containing sugar, such as
   sugar beets, sugarcane, and sweet sorghum also could be used for the production of
   ethanol. In addition, food processing byproducts, such as molasses, cheese whey, and
   cellulosic materials including grass and wood, as well as agricultural and forestry
   residues, can be processed to ethanol. As discussed above, these and other feedstocks
30 can be treated as discussed herein to facilitate production of ethanol.
                                                 109

   Conversion of Starchy Materials
           FIGS. 26 and 27 show block diagrams for a dry and wet milling process,
   respectively, and illustrate the conversion, e.g., fermentation, of corn kernels to ethanol
 5 and other valuable co-products.
           Referring particularly now to FIG. 26, in some implementations, a dry milling
   process for the conversion of corn kernels to ethanol, e.g., anhydrous ethanol, that can be
   utilized as a fuel, e.g., automobile or aviation fuel, can begin with pretreating the dried
   corn kernels with any one or more pretreatments described herein, such as radiation, e.g.,
10 any one or more types of radiation described herein (e.g., a beam of electrons in which
   each electron has an energy of about 5 MeV or a beam of protons in which the energy of
   each proton is about 3-100 MeV). After pre-treatment, the corn kernels can be ground
   and/or sheared into a powder. Although any one or more pretreatments described herein
   can be applied after grinding and/or at any time during the dry milling process outlined in
15 FIG. 26, pretreating prior to grinding and/or shearing can be advantageous in that the
   kernels are generally more brittle after pretreatment and, as a result, are easier and can
   require less energy to grind and/or shear. In some embodiments, a selected pretreatment
   can be applied more than once during conversion, e.g., prior to milling and then after
   milling.
20         After grinding and/or shearing, the milled, dry kernels can be optionally hydrated
   by adding the milled material to a vessel containing water and, optionally, hydrating
   agents, such as surfactants. Optionally, this reaction vessel can also include one or more
   enzymes, such as amylase, to aid in further breakdown of starchy biomass, or the reaction
   vessel may contain one or more acids, such as a mineral acid, e.g., dilute sulfuric acid. If
25 a hydration vessel is utilized, its contents are emptied into a conversion vessel, e.g., a
   fermentation vessel, which includes one or more conversion microbes, such as one or
   more yeasts, bacteria or mixtures of yeasts and/or bacteria. If a hydration vessel is not
   utilized, the milled material can be directly charged to the conversion vessel, e.g., for
   fermentation.
30         After conversion, the remaining solids are removed and dried to give distillers dry
   grains (DDG), while the ethanol is distilled off. In some embodiments, a thermophilic
                                                  110

   microbe is utilized for the conversion and the ethanol is continuously removed by
   evaporation as it is produced. If desired, the distilled ethanol can be fully dehydrated,
   such as by passing the wet ethanol through a zeolite bed, or distilling with benzene.
            Referring particularly now to FIG. 27, in some implementations, the wet milling
 5 process for the conversion of corn kernels to anhydrous ethanol begins with pretreating
   the dried corn kernels with any one or more pretreatments described herein, such as
   radiation, e.g., any one or more types of radiation described herein (e.g., a beam of
   electrons in which each electron has an energy of about 5 MeV). After pre-treatment, the
   corn kernels are steeped in dilute sulfuric acid and gently stirred to break the corn kernels
10 into its constituents. After steeping, the fiber, oil and germ portions are fractionated and
   dried, and then combined with any solids remaining after distillation to give corn gluten
   feed (CGF). After removing germ and fiber, in some embodiments, the gluten is
   separated to give corn gluten meal (CGM). The remaining starch can be pretreated again
   (or for the first time) by any pretreatment described herein, e.g., to reduce its molecular
15 weight and/or to functionalize the starch so that it is more soluble. In some
   embodiments, the starch is then charged to a reaction vessel containing water and,
   optionally, hydrating agents, such as surfactants. Optionally, this reaction vessel can also
   include one or more enzymes, such as amylase, to aid in further breakdown of starch, or
   the reaction vessel may contain one or more acids, such as a mineral acid, e.g., dilute
20 sulfuric acid. As shown, saccharification can occur in several vessels and then the
   contents of the final vessel can be emptied into a conversion vessel, e.g., a fermentation
   vessel, which includes one or more conversion microbes, such as one or more yeasts or
   bacteria.
            After conversion, the ethanol is distilled off. In some embodiments, a
25 thermophilic microbe is utilized for the conversion and the ethanol is continuously
   removed by evaporation as it is produced. If desired, the distilled ethanol can be fully
   dehydrated, such as by passing the wet ethanol through a zeolite bed.
   Gasification
            In addition to using pyrolysis for pre-treatment of feedstock, pyrolysis can also be
30 used to process pre-treated feedstock to extract useful materials. In particular, a form of
   pyrolysis known as gasification can be employed to generate fuel gases along with
                                                  111

   various other gaseous, liquid, and solid products. To perform gasification, the pre-treated
   feedstock is introduced into a pyrolysis chamber and heated to a high temperature,
   typically 700 'C or more. The temperature used depends upon a number of factors,
   including the nature of the feedstock and the desired products.
 5          Quantities of oxygen (e.g., as pure oxygen gas and/or as air) and steam (e.g.,
   superheated steam) are also added to the pyrolysis chamber to facilitate gasification.
   These compounds react with carbon-containing feedstock material in a multiple-step
   reaction to generate a gas mixture called synthesis gas (or "syngas"). Essentially, during
   gasification, a limited amount of oxygen is introduced into the pyrolysis chamber to
10 allow some feedstock material to combust to form carbon monoxide and generate process
   heat. The process heat can then be used to promote a second reaction that converts
   additional feedstock material to hydrogen and carbon monoxide.
            In a first step of the overall reaction, heating the feedstock material produces a
   char that can include a wide variety of different hydrocarbon-based species. Certain
15 volatile materials can be produced (e.g., certain gaseous hydrocarbon materials), resulting
   in a reduction of the overall weight of the feedstock material. Then, in a second step of
   the reaction, some of the volatile material that is produced in the first step reacts with
   oxygen in a combustion reaction to produce both carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide.
   The combustion reaction releases heat, which promotes the third step of the reaction. In
20 the third step, carbon dioxide and steam (e.g., water) react with the char generated in the
   first step to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen gas. Carbon monoxide can also react
   with steam, in a water gas shift reaction, to form carbon dioxide and further hydrogen
   gas.
            Gasification can be used as a primary process to generate products directly from
25 pre-treated feedstock for subsequent transport and/or sale, for example. Alternatively, or
   in addition, gasification can be used as an auxiliary process for generating fuel for an
   overall processing system. The hydrogen-rich syngas that is generated via the
   gasification process can be burned, for example, to generate electricity and/or process
   heat that can be directed for use at other locations in the processing system. As a result,
30 the overall processing system can be at least partially self-sustaining. A number of other
   products, including pyrolysis oils and gaseous hydrocarbon-based substances, can also be
                                                    112

   obtained during and/or following gasification; these can be separated and stored or
   transported as desired.
           A variety of different pyrolysis chambers are suitable for gasification of pre
   treated feedstock, including the pyrolysis chambers disclosed herein. In particular,
 5 fluidized bed reactor systems, in which the pre-treated feedstock is fluidized in steam and
   oxygen/air, provide relatively high throughput and straightforward recovery of products.
   Solid char that remains following gasification in a fluidized bed system (or in other
   pyrolysis chambers) can be burned to generate additional process heat to promote
   subsequent gasification reactions.
10          Syngas can be reformed using a Fischer-Tropsch process, which is a catalyzed
   chemical reaction in which the synthesis gas is converted into liquid alcohols and
   hydrocarbons. The most common catalysts are based on iron and cobalt, although nickel
   and ruthenium have also been used.
           In an alternative process, a biofilm can be used to reform the syngas to produce
15 the liquid fuel instead of a chemical catalyst. Such a process has been described by
   Coskata, Inc. Any of the biomass materials described herein can be used in Coskata's
   process.
           In some embodiments, irradiating the biomass material, e.g., with a beam of
   particles, such as electrons, prior to gasification can lower the gasification temperature,
20 resulting in less energy being consumed during gasification, and can result in less char
   and tar formation, resulting in enhanced syngas yield.
   POST-PROCESSING
   Distillation
           After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for example, a "beer
25 column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the majority of water and residual
   solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be, e.g., 35% by weight ethanol, and can
   be fed to a rectification column. A mixture of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol and
   water from the rectification column can be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using vapor
   phase molecular sieves. The beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of a
30 three-effect evaporator. The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for
                                                  113

   this first effect. After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried
   in a rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to
   fermentation and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of the
   evaporator condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean condensate with a
 5 small portion split off to waste water treatment to prevent build-up of low-boiling
   compounds.
   Waste water treatment
            Wastewater treatment is used to minimize makeup water requirements of the plant
   by treating process water for reuse within the plant. Wastewater treatment can also
10 produce fuel (e.g., sludge and biogas) that can be used to improve the overall efficiency
   of the ethanol production process. For example, as described in further detail below,
   sludge and biogas can be used to create steam and electricity that can be used in various
   plant processes.
            Wastewater is initially pumped through a screen (e.g., a bar screen) to remove
15 large particles, which are collected in a hopper. In some embodiments, the large particles
   are sent to a landfill. Additionally or alternatively, the large particles are burned to create
   steam and/or electricity as described in further detail below. In general, the spacing on
   the bar screen is between 1/4 inch to 1 inch spacing (e.g., 1/2 inch spacing).
            The wastewater then flows to an equalization tank, where the organic
20 concentration of the wastewater is equalized during a retention time. In general, the
   retention time is between 8 hours and 36 hours (e.g., 24 hours). A mixer is disposed
   within the tank to stir the contents of the tank. In some embodiments, mixers disposed
   throughout the tank are used to stir the contents of the tank. In certain embodiments, the
   mixer substantially mixes the contents of the equalization tank such that conditions (e.g.,
25 wastewater concentration and temperature) throughout the tank are uniform.
            A first pump moves water from the equalization tank through a liquid-to-liquid
   heat exchanger. The heat exchanger is controlled (e.g., by controlling the flow rate of
   fluid through the heat exchanger) such that wastewater exiting the heat exchanger is at a
   desired temperature for anaerobic treatment. For example, the desired temperature for
30 anaerobic treatment can be between 40 0 C to 60 0C.
                                                    114

            After exiting the heat exchanger, the wastewater enters one or more anaerobic
   reactors. In some embodiments, the concentration of sludge in each anaerobic reactor is
   the same as the overall concentration of sludge in the wastewater. In other embodiments,
   the anaerobic reactor has a higher concentration of sludge than the overall concentration
 5 of sludge in the wastewater.
            A nutrient solution containing nitrogen and phosphorus is metered into each
   anaerobic reactor containing wastewater. The nutrient solution reacts with the sludge in
   the anaerobic reactor to produce biogas which can contain 50% methane and have a
   heating value of approximately 12,000 British thermal units, or Btu, per pound). The
10 biogas exits each anaerobic reactor through a vent and flows into a manifold, where
   several biogas streams are combined into a single stream. A compressor moves the
   stream of biogas to a boiler or a combustion engine as described in further detail below.
   In some embodiments, the compressor also moves the single stream of biogas through a
   desulphurization catalyst. Additionally or alternatively, the compressor can move the
15 single stream of biogas through a sediment trap.
            A second pump moves anaerobic effluent from the anaerobic reactors to one or
   more aerobic reactors (e.g., activated sludge reactors). An aerator is disposed within each
   aerobic reactor to mix the anaerobic effluent, sludge, and oxygen (e.g., oxygen contained
   in air). Within each aerobic reactor, oxidation of cellular material in the anaerobic
20 effluent produces carbon dioxide, water, and ammonia.
            Aerobic effluent moves (e.g., via gravity) to a separator, where sludge is separated
   from treated water. Some of the sludge is returned to the one or more aerobic reactors to
   create an elevated sludge concentration in the aerobic reactors, thereby facilitating the
   aerobic breakdown of cellular material in the wastewater. A conveyor removes excess
25 sludge from the separator. As described in further detail below, the excess sludge is used
   as fuel to create steam and/or electricity.
            The treated water is pumped from the separator to a settling tank. Solids
   dispersed throughout the treated water settle to the bottom of the settling tank and are
   subsequently removed. After a settling period, treated water is pumped from the settling
30 tank through a fine filter to remove any additional solids remaining in the water. In some
   embodiments, chlorine is added to the treated water to kill pathogenic bacteria. In some
                                                 115

   embodiments, one or more physical-chemical separation techniques are used to further
   purifly the treated water. For example, treated water can be pumped through a carbon
   adsorption reactor. As another example, treated water can pumped through a reverse
   osmosis reactor.
 5          In the processes disclosed herein, whenever water is used in any process, it may
   be grey water, e.g., municipal grey water, or black water. In some embodiments, the grey
   or black water is sterilized prior to use. Sterilization may be accomplished by any desired
   technique, for example by irradiation, steam, or chemical sterilization.
10 Waste combustion
            The production of alcohol from biomass can result in the production of various
   by-product streams useful for generating steam and electricity to be used in other parts of
   the plant. For example, steam generated from burning by-product streams can be used in
   the distillation process. As another example, electricity generated from burning by
15 product streams can be used to power electron beam generators and ultrasonic
   transducers used in pretreatment.
            The by-products used to generate steam and electricity are derived from a number
   of sources throughout the process. For example, anaerobic digestion of wastewater
   produces a biogas high in methane and a small amount of waste biomass (sludge). As
20 another example, post-distillate solids (e.g., unconverted lignin, cellulose, and
   hemicellulose remaining from the pretreatment and primary processes) can be used as a
   fuel.
            The biogas is diverted to a combustion engine connected to an electric generator
   to produce electricity. For example, the biogas can be used as a fuel source for a spark
25 ignited natural gas engine. As another example, the biogas can be used as a fuel source
   for a direct-injection natural gas engine. As another example, the biogas can be used as a
   fuel source for a combustion turbine. Additionally or alternatively, the combustion
   engine can be configured in a cogeneration configuration. For example, waste heat from
   the combustion engines can be used to provide hot water or steam throughout the plant.
30          The sludge, and post-distillate solids are burned to heat water flowing through a
   heat exchanger. In some embodiments, the water flowing through the heat exchanger is
                                                  116

   evaporated and superheated to steam. In certain embodiments, the steam is used in the
   pretreatment rector and in heat exchange in the distillation and evaporation processes.
   Additionally or alternatively, the steam expands to power a multi-stage steam turbine
   connected to an electric generator. Steam exiting the steam turbine is condensed with
 5 cooling water and returned to the heat exchanger for reheating to steam. In some
   embodiments, the flow rate of water through the heat exchanger is controlled to obtain a
   target electricity output from the steam turbine connected to an electric generator. For
   example, water can be added to the heat exchanger to ensure that the steam turbine is
   operating above a threshold condition (e.g., the turbine is spinning fast enough to turn the
10 electric generator).
           While certain embodiments have been described, other embodiments are possible.
           As an example, while the biogas is described as being diverted to a combustion
   engine connected to an electric generator, in certain embodiments, the biogas can be
   passed through a fuel reformer to produce hydrogen. The hydrogen is then converted to
15 electricity through a fuel cell.
           As another example, while the biogas is described as being burned apart from the
   sludge and post-distillate solids, in certain embodiments, all of the waste by-products can
   be burned together to produce steam.
   PRODUCTS / CO-PRODUCTS
20 Alcohols
           The alcohol produced can be a monohydroxy alcohol, e.g., ethanol, or a
   polyhydroxy alcohol, e.g., ethylene glycol or glycerin. Examples of alcohols that can be
   produced include methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, e.g., n-, see- or t
   butanol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, 1, 4-butane diol, glycerin or mixtures of these
25 alcohols.
           Each of the alcohols produced by the plant have commercial value as industrial
   feedstock. For example, ethanol can be used in the manufacture of varnishes and
   perfume. As another example, methanol can be used as a solvent used as a component in
   windshield wiper fluid. As still another example, butanol can be used in plasticizers,
30 resins, lacquers, and brake fluids.
                                                  117

           Bioethanol produced by the plant is valuable as an ingredient used in the food and
   beverage industry. For example, the ethanol produced by the plant can be purified to
   food grade alcohol and used as a primary ingredient in the alcoholic beverages.
           Bioethanol produced by the plant also has commercial value as a transportation
 5 fuel. The use of ethanol as a transportation fuel can be implemented with relatively little
   capital investment from spark ignition engine manufacturers and owners (e.g., changes to
   injection timing, fuel-to-air ratio, and components of the fuel injection system). Many
   automotive manufacturers currently offer flex-fuel vehicles capable of operation on
   ethanol/gasoline blends up to 85% ethanol by volume (e.g., standard equipment on a
10 Chevy Tahoe 4 x 4).
           Bioethanol produced by this plant can be used as an engine fuel to improve
   environmental and economic conditions beyond the location of the plant. For example,
   ethanol produced by this plant and used as a fuel can reduce greenhouse gas emissions
   from manmade sources (e.g., transportation sources). As another example, ethanol
15 produced by this plant and used as an engine fuel can also displace consumption of
   gasoline refined from oil.
           Bioethanol has a greater octane number than conventional gasoline and, thus, can
   be used to improve the performance (e.g., allow for higher compression ratios) of spark
   ignition engines. For example, small amounts (e.g., 10% by volume) of ethanol can be
20 blended with gasoline to act as an octane enhancer for fuels used in spark ignition
   engines. As another example, larger amounts (e.g., 85% by volume) of ethanol can be
   blended with gasoline to further increase the fuel octane number and displace larger
   volumes of gasoline.
           Bioethanol strategies are discussed, e.g., by DiPardo in Journal of Outlookfor
25 Biomass Ethanol Productionand Demand (EIA Forecasts),2002; Sheehan in
   Biotechnology Progress, 15:8179, 1999; Martin in Enzyme Microbes Technology,
   31:274, 2002; Greer in BioCycle, 61-65, April 2005; Lynd in Microbiology and
   MolecularBiology Reviews, 66:3, 506-577, 2002; Ljungdahl et al., in U.S. Patent No.
   4,292,406; and Bellamy, in U.S. Patent No. 4,094,742.
                                                118

   Organic acids
           The organic acids produced can include monocarboxylic acids or polycarboxylic
   acids. Examples of organic acids include formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric
   acid, valeric acid, caproic, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic
 5 acid, glutaric acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, glycolic acid, lactic acid, y-hydroxybutyric
   acid or mixtures of these acids.
   Co-Products
   Lignin Residue
           As described above, lignin-containing residues from primary and pretreatment
10 processes has value as a high/medium energy fuel and can be used to generate power and
   steam for use in plant processes. However, such lignin residues are a new type of solids
   fuel and there is little demand for it outside of the plant boundaries, and the costs of
   drying it for transportation only subtract from its potential value. In some cases,
   gasification of the lignin residues can convert it to a higher-value product with lower
15 cost.
   Other Co-Products
            Cell matter, furfural, and acetic acid have been identified as potential co-products
   of biomass-to-fuel processing facilities. Interstitial cell matter could be valuable, but
   might require significant purification. Markets for furfural and acetic acid are in place,
20 although it is unlikely that they are large enough to consume the output of a fully
   commercialized lignocellulose-to-ethanol industry.
                                             EXAMPLES
25         The following Examples are intended to illustrate, and do not limit the teachings of
   this disclosure.
   Example 1 - Preparation Of Fibrous Material From Polycoated Paper
           A 1500 pound skid of virgin, half-gallon juice cartons made of un-printed
   polycoated white Kraft board having a bulk density of 20 lb/ft3 was obtained from
                                                   119

   International Paper. Each carton was folded flat, and then fed into a 3 hp Flinch Baugh
   shredder at a rate of approximately 15 to 20 pounds per hour. The shredder was equipped
   with two 12 inch rotary blades, two fixed blades and a 0.30 inch discharge screen. The
   gap between the rotary and fixed blades was adjusted to 0.10 inch. The output from the
 5 shredder resembled confetti having a width of between 0.1 inch and 0.5 inch, a length of
   between 0.25 inch and 1 inch and a thickness equivalent to that of the starting material
   (about 0.075 inch).
           The confetti-like material was fed to a Munson rotary knife cutter, Model SC30.
   Model SC30 is equipped with four rotary blades, four fixed blades, and a discharge
10 screen having 1/8 inch openings. The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was set to
   approximately 0.020 inch. The rotary knife cutter sheared the confetti-like pieces across
   the knife-edges, tearing the pieces apart and releasing a fibrous material at a rate of about
   one pound per hour. The fibrous material had a BET surface area of 0.9748 m 2/g +/
   0.0167 m 2 /g, a porosity of 89.0437 percent and a bulk density ((@0.53 psia) of 0.1260
15 g/mL. An average length of the fibers was 1.141 mm and an average width of the fibers
   was 0.027 mm, giving an average L/D of 42:1. A scanning electron micrograph of the
   fibrous material is shown in FIG. 28 at 25 X magnification.
   Example 2 - Preparation Of Fibrous Material From Bleached Kraft Board
           A 1500 pound skid of virgin bleached white Kraft board having a bulk density of
20 30 lb/ft3 was obtained from International Paper. The material was folded flat, and then
   fed into a 3 hp Flinch Baugh shredder at a rate of approximately 15 to 20 pounds per
   hour. The shredder was equipped with two 12 inch rotary blades, two fixed blades and a
   0.30 inch discharge screen. The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was adjusted to
   0.10 inch. The output from the shredder resembled confetti having a width of between
25 0.1 inch and 0.5 inch, a length of between 0.25 inch and 1 inch and a thickness equivalent
   to that of the starting material (about 0.075 inch). The confetti-like material was fed to a
   Munson rotary knife cutter, Model SC30. The discharge screen had 1/8 inch openings.
   The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was set to approximately 0.020 inch. The
   rotary knife cutter sheared the confetti-like pieces, releasing a fibrous material at a rate of
30 about one pound per hour. The fibrous material had a BET surface area of 1.1316 m 2/g
   +/- 0.0103 m2/g, a porosity of 88.3285 percent and a bulk density (@0.53 psia) of 0.1497
                                                 120

   g/mL. An average length of the fibers was 1.063 mm and an average width of the fibers
   was 0.0245 mm, giving an average L/D of 43:1. A scanning electron micrograph of the
   fibrous material is shown in FIG. 29 at 25 X magnification.
   Example 3 - Preparation Of Twice Sheared Fibrous Material From Bleached Kraft Board
 5          A 1500 pound skid of virgin bleached white Kraft board having a bulk density of
   30 lb/ft3 was obtained from International Paper. The material was folded flat, and then
   fed into a 3 hp Flinch Baugh shredder at a rate of approximately 15 to 20 pounds per
   hour. The shredder was equipped with two 12 inch rotary blades, two fixed blades and a
   0.30 inch discharge screen. The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was adjusted to
10 0.10 inch. The output from the shredder resembled confetti (as above). The confetti-like
   material was fed to a Munson rotary knife cutter, Model SC30. The discharge screen had
   1/16 inch openings. The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was set to
   approximately 0.020 inch. The rotary knife cutter the confetti-like pieces, releasing a
   fibrous material at a rate of about one pound per hour. The material resulting from the
15 first shearing was fed back into the same setup described above and sheared again. The
   resulting fibrous material had a BET surface area of 1.4408 m 2/g +/- 0.0156 m2/g, a
   porosity of 90.8998 percent and a bulk density (@0.53 psia) of 0.1298 g/mL. An average
   length of the fibers was 0.891 mm and an average width of the fibers was 0.026 mm,
   giving an average L/D of 34:1. A scanning electron micrograph of the fibrous material is
20 shown in FIG. 30 at 25 X magnification.
   Example 4 - Preparation Of Thrice Sheared Fibrous Material From Bleached Kraft Board
            A 1500 pound skid of virgin bleached white Kraft board having a bulk density of
   30 lb/ft3 was obtained from International Paper. The material was folded flat, and then
   fed into a 3 hp Flinch Baugh shredder at a rate of approximately 15 to 20 pounds per
25 hour. The shredder was equipped with two 12 inch rotary blades, two fixed blades and a
   0.30 inch discharge screen. The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was adjusted to
   0.10 inch. The output from the shredder resembled confetti (as above). The confetti-like
   material was fed to a Munson rotary knife cutter, Model SC30. The discharge screen had
   1/8 inch openings. The gap between the rotary and fixed blades was set to approximately
30 0.020 inch. The rotary knife cutter sheared the confetti-like pieces across the knife
                                                121

   edges. The material resulting from the first shearing was fed back into the same setup
   and the screen was replaced with a 1/16 inch screen. This material was sheared. The
   material resulting from the second shearing was fed back into the same setup and the
   screen was replaced with a 1/32 inch screen. This material was sheared. The resulting
 5 fibrous material had a BET surface area of 1.6897 m 2/g +/- 0.0155 M/g, a porosity of
   87.7163 percent and a bulk density (@0.53 psia) of 0.1448 g/mL. An average length of
   the fibers was 0.824 mm and an average width of the fibers was 0.0262 mm, giving an
   average L/D of 32:1. A scanning electron micrograph of the fibrous material is shown in
   FIG. 31 at 25 X magnification.
10 Example 5 - Preparation Of Densified Fibrous Material From Bleached Kraft Board Without
   Added Binder
            Fibrous material was prepared according to Example 2. Approximately 1 lb of
   water was sprayed onto each 10 lb of fibrous material. The fibrous material was
   densified using a California Pellet Mill 1100 operating at 75 'C. Pellets were obtained
15 having a bulk density ranging from about 7 lb/ftto about 15 lb/ft3 .
   Example 6 - Preparation Of Densified Fibrous Material From Bleached Kraft Board With
   Binder
            Fibrous material was prepared according to Example 2.
            A 2 weight percent stock solution of POLYOXI" WSR N10 (polyethylene oxide)
20 was prepared in water.
            Approximately 1 lb of the stock solution was sprayed onto each 10 lb of fibrous
   material. The fibrous material was densified using a California Pellet Mill 1100
   operating at 75 0 C. Pellets were obtained having a bulk density ranging from about 15
   lb/ft3 to about 40 lb/ft3 .
25 Example 7 - Reducing the Molecular Weight of Cellulose in Fibrous Kraft Paper by Gamma
   Radiation with Minimum Oxidation
            Fibrous material is prepared according to Example 4. The fibrous Kraft paper is
   densified according to Example 5.
            The densified pellets are placed in a glass ampoule having a maximum capacity of
30 250 mL. The glass ampoule is evacuated under high vacuum (10-5 torr) for 30 minutes,
                                                 122

   and then back-filled with argon gas. The ampoule is sealed under argon. The pellets in
   the ampoule are irradiated with gamma radiation for about 3 hours at a dose rate of about
   1 Mrad per hour to provide an irradiated material in which the cellulose has a lower
   molecular weight than the fibrous Kraft starting material.
 5 Example 8 - Reducing the Molecular Weight of Cellulose in Fibrous Kraft Paper by Gamma
   Radiation with Maximum Oxidation
           Fibrous material is prepared according to Example 4. The fibrous Kraft paper is
   densified according to Example 5.
           The densified pellets are placed in a glass ampoule having a maximum capacity of
10 250 mL. The glass ampoule is sealed under an atmosphere of air. The pellets in the
   ampoule are irradiated with gamma radiation for about 3 hours at a dose rate of about 1
   Mrad per hour to provide an irradiated material in which the cellulose has a lower
   molecular weight than the fibrous Kraft starting material.
   Example 9 - Methods of Determining Molecular Weight of Cellulosic and Lignocellulosic
15 Materials by Gel Permeation Chromatography
           Cellulosic and lignocellulosic materials for analysis were treated according to
   Example 4. Sample materials presented in the following tables include Kraft paper (P),
   wheat straw (WS), alfalfa (A), and switchgrass (SG). The number "132" of the Sample
   ID refers to the particle size of the material after shearing through a 1/32 inch screen.
20 The number after the dash refers to the dosage of radiation (MRad) and "US" refers to
   ultrasonic treatment. For example, a sample ID "P132-10" refers to Kraft paper that has
   been sheared to a particle size of 132 mesh and has been irradiated with 10 MRad.
   Table 1. Peak Average Molecular Weight of Irradiated Kraft Paper
                   Sample        Sample ID      Dosage 1    l Ultrasound 2    Average MW
                   Source                       (MRad)                             Std Dev.
                 Kraft Paper        P132            0             No            3285310006
                                  P132-10           10             "          61398 2468**
                                  P132-100         100             "             8444 580
                                  P132-181         181             "              6668+ 77
                                  P132-US           0             Yes            3095 1013
25         **Low doses of radiation appear to increase the molecular weight of some materials
           'Dosage Rate = 1MRad/hour
           2
             Treatment for 30 minutes with 20kHz ultrasound using a 1000W horn under re-circulating
           conditions with the material dispersed in water.
                                                       123

   Table 2. Peak Average Molecular Weight of Irradiated Materials
                  Sample ID        Peak     Dosage'          Ultrasound 2      Average MW
                                     #      (MRad)                                 Std Dev.
                    WS132            1          0                No           1407411 175191
                                     2          "                 "              39145+ 3425
                                     3          ""                                2886 177
                  WS132-10*          1          10                "              26040 3240
                 WS132-100*          1         100                               23620   453
                    A132             1          0                 "           1604886 151701
                                     2          "                 "              37525 3751
                                     3          "                 "               2853 490
                   A132-10*          1          10                "              50853 1665
                                     2          "                 "                2461 17
                  A132-100*          1         100                               38291 2235
                                     2          "                 "                2487 15
                    SG132            1          0                 "            1557360 83693
                                     2          "                 "              42594 4414
                                     3          "                                 3268 249
                  SG132-10*          1          10                "              608889131
                  SG132-100*         1         100                "              22345 3797
                 SG132-10-US         1          10               Yes            86086 43518
                                     2          "                 "               2247 468
                SG132-100-US         1         100                "              4696 +1465
            *Peaks coalesce after treatment
 5          **Low doses of radiation appear to increase the molecular weight of some materials
              Dosage Rate = 1MRad/hour
            2
              Treatment for 30 minutes with 20kHz ultrasound using a 1000W horn under re-circulating
            conditions with the material dispersed in water.
10          Gel Permeation Chromatography (GPC) is used to determine the molecular
   weight distribution of polymers. During GPC analysis, a solution of the polymer sample
   is passed through a column packed with a porous gel trapping small molecules. The
   sample is separated based on molecular size with larger molecules eluting sooner than
   smaller molecules. The retention time of each component is most often detected by
15 refractive index (RI), evaporative light scattering (ELS), or ultraviolet (UV) and
   compared to a calibration curve. The resulting data is then used to calculate the
   molecular weight distribution for the sample.
            A distribution of molecular weights rather than a unique molecular weight is used
   to characterize synthetic polymers. To characterize this distribution, statistical averages
20 are utilized. The most common of these averages are the "number average molecular
   weight" (Ma) and the "weight average molecular weight" (M,). Methods of calculating
   these values are described in the art, e.g., in Example 9 of WO 2008/073186.
                                                        124

            The polydispersity index or PI is defined as the ratio of MW/M.. The larger the PI,
   the broader or more disperse the distribution. The lowest value that a PI can be is 1. This
   represents a monodisperse sample; that is, a polymer with all of the molecules in the
   distribution being the same molecular weight.
 5          The peak molecular weight value (Mp) is another descriptor defined as the mode
   of the molecular weight distribution. It signifies the molecular weight that is most
   abundant in the distribution. This value also gives insight to the molecular weight
   distribution.
            Most GPC measurements are made relative to a different polymer standard. The
10 accuracy of the results depends on how closely the characteristics of the polymer being
   analyzed match those of the standard used. The expected error in reproducibility between
   different series of determinations, calibrated separately, is ca. 5 - 10 % and is characteristic
   to the limited precision of GPC determinations. Therefore, GPC results are most useful
   when a comparison between the molecular weight distributions of different samples is
15 made during the same series of determinations.
            The lignocellulosic samples required sample preparation prior to GPC analysis.
   First, a saturated solution (8.4% by weight) of lithium chloride (LiCl) was prepared in
   dimethyl acetamide (DMAc). Approximately 100 mg of each sample was added to
   approximately 10 g of a freshly prepared saturated LiCl/DMAc solution, and each
20 mixture was heated to approximately 150'C-17 0 'C with stirring for 1 hour. The
   resulting solutions were generally light- to dark-yellow in color. The temperature of the
   solutions was decreased to approximately 100 0 C and the solutions were heated for an
   additional 2 hours. The temperature of the solutions was then decreased to approximately
   50'C and each sample solution was heated for approximately 48 to 60 hours. Of note,
25 samples irradiated at 100 MRad were more easily solubilized as compared to their
   untreated counterpart. Additionally, the sheared samples (denoted by the number 132)
   had slightly lower average molecular weights as compared with uncut samples.
            The resulting sample solutions were diluted 1:1 using DMAc as solvent and were
   filtered through a 0.45 ptm PTFE filter. The filtered sample solutions were then analyzed
30 by GPC. The peak average molecular weight (Mp) of the samples, as determined by Gel
   Permeation Chromatography (GPC), are summarized in Tables I and 2.Each sample was
                                                 125

   prepared in duplicate and each preparation of the sample was analyzed in duplicate (two
   injections) for a total of four injections per sample. The EasiCal polystyrene standards
   PSIA and PSIB were used to generate a calibration curve for the molecular weight scale
   from about 580 to 7,500,00 Daltons.
 5
   Table 3. GPC Analysis Conditions
          Instrument:                       Waters Alliance GPC 2000
                                            Plgel 10 p Mixed-B
          Columns (3):                      S/N's: 10M-MB-148-83; 10M-MB-148-84; 10M-MB
                                            174-129
          Mobile Phase (solvent):           0.5% LiC1 in DMAc (1.0 mL/min.)
          Column/Detector Temperature:      70 OC
          Injector Temperature:             70 OC
          Sample Loop Size:                 323.5 pL
   Example 10- Determining Crystallinity of Irradiated Material by X-Ray Diffraction
            X-ray diffraction (XRD) is a method by which a crystalline sample is irradiated
10 with monoenergetic x-rays. The interaction of the lattice structure of the sample with
   these x-rays is recorded and provides information about the crystalline structure being
   irradiated. The resulting characteristic "fingerprint" allows for the identification of the
   crystalline compounds present in the sample. Using a whole-pattern fitting analysis (the
   Rietvelt Refinement), it is possible to perform quantitative analyses on samples
15 containing more than one crystalline compound.
   Table 4. XRD Data Including Domain Size and % Crystallinity
                              Sample ID      Domain Size      / Crystallinity
                                  P132             55              55
                                P132-10            46              58
                               P132-100            50              55
                               P132-181            48              52
                               P132-US             26              40
                                  A132             28              42
                               A132-10             26              40
                              A132-100             28              35
                                WS132              30              36
                              WS132-10             27              37
                             WS132-100             30              41
                                 SG132             29              40
                               SG132-10            28              38
                                                   126

                              SG132-100           28               37
                             SG132-10-US          25               42
                            SG132-100-US          21               34
            Each sample was placed on a zero background holder and placed in a Phillips
   PW1800 diffractometer using Cu radiation. Scans were then run over the range of 5' to
   50' with a step size of 0.05' and a counting time of 2 hours each.
 5          Once the diffraction patterns were obtained, the phases were identified with the
   aid of the Powder Diffraction File published by the International Centre for Diffraction
   Data. In all samples the crystalline phase identified was cellulose - Ta, which has a
   triclinic structure.
            The distinguishing feature among the 20 samples is the peak breadth, which is
10 related to the crystallite domain size. The experimental peak breadth was used to
   compute the domain size and percent crystallinity, which are reported in Table 4.
            Percent crystallinity (Xc %)is measured as a ratio of the crystalline area to the
   total area under the x-ray diffraction peaks,
15                                          0      A
                                       X%=           c    x100%
                                               (A+Ac}
   where,
                                   Ac = Area of crystalline phase
                                   Aa   = Area of amorphous phase
                                   X    = Percent of crystallinity
20          To determine the percent crystallinity for each sample it was necessary to first
   extract the amount of the amorphous phase. This is done by estimating the area of each
   diffraction pattern that can be attributed to the crystalline phase (represented by the
                                                  127

    sharper peaks) and the non-crystalline phase (represented by the broad humps beneath the
    pattern and centered at 22' and 38').
             A systematic process was used to minimize error in these calculations due to
    broad crystalline peaks as well as high background intensity. First, a linear background
 5  was applied and then removed. Second, two Gaussian peaks centered at 220 and 38' with
    widths of 10-12' each were fitted to the humps beneath the crystalline peaks. Third, the
    area beneath the two broad Gaussian peaks and the rest of the pattern were determined.
    Finally, percent crystallinity was calculated by dividing the area beneath the crystalline
    peak by the total intensity (after background subtraction). Domain size and %
10  crystallinity of the samples as determined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) are presented in
    Table 4.
    Example 11 - Porosimetry Analysis of Irradiated Materials
             Mercury pore size and pore volume analysis (Table 5) is based on forcing
    mercury (a non-wetting liquid) into a porous structure under tightly controlled pressures.
15  Since mercury does not wet most substances and will not spontaneously penetrate pores
    by capillary action, it must be forced into the voids of the sample by applying external
    pressure. The pressure required to fill the voids is inversely proportional to the size of the
    pores. Only a small amount of force or pressure is required to fill large voids, whereas
    much greater pressure is required to fill voids of very small pores.
20
    Table 5. Pore Size and Volume Distribution by Mercury Porosimetry
                      Total    Total     Median    Median     Average    Bulk    Apparent
                    Intrusion   Pore      Poe       Pr            oe   Dniy(skeletal)       Porosity
    Sample ID        Volume     Area    Diameter  Diameter   Diameter      0.
                                                                           0a    (Density
                                                                                        a0  P
                                  2
                     (mL/g)    (m /g)   (Volume)   (Area)      (4V/A)     psia    (g/mL)
                                          (pm)      (pm)        (pm)    (g/mL)
        P132         6.0594     1.228    36.2250   13.7278    19.7415   0.1448    1.1785    87.7163
      P132-10        5.5436     1.211    46.3463   4.5646     18.3106   0.1614    1.5355    89.4875
     P132-100        5.3985    0.998     34.5235   18.2005    21.6422   0.1612    1.2413    87.0151
     P132-181        3.2866    0.868     25.3448   12.2410    15.1509   0.2497    1.3916    82.0577
     P132-US         6.0005    14.787    98.3459   0.0055      1.6231   0.1404    0.8894    84.2199
       A132          2.0037    11.759    64.6308   0.0113      0.6816   0.3683    1.4058    73.7990
      A132-10         1.9514   10.326    53.2706   0.0105      0.7560   0.3768    1.4231    73.5241
     A132-100         1.9394   10.205    43.8966   0.0118      0.7602   0.3760    1.3889    72.9264
       SG132         2.5267     8.265    57.6958   0.0141      1.2229   0.3119    1.4708    78.7961
     SG132-10        2.1414     8.643    26.4666   0.0103      0.9910   0.3457    1.3315    74.0340
    SG132-100        2.5142    10.766    32.7118   0.0098      0.9342   0.3077    1.3590    77.3593
   SG132-10-US       4.4043     1.722    71.5734   1.1016     10.2319   0.1930    1.2883    85.0169
                                                  128

   SG132-100-US       4.9665   7.358    24.8462       0.0089         2.6998     0.1695       1.0731     84.2010
      WS132           2.9920   5.447    76.3675       0.0516         2.1971     0.2773       1.6279     82.9664
     WS132-10         3.1138   2.901    57.4727       0.3630         4.2940     0.2763       1.9808     86.0484
    WS132-100         3.2077   3.114    52.3284       0.2876         4.1199     0.2599       1.5611     83.3538
             The AutoPore 9520 can attain a maximum pressure of 414 MPa or 60,000 psia.
    There are four low-pressure stations for sample preparation and collection of macropore
    data from 0.2 psia to 50 psia. There are two high-pressure chambers, which collect data
 5  from 25 psia to 60,000 psia. The sample is placed in a bowl-like apparatus called a
    penetrometer, which is bonded to a glass capillary stem with a metal coating. As mercury
    invades the voids in and around the sample, it moves down the capillary stem. The loss
    of mercury from the capillary stem results in a change in the electrical capacitance. The
    change in capacitance during the experiment is converted to volume of mercury by
10  knowing the stem volume of the penetrometer in use. A variety of penetrometers with
    different bowl (sample) sizes and capillaries are available to accommodate most sample
    sizes and configurations. Table 6 below defines some of the key parameters calculated
    for each sample.
15  Table 6. Definition of Parameters
                 Parameter                                          Description
                                     The total volume of mercury intruded during an experiment. This
      Total Intrusion Volume:        can include interstitial filling between small particles, porosity of
                                     sample, and compression volume of sample.
      Total Pore Area:               The total intrusion volume converted to an area assuming
                                     cylindrical shaped pores.
      Median Iore Diameter           The size at the 50th percentile on the cumulative volume graph.
      Median Pore Diameter (area):   The size at the 50 1h percentile on the cumulative area graph.
      Average Pore Diameter:         The total pore volume divided by the total pore area (4V/A).
      Bulk Density:                  The mass of the sample divided by the bulk volume. Bulk volume
                                     is determined at the filling pressure, typically 0.5 psia.
      App aren't Density:            The mass of sample divided by the volume of sample measured at
                                     highest pressure, typically 60,000 psia.
      Porosity:                      (Bulk Density/ Apparent Density) x 100%
                                                    129

   Example 12 - Particle Size Analysis of Irradiated Materials
           The technique of particle sizing by static light scattering is based on Mie theory
   (which also encompasses Fraunhofer theory). Mie theory predicts the intensity vs. angle
 5 relationship as a function of the size for spherical scattering particles provided that other
   system variables are known and held constant. These variables are the wavelength of
   incident light and the relative refractive index of the sample material. Application of Mie
   theory provides the detailed particle size information. Table 7 summarizes particle size
   using median diameter, mean diameter, and modal diameter as parameters.
10
   Table 7. Particle Size by Laser Light Scattering (Dry Sample Dispersion)
                                  Median Diameter         Mean Diameter        Modal Diameter
               Sample ID
                                         (pm)                   (pm)               (pm)
                  A132                 380.695                418.778             442.258
                A132-10                321.742                366.231             410.156
               A132-100                301.786                348.633             444.169
                 SG132                 369.400                411.790             455.508
               SG132-10                278.793                325.497             426.717
              SG132-100                242.757                298.686             390.097
                WS132                  407.335                445.618             467.978
               WS132-10                194.237                226.604             297.941
              WS132-100                201.975                236.037             307.304
           Particle size was determined by Laser Light Scattering (Dry Sample Dispersion)
   using a Malvern Mastersizer 2000 using the following conditions:
15
                                Feed Rate:              35%
                                Disperser Pressure:    4 Bar
                                Optical Model:          (2.610, 1.000i), 1.000
           An appropriate amount of sample was introduced onto a vibratory tray. The feed
   rate and air pressure were adjusted to ensure that the particles were properly dispersed.
20 The key component is selecting an air pressure that will break up agglomerations, but
   does not compromise the sample integrity. The amount of sample needed varies
                                                     130

   depending on the size of the particles. In general, samples with fine particles require less
   material than samples with coarse particles.
   Example 13 - Surface Area Analysis of Irradiated Materials
   Table 8. Summary of Surface Area by Gas Adsorption
 5         Surface area of each sample was analyzed using a Micromeritics ASAP 2420
   Accelerated Surface Area and Porosimetry System. The samples were prepared by first
   degassing for 16 hours at 40 'C. Next, free space (both warm and cold) with helium is
   calculated and then the sample tube is evacuated again to remove the helium. Data
   collection begins after this second evacuation and consists of defining target pressures,
10 which controls how much gas is dosed onto the sample. At each target pressure, the
   quantity of gas adsorbed and the actual pressure are determined and recorded. The
   pressure inside the sample tube is measured with a pressure transducer. Additional doses
   of gas will continue until the target pressure is achieved and allowed to equilibrate. The
   quantity of gas adsorbed is determined by summing multiple doses onto the sample. The
15 pressure and quantity define a gas adsorption isotherm and are used to calculate a number
   of parameters, including BET surface area (Table 8).
                    Sample ID      Single point surface area (m2g)   BArE   S(urace
                        P132      @ P/Po=    0.250387771      1.5253      1.6897
                      P132-10     @P/Po=     0.239496722      1.0212      1.2782
                     P132-100     @P/Po=     0.240538100      1.0338      1.2622
                     P132-181       ) P/Po=  0.239166091      0.5102     0.6448
                     P132-US      @ P/Po=    0.217359072      1.0983      1.6793
                       A132       @ P/Po=    0.240040610      0.5400     0.7614
                     A132-10      @P/Po=     0.211218936      0.5383     0.7212
                     A132-100     @ P/Po=    0.238791097      0.4258     0.5538
                       SG132      @ P/Po= 0.237989353         0.6359     0.8350
                     SG132-10     @ P/Po= 0.238576905         0.6794     0.8689
                    SG132-100     @ P/Po= 0.241960361         0.5518     0.7034
                  SG132-10-US     @ P/Po=    0.225692889      0.5693     0.7510
                  SG132-100-US    @ P/Po=    0.225935246      1.0983      1.4963
                      WS132       @ P/Po=    0.237823664      0.6582     0.8663
                    WS132-10      @P/Po=     0.238612476      0.6191     0.7912
                   WS132-100      @ P/Po=    0.238398832      0.6255     0.8143
           The BET model for isotherms is a widely used theory for calculating the specific
20 surface area. The analysis involves determining the monolayer capacity of the sample
                                                    131

   surface by calculating the amount required to cover the entire surface with a single
   densely packed layer of krypton. The monolayer capacity is multiplied by the cross
   sectional area of a molecule of probe gas to determine the total surface area. Specific
   surface area is the surface area of the sample aliquot divided by the mass of the sample.
 5 Example 14 - Fiber Length Determination of Irradiated Materials
            Fiber length distribution testing was performed in triplicate on the samples
   submitted using the Techpap MorFi LBO I system. The average length and width are
   reported in Table 9.
10 Table 9. Summary of Lignocellulosic Fiber Length and Width Data
                        Arithmetic      Average Length            Statistically    Width
          Sample ID      Average          Weighted in        Corrected Average  (micrometers)
                          (mm)           Length (mm)         Length Weighted in
                                                                 Length (mm)
           P132-10        0.484              0.615                   0.773           24.7
          P132-100        0.369              0.423                   0.496           23.8
          P132-181        0.312              0.342                   0.392           24.4
           A132-10        0.382              0.423                   0.650           43.2
          A132-100        0.362              0.435                   0.592           29.9
          SG132-10        0.328              0.363                   0.521           44.0
         SG132-100        0.325              0.351                   0.466           43.8
          WS132-10        0.353              0.381                   0.565           44.7
         WS132-100        0.354              0.371                   0.536           45.4
   Example 15 - Ultrasonic Treatment of Irradiated and Un-irradiated Switchgrass
            Switchgrass was sheared according to Example 4. The switchgrass was treated by
   ultrasound alone or irradiation with 10 Mrad or 100 Mrad of gamma rays, and then
15 sonicated. The resulting materials correspond to G132-BR (un-irradiated), G132-10-BR
   (10 Mrad and sonication) and G132-100-BR (100 Mrad and sonication), as presented in
   Table 1. Sonication was performed on each sample for 30 minutes using 20kHz
   ultrasound from a 1000W horn under re-circulating conditions. Each sample was
   dispersed in water at a concentration of about 0.10 g/mL.
20          FIGS. 32 and 33 show the apparatus used for sonication. Apparatus 500 includes
   a converter 502 connected to booster 504 communicating with a horn 506 fabricated from
   titanium or an alloy of titanium. The horn, which has a seal 510 made from VITON
   about its perimeter on its processing side, forms a liquid tight seal with a processing cell
                                                    132

   508. The processing side of the horn is immersed in a liquid, such as water, that has
   dispersed therein the sample to be sonicated. Pressure in the cell is monitored with a
   pressure gauge 512. In operation, each sample is moved by pump 517 from tank 516
   through the processing cell and is sonicated. After, sonication, the sample is captured in
 5 tank 520. The process can be reversed in that the contents of tank 520 can be sent
   through the processing cell and captured in tank 516. This process can be repeated a
   number of times until a desired level of processing is delivered to the sample.
   Example 16 - Scanning Electron Micrographs of Un-irradiated Switchgrass in Comparison
   to Irradiated and Irradiated and Sonicated Switchgrass
10          Switchgrass samples for the scanning electron micrographs were applied to
   carbon tape and gold sputter coated (70 seconds). Images were taken with a JEOL 6500
   field emission scanning electron microscope.
            FIG. 34 is a scanning electron micrograph at 1000 X magnification of a fibrous
   material produced from shearing switchgrass on a rotary knife cutter, and then passing
15 the sheared material through a 1/32 inch screen.
            FIGS. 35 and 36 are scanning electron micrographs of the fibrous material of FIG.
   34 after irradiation with 10 Mrad and 100 Mrad gamma rays, respectively, at 1000 X
   magnification.
            FIG. 37 is a scanning electron micrographs of the fibrous material of FIG. 34 after
20 irradiation with 10 Mrad and sonication at 1000 X magnification.
            FIG. 38 is a scanning electron micrographs of the fibrous material of FIG. 34 after
   irradiation with 100 Mrad and sonication at 1000 X magnification.
   Example 17 - Infrared Spectrum of Irradiated Kraft Paper in Comparison to Un-irradiated Kraft Paper
            The FT-IR analysis was performed on a Nicolet/Impact 400. The results indicate
25 that all samples reported in Table 1 are consistent with a cellulose-based material.
            FIG. 39 is an infrared spectrum of Kraft board paper sheared according to
   Example 4, while FIG. 40 is an infrared spectrum of the Kraft paper of FIG. 39 after
   irradiation with 100 Mrad of gamma radiation. The irradiated sample shows an
   additional peak in region A (centered about 1730 cm- ) that is not found in the un
30 irradiated material.
                                                    133

   Example 18 - Combination of Electron Beam and Sonication Pretreatment
             Switchgrass is used as the feedstock and is sheared with a Munson rotary knife
   cutter into a fibrous material. The fibrous material is then evenly distributed onto an
   open tray composed of tin with an area of greater than about 500 in 2 . The fibrous
 5 material is distributed so that it has a depth of about 1 - 2 inches in the open tray. The
   fibrous material may be distributed in plastic bags at lower doses of irradiation (under 10
   MRad), and left uncovered on the metal tray at higher doses of radiation.
            Separate samples of the fibrous material are then exposed to successive doses of
   electron beam radiation to achieve a total dose of 1 Mrad, 2 Mrad, 3, Mrad, 5 Mrad, 10
10 Mrad, 50 Mrad, and 100 Mrad. Some samples are maintained under the same conditions
   as the remaining samples, but are not irradiated, to serve as controls. After cooling, the
   irradiated fibrous material is sent on for further processing through a sonication device.
           The sonication device includes a converter connected to booster communicating
   with a horn fabricated from titanium or an alloy of titanium. The horn, which has a seal
15 made from VITON@ about its perimeter on its processing side, forms a liquid tight seal
   with a processing cell. The processing side of the horn is immersed in a liquid, such as
   water, into which the irradiated fibrous material to be sonicated is immersed. Pressure in
   the cell is monitored with a pressure gauge. In operation, each sample is moved by pump
   through the processing cell and is sonicated.
20         To prepare the irradiated fibrous material for sonication, the irradiated fibrous
   material is removed from any container (e.g., plastic bags) and is dispersed in water at a
   concentration of about 0.10 g/mL. Sonication is performed on each sample for 30
   minutes using 20 kHz ultrasound from a 1000 W horn under re-circulating conditions.
   After sonication, the irradiated fibrous material is captured in a tank. This process can be
25 repeated a number of times until a desired level of processing is achieved based on
   monitoring the structural changes in the switchgrass. Again, some irradiated samples are
   kept under the same conditions as the remaining samples, but are not sonicated, to serve
   as controls. In addition, some samples that were not irradiated are sonicated, again to
   serve as controls. Thus, some controls are not processed, some are only irradiated, and
30 some are only sonicated.
                                                  134

   Example 19 - Microbial Testing of Pretreated Biomass
            Specific lignocellulosic materials pretreated as described herein are analyzed for
   toxicity to common strains of yeast and bacteria used in the biofuel industry for the
   fermentation step in ethanol production. Additionally, sugar content and compatibility
 5 with cellulase enzymes are examined to determine the viability of the treatment process.
   Testing of the pretreated materials is carried out in two phases as follows.
            I. Toxicity and Sugar Content
            Toxicity of the pretreated grasses and paper feedstocks is measured in yeast
   Saccharomyces cerevisiae (wine yeast) and Pichia stipitis (ATCC 66278) as well as the
10 bacteria Zymomonas mobilis (ATCC 31821) and Clostridium thermocelluin (ATCC
   31924). A growth study is performed with each of the organisms to determine the
   optimal time of incubation and sampling.
            Each of the feedstocks is then incubated, in duplicate, with S. cerevisiae,P.
   stipitis, Z. mobilis, and C. thermocellum in a standard microbiological medium for each
15 organism. YM broth is used for the two yeast strains, S. cerevisiae and P. stipitis. RM
   medium is used for Z. mobilis and CM4 medium for C. thermocellum. A positive control,
   with pure sugar added, but no feedstock, is used for comparison. During the incubation,
   a total of five samples is taken over a 12 hour period at time 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 hours and
   analyzed for viability (plate counts for Z. mobilis and direct counts for S. cerevisiae) and
20 ethanol concentration.
            Sugar content of the feedstocks is measured using High Performance Liquid
   Chromatography (HPLC) equipped with either a Shodex@ sugar SP08 10 or Biorad
   Aminex@ HPX-87P column. Each of the feedstocks (approx. 5 g) is mixed with reverse
   osmosis (RO) water for 1 hour. The liquid portion of the mixture is removed and
25 analyzed for glucose, galactose, xylose, mannose, arabinose, and cellobiose content. The
   analysis is performed according to National Bioenergy Center protocol Determinationof
   StructuralCarbohydratesand Lignin in Biomass.
            II. Cellulase Compatibility
30          Feedstocks are tested, in duplicate, with commercially available Accellerase@
   1000 enzyme complex, which contains a complex of enzymes that reduces lignocellulosic
                                                 135

   biomass into fermentable sugars, at the recommended temperature and concentration in
   an Erlenmeyer flask. The flasks are incubated with moderate shaking at around 200 rpm
   for 12 hours. During that time, samples are taken every three hours at time 0, 3, 6, 9, and
   12 hours to determine the concentration of reducing sugars (Hope and Dean, Biotech J.,
 5 1974, 144:403) in the liquid portion of the flasks.
   Example 20 - Alcohol Production Using Irradiation-Sonication Pretreatment
           The optimum size for biomass conversion plants is affected by factors including
   economies of scale and the type and availability of biomass used as feedstock. Increasing
   plant size tends to increase economies of scale associated with plant processes. However,
10 increasing plant size also tends to increase the costs (e.g., transportation costs) per unit of
   biomass feedstock. Studies analyzing these factors suggest that the appropriate size for
   biomass conversion plants can range from 2000 to 10,000 dried tons of biomass feedstock
   per day. The plant described below is sized to process 2000 tons of dry biomass feedstock
   per day.
15         FIG. 41 shows a process schematic of a biomass conversion system configured to
   process switchgrass. The feed preparation subsystem processes raw biomass feedstock to
   remove foreign objects and provide consistently sized particles for further processing. The
   pretreatment subsystem changes the molecular structure (e.g., reduces the average molecular
   weight and the crystallinity) of the biomass feedstock by irradiating the biomass feedstock,
20 mixing the irradiated the biomass feedstock with water to form a slurry, and applying
   ultrasonic energy to the slurry. The irradiation and sonication convert the cellulosic and
   lignocellulosic components of the biomass feedstock into fermentable materials. The
   primary process subsystem ferments the glucose and other low weight sugars present after
   pretreatment to form alcohols.
25
   Example 21- Electron Beam Processing of table sugar (sucrose)
            Sucrose was treated with a beam of electrons using a vaulted Rhodotron@ TT200
   continuous wave accelerator delivering 5 MeV electrons at 80 kW output power. The
   table below describes the nominal parameters for the TT200. The nominal doses (in
30 MRad) and actual doses (in kgy) delivered to the samples are also given below.
                                                  136

    Rhodotron@ TT 200 Parameters
   Beam
   Beam Produced:                                                        Accelerated electrons
   Beam energy:                                             Nominal (maximum): 10 MeV (+0 keV-250 keV
   Energy dispersion at 10 Mev:                               Full width half maximum (FWHM) 300 keV
   Beam power at 10 MeV:                                      Guaranteed Operating Range 1 to 80 kW
   Power Consumption
   Stand-by condition (vacuum and cooling ON):                                    <15 kW
   At 50 kW beam power:                                                          <210 kW
   At 80 kW beam power:                                                          <260 kW
   RF System
   Frequency:                                                                107.5 1 MHz
   Tetrode type:                                                           Thomson TH781
   Scanning Horn
   Nominal Scanning Length (measured at 25-35                                     120 cm
   cm from window):
   Scanning Range:                                         From 30% to 100% of Nominal Scanning Length
   Nominal Scanning Frequency (at max.                                        100 Hz  5%
   scanning length):
   Scanning Uniformity (across 90% of Nominal                                      5%
   Scanning Length)
    Dosages Delivered to the Sucrose Samples
                               Total Dosage (MRad)                  Delivered Dose (kgy)'
                     (Number Associated with Sample ID
                                           1                                    9.9
                                          3                                    29.0
                                          5                                    50.4
                                          7                                    69.2
                                          10                                  100.0
                                          15                                  150.3
                                         20                                   198.3
                                         30                                   330.9
                                         50                                   529.0
                                         70                                   695.9
                                         100                                  993.6
                     'For example, 9.9kgy was delivered in 11 seconds at a beam current of 5mA
 5                   and a line speed of 12.9 feet/minute. Cool time between 1 MRad treatments was
                     about 2 minutes.
    The solubility of the sucrose samples treated above 30 Mrad was enhanced, and at or
    above 30 Mrad, the sucrose appeared visually to be devoid of crystallinity. Above 70
10  Mrad, the sucrose was converted into a solid mass of material.
    Feed preparation
            The selected design feed rate for the plant is 2,000 dry tons per day of switchgrass
    biomass. The design feed is chopped and/or sheared switchgrass.
                                                        137

           Biomass feedstock, in the form of bales of switchgrass, is received by the plant on
   truck trailers. As the trucks are received, they are weighed and unloaded by forklifts.
   Some bales are sent to on-site storage while others are taken directly to the conveyors.
   From there, the bales are conveyed to an automatic unwrapping system that cuts away the
 5 plastic wrapping and/or net surrounding the bales. The biomass feedstock is then
   conveyed past a magnetic separator to remove tramp metal, after which it is introduced to
   shredder-shearer trains where the material is reduced in size. Finally, the biomass
   feedstock is conveyed to the pretreatment subsystem.
           In some cases, the switchgrass bales are wrapped with plastic net to ensure they
10 don't break apart when handled, and may also be wrapped in plastic film to protect the
   bale from weather. The bales are either square or round. The bales are received at the
   plant from off-site storage on large truck trailers.
           Since switchgrass is only seasonally available, long-term storage is required to
   provide feed to the plant year-round. Long-term storage will likely consist of 400-500
15 acres of uncovered piled rows of bales at a location (or multiple locations) reasonably
   close to the ethanol plant. On-site short-term storage is provided equivalent to 72 hours
   of production at an outside storage area. Bales and surrounding access ways as well as
   the transport conveyors will be on a concrete slab. A concrete slab is used because of the
   volume of traffic required to deliver the large amount of biomass feedstock required. A
20 concrete slab will minimize the amount of standing water in the storage area, as well as
   reduce the biomass feedstock's exposure to dirt. The stored material provides a short
   term supply for weekends, holidays, and when normal direct delivery of material into the
   process is interrupted.
           The bales are off-loaded by forklifts and are placed directly onto bale transport
25 conveyors or in the short-term storage area. Bales are also reclaimed from short-term
   storage by forklifts and loaded onto the bale transport conveyors.
           Bales travel to one of two bale unwrapping stations. Unwrapped bales are broken
   up using a spreader bar and then discharged onto a conveyor that passes a magnetic
   separator to remove metal prior to shredding. A tramp iron magnet is provided to catch
30 stray magnetic metal and a scalping screen removes gross oversize and foreign material
   ahead of multiple shredder-shearer trains, which reduce the biomass feedstock to the
                                                 138

   proper size for pretreatment. The shredder-shearer trains include shredders and rotary
   knife cutters. The shredders reduce the size of the raw biomass feedstock and feed the
   resulting material to the rotary knife cutters. The rotary knife cutters concurrently shear
   the biomass feedstock and screen the resulting material.
 5         Three storage silos are provided to limit overall system downtime due to required
   maintenance on and/or breakdowns of feed preparation subsystem equipment. Each silo
   can hold approximately 55,000 cubic feet of biomass feedstock (~3 hours of plant
   operation).
   Pretreatment
10         A conveyor belt carries the biomass feedstock from the feed preparation
   subsystem 110 to the pretreatment subsystem 114. As shown in FIG. 42, in the
   pretreatment subsystem 114, the biomass feedstock is irradiated using electron beam
   emitters, mixed with water to form a slurry, and subjected to the application of ultrasonic
   energy. As discussed above, irradiation of the biomass feedstock changes the molecular
15 structure (e.g., reduces the average molecular weight and the crystallinity) of the biomass
   feedstock. Mixing the irradiated biomass feedstock into a slurry and applying ultrasonic
   energy to the slurry further changes the molecular structure of the biomass feedstock.
   Application of the radiation and sonication in sequence may have synergistic effects in
   that the combination of techniques appears to achieve greater changes to the molecular
20 structure (e.g., reduces the average molecular weight and the crystallinity) than either
   technique can efficiently achieve on its own. Without wishing to be bound by theory, in
   addition to reducing the polymerization of the biomass feedstock by breaking
   intramolecular bonds between segments of cellulosic and lignocellulosic components of
   the biomass feedstock, the irradiation may make the overall physical structure of the
25 biomass feedstock more brittle. After the brittle biomass feedstock is mixed into a slurry,
   the application of ultrasonic energy further changes the molecular structure (e.g., reduces
   the average molecular weight and the crystallinity) and also can reduce the size of biomass
   feedstock particles.
   Electron Beam Irradiation
30         The conveyor belt 491 carrying the biomass feedstock into the pretreatment
   subsystem distributes the biomass feedstock into multiple feed streams (e.g., 50 feed
                                                  139

   streams) each leading to separate electron beam emitters 492. In this embodiment, the
   biomass feedstock is irradiated while it is dry. Each feed stream is carried on a separate
   conveyor belt to an associated electron beam emitter. Each irradiation feed conveyor belt
   can be approximately one meter wide. Before reaching the electron beam emitter, a
 5 localized vibration is induced in each conveyor belt to evenly distribute the dry biomass
   feedstock over the cross-sectional width of the conveyor belt.
           Electron beam emitter 492 (e.g., electron beam irradiation devices commercially
   available from Titan Corporation, San Diego, CA) are configured to apply a 100 kilo
   Gray dose of electrons applied at a power of 300 kW. The electron beam emitters are
10 scanning beam devices with a sweep width of 1 meter to correspond to the width of the
   conveyor belt. In some embodiments, electron beam emitters with large, fixed beam
   widths are used. Factors including belt/beam width, desired dose, biomass feedstock
   density, and power applied govern the number of electron beam emitters required for the
   plant to process 2,000 tons per day of dry feed.
15 Sonication
           The irradiated biomass feedstock is mixed with water to form a slurry before
   ultrasonic energy is applied. There can be a separate sonication system associated with
   each electron beam feed stream or several electron beam streams can be aggregated as
   feed for a single sonication system.
20         In each sonication system, the irradiated biomass feedstock is fed into a reservoir
   1214 through a first intake 1232 and water is fed into the reservoir 1214 through second
   intake 1234. Appropriate valves (manual or automated) control the flow of biomass
   feedstock and the flow of water to produce a desired ratio of biomass feedstock to water
   (e.g., 10% cellulosic material, weight by volume). Each reservoir 1214 includes a mixer
25 1240 to agitate the contents of volume 1236 and disperse biomass feedstock throughout
   the water.
           In each sonication system, the slurry is pumped (e.g., using a recessed impeller
   vortex pump 1218) from reservoir 1214 to and through a flow cell 1224 including an
   ultrasonic transducer 1226. In some embodiments, pump 1218 is configured to agitate
30 the slurry 1216 such that the mixture of biomass feedstock and water is substantially
   uniform at inlet 1220 of the flow cell 1224. For example, the pump 1218 can agitate the
                                                 140

   slurry 1216 to create a turbulent flow that persists throughout the piping between the first
   pump and inlet 1220 of flow cell 1224.
           Within the flow cell 1224, ultrasonic transducer 1226 transmits ultrasonic energy
   into slurry 1216 as the slurry flows through flow cell 1224. Ultrasonic transducer 1226
 5 converts electrical energy into high frequency mechanical energy (e.g., ultrasonic
   energy), which is then delivered to the slurry through booster 48. Ultrasonic transducers
   are commercially available (e.g., from Hielscher USA, Inc. of Ringwood, New Jersey)
   that are capable of delivering a continuous power of 16 kilowatts.
           The ultrasonic energy traveling through booster 1248 in reactor volume 1244
10 creates a series of compressions and rarefactions in process stream 1216 with an intensity
   sufficient to create cavitation in process stream 1216. Cavitation disaggregates
   components of the biomass feedstock including, for example, cellulosic and
   lignocellulosic material dispersed in process stream 1216 (e.g., slurry). Cavitation also
   produces free radicals in the water of process stream 1216 (e.g., slurry). These free
15 radicals act to further break down the cellulosic material in process stream 1216. In
   general, about 250 MJ/m 3 of ultrasonic energy is applied to process stream 1216
   containing fragments of poplar chips. Other levels of ultrasonic energy (between about 5
   and about 4000 MJ/m 3 , e.g., 10, 25, 50, 100, 250, 500, 750, 1000, 2000, or 3000) can be
   applied to other biomass feedstocks After exposure to ultrasonic energy in reactor
20 volume 1244, process stream 1216 exits flow cell 24 through outlet 1222.
           Flow cell 1224 also includes a heat exchanger 1246 in thermal communication
   with at least a portion of reactor volume 1244. Cooling fluid 1248 (e.g., water) flows into
   heat exchanger 1246 and absorbs heat generated when process stream 1216 (e.g., slurry)
   is sonicated in reactor volume 1244. In some embodiments, the flow of cooling fluid
25 1248 into heat exchanger 1246 is controlled to maintain an approximately constant
   temperature in reactor volume 1244. In addition or in the alternative, the temperature of
   cooling fluid 1248 flowing into heat exchanger 1246 is controlled to maintain an
   approximately constant temperature in reactor volume 1244.
           The outlet 1242 of flow cell 1224 is arranged near the bottom of reservoir 1214 to
30 induce a gravity feed of process stream 1216 (e.g., slurry) out of reservoir 1214 towards
                                                  141

   the inlet of a second pump 1230 which pumps process stream 1216 (e.g., slurry) towards
   the primary process subsystem.
             Sonication systems can include a single flow path (as described above) or
   multiple parallel flow paths each with an associated individual sonication unit. Multiple
 5 sonication units can also be arranged to series to increase the amount of sonic energy
   applied to the slurry.
   Primary Processes
             A vacuum rotary drum type fitter removes solids from the slurry before
   fermentation. Liquid from the filter is pumped cooled prior to entering the fermentors.
10 Filtered solids are passed to the post-processing subsystem for further processing.
             The fermentation tanks are large, low pressure, stainless steel vessels with conical
   bottoms and slow speed agitators. Multiple first stage fermentation tanks can be arranged
   in series. The temperature in the first stage fermentation tanks is controlled to 30 degrees
   centigrade using external heat exchangers. Yeast is added to the first stage fermentation
15 tank at the head of each series of tanks and carries through to the other tanks in the series.
             Second stage fermentation consists of two continuous fermentors in series. Both
   fermentors are continuously agitated with slow speed mechanical mixers. Temperature is
   controlled with chilled water in external exchangers with continuous recirculation.
   Recirculation pumps are of the progressive cavity type because of the high solids
20 concentration.
             Off gas from the fermentation tanks and fermentors is combined and washed in a
   counter-current water column before being vented to the atmosphere. The off gas is
   washed to recover ethanol rather than for air emissions control.
   Post-Processing
25 Distillation
             Distillation and molecular sieve adsorption are used to recover ethanol from the
   raw fermentation beer and produce 99.5% ethanol. Distillation is accomplished in two
   columns-the first, called the beer column, removes the dissolved C02 and most of the
   water, and the second concentrates the ethanol to a near azeotropic composition.
                                                 142

           All the water from the nearly azeotropic mixture is removed by vapor phase
   molecular sieve adsorption. Regeneration of the adsorption columns requires that an
   ethanol water mixture be recycled to distillation for recovery.
           Fermentation vents (containing mostly C02, but also some ethanol) as well as the
 5 beer column vent are scrubbed in a water scrubber, recovering nearly all of the ethanol.
   The scrubber effluent is fed to the first distillation column along with the fermentation
   beer.
           The bottoms from the first distillation contain all the unconverted insoluble and
   dissolved solids. The insoluble solids are dewatered by a pressure filter and sent to a
10 combustor. The liquid from the pressure filter that is not recycled is concentrated in a
   multiple effect evaporator using waste heat from the distillation. The concentrated syrup
   from the evaporator is mixed with the solids being sent to the combustor, and the
   evaporated condensate is used as relatively clean recycle water to the process.
           Because the amount of stillage water that can be recycled is limited, an evaporator
15 is included in the process. The total amount of the water from the pressure filter that is
   directly recycled is set at 25%. Organic salts like ammonium acetate or lactate, steep
   liquor components not utilized by the organism, or inorganic compounds in the biomass
   end up in this stream. Recycling too much of this material can result in levels of ionic
   strength and osmotic pressures that can be detrimental to the fermenting organism's
20 efficiency. For the water that is not recycled, the evaporator concentrates the dissolved
   solids into a syrup that can be sent to the combustor, minimizing the load to wastewater
   treatment.
   Wastewater Treatment
           The wastewater treatment section treats process water for reuse to reduce plant
25 makeup water requirements. Wastewater is initially screened to remove large particles,
   which are collected in a hopper and sent to a landfill. Screening is followed by anaerobic
   digestion and aerobic digestion to digest organic matter in the stream. Anaerobic
   digestion produces a biogas stream that is rich in methane that is fed to the combustor.
   Aerobic digestion produces a relatively clean water stream for reuse in the process as
30 well as a sludge that is primarily composed of cell mass. The sludge is also burned in the
   combustor. This screening / anaerobic digestion / aerobic digestion scheme is standard
                                                  143

   within the current ethanol industry and facilities in the 1-5 million gallons per day range
   can be obtained as "off-the-shelf' units from vendors.
   Combustor, Boiler, and Turbogenerator
           The purpose of the combustor, boiler, and turbogenerator subsystem is to burn
 5 various by-product streams for steam and electricity generation. For example, some
   lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose remains unconverted through the pretreatment and
   primary processes. The majority of wastewater from the process is concentrated to a
   syrup high in soluble solids. Anaerobic digestion of the remaining wastewater produces a
   biogas high in methane. Aerobic digestion produces a small amount of waste biomass
10 (sludge). Burning these by-product streams to generate steam and electricity allows the
   plant to be self sufficient in energy, reduces solid waste disposal costs, and generates
   additional revenue through sales of excess electricity.
           Three primary fuel streams (post-distillate solids, biogas, and evaporator syrup)
   are fed to a circulating fluidized bed combustor. The small amount of waste biomass
15 (sludge) from wastewater treatment is also sent to the combustor. A fan moves air into
   the combustion chamber. Treated water enters the heat exchanger circuit in the
   combustor and is evaporated and superheated to 5 10 C (950'F) and 86 atm (1265 psia)
   steam. Flue gas from the combustor preheats the entering combustion air then enters a
   baghouse to remove particulates, which are landfilled. The gas is exhausted through a
20 stack.
           A multistage turbine and generator are used to generate electricity. Steam is
   extracted from the turbine at three different conditions for injection into the pretreatment
   reactor and heat exchange in distillation and evaporation. The remaining steam is
   condensed with cooling water and returned to the boiler feedwater system along with
25 condensate from the various heat exchangers in the process. Treated well water is used
   as makeup to replace steam used in direct injection.
                                    OTHER EMBODIMENTS
           A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it
30 will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the
                                                 144

spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope
of the following claims.
                                            145

   The following are disclosed:
    1.     A method comprising:
           quenching a biomass feedstock that has been irradiated to ionize the biomass
   feedstock so that the feedstock has a first level of radicals, the quenching performed to an
 5 extent that the radicals are at a second level, lower than the first level, in the quenched
   biomass feedstock.
   2.      The method of 1 further comprising preparing the biomass feedstock by
   reducing one or more dimensions of individual pieces of the biomass feedstock, e.g., by
10 shearing, grinding, cutting or a combination of these methods.
   3. The method of 1 or 2 wherein quenching comprises quenching the radicals to a
   level that is no longer detectable with an electron spin resonance spectrometer, e.g., a
   level of less than about 104 spins.
15
   4. The method of any one of the above, wherein the method further comprises
   treating the biomass feedstock with one or more other pretreatment methods, wherein the
   other pretreatment methods are selected from sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation.
20 5. The method of any one of the above, wherein the radiation is in the form of an
   electron beam, e.g., applied at a total dosage of between about 10 MRad and about 50
   MRad.
   6. The method of any one of the above, wherein quenching comprises an
25 application of pressure to the biomass, e.g., a pressure of greater than about 1000 psi,
   optionally applied together with the application of heat.
   7. The method of any one of the above, wherein quenching comprises contacting
   the biomass with a gas capable of reacting with the radicals or contacting the biomass
30 with a fluid capable of penetrating into the biomass and reacting with the radicals.

   8. The method of any one of the above, wherein quenching comprises contacting
   the biomass with an antioxidant.
 5 9. The method of any one of the above, wherein the biomass feedstock further
   includes an antioxidant dispersed therein, and wherein quenching comprises contacting
   the antioxidant dispersed in the biomass feedstock with the radicals.
    10. The method of any one of the above further comprising processing the
10 quenched biomass feedstock to make a combustible fuel.
    11. The method of 10 wherein processing comprises converting the irradiated
   material utilizing a microorganism having the ability to convert at least about 1 percent
   by weight of the biomass to the fuel.
15
    12. The method of any one of the above wherein irradiating comprises irradiating
   with ionizing radiation.
    13. The method of any one of the above, wherein the biomass feedstock is
20 selected from the group consisting of a low molecular weight sugar, a starch, paper, paper
   products, paper waste, wood, particle board, sawdust, agricultural waste, sewage, silage,
   grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn
   cobs, corn stover, switchgrass, alfalfa, hay, rice hulls, coconut hair, cotton, synthetic
   celluloses, seaweed, algae, and mixtures thereof.
25
    14. A method comprising:
           irradiating a biomass feedstock to change a molecular and/or a supramolecular
   structure of the biomass feedstock;
           cooling the irradiated biomass feedstock; and then
30         re-irradiating the biomass feedstock with a second dose of ionizing radiation.

    15. The method of 14 further comprising processing the re-irradiated biomass
   feedstock to produce a fuel.
    16. The method of 15 wherein processing comprises converting the re-irradiated
 5 biomass feedstock utilizing a microorganism having the ability to convert at least about 1
   percent by weight of the biomass to the fuel.
    17. The method of any one of 14 through 16 further comprising preparing the
   biomass feedstock by reducing one or more dimensions of individual pieces of the
10 biomass feedstock, e.g., by shearing, grinding, cutting or a combination of these methods.
    18. The method of any one of 14 through 17 further comprising treating the
   biomass feedstock with one or more other treatment methods, wherein the other
   pretreatment methods are selected from sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation.
15
    19. The method of any one of 14 through 18 wherein the cooling of the biomass
   comprises contacting the biomass with a fluid at a temperature below the temperature of
   the biomass immediately prior to irradiation.
20 20. The method of any one of 14 through 19 wherein the biomass feedstock has
   internal fibers, and wherein the biomass feedstock has been sheared to an extent that its
   internal fibers are substantially exposed.
   21. The method of any one of 14 through 20 wherein the biomass feedstock has a
25 bulk density of less than about 0.25 g/cm 3.
   22. The method of any one of 14 through 21 wherein the biomass feedstock is
   selected from the group consisting of a low molecular weight sugar, a starch, paper, paper
   products, paper waste, wood, particle board, sawdust, agricultural waste, sewage, silage,
30 grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn

   cobs, corn stover, switchgrass, alfalfa, hay, rice hulls, coconut hair, cotton, synthetic
   celluloses, seaweed, algae, and mixtures thereof.
   23. A method comprising:
 5         treating a biomass feedstock comprising a starchy material to change the
   molecular structure and/or supramolecular structure of the starchy material, with at least
   one method selected from the group consisting of radiation, sonication, pyrolysis, and
   oxidation.
10 24. The method of 23 further comprising preparing the biomass feedstock by
   reducing one or more dimensions of individual pieces of the biomass feedstock, e.g., by
   shearing, grinding, cutting, squeezing, compressing or combinations of these processes.
   25. The method of 23 or 24, further comprising converting the pretreated biomass
15 feedstock utilizing a microorganism having the ability to convert at least about 1 percent
   by weight of the feedstock to a product, e.g., a combustible fuel, e.g., one or more of
   hydrogen, alcohols (e.g., ethanol, n-propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol and mixtures
   thereof), and hydrocarbons.
20 26. The method of any one of 23 through 25, wherein the biomass feedstock is
   selected from the group consisting of sugarcane, sugarcane extract, sugar beets, corn
   kernels, corn starch, paper, paper products, paper waste, wood, particle board, sawdust,
   agricultural waste, sewage, silage, grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax,
   bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn cobs, corn stover, switchgrass, alfalfa, hay, rice hulls,
25 coconut hair, cotton, synthetic celluloses, seaweed, algae, and mixtures thereof
   27. A method of converting an intermediate to a product, the method comprising
           treating an irradiated intermediate product with a microorganism, the intermediate
   having been prepared by irradiating a starchy material and treating the starchy material
30 with an enzyme.

                                                150
28.     A product produced by any one of the above methods.
29.     A biomass feedstock processing system comprising:
        an irradiating device configured to ionize a biomass feedstock so that the feedstock
has a first level of radicals detectable with an electron spin resonance spectrometer; and
        a quenching device configured to quench the ionized biomass feedstock to an extent
that the radicals are at a second level lower than the first level.
30.     A biomass feedstock processing system comprising:
        one or more irradiating devices configured to irradiate a biomass feedstock with at
least two separate doses of radiation; and
        a cooling device configured to cool the biomass feedstock between doses of radiation.
31.     The system of 29 or 30 further comprising a biomass feedstock
positioned to be ionized by the irradiating device(s).
32.     A method comprising:
        densifying a lignocellulosic material having a starting bulk density of less than 0.25
g/m 3 to produce a densified lignocellulosic material;
        irradiating the densified lignocellulosic material; and
        saccharifying the irradiated material.
33.     The method of 32, wherein the lignocellulosic material comprises an
agricultural residue.
34.     The method of 33 wherein the agricultural residue is selected from the group
consisting of soybean stover, corn stover, rice straw, rice hulls, barley straw, corn cobs, wheat
straw, canola straw, rice straw, oat straw, oat hulls, corn fiber, and mixtures thereof.
35.     The method of any one of 32 to 34, wherein irradiating comprises exposing to
an electron beam.
36.     The method of any one of 32 to 35, further comprising reopening the densified
material prior to saccharifying.

                                               151
37.     The method of any one of 32 to 36, further comprising combining the
lignocellulosic material with a binder prior to densifying.
38.     The method of 37, wherein the binder is water soluble or water swellable.
39.     The method of any one of 32 to 38, wherein the densified lignocellulosic
material has a bulk density of greater than 0.3 g/cm 3 .
40.     The method of 39, wherein the densified lignocellulosic material has a bulk
density of greater than 0.5 g/cm 3 .
41.     The method of 40, wherein the densified lignocellulosic material has a bulk
density of greater than 0.7 g/cm 3 .
42.     The method of any one of 32 to 41, wherein the densified lignocellulosic
material is in the form of pellets or chips.

                                                   152
CLAIMS
1.    A method comprising:
      treating a biomass feedstock, the feedstock comprising a blend of a starchy material with
another material selected from the group consisting of sugarcane, sugarcane extract, sugar beets,
paper, paper products, paper waste, wood, particle board, sawdust, agricultural waste, sewage,
silage, grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, corn
cobs, corn stover, switchgrass, alfalfa, hay, coconut hair, cotton, synthetic celluloses, seaweed,
algae, and mixtures thereof, to change the molecular structure and/or supramolecular structure of
the starchy material and/or the other material using an electron beam; and
       saccharifying the treated feedstock to produce sugars.
2.     The method of claim 1 further comprising preparing the biomass feedstock by reducing
one or more dimensions of individual pieces of the biomass feedstock.
3.     The method of claim 2, wherein reducing one or more dimensions of individual pieces of
biomass comprises shearing, grinding, cutting, squeezing, compressing or combinations of these
processes.
4.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the change in molecular structure and/or
supramolecular structure comprises a decrease in either one or both of an average molecular
weight and average crystallinity or an increase in either one or both of surface area and porosity.
5.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising converting the sugars to a
product other than sugar utilizing a microorganism.
6.     The method of claim 5, wherein converting comprises fermentation.
7.     The method of claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the product comprises a combustible fuel.
8.     The method of claim 7, wherein the fuel comprises one or more of hydrogen, alcohols, and
hydrocarbons.
9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the alcohols are selected from the group consisting of
ethanol, n-propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, and mixtures thereof.

                                                 153
10.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein treatment is performed while the biomass
feedstock is exposed to air, nitrogen, oxygen, helium or argon.
11.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein treatment is performed under a pressure
of greater than about 0.25 atmospheres.
12.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein treating comprises oxidizing the biomass
feedstock and then irradiating the oxidized feedstock.
13.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the starchy material is selected from the
group consisting of corn starch, wheat starch, potato starch, rice starch, derivatives thereof, and
mixtures thereof.
14.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the starchy material is selected from the
group consisting of arracacha, buckwheat, banana, rice, arrowroot, barley, cassava, kudzu, oca,
sago, sorghum, potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, beans, lentils, peas and mixtures thereof.
15.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the starchy material comprises corn.
16.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the biomass feedstock consists
essentially of corn starch.
17.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the change in molecular structure and/or
supramolecular structure results in an increase in solubility relative to the solubility of the
biomass feedstock prior to treatment.
18.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein treating comprises irradiating the
feedstock to ionize the feedstock so that the feedstock has a first level of radicals, and then
quenching the feedstock to an extent that the radicals are at a second level lower than the first
level in the quenched biomass feedstock.
19.    The method of claim 18, wherein quenching comprises contacting the biomass with a gas
capable of reacting with the radicals.

                                                154
20.   The method of claim 18, wherein quenching comprises contacting the biomass with a fluid
capable of penetrating into the biomass and reacting with the radicals.
21.   The method of any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein treating comprises irradiating the
feedstock, cooling the irradiated feedstock, and then re-irradiating the feedstock.
22.   The method of claim 21, wherein the biomass feedstock is cooled to an extent that after
cooling the biomass feedstock is at a temperature below the temperature of the biomass
feedstock immediately prior to irradiation.
23.   The method of any one of claims 18 to 22, wherein the radiation is applied at a total dosage
of between about 10 MRad and about 50 MRad.
                                            Xyleco, Inc.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
