                                             ABSTRACT
A multifunction device displays a plurality of selectable user interface objects on the display. In
response to detecting the first input, the device moves a first object in the plurality of selectable
user interface objects across the display to a location on the display that is proximate to a second
object in the plurality of selectable user interface objects. In response to detecting that the first
input meets predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second
object, the device creates a folder that contains the first object and the second object.

            Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Managing
                                              Folders
The invention to be disclosed and claimed in this application was prematurely and without
Apple's authorization disclosed to the public when a prototype of Apple's iPhone 4 was
apparently stolen from an Apple engineer on March 25, 2010. The U.S. priority applications, on
which this application is based, were not filed before the apparent theft. Also incorporated herein
by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2010/050056 (published as WO 2011/126501), filed on
23 September 2010.
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The disclosed embodiments relate generally to electronic devices with touch
sensitive surfaces, including but not limited to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces
for managing folders.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002]       The use of touch-sensitive surfaces as input devices for computers and other
electronic computing devices has increased significantly in recent years. Exemplary touch
sensitive surfaces include touch pads and touch screen displays. Such surfaces are widely used to
manage folders by manipulating selectable user interface objects on a display.
[0003]       Exemplary manipulations include creating a folder, displaying a folder view
associated with a folder, adding selectable user interface objects (e.g., application icons,
document icons, folder icons, etc.) to a folder, removing selectable user interface objects from a
folder, repositioning selectable user interface objects within a folder view of a folder,
repositioning a folder icon within an arrangement of selectable user interface objects and
deleting a folder. Exemplary selectable user interface objects include icons representing
applications, digital images, video, text, icons, and other documents, as well as applications icons
that are associated with computing applications (e.g., mobile device applications and/or personal
computer applications, etc.).
[0004]       But existing methods for performing these manipulations are cumbersome and
inefficient. For example, using a sequence of inputs to create, modify and/or delete folders and
content within folders is tedious and creates a significant cognitive burden on a user. In addition,
existing methods take longer than necessary, thereby wasting energy. This latter consideration is
particularly important in battery-operated devices.
                                                   1

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
                                          SUMMARY
[00051          Accordingly, there is a need for computing devices with faster, more efficient
methods and interfaces for managing folders. Such methods and interfaces may complement
or replace conventional methods for managing folders. Such methods and interfaces reduce
the cognitive burden on a user and produce a more efficient human-machine interface. For
battery-operated computing devices, such methods and interfaces conserve power and
increase the time between battery charges.
[0006]          The above deficiencies and other problems associated with user interfaces for
computing devices with touch-sensitive surfaces are reduced or eliminated by the disclosed
devices. In some embodiments, the device is a desktop computer. In some embodiments, the
device is portable (e.g., a notebook computer, tablet computer, or handheld device). In some
embodiments, the device has a touchpad. In some embodiments, the device has a touch
sensitive display (also known as a "touch screen" or "touch screen display"). In some
embodiments, the device has a graphical user interface (GUI), one or more processors,
memory and one or more modules, programs or sets of instructions stored in the memory for
performing multiple functions. In some embodiments, the user interacts with the GUI
primarily through finger contacts and gestures on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the functions may include image editing,              drawing, presenting, word
processing, website creating, disk authoring, spreadsheet making, game playing, telephoning,
video conferencing, e-mailing, instant messaging, workout support, digital photographing,
digital videoing, web browsing, digital music playing, and/or digital video playing.
Executable instructions for performing these functions may be included in a computer
readable storage medium or other computer program product configured for execution by one
or more processors.
[00071          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.           The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors.    The one or more programs include instructions for: displaying a plurality of
selectable user interface objects on the display; detecting a first input; and in response to
detecting the first input, moving a first object in the plurality of selectable user interface
objects across the display to a location on the display that is proximate to a second object in
the plurality of selectable user interface objects. The one or more programs further include
                                                2

  WO 2011/126501                                                             PCT/US2010/050056
instructions for detecting that the first input meets predefined folder-creation criteria while
the first object is proximate to the second object; and, in response to detecting that the first
input meets the predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the
second object, creating a folder that contains the first object and the second object.
[00081           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a
multifunction device with a display. The method includes: displaying a plurality of selectable
user interface objects on the display; detecting a first input; and in response to detecting the
first input, moving a first object in the plurality of selectable user interface objects across the
display to a location on the display that is proximate to a second object in the plurality of
selectable user interface objects. The method further includes detecting that the first input
meets predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second
object; and, in response to detecting that the first input meets the predefined folder-creation
criteria while the first object is proximate to the second object, creating a folder that contains
the first object and the second object.
[0009]           In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes a plurality of selectable user interface objects.
A first input is detected, and in response to detecting the first input, a first object in the
plurality of selectable user interface objects is moved across the display to a location on the
display that is proximate to a second object in the plurality of selectable user interface
objects. It is detected that the first input meets predefined folder-creation criteria while the
first object is proximate to the second object; and, in response to detecting that the first input
meets the predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second
object, a folder is created that contains the first object and the second object.
[0010]           In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: display a plurality of selectable user interface objects on the display;
detect a first input; and in response to detecting the first input, move a first object in the
plurality of selectable user interface objects across the display to a location on the display that
is proximate to a second object in the plurality of selectable user interface objects. The
instructions further cause the device to detect that the first input meets predefined folder
creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second object; and, in response to
                                                  3

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
detecting that the first input meets the predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object
is proximate to the second object, create a folder that contains the first object and the second
object.
[0011]           In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for displaying a plurality of selectable user interface objects on the display;
means for detecting a first input; and means, responsive to detecting the first input, for
moving a first object in the plurality of selectable user interface objects across the display to a
location on the display that is proximate to a second object in the plurality of selectable user
interface objects. The device further includes means for detecting that the first input meets
predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second object;
and, means, responsive to detecting that the first input meets the predefined folder-creation
criteria while the first object is proximate to the second object, for creating a folder that
contains the first object and the second object.
[0012]           In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for detecting a first input;
and means, responsive to detecting the first input, for moving a first object in the plurality of
selectable user interface objects across the display to a location on the display that is
proximate to a second object in the plurality of selectable user interface objects.            The
information processing apparatus further includes means for detecting that the first input
meets predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second
object; and, means, responsive to detecting that the first input meets the predefined folder
creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the second object, for creating a folder
that contains the first object and the second object.
[0013]           In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.              The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors. The one or more programs include instructions for: concurrently displaying one
or more action icons and one or more folder icons on the display. The multifunction device
has a normal operation mode for activating applications and a user interface reconfiguration
mode for rearranging the action icons and the folder icons on the display. The one or more
programs further include instructions for detecting a first input; and in response to detecting
the first input: when the first input corresponds to a request to select a respective folder icon
                                                 4

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
of the one or more folder icons, displaying contents of a folder associated with the respective
folder icon without regard for whether the multifunction device is in the normal operation
mode or the user interface reconfiguration mode; and when the first input corresponds to a
request to select a respective action icon of the one or more action icons: when the
multifunction device is in the normal operation mode, activating an application associated
with the respective action icon; and, when the multifunction device is in the user interface
reconfiguration mode, continuing to display the respective action icon without activating the
application associated with the respective action icon.
[0014]          In accordance     with some embodiments, a method is performed                at a
multifunction device with a display. The method includes: concurrently displaying one or
more action icons and one or more folder icons on the display. The multifunction device has
a normal operation mode for activating applications and a user interface reconfiguration
mode for rearranging the action icons and the folder icons on the display. The method further
includes detecting a first input; and in response to detecting the first input: when   the     first
input corresponds to a request to select a respective folder icon of the one or more folder
icons, displaying contents of a folder associated with the respective folder icon without
regard for whether the multifunction device is in the normal operation mode or the user
interface reconfiguration mode; and when the first input corresponds to a request to select a
respective action icon of the one or more action icons: when the multifunction device is in the
normal operation mode, activating an application associated with the respective action icon;
and, when the multifunction device is in the user interface reconfiguration mode, continuing
to display the respective action icon without activating the application associated with the
respective action icon.
[00151          In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes one or more action icons and one or more
folder icons. The one or more action icons and one or more folder icons are concurrently
displayed on the display.       The multifunction device has a normal operation mode for
activating applications and a user interface reconfiguration mode for rearranging the action
icons and the folder icons on the display.       A first input is detected; and in response to
detecting the first input: when the first input corresponds to a request to select a respective
folder icon of the one or more folder icons, contents of a folder associated with the respective
folder icon are displayed without regard for whether the multifunction device is in the normal
                                                 5

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
operation mode or the user interface reconfiguration mode; and when the first input
corresponds to a request to select a respective action icon of the one or more action icons:
when the multifunction device is in the normal operation mode, an application associated
with the respective action icon is activated; and, when the multifunction device is in the user
interface reconfiguration mode, the respective action icon continues to be displayed without
activating the application associated with the respective action icon.
[00161          In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: concurrently display one or more action icons and one or more folder
icons on the display. The multifunction device has a normal operation mode for activating
applications and a user interface reconfiguration mode for rearranging the action icons and
the folder icons on the display. The instructions further cause the device to detect a first
input; and in response to detecting the first input: when the first input corresponds to a
request to select a respective folder icon of the one or more folder icons, display contents of a
folder associated with the respective folder icon without regard for whether the multifunction
device is in the normal operation mode or the user interface reconfiguration mode; and when
the first input corresponds to a request to select a respective action icon of the one or more
action icons: when the multifunction device is in the normal operation mode, activate an
application associated with the respective action icon; and, when the multifunction device is
in the user interface reconfiguration mode, continue to display the respective action icon
without activating the application associated with the respective action icon.
[00171          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for concurrently displaying one or more action icons and one or more folder
icons on the display. The multifunction device has a normal operation mode for activating
applications and a user interface reconfiguration mode for rearranging the action icons and
the folder icons on the display. The device further includes means for detecting a first input;
and means, responsive to detecting the first input, for: when the first input corresponds to a
request to select a respective folder icon of the one or more folder icons, displaying contents
of a folder associated with the respective folder icon without regard for whether the
multifunction device is in the normal operation mode or the user interface reconfiguration
mode; and when the first input corresponds to a request to select a respective action icon of
the one or more action icons: when the multifunction device is in the normal operation mode,
activating an application associated with the respective action icon; and, when the
                                                 6

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
multifunction device is in the user interface reconfiguration mode, continuing to display the
respective action icon without activating the application associated with the respective action
icon.
[0018]          In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for concurrently displaying
one or more action icons and one or more folder icons on the display. The multifunction
device has a normal operation mode for activating applications and a user interface
reconfiguration mode for rearranging the action icons and the folder icons on the display.
The information processing apparatus further includes means for detecting a first input; and
means, responsive to detecting the first input, for: when the first input corresponds to a
request to select a respective folder icon of the one or more folder icons, displaying contents
of a folder associated with the respective folder icon without regard for whether the
multifunction device is in the normal operation mode or the user interface reconfiguration
mode; and when the first input corresponds to a request to select a respective action icon of
the one or more action icons: when the multifunction device is in the normal operation mode,
activating an application associated with the respective action icon; and, when the
multifunction device is in the user interface reconfiguration mode, continuing to display the
respective action icon without activating the application associated with the respective action
icon.
[0019]          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.              The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors.   The one or more programs include instructions for: receiving an input that
corresponds to a request to create a folder that contains a first item and a second item; and in
response to receiving the input: creating the folder that contains the first item and the second
item; determining a first plurality of descriptors that are associated with the first item; and
determining a second plurality of descriptors that are associated with the second item. The
one or more programs further include instructions for, when the first plurality of descriptors
and the second plurality of descriptors share at least a first common descriptor: automatically
generating a folder name for the folder based on the first common descriptor; and displaying
an icon for the folder with the automatically generated folder name on the display.
                                                7

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
[0020]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a
multifunction device with a display.          The method includes: receiving an input that
corresponds to a request to create a folder that contains a first item and a second item; and in
response to receiving the input: creating the folder that contains the first item and the second
item; determining a first plurality of descriptors that are associated with the first item; and
determining a second plurality of descriptors that are associated with the second item. The
method further includes, when the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of
descriptors share at least a first common descriptor: automatically generating a folder name
for the folder based on the first common descriptor; and displaying an icon for the folder with
the automatically generated folder name on the display.
[0021]          In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes a first item and a second item. An input that
corresponds to a request to create a folder that contains the first item and the second item is
received; and in response to receiving the input: the folder that contains the first item and the
second item is created; a first plurality of descriptors that are associated with the first item are
determined; and a second plurality of descriptors that are associated with the second item are
determined. When the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors
share at least a first common descriptor: a folder name for the folder is automatically
generated based on the first common descriptor; and an icon for the folder is displayed with
the automatically generated folder name on the display.
[0022]          In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: receive an input that corresponds to a request to create a folder that
contains a first item and a second item; and in response to receiving the input: create the
folder that contains the first item and the second item; determine a first plurality of
descriptors that are associated with the first item; and determine a second plurality of
descriptors that are associated with the second item. The instructions further cause the device
to, when the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors share at least
a first common descriptor: automatically generate a folder name for the folder based on the
first common descriptor; and display an icon for the folder with the automatically generated
folder name on the display.
                                                 8

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[0023]            In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for receiving an input that corresponds to a request to create a folder that
contains a first item and a second item; and means, responsive to receiving the input, for:
creating the folder that contains the first item and the second item; determining a first
plurality of descriptors that are associated with the first item; and determining a second
plurality of descriptors that are associated with the second item. The device further includes
means for, when the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors share
at least a first common descriptor: automatically generating a folder name for the folder based
on the first common descriptor; and displaying an icon for the folder with the automatically
generated folder name on the display.
[0024]            In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for receiving an input that
corresponds to a request to create a folder that contains a first item and a second item; and
means, responsive to receiving the input, for: creating the folder that contains the first item
and the second item; determining a first plurality of descriptors that are associated with the
first item; and determining a second plurality of descriptors that are associated with the
second item. The information processing apparatus further includes means for, when the first
plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors share at least a first common
descriptor: automatically generating a folder name for the folder based on the first common
descriptor; and displaying an icon for the folder with the automatically generated folder name
on the display.
[00251            In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.               The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors.     The one or more programs include instructions for: displaying a plurality of
icons on the display. A first icon in the plurality of icons is displayed at a first location on the
display. A second icon in the plurality of icons, distinct from the first icon, has an activation
region with a default size.      The one or more programs further include instructions for
detecting an input that corresponds to a request to move the first icon; changing a size of the
activation region for the second icon from the default size based on a distance from the first
location to a location of the second icon; and in response to detecting the input, moving the
first icon across the display away from the first location. The one or more programs also
includes instructions for detecting that the input meets predefined trigger criteria; and, in
                                                 9

  WO 2011/126501                                                              PCT/US2010/050056
response to detecting that the input meets predefined trigger criteria: when the first icon is at
least partly within the activation region of the second icon, performing a first operation that is
associated with the second icon; and when the first icon is outside of the activation region of
the second icon, performing a second operation that is distinct from the first operation.
[0026]           In accordance     with some embodiments, a method is performed                 at a
multifunction device with a display. The method includes: displaying a plurality of icons on
the display. A first icon in the plurality of icons is displayed at a first location on the display.
A second icon in the plurality of icons, distinct from the first icon, has an activation region
with a default size. The method further includes detecting an input that corresponds to a
request to move the first icon; changing a size of the activation region for the second icon
from the default size based on a distance from the first location to a location of the second
icon; and in response to detecting the input, moving the first icon across the display away
from the first location. The method also includes detecting that the input meets predefined
trigger criteria; and, in response to detecting that the input meets predefined trigger criteria:
when the first icon is at least partly within the activation region of the second icon,
performing a first operation that is associated with the second icon; and when the first icon is
outside of the activation region of the second icon, performing a second operation that is
distinct from the first operation.
[00271           In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes a plurality of icons displayed on the display. A
first icon in the plurality of icons is displayed at a first location on the display. A second icon
in the plurality of icons, distinct from the first icon, has an activation region with a default
size. An input that corresponds to a request to move the first icon is detected. A size of the
activation region is changed for the second icon from the default size based on a distance
from the first location to a location of the second icon. In response to detecting the input, the
first icon is moved across the display away from the first location. It is detected that the input
meets predefined trigger criteria; and, in response to detecting that the input meets predefined
trigger criteria: when the first icon is at least partly within the activation region of the second
icon, a first operation that is associated with the second icon is performed; and when the first
icon is outside of the activation region of the second icon, a second operation that is distinct
from the first operation is performed.
                                                  10

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[00281           In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: display a plurality of icons on the display. A first icon in the plurality of
icons is displayed at a first location on the display. A second icon in the plurality of icons,
distinct from the first icon, has an activation region with a default size. The instructions
further cause the device to detect an input that corresponds to a request to move the first icon;
change a size of the activation region for the second icon from the default size based on a
distance from the first location to a location of the second icon; and in response to detecting
the input, move the first icon across the display away from the first location. The instructions
also cause the device to detect that the input meets predefined trigger criteria; and, in
response to detecting that the input meets predefined trigger criteria: when the first icon is at
least partly within the activation region of the second icon, perform a first operation that is
associated with the second icon; and when the first icon is outside of the activation region of
the second icon, perform a second operation that is distinct from the first operation.
[0029]           In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for displaying a plurality of icons on the display. A first icon in the plurality
of icons is displayed at a first location on the display. A second icon in the plurality of icons,
distinct from the first icon, has an activation region with a default size. The device further
includes means for detecting an input that corresponds to a request to move the first icon;
means for changing a size of the activation region for the second icon from the default size
based on a distance from the first location to a location of the second icon; and means,
responsive to detecting the input, for moving the first icon across the display away from the
first location. The device also includes means for detecting that the input meets predefined
trigger criteria; and, means, responsive to detecting that the input meets predefined trigger
criteria, for: when the first icon is at least partly within the activation region of the second
icon, performing a first operation that is associated with the second icon; and when the first
icon is outside of the activation region of the second icon, performing a second operation that
is distinct from the first operation.
[00301           In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for displaying a plurality of
icons on the display. A first icon in the plurality of icons is displayed at a first location on the
display. A second icon in the plurality of icons, distinct from the first icon, has an activation
region with a default size. The information processing apparatus further includes means for
                                                 11

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
detecting an input that corresponds to a request to move the first icon; means for changing a
size of the activation region for the second icon from the default size based on a distance
from the first location to a location of the second icon; and means, responsive to detecting the
input, for moving the first icon across the display away from the first location.             The
information processing apparatus also includes means for detecting that the input meets
predefined trigger criteria; and, means, responsive to detecting that the input meets
predefined trigger criteria, for: when the first icon is at least partly within the activation
region of the second icon, performing a first operation that is associated with the second icon;
and when the first icon is outside of the activation region of the second icon, performing a
second operation that is distinct from the first operation.
[0031]           In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.              The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors.    The one or more programs include instructions for: displaying a plurality of
icons on the display in a first arrangement; detecting an input that corresponds to a request to
move a first icon in the plurality of icons from a first position on the display to a second
position on the display; and in response to detecting the input: moving the first icon from the
first position to the second position; and maintaining positions of each respective icon in the
plurality of icons other than the first icon until automatic reconfiguration criteria have been
met. The device further includes instructions for, when the automatic reconfiguration criteria
have been met, moving one or more of the icons in the plurality of icons other than the first
icon to form a second arrangement that is distinct from the first arrangement.
[0032]           In accordance     with some embodiments, a method is performed              at a
multifunction device with a display. The method includes: displaying a plurality of icons on
the display in a first arrangement; detecting an input that corresponds to a request to move a
first icon in the plurality of icons from a first position on the display to a second position on
the display; and in response to detecting the input: moving the first icon from the first
position to the second position; and maintaining positions of each respective icon in the
plurality of icons other than the first icon until automatic reconfiguration criteria have been
met. The method further includes when the automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met,
moving one or more of the icons in the plurality of icons other than the first icon to form a
second arrangement that is distinct from the first arrangement.
                                                 12

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
[00331          In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes a plurality of icons on the display in a first
arrangement. An input that corresponds to a request to move a first icon in the plurality of
icons from a first position on the display to a second position on the display is detected; and
in response to detecting the input: the first icon is moved from the first position to the second
position; and positions of each respective icon in the plurality of icons other than the first
icon are maintained until automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met.            When the
automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met, one or more of the icons in the plurality of
icons other than the first icon are moved to form a second arrangement that is distinct from
the first arrangement.
[0034]          In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: display a plurality of icons on the display in a first arrangement; detect an
input that corresponds to a request to move a first icon in the plurality of icons from a first
position on the display to a second position on the display; and in response to detecting the
input: move the first icon from the first position to the second position; and maintain
positions of each respective icon in the plurality of icons other than the first icon until
automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met. The instructions further cause the device to
when the automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met, move one or more of the icons in
the plurality of icons other than the first icon to form a second arrangement that is distinct
from the first arrangement.
[00351          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for displaying a plurality of icons on the display in a first arrangement; means
for detecting an input that corresponds to a request to move a first icon in the plurality of
icons from a first position on the display to a second position on the display; and means,
responsive to detecting the input, for: moving the first icon from the first position to the
second position; and maintaining positions of each respective icon in the plurality of icons
other than the first icon until automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met. The device
further includes means for, when the automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met,
moving one or more of the icons in the plurality of icons other than the first icon to form a
second arrangement that is distinct from the first arrangement.
                                                 13

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
[00361          In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for displaying a plurality of
icons on the display in a first arrangement; means for detecting an input that corresponds to a
request to move a first icon in the plurality of icons from a first position on the display to a
second position on the display; and means, responsive to detecting the input, for: moving the
first icon from the first position to the second position; and maintaining positions of each
respective icon in the plurality of icons other than the first icon until automatic
reconfiguration criteria have been met.         The information processing apparatus further
includes means for, when the automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met, moving one
or more of the icons in the plurality of icons other than the first icon to form a second
arrangement that is distinct from the first arrangement.
[00371          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.            The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors. The one or more programs include instructions for: displaying a dynamic folder
icon. The dynamic folder icon includes a visual indication of current content in a folder that
is associated with the dynamic folder icon.       The device further includes instructions for
detecting an input that corresponds to a request to modify content in the folder; and in
response to detecting the input: modifying the content in the folder; and updating the dynamic
folder icon to include a visual indication of a spatial arrangement of the modified content
within the folder.
[0038]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a
multifunction device with a display. The method includes: displaying a dynamic folder icon.
The dynamic folder icon includes a visual indication of current content in a folder that is
associated with the dynamic folder icon. The method further includes detecting an input that
corresponds to a request to modify content in the folder; and in response to detecting the
input: modifying the content in the folder; and updating the dynamic folder icon to include a
visual indication of a spatial arrangement of the modified content within the folder.
[0039]          In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes a dynamic folder icon. The dynamic folder
icon includes a visual indication of current content in a folder that is associated with the
                                                14

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
dynamic folder icon. An input that corresponds to a request to modify content in the folder is
detected; and in response to detecting the input: the content in the folder is modified; and the
dynamic folder icon is updated to include a visual indication of a spatial arrangement of the
modified content within the folder.
[0040]          In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: display a dynamic folder icon. The dynamic folder icon includes a visual
indication of current content in a folder that is associated with the dynamic folder icon. The
instructions further cause the device to detect an input that corresponds to a request to modify
content in the folder; and in response to detecting the input: modify the content in the folder;
and update the dynamic folder icon to include a visual indication of a spatial arrangement of
the modified content within the folder.
[0041]          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for displaying a dynamic folder icon. The dynamic folder icon includes a
visual indication of current content in a folder that is associated with the dynamic folder icon.
The device further includes means for detecting an input that corresponds to a request to
modify content in the folder; means, responsive to detecting the input, for: modifying the
content in the folder; and updating the dynamic folder icon to include a visual indication of a
spatial arrangement of the modified content within the folder.
[0042]          In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for displaying a dynamic
folder icon.   The dynamic folder icon includes a visual indication of current content in a
folder that is associated with the dynamic folder icon. The information processing apparatus
further includes means for detecting an input that corresponds to a request to modify content
in the folder; means, responsive to detecting the input, for: modifying the content in the
folder; and updating the dynamic folder icon to include a visual indication of a spatial
arrangement of the modified content within the folder.
[00431          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes a
display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs.             The one or more
programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more
processors. The one or more programs include instructions for: displaying a folder icon over
a wallpaper background on the display, the folder icon corresponding to a folder that contains
                                                15

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
content, the content including one or more selectable user interface objects. The one or more
programs further include instructions for detecting a first input that corresponds to a request
to display content of the folder; and in response to detecting the first input: dividing the
wallpaper background into a first portion and a second portion; moving the second portion
away from the first portion; and displaying content of the folder in an area between the first
portion and the second portion.
[0044]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a
multifunction device with a display. The method includes: displaying a folder icon over a
wallpaper background on the display, the folder icon corresponding to a folder that contains
content, the content including one or more selectable user interface objects. The method
further includes detecting a first input that corresponds to a request to display content of the
folder; and in response to detecting the first input: dividing the wallpaper background into a
first portion and a second portion; moving the second portion away from the first portion; and
displaying content of the folder in an area between the first portion and the second portion.
[00451          In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on a
multifunction device with a display, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or
more programs stored in the memory includes a folder icon displayed over a wallpaper
background on the display, the folder icon corresponding to a folder that contains content, the
content including one or more selectable user interface objects. A first input that corresponds
to a request to display content of the folder is detected; and in response to detecting the first
input: the wallpaper background is divided into a first portion and a second portion; the
second portion is moved away from the first portion; and content of the folder is displayed in
an area between the first portion and the second portion.
[0046]          In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium
has stored therein instructions which when executed by a multifunction device with a display,
cause the device to: display a folder icon over a wallpaper background on the display, the
folder icon corresponding to a folder that contains content, the content including one or more
selectable user interface objects. The instructions further cause the device to detect a first
input that corresponds to a request to display content of the folder; and in response to
detecting the first input: divide the wallpaper background into a first portion and a second
portion; move the second portion away from the first portion; and display content of the
folder in an area between the first portion and the second portion.
                                                16

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[00471          In accordance with some embodiments, a multifunction device includes: a
display; means for displaying a folder icon over a wallpaper background on the display, the
folder icon corresponding to a folder that contains content, the content including one or more
selectable user interface objects. The device further includes means for detecting a first input
that corresponds to a request to display content of the folder; and means, responsive to
detecting the first input for: dividing the wallpaper background into a first portion and a
second portion; moving the second portion away from the first portion; and displaying
content of the folder in an area between the first portion and the second portion.
[0048]          In accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus
for use in a multifunction device with a display includes: means for displaying a folder icon
over a wallpaper background on the display, the folder icon corresponding to a folder that
contains content, the content including one or more selectable user interface objects. The
information processing apparatus further includes means for detecting a first input that
corresponds to a request to display content of the folder; and means, responsive to detecting
the first input for: dividing the wallpaper background into a first portion and a second
portion; moving the second portion away from the first portion; and displaying content of the
folder in an area between the first portion and the second portion.
[0049]          Thus, multifunction devices with displays are provided with faster, more
efficient methods and interfaces for managing folders, thereby increasing the effectiveness,
efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such methods and interfaces may
complement or replace conventional methods for managing folders.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0050]          For a better understanding of the aforementioned embodiments of the
invention as well as additional embodiments thereof, reference should be made to the
Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the following drawings in which like
reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the figures.
[0051]          Figures 1A and 1B are block diagrams illustrating portable multifunction
devices with touch-sensitive displays in accordance with some embodiments.
[0052]          Figure IC is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.
                                               17

  WO 2011/126501                                                       PCT/US2010/050056
[0053]         Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0054]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[00551         Figures 4A and 4B illustrate exemplary user interfaces for a menu of
applications on a portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[0056]         Figure 4C illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some
embodiments.
[00571         Figures 5A-5PPP illustrate exemplary user interfaces for managing folders in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0058]         Figures 6A-6E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of creating a new
folder in accordance with some embodiments.
[00591         Figures 7A-7C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of managing folder
icons and action icons in accordance with some embodiments.
[0060]         Figures 8A-8C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of naming a new folder
in accordance with some embodiments.
[0061]         Figures 9A-9B are flow diagrams illustrating a method of adjusting an
activation region for a selectable user interface object in response to an icon management
input in accordance with some embodiments.
[0062]         Figures 10A-1OB are flow diagrams illustrating a method of reconfiguring
icons on a display in response to an icon management input in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0063]         Figures 11A-IIC are flow diagrams illustrating a method of updating a
dynamic folder icon to provide a visual indication as to the contents of a folder associated
with the dynamic folder icon in accordance with some embodiments.
[0064]         Figures 12A-12E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of providing
contextual information in conjunction with displaying content of a folder in accordance with
some embodiments.
                                               18

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
                              DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00651          Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present
invention. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present
invention may be practiced without these specific details.       In other instances, well-known
methods, procedures, components, circuits, and networks have not been described in detail so
as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
[00661          It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be
used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by these terms.
These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another.           For example, a first
contact could be termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second contact could be termed a
first contact, without departing from the scope of the present invention. The first contact and
the second contact are both contacts, but they are not the same contact.
[00671          The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the
purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the
invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims, the singular
forms a     "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term "and/or" as used herein
refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated
listed items. It will be further understood that the terms "includes," "including," "comprises,"
and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features,
integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or
addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components,
and/or groups thereof.
[00681          As used herein, the term "if' may be construed to mean "when" or "upon" or
"in response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the context.
Similarly, the phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is detected" may
be construed to mean "upon determining" or "in response to determining" or "upon detecting
[the stated condition or event]" or "in response to detecting [the stated condition or event],"
depending on the context.
                                                19

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
[00691          As used herein, the term "resolution" of a display refers to the number of
pixels (also called "pixel counts" or "pixel resolution") along each axis or in each dimension
of the display.      For example, a display may have a resolution of 320x480 pixels.
Furthermore, as used herein, the term "resolution" of a multifunction device refers to the
resolution of a display in the multifunction device. The term "resolution" does not imply any
limitations on the size of each pixel or the spacing of pixels. For example, compared to a first
display with a 1024x768-pixel resolution, a second display with a 320x480-pixel resolution
has a lower resolution.     However, it should be noted that the physical size of a display
depends not only on the pixel resolution, but also on many other factors, including the pixel
size and the spacing of pixels. Therefore, the first display may have the same, smaller, or
larger physical size, compared to the second display.
[00701          As used herein, the term "video resolution" of a display refers to the density of
pixels along each axis or in each dimension of the display. The video resolution is often
measured in a dots-per-inch (DPI) unit, which counts the number of pixels that can be placed
in a line within the span of one inch along a respective dimension of the display.
[00711          Embodiments of computing devices, user interfaces for such devices, and
associated processes for using such devices are described.          In some embodiments, the
computing device is a portable communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also
contains other functions, such as PDA and/or music player functions.                  Exemplary
embodiments of portable multifunction devices include, without limitation, the iPhone@ and
iPod Touch@ devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. Other portable devices, such
as laptops or tablet computers with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch screen displays
and/or touch pads), may also be used.           It should also be understood that, in some
embodiments, the device is not a portable communications device, but is a desktop computer
with a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch screen display and/or a touch pad).
[0072]          In the discussion that follows, a computing device that includes a display and a
touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the computing
device may include one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a physical
keyboard, a mouse and/or a joystick.
[0073]          The device supports a variety of applications, such as one or more of the
following: a drawing application, a presentation application, a word processing application, a
website creation application, a disk authoring application, a spreadsheet application, a gaming
                                                20

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
application, a telephone application, a video conferencing application, an e-mail application,
an instant messaging application, a workout support application, a photo management
application, a digital camera application, a digital video camera application, a web browsing
application, a digital music player application, and/or a digital video player application.
[0074]           The various applications that may be executed on the device may use at least
one common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One or more
functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information displayed on the
device may be adjusted and/or varied from one application to the next and/or within a
respective application.    In this way, a common physical architecture (such as the touch
sensitive surface) of the device may support the variety of applications with user interfaces
that are intuitive and transparent to the user.
[00751           The user interfaces may include one or more soft keyboard embodiments. The
soft keyboard embodiments may include standard (QWERTY)                     and/or non-standard
configurations of symbols on the displayed icons of the keyboard, such as those described in
U.S. Patent Applications 11/459,606, "Keyboards For Portable Electronic Devices," filed July
24, 2006, and 11/459,615, "Touch Screen Keyboards For Portable Electronic Devices," filed
July 24, 2006, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
The keyboard embodiments may include a reduced number of icons (or soft keys) relative to
the number of keys in existing physical keyboards, such as that for a typewriter. This may
make it easier for users to select one or more icons in the keyboard, and thus, one or more
corresponding symbols.        The keyboard embodiments may be adaptive.            For example,
displayed icons may be modified in accordance with user actions, such as selecting one or
more icons and/or one or more corresponding symbols.           One or more applications on the
device may utilize common and/or different keyboard embodiments.             Thus, the keyboard
embodiment used may be tailored to at least some of the applications. In some embodiments,
one or more keyboard embodiments may be tailored to a respective user. For example, one
or more keyboard embodiments may be tailored to a respective user based on a word usage
history (lexicography, slang, individual usage) of the respective user. Some of the keyboard
embodiments may be adjusted to reduce a probability of a user error when selecting one or
more icons, and thus one or more symbols, when using the soft keyboard embodiments.
[0076]           Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with touch
sensitive displays. Figures 1A and 1B are block diagrams illustrating portable multifunction
                                                21

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
devices 100 with touch-sensitive displays 112 in accordance with some embodiments.
Touch-sensitive display 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and may
also be known as or called a touch-sensitive display system.        Device 100 may include
memory 102 (which may include one or more computer readable storage mediums), memory
controller 122, one or more processing units (CPU's) 120, peripherals interface 118, RF
circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone           113, input/output (I/O)
subsystem 106, other input or control devices 116, and external port 124. Device 100 may
include one or more optical sensors 164. These components may communicate over one or
more communication buses or signal lines 103.
[00771         It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 may have more or fewer components than shown,
may combine two or more components, or may have a different configuration or arrangement
of the components.      The various components shown in Figures 1A and lB may be
implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of both hardware and software,
including one or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.
[0078]         Memory 102 may include high-speed random access memory and may also
include non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, flash
memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to memory 102
by other components of device 100, such as CPU 120 and the peripherals interface 118, may
be controlled by memory controller 122.
[00791         Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of
the device to CPU 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute
various software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform
various functions for device 100 and to process data.
[0080]         In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU 120, and memory
controller 122 may be implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104.           In some other
embodiments, they may be implemented on separate chips.
[0081]         RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices
via the electromagnetic signals.    RF circuitry 108 may include well-known circuitry for
performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver,
                                              22

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC
chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108
may communicate with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World Wide
Web (WWW), an intranet and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone network, a
wireless local area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan area network (MAN), and other
devices by wireless communication. The wireless communication may use any of a plurality
of communications standards, protocols and technologies, including but not limited to Global
System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE),
high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), wideband code division multiple access (W
CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA),
Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11a, IEEE 802.11b, IEEE 802.llg
and/or IEEE 802.1 In), voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol for e-mail
(e.g., Internet message access protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol (POP)), instant
messaging (e.g., extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), Session Initiation
Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant
Messaging and Presence Service (IMPS)), and/or Short Message Service (SMS), or any other
suitable communication protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of
the filing date of this document.
[0082]          Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio
interface between a user and device 100.      Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from
peripherals interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the
electrical signal to speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible
sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone
 113 from sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and
transmits the audio data to peripherals interface 118 for processing.       Audio data may be
retrieved from and/or transmitted to memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by peripherals
interface 118. In some embodiments, audio circuitry 110 also includes a headset jack (e.g.,
212, Figure 2).     The headset jack provides an interface between audio circuitry 110 and
removable audio input/output peripherals, such as output-only headphones or a headset with
both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and input (e.g., a microphone).
[0083]          I/O subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as
touch screen 112 and other input control devices 116, to peripherals interface 118.        I/O
subsystem 106 may include display controller 156 and one or more input controllers 160 for
                                              23

   WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
other input or control devices. The one or more input controllers 160 receive/send electrical
 signals from/to other input or control devices 116. The other input control devices 116 may
include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches,
joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some alternate embodiments, input controller(s) 160
may be coupled to any (or none) of the following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, and a
pointer device such as a mouse. The one or more buttons (e.g., 208, Figure 2) may include an
up/down button for volume control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more
buttons may include a push button (e.g., 206, Figure 2). A quick press of the push button
may disengage a lock of touch screen 112 or begin a process that uses gestures on the touch
 screen to unlock the device, as described in U.S. Patent Application 11/322,549, "Unlocking
 a Device by Performing Gestures on an Unlock Image," filed December 23, 2005, which is
hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. A longer press of the push button (e.g., 206)
may turn power to device 100 on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of
one or more of the buttons. Touch screen 112 is used to implement virtual or soft buttons and
one or more soft keyboards.
 [0084]          Touch-sensitive display 112 provides an input interface and an output
interface between the device and a user.        Display controller 156 receives and/or sends
 electrical signals from/to touch screen 112. Touch screen 112 displays visual output to the
user. The visual output may include graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination thereof
 (collectively termed "graphics"). In some embodiments, some or all of the visual output may
 correspond to user-interface objects.
 [00851          Touch screen 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set of sensors that
 accepts input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch screen 112 and
 display controller 156 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in
memory 102) detect contact (and any movement or breaking of the contact) on touch screen
 112 and converts the detected contact into interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one or
more soft keys, icons, web pages or images) that are displayed on touch screen 112. In an
 exemplary embodiment, a point of contact between touch screen 112 and the user
 corresponds to a finger of the user.
 [0086]          Touch screen 112 may use LCD (liquid crystal display) technology, LPD
 (light emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting diode) technology,
 although other display technologies may be used in other embodiments. Touch screen 112
                                               24

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
and display controller 156 may detect contact and any movement or breaking thereof using
any of a plurality of touch sensing technologies now known or later developed, including but
not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic wave technologies, as well
as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of
contact with touch screen 112. In an exemplary embodiment, projected mutual capacitance
sensing technology is used, such as that found in the iPhone@ and iPod Touch@ from Apple
Inc. of Cupertino, California.
[00871          A touch-sensitive display in some embodiments of touch screen 112 may be
analogous to the multi-touch sensitive touchpads described in the following U.S. Patents:
6,323,846 (Westerman et al.), 6,570,557 (Westerman et al.), and/or 6,677,932 (Westerman),
and/or U.S. Patent Publication 2002/0015024A1, each of which is hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety.  However, touch screen 112 displays visual output from portable
device 100, whereas touch sensitive touchpads do not provide visual output.
[0088]          A touch-sensitive display in some embodiments of touch screen 112 may be as
described in the following applications: (1) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/381,313,
"Multipoint Touch Surface Controller," filed May 2, 2006; (2) U.S. Patent Application No.
 10/840,862, "Multipoint Touchscreen," filed May 6, 2004; (3) U.S. Patent Application No.
 10/903,964, "Gestures For Touch Sensitive Input Devices," filed July 30, 2004; (4) U.S.
Patent Application No. 11/048,264, "Gestures For Touch Sensitive Input Devices," filed
January 31, 2005; (5) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/038,590, "Mode-Based Graphical User
Interfaces For Touch Sensitive Input Devices," filed January 18, 2005; (6) U.S. Patent
Application No. 11/228,758, "Virtual Input Device Placement On A Touch Screen User
Interface," filed September 16, 2005; (7) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/228,700, "Operation
Of A Computer With A Touch Screen Interface," filed September 16, 2005; (8) U.S. Patent
Application No.      11/228,737,   "Activating Virtual Keys Of A Touch-Screen Virtual
Keyboard," filed September 16, 2005; and (9) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/367,749,
"Multi-Functional Hand-Held Device," filed March 3, 2006. All of these applications are
incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
[0089]          Touch screen 112 may have a video resolution in excess of 100 dpi. In some
embodiments, the touch screen has a video resolution of approximately 160 dpi. The user
may make contact with touch screen 112 using any suitable object or appendage, such as a
stylus, a finger, and so forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed to work
                                                 25

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
primarily with finger-based contacts and gestures, which can be less precise than stylus-based
input due to the larger area of contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some embodiments,
the device translates the rough finger-based input into a precise pointer/cursor position or
command for performing the actions desired by the user.
[0090]          In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 may include
a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions.              In some
embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch
screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad may be a touch-sensitive surface that is
separate from touch screen 112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive surface formed by the
touch screen.
[0091]          In some embodiments, device 100 may include a physical or virtual wheel
(e.g., a click wheel) as input control device 116. A user may navigate among and interact
with one or more graphical objects (e.g., icons) displayed in touch screen 112 by rotating the
click wheel or by moving a point of contact with the click wheel (e.g., where the amount of
movement of the point of contact is measured by its angular displacement with respect to a
center point of the click wheel). The click wheel may also be used to select one or more of
the displayed icons. For example, the user may press down on at least a portion of the click
wheel or an associated button. User commands and navigation commands provided by the
user via the click wheel may be processed by input controller 160 as well as one or more of
the modules and/or sets of instructions in memory 102. For a virtual click wheel, the click
wheel and click wheel controller may be part of touch screen 112 and display controller 156,
respectively.    For a virtual click wheel, the click wheel may be either an opaque or
semitransparent object that appears and disappears on the touch screen display in response to
user interaction with the device. In some embodiments, a virtual click wheel is displayed on
the touch screen of a portable multifunction device and operated by user contact with the
touch screen.
[0092]          Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various
components.     Power system 162 may include a power management system, one or more
power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power failure
detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light-emitting
diode (LED)) and any other components associated with the generation, management and
distribution of power in portable devices.
                                                26

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[00931         Device 100 may also include one or more optical sensors 164. Figures 1A and
 lB show an optical sensor coupled to optical sensor controller 158 in I/O subsystem 106.
Optical sensor 164 may include charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary metal-oxide
semiconductor (CMOS) phototransistors.           Optical sensor 164 receives light from the
environment, projected through one or more lens, and converts the light to data representing
an image. In conjunction with imaging module 143 (also called a camera module), optical
sensor 164 may capture still images or video.       In some embodiments, an optical sensor is
located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen display 112 on the front of the
device, so that the touch screen display may be used as a viewfinder for still and/or video
image acquisition. In some embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the front of the
device so that the user's image may be obtained for videoconferencing while the user views
the other video conference participants on the touch screen display. In some embodiments,
the position of optical sensor 164 can be changed by the user (e.g., by rotating the lens and
the sensor in the device housing) so that a single optical sensor 164 may be used along with
the touch screen display for both video conferencing and still and/or video image acquisition.
[0094]         Device 100 may also include one or more proximity sensors 166. Figures 1A
and lB show proximity sensor 166 coupled to peripherals interface 118.            Alternately,
proximity sensor 166 may be coupled to input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106.
Proximity sensor 166 may perform as described in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 11/241,839,
"Proximity Detector In Handheld Device"; 11/240,788, "Proximity Detector In Handheld
Device"; 11/620,702, "Using Ambient Light Sensor To Augment Proximity Sensor Output";
 11/586,862, "Automated Response To And Sensing Of User Activity In Portable Devices";
and 11/638,251, "Methods And Systems For Automatic Configuration Of Peripherals,"
which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In some embodiments, the
proximity sensor turns off and disables touch screen 112 when the multifunction device is
placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a phone call).
[00951         Device 100 may also include one or more accelerometers 168. Figures 1A and
 lB show accelerometer 168 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately, accelerometer
 168 may be coupled to an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. Accelerometer 168
may perform as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050190059, "Acceleration-based
Theft Detection System for Portable Electronic Devices," and U.S. Patent Publication No.
20060017692, "Methods And Apparatuses For Operating A Portable Device Based On An
Accelerometer," both of which are which are incorporated by reference herein in their
                                                27

  WO 2011/126501                                                       PCT/US2010/050056
entirety. In some embodiments, information is displayed on the touch screen display in a
portrait view or a landscape view based on an analysis of data received from the one or more
accelerometers.    Device 100 optionally includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a
magnetometer (not shown) and a GPS (or GLONASS or other global navigation system)
receiver (not shown) for obtaining information concerning the location and orientation (e.g.,
portrait or landscape) of device 100.
[0096]          In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion
module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, text input
module (or set of instructions) 134, Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of
instructions) 135, and applications (or sets of instructions) 136.     Furthermore, in some
embodiments memory 102 stores device/global internal state 157, as shown in Figures 1A,
 1B and 3. Device/global internal state 157 includes one or more of: active application state,
indicating which applications, if any, are currently active; display state, indicating what
applications, views or other information occupy various regions of touch screen display 112;
sensor state, including information obtained from the device's various sensors and input
control devices 116; and location information concerning the device's location and/or
attitude.
[00971          Operating system 126 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software
components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication
between various hardware and software components.
[0098]          Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices
over one or more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for
handling data received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g.,
Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other
devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.).        In some
embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or
similar to and/or compatible with the 30-pin connector used on iPod (trademark of Apple
Inc.) devices.
                                              28

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[0099]          Contact/motion module 130 may detect contact with touch screen 112 (in
conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch sensitive devices (e.g., a touchpad or
physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes various software components for
performing various operations related to detection of contact, such as determining if contact
has occurred (e.g., detecting a finger-down event), determining if there is movement of the
contact and tracking the movement across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., detecting one or
more finger-dragging events), and determining if the contact has ceased (e.g., detecting a
finger-up event or a break in contact).    Contact/motion module 130 receives contact data
from the touch-sensitive surface. Determining movement of the point of contact, which is
represented by a series of contact data, may include determining speed (magnitude), velocity
(magnitude and direction), and/or an acceleration (a change in magnitude and/or direction) of
the point of contact. These operations may be applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger
contacts) or to multiple simultaneous contacts (e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts).
In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and display controller 156 detects contact
on a touchpad. In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and controller 160 detects
contact on a click wheel.
[00100]         Contact/motion module 130 may detect a gesture input by a user. Different
gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns. Thus, a gesture may
be detected by detecting a particular contact pattern.   For example, detecting a finger tap
gesture includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off)
event at the same position (or substantially the same position) as the finger-down event (e.g.,
at the position of an icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe gesture on the
touch-sensitive surface includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting one or
more finger-dragging events, and subsequently followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off)
event.
[00101]         Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for
rendering and displaying graphics on touch screen 112 or other display, including
components for changing the intensity of graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the
term "graphics" includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without
limitation text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital
images, videos, animations and the like.
                                               29

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
[001021         In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics
to be used. Each graphic may be assigned a corresponding code.          Graphics module 132
receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be displayed along
with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then generates screen
image data to output to display controller 156.
[00103]         Text input module 134, which may be a component of graphics module 132,
provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137, e-mail
 140, IM 141, browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[00104]          GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this
information for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based
dialing, to camera 143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide location
based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation
widgets).
[001051         Applications 136 may include the following modules (or sets of instructions),
or a subset or superset thereof:
    *    contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
    .   telephone module 138;
    *   video conferencing module 139;
    .    e-mail client module 140;
    .   instant messaging (IM) module 141;
    *   workout support module 142;
    *    camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
    .   image management module 144;
    *   video player module 145;
    *   music player module 146;
    *   browser module 147;
    *    calendar module 148;
    *   widget modules 149, which may include one or more of: weather widget 149-1,
         stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, dictionary
                                               30

  WO 2011/126501                                                       PCT/US2010/050056
        widget 149-5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets
         149-6;
    * widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
    *    search module 151;
    * video and music player module 152, which merges video player module 145 and
        music player module 146;
    .   notes module 153;
    * map module 154; and/or
    .   online video module 155.
[00106]         Examples of other applications 136 that may be stored in memory 102 include
other word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing applications,
presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital rights management,
voice recognition, and voice replication.
[001071         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137 may be used to
manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in application internal state 192 of
contacts module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370), including: adding name(s) to the
address book; deleting name(s) from the address book; associating telephone number(s), e
mail address(es), physical address(es) or other information with a name; associating an image
with a name; categorizing and sorting names; providing telephone numbers or e-mail
addresses to initiate and/or facilitate communications by telephone 138, video conference
 139, e-mail 140, or IM 141; and so forth.
[00108]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics
module 132, and text input module 134, telephone module 138 may be used to enter a
sequence of characters corresponding to a telephone number, access one or more telephone
numbers in address book 137, modify a telephone number that has been entered, dial a
respective telephone number, conduct a conversation and disconnect or hang up when the
conversation is completed. As noted above, the wireless communication may use any of a
plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies.
                                              31

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
[00109]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor 164, optical sensor
controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, contact list
 137, and telephone module         138, videoconferencing module 139 includes executable
instructions to initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference between a user and one or
more other participants in accordance with user instructions.
[00110]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, e-mail client module
 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and manage e-mail in response
to user instructions.     In conjunction with image management module 144, e-mail client
module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still or video images taken
with camera module 143.
[00111]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, the instant messaging
module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters corresponding
to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to transmit a respective
instant message (for example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or Multimedia Message
Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or using XMPP, SIMPLE, or
IMPS for Internet-based instant messages), to receive instant messages and to view received
instant messages. In some embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant messages may
include graphics, photos, audio files, video files and/or other attachments as are supported in
a MMS and/or an Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS). As used herein, "instant messaging"
refers to both telephony-based messages (e.g., messages sent using SMS or MMS) and
Internet-based messages (e.g., messages sent using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS).
[00112]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, map
module 154, and music player module 146, workout support module 142 includes executable
instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or calorie burning goals);
communicate with workout sensors (sports devices); receive workout sensor data; calibrate
sensors used to monitor a workout; select and play music for a workout; and display, store
and transmit workout data.
                                                32

  WO 2011/126501                                                             PCT/US2010/050056
[001131         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s)
 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and image
management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable instructions to capture still
images or video (including a video stream) and store them into memory 102, modify
characteristics of a still image or video, or delete a still image or video from memory 102.
[00114]         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143, image
management module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g., edit), or
otherwise manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album), and store
still and/or video images.
[001151         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, and speaker 111, video player module 145
includes executable instructions to display, present or otherwise play back videos (e.g., on
touch screen 112 or on an external, connected display via external port 124).
[00116]         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, and
browser module 147, music player module 146 includes executable instructions that allow the
user to download and play back recorded music and other sound files stored in one or more
file formats, such as MP3 or AAC files. In some embodiments, device 100 may include the
functionality of an MP3 player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[001171         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
browser module 147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in accordance
with user instructions, including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying web pages or
portions thereof, as well as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[00118]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, e-mail
client module 140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes executable
instructions to create, display, modify, and store calendars and data associated with calendars
(e.g., calendar entries, to do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
[00119]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
                                                   33

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
browser module 147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that may be downloaded and
used by a user (e.g., weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3,
alarm clock widget 149-4, and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the user (e.g., user
created widget 149-6).      In some embodiments, a widget includes an HTML (Hypertext
Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript file. In some
embodiments, a widget includes an XML (Extensible Markup Language) file and a
JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
[00120]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
browser module 147, the widget creator module 150 may be used by a user to create widgets
(e.g., turning a user-specified portion of a web page into a widget).
[00121]         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search module 151 includes
executable instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video, and/or other files in
memory 102 that match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more user-specified search
terms) in accordance with user instructions.
[00122]         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153 includes executable
instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in accordance with user
instructions.
[00123]         In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS
module 135, and browser module 147, map module 154 may be used to receive, display,
modify, and store maps and data associated with maps (e.g., driving directions; data on stores
and other points of interest at or near a particular location; and other location-based data) in
accordance with user instructions.
[00124]         In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, text
input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, online video module
 155 includes instructions that allow the user to access, browse, receive (e.g., by streaming
and/or download), play back (e.g., on the touch screen or on an external, connected display
via external port 124), send an e-mail with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise
                                                34

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
manage online videos in one or more file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments,
instant messaging module 141, rather than e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link to
a particular online video. Additional description of the online video application can be found
in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/936,562, "Portable Multifunction Device,
Method, and Graphical User Interface for Playing Online Videos," filed June 20, 2007, and
U.S. Patent Application No. 11/968,067, "Portable Multifunction Device, Method, and
Graphical User Interface for Playing Online Videos," filed December 31, 2007, the content of
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[001251          Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the
methods described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other
information processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions)
need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus
various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re-arranged in various
embodiments. For example, video player module 145 may be combined with music player
module 146 into a single module (e.g., video and music player module 152, Figure 1B). In
some embodiments, memory 102 may store a subset of the modules and data structures
identified above. Furthermore, memory 102 may store additional modules and data structures
not described above.
[00126]          In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined
set of functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a
touchpad. By using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device for
operation of device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push buttons,
dials, and the like) on device 100 may be reduced.
[001271          The predefined set of functions that may be performed exclusively through a
touch screen and/or a touchpad include navigation between user interfaces.            In some
embodiments, the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main, home,
or root menu from any user interface that may be displayed on device 100.              In such
embodiments, the touchpad may be referred to as a "menu button."                In some other
embodiments, the menu button may be a physical push button or other physical input control
device instead of a touchpad.
                                               35

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
[001281         Figure IC is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.         In some embodiments, memory 102 (in
Figures 1A and 1B) or 370 (Figure 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system
 126) and a respective application 136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 137
 151, 155, 380-390).
[00129]         Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application
 136-1 and application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event
information. Event sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module 174.
In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes application internal state 192, which
indicates the current application view(s) displayed on touch sensitive display 112 when the
application is active or executing. In some embodiments, device/global internal state 157 is
used by event sorter 170 to determine which application(s) is(are) currently active, and
application internal state 192 is used by event sorter 170 to determine application views 191
to which to deliver event information.
[00130]         In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional
information, such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136-1
resumes execution, user interface state information that indicates information being displayed
or that is ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the user to go
back to a prior state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of previous actions
taken by the user.
[00131]         Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface 118.
Event information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch
sensitive display 112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118 transmits
information it receives from I/O subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity sensor 166,
accelerometer(s) 168, and/or microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110). Information that
peripherals interface 118 receives from I/O subsystem 106 includes information from touch
sensitive display 112 or a touch-sensitive surface.
[00132]         In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals
interface 118 at predetermined intervals.     In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits
event information.      In other embodiments, peripheral interface 118 transmits event
information only when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a
predetermined noise threshold and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
                                                36

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[001331         In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view determination
module 172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[00134]         Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for
determining where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch
sensitive display 112 displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and other
elements that a user can see on the display.
[001351         Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of
views, sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which
information is displayed and touch-based gestures occur.          The application views (of a
respective application) in which a touch is detected may correspond to programmatic levels
within a programmatic or view hierarchy of the application. For example, the lowest level
view in which a touch is detected may be called the hit view, and the set of events that are
recognized as proper inputs may be determined based, at least in part, on the hit view of the
initial touch that begins a touch-based gesture.
[001361         Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub-events
of a touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a hierarchy,
hit view determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in the hierarchy
which should handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is the lowest level
view in which an initiating sub-event occurs (i.e., the first sub-event in the sequence of sub
events that form an event or potential event). Once the hit view is identified by the hit view
determination module, the hit view typically receives all sub-events related to the same touch
or input source for which it was identified as the hit view.
[001371         Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or
views within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the hit
view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active event
recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the physical
location of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that all actively
involved views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments,
even if touch sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with one particular
view, views higher in the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved views.
                                                37

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
[001381         Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event
recognizer (e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer
determination module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to an
event recognizer determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In some
embodiments, event dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event information,
which is retrieved by a respective event receiver module 182.
[00139]         In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170.
Alternatively, application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments, event
sorter 170 is a stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory 102, such
as contact/motion module 130.
[00140]         In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event handlers
 190 and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for handling
touch events that occur within a respective view of the application's user interface. Each
application view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event recognizers 180.
Typically, a respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event recognizers 180. In
other embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a separate module, such
as a user interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from which application 136-1
inherits methods and other properties. In some embodiments, a respective event handler 190
includes one or more of: data updater 176, object updater 177, GUI updater 178, and/or event
data 179 received from event sorter 170. Event handler 190 may utilize or call data updater
 176, object updater 177 or GUI updater 178 to update the application internal state 192.
Alternatively, one or more of the application views 191 includes one or more respective event
handlers 190. Also, in some embodiments, one or more of data updater 176, object updater
 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a respective application view 191.
[00141]         A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event data
 179) from event sorter 170, and identifies an event from the event information.         Event
recognizer   180 includes event receiver       182 and event comparator       184.    In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and event
delivery instructions 188 (which may include sub-event delivery instructions).
[00142]         Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170.      The
event information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch
movement.     Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional
                                               38

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
information, such as location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a
touch the event information may also include speed and direction of the sub-event. In some
embodiments, events include rotation of the device from one orientation to another (e.g.,
from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the event
information includes corresponding information about the current orientation (also called
device attitude) of the device.
[001431         Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or
sub-event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or
determines or updates the state of an event or sub-event.        In some embodiments, event
comparator 184 includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions of
events (e.g., predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2 (187
2), and others. In some embodiments, sub-events in an event 187 include, for example, touch
begin, touch end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple touching.             In one
example, the definition for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed object. The double
tap, for example, comprises a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a
predetermined phase, a first lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase, a second touch
(touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, and a second lift-off (touch
end) for a predetermined phase. In another example, the definition for event 2 (187-2) is a
dragging on a displayed object. The dragging, for example, comprises a touch (or contact) on
the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a movement of the touch across touch
sensitive display 112, and lift-off of the touch (touch end). In some embodiments, the event
also includes information for one or more associated event handlers 190.
[00144]         In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event
for a respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184 performs
a hit test to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event.         For
example, in an application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on touch
sensitive display 112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display 112, event
comparator 184 performs a hit test to determine which of the three user-interface objects is
associated with the touch (sub-event). If each displayed object is associated with a respective
event handler 190, the event comparator uses the result of the hit test to determine which
event handler 190 should be activated. For example, event comparator 184 selects an event
handler associated with the sub-event and the object triggering the hit test.
                                                39

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[001451         In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event 187 also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been determined
whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event recognizer's
event type.
[00146]         When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub
events do not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event
recognizer 180 enters an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it
disregards subsequent sub-events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event
recognizers, if any, that remain active for the hit view continue to track and process sub
events of an ongoing touch-based gesture.
[001471         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata
 183 with configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery
system should perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
how event recognizers may interact with one another. In some embodiments, metadata 183
includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate whether sub-events are
delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic hierarchy.
[001481         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event
handler 190 associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event are
recognized.     In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event
information associated with the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler 190
is distinct from sending (and deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 throws a flag associated with the recognized event, and
event handler 190 associated with the flag catches the flag and performs a predefined process.
[00149]         In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event
delivery instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an
event handler. Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views.          Event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive the
event information and perform a predetermined process.
[001501         In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in
application 136-1.   For example, data updater 176 updates the telephone number used in
                                               40

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
contacts module 137, or stores a video file used in video player module 145.          In some
embodiments, object updater 177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1.      For
example, object updater 176 creates a new user-interface object or updates the position of a
user-interface object. GUI updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater 178
prepares display information and sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a touch
sensitive display.
[001511         In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data
updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater
176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a respective
application 136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are included in two or
more software modules.
[00152]         It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling
of user touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to
operate multifunction devices 100 with input-devices, not all of which are initiated on touch
screens, e.g., coordinating mouse movement and mouse button presses with or without single
or multiple keyboard presses or holds, user movements taps, drags, scrolls, etc., on touch
pads, pen stylus inputs, movement of the device, oral instructions, detected eye movements,
biometric inputs, and/or any combination thereof, which may be utilized as inputs
corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be recognized.
[00153]         Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen
112 in accordance with some embodiments.           The touch screen may display one or more
graphics within user interface (UI) 200.      In this embodiment, as well as others described
below, a user may select one or more of the graphics by making contact or touching the
graphics, for example, with one or more fingers 202 (not drawn to scale in the figure) or one
or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in the figure). In some embodiments, selection of
one or more graphics occurs when the user breaks contact with the one or more graphics.      In
some embodiments, the contact may include a gesture, such as one or more taps, one or more
swipes (from left to right, right to left, upward and/or downward) and/or a rolling of a finger
(from right to left, left to right, upward and/or downward) that has made contact with device
100. In some embodiments, inadvertent contact with a graphic may not select the graphic.
For example, a swipe gesture that sweeps over an application icon may not select the
corresponding application when the gesture corresponding to selection is a tap.
                                                41

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
[001541         Device 100 may also include one or more physical buttons, such as "home" or
menu button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 may be used to navigate to any
application 136 in a set of applications that may be executed on device 100. Alternatively, in
some embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft key in a GUI displayed on
touch screen 112.
[001551         In one embodiment, device 100 includes touch screen 112, menu button 204,
push button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume adjustment
button(s) 208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head set jack 212, and
docking/charging external port 124. Push button 206 may be used to turn the power on/off
on the device by depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed state for a
predefined time interval; to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing the button
before the predefined time interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or initiate an
unlock process. In an alternative embodiment, device 100 also may accept verbal input for
activation or deactivation of some functions through microphone 113.
[00156]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.         Device 300
need not be portable.    In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a multimedia player device, a navigation device, an educational
device (such as a child's learning toy), a gaming system, or a control device (e.g., a home or
industrial controller).  Device 300 typically includes one or more processing units (CPU's)
310, one or more network or other communications interfaces 360, memory 370, and one or
more communication buses 320 for interconnecting these components.            Communication
buses 320 may include circuitry (sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls
communications between system components.            Device 300 includes input/output (I/O)
interface 330 comprising display 340, which is typically a touch screen display. I/O interface
330 also may include a keyboard and/or mouse (or other pointing device) 350 and touchpad
355.   Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory, such as DRAM, SRAM,
DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices; and may include non-volatile
memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage devices,
flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage devices. Memory 370 may
optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from CPU(s) 310. In some
embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules, and data structures analogous to the
programs, modules, and data structures stored in memory 102 of portable multifunction
                                               42

  WO 2011/126501                                                        PCT/US2010/050056
device 100 (Figure 1), or a subset thereof. Furthermore, memory 370 may store additional
programs, modules, and data structures not present in memory 102 of portable multifunction
device 100.     For example, memory 370 of device 300 may store drawing module 380,
presentation module 382, word processing module 384, website creation module 386, disk
authoring module 388, and/or spreadsheet module 390, while memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100 (Figure 1) may not store these modules.
[001571         Each of the above identified elements in Figure 3 may be stored in one or
more of the previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above identified modules
corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above
identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as
separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these
modules may be combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments.             In some
embodiments, memory 370 may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified
above.    Furthermore, memory 370 may store additional modules and data structures not
described above.
[00158]         Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") that
may be implemented on portable multifunction device 100.
[001591         Figures 4A and 4B illustrate exemplary user interfaces for a menu of
applications on portable multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments.
Similar user interfaces may be implemented on device 300.         In some embodiments, user
interface 400A includes the following elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
    .    Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and
        Wi-Fi signals;
    .   Time 404;
    .   Bluetooth indicator 405;
    .   Battery status indicator 406;
    .   Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
            o   Phone 138, which may include an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls
                or voicemail messages;
                                               43

  WO 2011/126501                                                      PCT/US2010/050056
            o   E-mail client 140, which may include an indicator 410 of the number of
                unread e-mails;
            o   Browser 147; and
            o   Music player 146; and
       Icons for other applications, such as:
            o   IM 141;
            o   Image management 144;
            o   Camera 143;
            o   Video player 145;
            o   Weather 149-1;
            o   Stocks 149-2;
            o   Workout support 142;
            o   Calendar 148;
            o   Calculator 149-3;
            o   Alarm clock 149-4;
            o   Dictionary 149-5; and
            o   User-created widget 149-6.
[00160]         In some embodiments, user interface 400B includes the following elements, or
a subset or superset thereof:
    .  402, 404, 405, 406, 141, 148, 144, 143, 149-3, 149-2, 149-1, 149-4, 410, 414, 138,
        140, and 147, as described above;
    .  Map 154;
    *  Notes 153;
    .   Settings 412, which provides access to settings for device 100 and its various
        applications 136, as described further below;
    *  Video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod (trademark of Apple
       Inc.) module 152; and
                                               44

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
        Online video module 155, also referred to as YouTube (trademark of Google Inc.)
        module 155.
[00161]         Figure 4C illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that is
separate from the display 450 (e.g., touch screen display 112).          Although many of the
examples which follow will be given with reference to inputs on touch screen display 112
(where the touch sensitive surface and the display are combined), in some embodiments, the
device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display, as shown
in Figure 4C. In some embodiments the touch sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4C) has a
primary axis (e.g., 452 in Figure 4C) that corresponds to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in Figure
4C) on the display (e.g., 450). In accordance with these embodiments, the device detects
contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in Figure 4C) with the touch-sensitive surface 451 at locations
that correspond to respective locations on the display (e.g., in Figure 4C 460 corresponds to
468 and 462 corresponds to 470). In this way, user inputs (e.g., contacts 460 and 462, and
movements thereof) detected by the device on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure
4C) are used by the device to manipulate the user interface on the display (e.g., 450 in Figure
4C) of the multifunction device when the touch-sensitive surface is separate from the display.
It should be understood that similar methods may be used for other user interfaces described
herein.
[00162]         Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with reference
to finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures), it should be
understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are replaced with
input from another input device (e.g., a mouse based input or stylus input). For example, a
swipe gesture may be replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a contact) followed by
movement of the cursor along the path of the swipe (e.g., instead of movement of the
contact). As another example, a tap gesture may be replaced with a mouse click while the
cursor is located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead of detection of the contact
followed by ceasing to detect the contact).          Similarly, when multiple user inputs are
simultaneously detected, it should be understood that multiple computer mice may be used
simultaneously, or a mouse and finger contacts may be used simultaneously.
                                                 45

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
[001631         Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") and
associated processes that may be implemented on a multifunction device with a display and a
touch-sensitive surface, such as device 300 or portable multifunction device 100.
[00164]         Figures 5A-5PPP illustrate exemplary user interfaces for creating and
managing folders that contain one or more of the selectable user interface objects in
accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are used to illustrate
the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 8A-8C, 9A
9B, 10A-OB, 1IA-IC, and 12A-12E.
[001651         Attention is now directed towards Figure 5A, which illustrates a multifunction
device (e.g., 100 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP) with a touch screen (e.g., 112 in Figures 5A
5N, 5P-5PPP) display (e.g., touch screen 112).        In some embodiments the multifunction
device 100 also includes a speaker (e.g., 111 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP), a microphone
(e.g., 113 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP), one or more optical sensors (e.g., 164 in Figures 5A
5N, 5P-5PPP), a proximity sensor (e.g., 166 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP), one or more
accelerometers (e.g., 168 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP), as described in greater detail above.
[00166]         In some embodiments, the multifunction device 100 displays a plurality of
notification icons such as signal strength indicator(s) (e.g., 402 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP)
for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and Wi-Fi signals; time indicator (e.g., 404 in
Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP); Bluetooth indicator (e.g., 405 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP);
battery status indicator (e.g., 406 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP). In accordance with some
embodiments, the multifunction device also displays a plurality of selectable user interface
objects (e.g., application icons 5002 and folder icons 5004 in Figures 5A-5PPP). In some
embodiments one or more of the selectable user interface objects are displayed in a tray (e.g.,
5006 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP), which is also sometimes referred to as a dock. In some
embodiments, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., application icons and/or folder icons)
outside of the tray are part of a plurality of sets/pages of selectable user interface objects,
where each set/page of selectable user interface objects includes a different plurality of
selectable user interface objects. However, in some embodiments, when the multifunction
devices switches from a first set/page of selectable user interface objects to a second set/page
of selectable user interface objects, the tray 5006 does not change.
[001671         Attention is now directed towards Figure 5A, which includes a plurality of
selectable user interface objects, including a plurality of action icons 5002 and a plurality of
                                                 46

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
folder icons 5004. For example, in Figure 5A the action icons 5002 include a plurality of
application icons (e.g., photos application icon 5002-1, clock application icon 5002-2,
browser application icon 5002-3, solitaire application icon 5002-4, weather application icon
5002-5, notes application icon 5002-6, texts application icon 5002-7, maps application icon
5002-8, stocks application icon 5002-9, camera application icon 5002-12, racing application
icon 5002-13, email application icon 5002-14, phone application icon 5002-15, and iPod
application icon 5002-16) for activating respective applications, a bookmark icon 5002-10 for
launching a web browser and displaying a bookmarked webpage and a document icon 5002
 11 for activating a document viewing/editing application so as to displaying the document
associated with the document icon 5002-11.
[00168]         The folder icons (e.g., 5004-1-a and 5004-2 in Figure 5A) in Figure 5A are
icons that can be activated to display a folder view. In some embodiments, the folder icons
5004 each include a plurality of reduced scale representations of selectable object indicators
that are associated with the folder (e.g., reduced scale representations "xl," "x2," "x3," "x4,"
"x5," and "x6" for folder icon 5004-1, and reduced scale representations "zl," "z2," "z3,"
"z4," "z5," and "z6" for folder icon 5004-2). It should be understood that, in accordance with
some embodiments, displaying the folder view includes displaying a region that includes a
plurality of selectable user interface icons (e.g., action icons 5002). In Figure 5A, the device
is in normal operation mode. In other words, selecting one of the action icons will activate an
application (e.g., launch an application that is not currently running on the device or display a
view of an application that is currently running on the device). In some embodiments, the
device detects a request to enter user interface reconfiguration mode. For example, in Figure
5A, the device detects a contact 5008 with the solitaire application icon 5002-4 for more than
a predetermined period of time (e.g., 2 seconds) and, in response, the device enters a user
interface reconfiguration mode, as illustrated in Figure 5B.
[00169]         In Figure 5B, the device has entered a user interface reconfiguration mode. In
some embodiments, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002 and 5004) display a
visual indication that the device is in the user interface reconfiguration mode. For example,
as illustrated in Figure 5B, the selectable user interface objects jiggle as though they are
floating on water (e.g., each respective selectable user interface object oscillates about a
respective average position of the selectable user interface object on the display).
Additionally in some embodiments, while in the user interface reconfiguration mode, at least
some of the selectable user interface objects are associated with an object removal badge
                                                 47

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
(e.g., 5010 in Figure 5B), and when the device detects activation of the object removal badge
(e.g., tap gesture 5011 in Figure 5B), the selectable user interface object (e.g., weather
application icon 5002-5 in Figure 5B) associated with the object removal badge is removed
from the user interface (e.g., deleted).
[00170]         Additionally, in some embodiments, the one or more of the folder icons
change appearance when the device enters user interface reconfiguration mode. For example,
in Figure 5A, when the device is in normal operation mode, a folder icon 5004-1-a is
displayed with a first plurality of reduced size representations of selectable user interface
objects (e.g. "xl," "x2," "x3," "x4," "x5," "x6" in folder icon 5004-1-a in Figure 5A ), while
in Figure 5B, after the device enters the user interface reconfiguration mode, a second
plurality of reduced size representations of selectable user interface objects (e.g., "x4," "x5,"
"x6," and "x7") are displayed within the folder icon (e.g., folder icon 5004-1-b in Figure 5B).
Additionally, in some embodiments, one or more of the folder icons (e.g., 5004-1-b in Figure
5B) includes a notification badge 5012 that indicates that an application associated with one
of the selectable user interface objects in the folder has a notification. In some embodiments
one of the reduced scale representations (e.g., "x7" in folder icon 5004-1-b) has its own
notification badge 5014 that indicates that an application associated with the reduced scale
representation has a notification. Typically, a notification is an indication that the application
requires the attention of a user of the device (e.g., because a new message has arrived, or a
new event has occurred, updates are available, etc.).
[001711         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5B-5F, which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for creating a new folder in accordance with some embodiments. In Figure
5B, the device detects a request to move a respective selectable user interface object to an
edge of the screen. In this example, the request includes a contact 5016-a on the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) at a location that corresponds to a "racing" action
icon 5002-13, and subsequent movement 5018 of the contact to the edge of the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., to contact position 5016-b on the touch screen 112, as illustrated in
Figure 5C). In Figure 5C, the action icon 5002-13 is moved to the edge of the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112) and is maintained at the edge of the display for more than a predetermined
time threshold (e.g., 1 second). In response to detecting the action icon 5002-13 at the edge
of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) for more than the predetermined time threshold, the
device navigates to a next set/page of selectable user interface objects (e.g., as illustrated in
Figure 5D).
                                                48

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
[001721         In some embodiments, the device maintains a plurality of pages of selectable
user interface objects while the device is in a normal operation mode.         In some of these
embodiments, when the device enters a user interface reconfiguration mode, the device
creates an additional page that contains a new empty folder. For example, there are no action
icons 5002 and no filled folders on the page displayed in Figure 5D, thus the device displays
a folder icon 5004-3 for an empty folder (e.g., a folder that contains no selectable user
interface objects). In some embodiments the folder icon (e.g., 5004-3) for an empty folder
has a different appearance from a folder icon for a filled folder (e.g., a folder that contains
one or more selectable user interface objects).
[00173]         In Figure 5D, the device detects a request to move the selectable user interface
object 5002-13 to the folder icon for the empty folder 5004-3. In the example illustrated in
Figure 5D, the request includes movement 5020 of the contact 5016 from the contact location
5016-b near the edge of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) to a contact location (e.g., 5016-c
in Figure 5E) that is proximate to the folder icon 5004-3 for the new empty folder.           In
response to the request to move the selectable user interface object, the device moves the
selectable user interface object from the location (e.g., 5002-13 in Figure 5D) near the edge
of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) to a location that is proximate to or overlapping with
the folder icon 5004-3 for the new empty folder or an activation region for the folder icon
5004-3.
[00174]         In some embodiments, while the selectable user interface object 5002-13 is
proximate to or overlapping with the folder icon 5004-3 for the empty folder, the device
detects a termination of the input (e.g., a liftoff of contact 5016-c from the touch screen 112)
that was used to request movement of the selectable user interface object 5002-13.            In
response to detecting termination of the input the liftoff of contact from the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen 112), the device adds the selectable user interface object 5002-13
to the folder associated with the folder icon 5004-3, as illustrated in Figure 5F. In some
embodiments, when the device adds the selectable user interface object to the folder
associated with the folder icon 5004-3, the device changes the appearance of the folder icon.
For example, in Figure 5F, the folder icon 5004-3 displays a reduced scale representation of
the selectable user interface object 5002-13 that was added to the folder associated with the
folder icon 5004-3.
                                                 49

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[001751          In some embodiments, the device always displays an empty folder while in
user interface reconfiguration mode. For example, in Figure 5F, once the previously empty
folder (e.g., the folder associated with folder icon 5004-3) is filled (e.g., after selectable user
interface object 5002-13 has been added to the folder, as illustrated in Figures 5C-5E), the
device creates a subsequent new empty folder and displays a folder icon (e.g., 5004-4 in
Figure 5F) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is associated with the subsequent new
empty folder.      Thus, a new empty folder can be created by a user simply by filling a
previously empty folder. In some embodiments, any folder icons that are associated with
empty folders (e.g., folder icon 5004-4) cease to be displayed by the device when the device
returns to normal operation mode. For example, in Figure 5F the device detects a request to
return to normal operation mode (e.g., a press input 5022 on home button 204 in Figure 5F).
In response to the request to return to the normal operation mode, the device returns to
normal operation mode and ceases to display the empty folder (e.g., 5004-4 in Figure 5F), on
the display (e.g., touch screen 112) as illustrated in Figure 5G.
[00176]          Attention is now directed towards Figures 5H-5L which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for the creation of a new folder in accordance with some embodiments. In
some embodiments, the device enters a user interface reconfiguration mode (e.g., as
described in greater detail above with reference to Figure 5A). In some embodiments, when
the device enters a user interface reconfiguration mode, a new folder creation element (e.g.,
new folder creation region 5024 in Figure 5H) is displayed on a display (e.g., touch screen
 112). In some embodiments, when the device enters a user interface reconfiguration mode,
the selectable user interface icons on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) are moved towards
each other (e.g., the amount of empty space between selectable user interface objects is
decreased along at least one axis such as a vertical axis) so as to make room for the new
folder creation element(s). In some embodiments, the device detects a request to add a new
folder (e.g., a tap gesture 5026 at a location on the touch screen 112 that corresponds to a new
folder creation region 5024). In response to the request to create a new folder, the device
creates a new folder and displays a folder icon (e.g., 5004-5 in Figure 51) on the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112). In some embodiments the folder icon (e.g., 5004-5 in Figure 5I) for the
new folder is displayed at the first available location on in a predefined arrangement of
selectable user interface objects.
[001771          In some embodiments, the new folder creation element is a represented as
region (e.g., region 5028 in Figure 5I) that contains a folder creation icon (e.g., 5030 in
                                                 50

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
Figure 51) that is visually similar to a new folder icon. In some embodiments, the device
detects a request to create a new folder. For example, as illustrated in Figure 51, the device
detects a contact 5032 on a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) at a location that
corresponds to a location of the folder creation icon 5030 on a display (e.g., touch screen
 112) and subsequent movement 5034 of the contact out of the folder creation region. In some
embodiments the device displays an animation of a folder moving out of the folder creation
element in accordance with the movement 5034 of the contact. In other words, it appears as
though a new folder icon (e.g., 5004-6 in Figure 5J) has been dragged out of the folder
creation region 5028. In response to detecting the request to create the new folder, the device
creates a new folder and associates the new folder with the folder icon 5004-6 that was
dragged out of the folder creation region.
[00178]         In some embodiments the device receives a request to add one or more of the
selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icon 5002-6) into one of the new folders. For
example, in Figure 5J, the device detects a contact 5035 with action icon 5002-6 and
subsequent movement 5036 of the contact to one of the new folders 5004-5.              In some
embodiments, in response to the request to add a selectable user interface object to a new
folder, the device adds the selectable user interface object to the folder and removes the
selectable user interface object from the display.      In some embodiments, after adding a
selectable user interface object to a folder, the device modifies the folder icon that is
associated with the folder to which the selectable user interface object was added.         For
example, in Figure 5K, the device has added the action icon 5002-6 to the folder associated
with folder icon 5004-5, and the folder icon 5004-5 has been updated to display a reduced
scale representation (e.g., "N" in folder icon 5004-5) of the action icon 5002-6 that was added
to the folder.
[001791         In some embodiments, any folder icons that are associated with empty folders
(e.g., folder icon 5004-6) cease to be displayed by the device when the device returns to
normal operation mode. For example, in Figure 5K the device detects a request to return to
normal operation mode (e.g., a press input 5038 on home button 204 in Figure 5K).            In
response to the request to return to the normal operation mode, the device returns to normal
operation mode and ceases to display the empty folder (e.g., 5004-6 in Figure 5K) on the
display (e.g., touch screen 112), as illustrated in Figure 5L.          However, it should be
understood that, in accordance with some embodiments, any folder icons that represent
folders to which one or more selectable user interface objects have been added continue to be
                                                51

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
displayed.    For example, in Figure 5L, after the device has returned to normal operation
mode, folder 5004-5 continues to be displayed. Additionally, in some embodiments, when the
device returns to normal operation mode the selectable user interface objects are rearranged
so as to close any gaps in the arrangement. For example, in Figure 5K, the selectable user
interface objects are in a first arrangement with a gap where the notes application icon 5004-6
used to be located (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 5J), while in Figure 5L, the selectable user
interface objects have been rearranged so as to close the gap.
[00180]          Attention is now directed towards Figures 5M-50 which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for the creation of a new folder in accordance with some embodiments. In
some embodiments the device receives a folder creation request while in user interface
reconfiguration mode that corresponds to movement of one of the selectable user interface
objects to another one of the selectable user interface objects. For example in Figure 5M, the
device detects a contact (e.g., 5040-a) at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
screen 112) that corresponds to a location of a first action icon (e.g., the solitaire application
icon 5002-4) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and detects subsequent movement of the
contact (e.g., from a first location 5040-a in Figure 5M to a second location 5040-b in Figure
5N on the touch screen 112) that corresponds to movement of the first action icon 5002-4
onto the second action icon 5002-13, as illustrated in Figure 5N. In some embodiments the
device displays an indication that a folder is about to be created (e.g., by highlighting the
second action icon 5002-13 as illustrated in Figure 5N). In some embodiments, the device
creates a folder including the first action icon and the second action icon after detecting
termination of the input (e.g., detecting a liftoff of the contact 5040-b).              In some
embodiments, the device creates a folder including the first action icon and the second action
icon after detecting that the input meets predefined folder-creation criteria (e.g., a pause of
the contact for more than a predetermined period of time while the first action icon 5002-4 is
adjacent to or on top of the second action icon 5002-13).
[00181]          In some embodiments, conjunction with creating the folder, the device
displays a new folder icon that is associated with the folder. In some embodiments, the new
folder icon includes reduced scale representations of the user interface objects that were
added to the folder. In some embodiments, the folder is named based on descriptors of the
first selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-4) and/or the second selectable
user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-13).      For example, Figure 50 illustrates the
device receiving an input that includes a request create a folder including a first action icon
                                                52

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
(e.g., solitaire application icon 5002-4) and a second action icon (e.g., racing application icon
5002-13), the input includes a contact 5044 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of the first action icon 5002-4 on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement 5046 of the contact 5044 to a location that
is proximate to (or on top of) the second action icon 5002-13. In response to this input, the
device creates a new folder and displays a "GAMES" folder icon 5004-7 for the new folder
that includes reduced scale representations of the first selectable user interface object and the
second selectable user interface object (e.g., "0" and "R," respectively).            As another
example, Figure 50 illustrates the device receiving an input that includes a request create a
folder including a first action icon (e.g., car race application icon 5002-17) and a second
action icon (e.g., air race application icon 5002-18), the input includes a contact 5048 at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location
of the first action icon 5002-17 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent
movement 5050 of the contact 5048 to a location that is proximate to (or on top of) the
second action icon 5002-18. In response to this input, the device creates a new folder and
displays a "RACING GAMES" folder icon 5004-8 for the new folder that includes reduced
scale representations of the first selectable user interface object and the second selectable user
interface object (e.g., "rl" and "r2," respectively).       As another example, Figure 50 also
illustrates the device receiving an input that includes a request create a folder including a first
action icon (e.g., email application icon 5002-14) and a second action icon (e.g., phone
application icon 5002-15), the input includes a contact 5052 at a location on the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of the first action icon
5002-14 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement 5054 of the
contact 5052 to a location that is proximate to (or on top of) the second action icon 5002-15.
In    response    to   this  input,  the   device   creates   a  new    folder  and   displays    a
"COMMUNICATION" folder icon 5004-9 for the new folder that includes reduced scale
representations of the first selectable user interface object and the second selectable user
interface object (e.g., "E" and "P," respectively).
[00182]          As another example, Figure 50 also illustrates the device receiving an input
that includes a request create a folder including a first action icon (e.g., camera application
icon 5002-12) and a second action icon (e.g., stocks application icon 5002-9), the input
includes a contact 5056 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112)
that corresponds to a location of the first action icon 5002-12 on the display (e.g., touch
                                                 53

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
screen 112) and subsequent movement 5058 of the contact 5056 to a location that is
proximate to (or on top of) the second action icon 5002-9.          In response to this input, the
device creates a new folder and displays a "PHOTOGRAPHY" folder icon 5004-10 for the
new folder that includes reduced scale representations of the first selectable user interface
object and the second selectable user interface object (e.g., "C" and "S," respectively). As
another example, Figure 50 also illustrates the device receiving an input that includes a
request create a folder including a first action icon (e.g., stocks application icon 5002-9) and a
second action icon (e.g., camera application icon 5002-12), the input includes a contact 5060
at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a
location of the first action icon 5002-9 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent
movement 5062 of the contact 5060 to a location that is proximate to (or on top of) the
second action icon 5002-12. In response to this input, the device creates a new folder and
displays a "UTILITIES" folder icon 5004-11 for the new folder that includes reduced scale
representations of the first selectable user interface object and the second selectable user
interface object (e.g., "S" and "C," respectively).
[00183]         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5P-5R which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for renaming a folder in accordance with some embodiments.                In some
embodiments, a new folder is named automatically after it is created, as described above with
reference to Figure 50. In some embodiments, immediately after the folder is created, the
device displays a name confirmation dialogue (e.g., 5064 in Figure 5P).             In response to
detecting a confirmation input (e.g., tap gesture 5066 at a location that corresponds to a
"confirm" icon on the touch screen 112 in Figure 5P), the device confirms the creation of the
folder and the automatically generated name, as illustrated in Figure 5S.           In response to
detecting a cancellation input (e.g., tap gesture 5068 at a location that corresponds to a
"cancel" icon on the touch screen 112 in Figure 5P), the device cancels the creation of the
folder, as illustrated in Figure 5M.      In response to detecting a renaming input (e.g., tap
gesture 5070 at a location that corresponds to a "rename" icon on the touch screen 112 in
Figure 5P), the device displays a dialogue 5072 for changing the name of the new folder (e.g.,
from "games" to "fun" as illustrated in Figure 5Q), and for confirming the name change (e.g.,
by detecting a tap gesture 5074 at a location that corresponds to a location of an "ok" icon on
the touch screen 112). The device displays a folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5R) that is
associated with the new name for the new folder.
                                                 54

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
[001841         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5S-5Q which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for displaying a folder view in accordance with some embodiments. In some
embodiments, the device displays a folder view of a folder associated with a folder icon (e.g.,
5004-7) in response to detecting a request to activate a folder icon (e.g., tap gesture 5076 in
Figure 5S). In response to detecting the request, the device displays a folder view (e.g., as
illustrated in any of Figures 5T, 5U, 5V-5W, or 5X-5Y) on the display (e.g., touch screen
 112). In some embodiments, the device automatically displays a folder view after creating
the folder (e.g., transitioning directly from Figure 5N to any of Figures 5T, 5U, 5V-5W, or
5X-5Y) or renaming a new folder (e.g., transitioning directly from Figure 5Q to any of
Figures 5T, 5U, 5V-5W, or 5X-5Y).
[001851         In Figure 5T, the folder view 5078 includes an overlay that covers at least a
portion of the touch screen 112, obscuring (e.g., hiding or de-emphasizing) the selectable user
interface objects that are displayed on the touch screen 112. In some embodiments, the
selectable user interface objects that are not in the folder are at least partially faded, so as to
draw attention to the folder view (e.g., 5078 in Figure 5T), while providing contextual
feedback by indicating the arrangement of the selectable user interface objects that are
outside of the folder view (e.g., 5078 in Figure 5T). In some embodiments, the folder view
(e.g., 5078 in Figure 5T) includes the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4 and 5002
 13) that were added to the folder associated with the new folder icon 5004-7.
[00186]         In Figure 5U, the folder view 5080 includes a partially transparent overlay that
covers all, or substantially all, of the touch screen 112, obscuring the selectable user interface
objects that are displayed on the touch screen 112 and drawing attention to the folder view
(e.g., 5080 in Figure 5U), while providing contextual feedback by indicating the arrangement
of the selectable user interface objects (e.g., including a location of the folder icon 5004-7 for
the folder within the arrangement) that are outside of the folder. The folder view (e.g., 5080
in Figure 5U) includes the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4 and 5002-13) that
were added to the folder associated with the new folder icon 5004-7.
[001871         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5V-5Y which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for displaying an animated transition to a folder view in accordance with some
embodiments. In some embodiments, the device displays a transition animation transitioning
from displaying the folder icon to displaying the folder view. For example in Figure 5V, the
device displays an animation in response to receiving the request to display a folder view
                                                 55

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
(e.g., detecting the tap gesture 5076 at a location on the touch screen 112 that corresponds to
a location of the folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5S). The exemplary animation in Figure 5V
includes displaying a plurality of the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-7, 5002-8,
5002-10, 5002-11, etc.) scattering off of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) by moving
towards the edges of the display (e.g., touch screen 112). In conjunction with scattering a
plurality of the selectable user interface objects, the device displays the selected folder icon
5004-7 expanding to fill the touch screen 112, as illustrated in Figure 5W, so as to display a
folder view 5082 that includes the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4, 5002-13 in
Figure 5W) that are associated with the folder represented by the selected folder icon (e.g.,
5004-7 in Figure 5S).
[00188]         As another example of an animated transition, in Figure 5X, the device
displays an animation in response to receiving the request to display a folder view (e.g.,
detecting the tap gesture 5076 on the folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5S). The exemplary
animation in Figure 5X includes dividing a wallpaper into a first portion 5084 and a second
portion 5086 and moving the second portion away from the first portion (e.g., as illustrated in
Figure 5Y. In some embodiments, the first portion has an edge 5088 with a contour that is
complementary to a contour of an edge 5090 of the second portion. For example, in Figure
5X the edge 5088 of the first portion 5084 is complementary to the edge 5090 of the second
portion 5086.
[00189]         It should be understood that, in some embodiments the first portion moves
away from the second portion or the first portion and the second portion move away from
each other. In Figure 5Y, a folder view 5092 is displayed in an area between the first portion
5084 and the second portion 5086. In conjunction with the movement of the first portion
5084 and the second portion 5086, the device displays the selectable user interface objects
(e.g., 5002-4, 5002-13 in Figure 5Y) that are associated with the folder represented by the
selected folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5S) within the folder view (e.g., 5092 in Figure
5Y) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112). In some embodiments, the animation includes
displaying the wallpaper splitting to reveal the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4,
5002-13 in Figure 5Y) in the folder as though the wallpaper were sliding door that slides
away to reveal the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4, 5002-13 in Figure 5Y) that
are associated with the folder from behind the wallpaper. In some embodiments, the selected
folder icon 5004-7 that is associated with the folder view 5092 continues to be displayed
while the folder view 5092 is displayed, as illustrated in Figure 5Y. In some embodiments
                                                56

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
the folder icon 5004-7 is visually distinguished from other selectable user interface objects
(e.g., 5002-1, 5002-2, 5002-3, 5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8, 5002-9, 5004-1-b, 5002-10,
5002-11, 5002-12 in Figure 5Y). In some embodiments, the contour of the edge 5088 of the
first portion or the contour of the edge of the second portion is adjusted so that the contours
of the edges are no longer complementary. For example, in Figure 5X the edge 5088 of the
first portion 5084 and the edge 5090 of the second portion 5086 has a complementary has a
cut-out notch 5094. However, continuing this example, after the portions have moved away
from each other as illustrated in Figure 5Y the edge 5088 of the first portion 5084 still has a
cut-out notch 5094, while to the edge 5090 of the second portion 5086 is straight and thus the
edges are no longer complementary. In some embodiments the cut-out notch 5094 provides a
visual indication of a location of the selected folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figures 5X and 5Y)
within the arrangement of selectable user interface objects, as illustrated in Figure 5Y.
[00190]         In some embodiments, the device detects a folder view exit input (e.g.,
detecting a tap gesture 5096 at a location on the touch screen 112 that corresponds to a
location outside of the folder view 5092 in Figure 5Y) and in response to the folder exit input
the device ceases to display the folder view (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 5S).        In some
embodiments, the device detects a folder renaming input (e.g., detecting a tap gesture 5098
on a folder renaming region such as a button or a text entry region or the name of the folder),
and in response to the folder renaming input the device provides a renaming interface (e.g., a
soft keyboard sliding up from the bottom of the touch screen) that can be used to rename the
folder.
[00191]         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5Y-5CC, which illustrate exemplary
user interfaces for cancelling the creation of a folder in accordance with some embodiments.
In some embodiments if a cancellation input is received, the folder creation operation is
cancelled. In some embodiments the cancellation input includes, immediately after creating a
new folder with one or more selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icon s 5002-4 and
5002-13), removing one of the selectable user interface objects from the folder. In some
embodiments the device detects an input that corresponds to a request to move one of the
selectable user interface objects out of the folder.     For example, in Figure 5Y the device
detects an input that includes a contact 5100 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112) that corresponds to one of the selectable user interface objects 5002-4 in
the folder and subsequent movement 5102 of the contact (e.g., from a first contact location
5100-a on the touch screen 112 in Figure 5Y that is inside the folder view 5092 to a second
                                                57

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
contact location 5100-b on the touch screen 112 in Figure 5Z that is outside of the folder
view 5092). In response to detecting the input, the device moves the selectable user interface
object out of the folder and deletes the folder. For example in Figure 5Z the selectable user
interface object 5002-4 is outside of the folder, and in Figure 5AA, after detecting a
termination of the contact, the selectable user interface object 5002-4 is displayed outside of
the folder.
[00192]        In some embodiments, the folder icon is also updated to reflect the change of
contents of the folder. For example, in Figure 5Y the folder icon 5004-7 includes reduced
scale representations (e.g., "0"and "R") of both of the selectable user interface objects (e.g.,
5002-4 and 5002-13) that are within the folder, while in Figure 5AA after one of the
selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4) has been moved out of the folder, only the
reduced scale representation (e.g., "R") of the selectable user interface object (e.g., 5004-13)
that remains in the folder is displayed in the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5AA).
[00193]        In some embodiments, because this is a folder creation cancellation operation,
the folder icon ceases to be displayed and the remaining selectable user interface object (e.g.,
5002-13) is redisplayed outside of the folder view (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 5CC). In
some embodiments an animated transition is displayed, which shows the folder icon (e.g.,
5004-7) changing into the remaining selectable user interface object (e.g., the selectable user
interface object 5002-13 that remains in the folder), as illustrated in Figure 5BB, where an
intermediate stage 5104 of the animation (e.g., an animation frame that is in between the
folder icon and the remaining selectable user interface object 5002-13) is displayed on the
touch screen 112.     In some embodiments, the remaining selectable user interface object
replaces the folder icon on the touch screen. For example, in Figure 5AA the folder icon
5004-7 is displayed in the fourth row of the first column of the arrangement of selectable user
interface objects, while in Figure 5CC the remaining selectable user interface object 5002-13
is displayed on the fourth row of the first column of the arrangement of selectable user
interface objects.
[00194]        Attention is now directed towards Figures 5DD-5JJ, which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for deleting a folder in accordance with some embodiments. In
some embodiments, after a new folder is created (e.g., as described in greater detail above
with reference to Figures 5M-50, the device automatically displays a folder view of the
folder. For example, in Figure 5DD, the device displays a folder view 5106 that includes two
                                                 58

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-4 and 5002-13). In some embodiments, when a
folder view is displayed the device also displays a folder renaming region for renaming the
folder. For example in Figure 5DD, the device displays a folder view 5106 with a folder
renaming region 5108, where the device has received a renaming input (e.g., text input from a
physical keyboard, a keypad, a soft keyboard or other alphanumeric character entry device) to
change the name of the folder from "GAMES" to "PLAY."              In response to the renaming
input, the device changes the name of the folder and changes the appearance of the folder
icon (e.g., 5004-7) in accordance with the renaming input (e.g., changing "GAMES" in
Figure 5DD to "PLAY" in Figure 5EE after receiving the renaming input).
[001951          In some embodiments, the folder view is displayed by dividing the wallpaper
background into a first portion (e.g., 5108) and a second portion (e.g., 5110) and shifting the
first portion (e.g., 5108) of the wallpaper background away from the second portion (e.g.,
5110) of the wallpaper background so as to display the folder view 5106 in an area between
the first portion 5108 and the second portion 5110.
[00196]          In some embodiments, after the creation of the folder has been confirmed
(e.g., by renaming the folder, opening and closing the folder, adding additional selectable
user interface objects to the folder, etc.) the folder is not deleted when a single item is
removed from the folder. Rather, in some embodiments, the folder is only deleted by the
device when all of the items are removed from the folder. For example, in Figure 5EE, the
device detects a request to remove a selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-4) from the
folder view (e.g., detecting a contact 5112 and subsequent movement 5114 of the contact
5112 on the touch screen 112 to a location that is outside of the folder view 5106 into the first
portion 5108 of the desktop background). In response to the request to remove the selectable
user interface object e.g., 5002-4 from the folder view 5106, the device removes the
selectable user interface object 5002-4 from the folder view 5106 and displays the selectable
user interface object 5002-4 outside of the folder view 5106 as illustrated in Figure 5FF.
Continuing with this example, in Figure 5FF the device detects a request to remove a last
selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-13) from the folder view that includes detecting a
contact 5116 and subsequent movement 5118 of the contact (e.g., from a first contact location
5116-a on the touch screen 112 that is inside the folder view 5106 in Figure 5FF to a second
contact location 5116-b on the touch screen 112 that is outside of the folder view 5106 in
Figure 5GG).      In some embodiments, in response to the request, the last selectable user
interface object (e.g., 5002-13 in Figure 5GG) is removed from the folder in response to
                                               59

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
detecting termination of the input that corresponded to the request. In some embodiments,
the last selectable user interface object is displayed on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in
accordance with a location of the contact 5116-b when the device detects a termination of the
input (e.g., liftoff of the contact).
[001971          In some embodiments, after the last selectable user interface object (e.g.,
5002-13 in Figure 5GG) is removed from the folder view (e.g., 5106 in Figure 5GG), the
reduced scale representation (e.g., "R") of the selectable user interface object is removed
from the folder icon. For example, in Figure 5HH the folder icon 5004-7 does not include
any reduced scale representations of selectable user interface objects (e.g., because the folder
associated with the folder icon does not contain any selectable user interface objects).
[00198]          In some embodiments, once the last selectable user interface object (e.g.,
5002-13 in Figure 5GG) has been removed from the folder view 5106, as illustrated in Figure
5GG, the folder is deleted and the associated folder view cease to be displayed. For example,
in Figure 511, the device has ceased to display both the folder view (e.g., 5106 in Figure 5GG)
and the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5GG) associated with the folder.             In some
embodiments, the device displays an animation of the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 disappearing.
For example, in Figure 5HH the folder displays a folder icon 5004-7 with no reduced scale
representations of selectable user interface objects and starts to shrink the folder icon 5004-7,
as illustrated by the arrows in Figure 5HH. Continuing this animation, in Figure 511 the
folder icon ceases to be displayed entirely. After ceasing to display the folder icon, in some
embodiments the device rearranges the selectable user interface objects so as to close the gap
in predefined arrangement of the selectable user interface icons that was left by the deletion
of the folder icon. For example, in Figure 5JJ the selectable user interface object 5002-4 that
is associated with a solitaire application is moved to the left to fill the gap left by the folder
icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5HH).
[00199]          Attention is now directed towards Figures 5KK-5PP, which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for adding selectable user interface objects to a folder in
accordance with some embodiments.          In Figure 5KK, the device displays a plurality of
selectable user interface objects including a plurality of action icons (e.g., 5002-1, 5002-2,
5002-3, 5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8, 5002-09, 5002-10, 5002-11, 5002-12, 5002-14,
5002-15, and 5002-16) and a plurality of folder icons (e.g., 5004-1-b, 5004-7, and 5004-2).
In some embodiments, the device detects an input or the beginning of an input (e.g., contact
                                                 60

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
5120-a on the touch screen 112 in Figure 5KK) that corresponds to a request to move a
respective selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-9) on the display (e.g., touch screen
 112). In some embodiments, one or more of the other selectable user interface objects (e.g.,
action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004) have an default activation region (e.g., 5122-1-a,
5122-2-a, 5122-3-a, 5122-4-a, 5122-5-a, 5122-6-a, 5122-7-a, 5122-8-a, 5122-9-a, 5122-10-a,
5122-11-a, 5122-12-a, 5122-13-a, 5122-14-a, 5122-15-a, 5122-16-a, 5122-17-a), where each
activation region for a respective selectable user interface object is for performing an action
associated with the respective selectable user interface object.       In some embodiments, a
respective activation region for a respective action icon is associated with an action of
creating a folder that includes the respective action icon. In some embodiments, a respective
activation region for a respective folder icon is associated with an action of adding the
selectable user interface object to a folder associated with the respective folder icon. In some
embodiments, one or more of the a respective activation regions changes from the default
size to an adjusted size (e.g., 5122-1-b, 5122-2-b, 5122-3-b, 5122-4-b, 5122-5-b, 5122-6-b,
5122-7-b, 5122-8-b, 5122-9-b, 5122-10-b, 5122-11-b, 5122-12-b, 5122-13-b, 5122-14-b,
5122-15-b, 5122-16-b, 5122-17-b in Figure 5LL) in response to detecting an input on the
touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to movement of a first selectable user interface
object (e.g., 5002-9 in Figure 5KK). In some embodiments the adjusted size of a respective
activation region (e.g., 5122-13-b in Figure 5LL) is determined based on a distance from the
respective activation region (e.g., 5122-13-a in Figure 5KK) to the first respective selectable
user interface object (e.g., 5002-9 in Figure 5KK) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00200]         As one example of adding a selectable user interface object to a folder, the
device detects an input that corresponds to a request to move a selectable user interface object
to an activation region that is associated with a folder icon. For example the device detects a
contact 5120 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that
corresponds to a respective selectable user interface object 5002-9, and detects subsequent
movement 5121 of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., from a first contact
location 5120-a in Figure 5KK to a second contact location 5120-b in Figure 5LL to a third
contact location 5120-c in Figure 5MM on touch screen 112). In response to detecting the
input, the device moves the respective selectable user interface object 5002-9 across the
display (e.g., touch screen 112), in accordance with the movement of the contact 5120 as
illustrated in Figures 5KK-5MM. In some embodiments, the device automatically rearranges
the selectable user interface objects as the respective selectable user interface object 5002-9 is
                                                 61

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
moved across the display (e.g., touch screen 112). In some embodiments, the device does not
rearrange the selectable user interface objects until a predetermined condition has been met
(e.g., the contact 5120 ceases to be detected on the touch screen 112). For example, in
Figures 5LL-5MM, even though the respective selectable user interface object 5002-9 has
been moved across the display (e.g., touch screen 112), the other selectable user interface
objects are not immediately rearranged.
[00201]         In some embodiments, the device detects a termination of the input (e.g., a
liftoff of contact 5120-c in Figure 5MM) while the respective selectable user interface object
5002-9 is at least partly within an activation region (e.g., 5122-13-b) for one of the other
selectable user interface objects (e.g., folder icon 5004-7). In some embodiments, in response
to detecting the termination of the input, the device adds the respective selectable user
interface object 5002-9 to a folder associated with the selectable user interface object (e.g.,
folder icon 5004-7). In some embodiments, after the respective selectable user interface
object (e.g., 5002-9) has been added to the folder associated with the selectable user interface
object (e.g., folder icon 5004-7), the device modifies the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure
5NN) to include a reduced scale representation (e.g., "S" in folder icon 5004-7 in Figure
5NN) of the action icon, as illustrated in Figure 5NN. In some embodiments, after the action
icon 5002-9 has been added to the folder associated with the folder icon 5004-7, the device
rearranges the selectable user interface objects on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) so as to
fill any gaps in the arrangement, as illustrated in Figure 500, where the gap left by the
movement of action icon 5002-9 into a folder is filled.
[00202]         In Figure 500, the device detects another input including a contact 5124 on
the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) at a location that corresponds to a location
of an action icon 5002-8 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement
5126 of the contact (e.g., from a first contact location 5124-a in Figure 500 to a second
contact location 5124-b in Figure 5PP on the touch screen 112). In some embodiments, one
or more of the other selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons
5004) have an activation region (e.g., 5128-1, 5128-2, 5128-3, 5128-4, 5128-5, 5128-6, 5128
7, 5128-8, 5128-9, 5128-10, 5128-11, 5128-12, 5128-13, 5128-14, 5128-15), where each
activation region for a respective selectable user interface object is for performing an action
associated with the respective selectable user interface object.       In some embodiments, a
respective activation region (e.g., 5128-1, 5128-2, 5128-3, 5128-4, 5128-5, 5128-6, 5128-8,
5128-9, 5128-10, 5128-11, 5128-12, or 5128-13) for a respective action icon is associated
                                                  62

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
with an action of creating a folder that includes the respective action icon.           In some
embodiments, a respective activation region (e.g., 5128-7, 5128-11, or 5128-15) for a
respective folder icon is associated with an action of adding the respective selectable user
interface object (e.g., 5002-8) to a folder associated with the respective folder icon. In some
embodiments the size of the activation regions is determined based on a distance of the
activation region from the respective selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-8). In some
embodiments the activation regions are not displayed on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00203]          In response to detecting the input (e.g., movement 5126 of the contact 5124 on
the touch screen 112 in Figures 500-5PP), the device moves the respective selectable user
interface object 5002-8 across the display (e.g., touch screen 112), in accordance with the
movement of the contact 5124 as illustrated in Figures 500-5PP. In some embodiments, the
device does not rearrange the selectable user interface objects until a predetermined condition
has been met, as described in greater detail above with reference to Figures 5LL-5MM. In
some embodiments, the device automatically rearranges the selectable user interface objects
as the respective selectable user interface object 5002-8 is moved across the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112), as illustrated in Figure 5PP. For example, in Figures 500-5PP, even
though the respective selectable user interface object 5002-8 is still being moved across the
display (e.g., touch screen 112), the other selectable user interface objects have been
rearranged to fill in the gap that would have been left by the respective selectable user
interface object 5002-8 moving across the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00204]          In some embodiments the device detects additional movement 5130 of the
contact (e.g., from the second contact location 5124-b in Figure 5PP to a contact location that
is within the activation region 5128-11 for a respective folder icon 5004-7).           In some
embodiments, the device detects a termination of the input (e.g., a liftoff of contact 5124
from the touch screen 112) while the respective selectable user interface object 5002-8 is at
least partly within an activation region (e.g., 5128-11) for one of the other selectable user
interface objects (e.g., folder icon 5004-7). In some embodiments, in response to detecting
the termination of the input, the device adds the respective selectable user interface object
5002-8 to a folder associated with the selectable user interface object (e.g., folder icon 5004
7). In some embodiments, after the respective selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-8)
has been added to the folder associated with the selectable user interface object (e.g., folder
icon 5004-7), the device modifies the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5QQ) to include a
                                                 63

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
reduced scale representation (e.g., "M" in folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5QQ) of the action
icon, as illustrated in Figure 5QQ.
[002051          Attention is now directed towards Figures 5QQ-5SS,              which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for moving folder icons in accordance with some embodiments. In
some embodiments, while the device is in the user interface reconfiguration mode, folder
icons can be moved around the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in response to folder
repositioning inputs on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112). For example, in
Figure 5QQ, the device detects an input including contact 5132 at a location that corresponds
to a location of a respective folder icon 5004-7 on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
screen 112), and detects subsequent movement 5134 of the contact 5132 across the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., movement across the touch screen 112 from a first contact location
5132-a in Figure 5QQ to a second contact location 5132-b in Figure 5RR). In response to
detecting the input, the device moves the respective folder icon 5004-7 to a new location on
the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in accordance with the input, as illustrated in Figure 5RR.
In some embodiments, after detecting a predetermined condition (e.g., termination of the
input, or a pause in the movement for more than a predetermined period of time), the device
rearranges the selectable user interface objects so as to make space for the respective folder
icon (e.g., 5004-7) that was moved in response to detecting the input, as illustrated in Figure
5SS.
[00206]          Attention is now directed towards Figures 5SS-5VV,              which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for rearranging selectable user interface objects within folders in
accordance with some embodiments. In Figure 5SS the device detects a folder view display
input (e.g., tap gesture 5136 at a location that corresponds to a location of a folder icon 5004
7 on the touch screen 112). In response to the folder view display input, the device displays a
folder view (e.g., 5138 in Figures 5TT-5UU) that includes selectable user interface objects
(e.g., action icons 5002-4, 5002-13, 5002-9, 5002-8) that are associated with the folder
represented by the folder icon 5004-7. In some embodiments, the selectable user interface
objects within the folder view (e.g., 5138) have a predetermined spatial arrangement, and can
be rearranged based on detected rearrangement inputs. For example, in Figure 5TT the
device detects a rearrangement input (e.g., contact 5140 and subsequent movement 5142 of
the contact 5140 across the touch screen 112). In response to detecting the rearrangement
input, the device moves one or more respective selectable user interface objects within the
folder view from a first location within the spatial arrangement of the folder view to a second
                                                 64

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
location within the spatial arrangement of the folder view in accordance with the
rearrangement input. For example, in Figure 5TT the device detects a contact 5140 at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location
of the stocks application icon 5002-9 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112), and detects
subsequent movement 5142 of the contact 5140 to a location on the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds the far left of the spatial arrangement on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112).      In response to the movement, the device moves the stocks
application icon 5002-9 to a left most position within the spatial arrangement of the folder
view 5138, as illustrated in Figure 5UU.
[002071         Additionally, in some embodiments, the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7) associated
with the folder view (e.g., 5138) is updated to reflect the changes to the spatial arrangement
of the icons within the folder view (e.g., 5138). For example, in Figure 5TT (e.g., before the
spatial arrangement of the selectable user interface objects within the folder view has been
changed) the device displays reduced scale representations (e.g., "0,""R," "S," "M" in order
from left to right, top to bottom) of the selectable user interface objects in the folder view
5138 in a first order that corresponds to the spatial arrangement of the selectable user
interface objects (e.g., solitaire application icon 5002-4, racing application icon 5002-13,
stocks application icon 5002-9, maps application icon 5002-8 in order from left to right, top
to bottom). In contrast, in Figure 5UU (e.g., after the spatial arrangement has been changed)
the device displays reduced scale representations (e.g., "S," "0,""R," "M" in order from left
to right, top to bottom) of the selectable user interface objects in the folder view 5138 in a
second order that corresponds to the new spatial arrangement of the selectable user interface
objects (e.g., stocks application icon 5002-9, solitaire application icon 5002-4, racing
application icon 5002-13, maps application icon 5002-8 in order from left to right, top to
bottom).
[00208]         In some embodiments, in response to a folder view exit input the device ceases
to display the folder view. For example, in Figure 5UU the device detects tap gesture 5144 at
a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a
location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is outside of the folder view. In response
to detecting the tap gesture 5144 the device ceases to display the folder view, as illustrated in
Figure 5VV. In some embodiments, the device displays an animation of the folder view
closing (e.g., the background wallpaper closing over the selectable user interface objects that
are within folder view 5138) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
                                                65

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[00209]          Attention is now directed towards Figures 5VV-5BBB, which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for removing selectable user interface objects from a folder in
accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, the device detects a folder view
display input (e.g., tap gesture 5146 at a location that corresponds to a folder icon 5004-1-b
on touch screen 112 in Figure 5VV). In response to detecting the folder view display input
the device displays a folder view 5148 that includes content of the folder (e.g., action icons
5002-19, 5002-20, 5002-21, 5002-22, 5002-23, 5002-24, and 5002-25 on touch screen 112),
as illustrated in Figure 5WW.
[00210]          In some embodiments one or more of the selectable user interface objects
includes a notification badge (e.g., 5150 in Figure 5WW) that indicates that an application
(e.g., app-7) associated with the selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-25)
requires attention of a user of the device.     In some embodiments one or more additional
notification badges (e.g., 5012 and/or 5014) are also displayed on the folder icon (e.g., 5004
 1-b) that is associated with the folder containing the selectable user interface object (e.g.,
action icon 5002-25). In some embodiments the additional notification badges are updated as
the notification badges on the selectable user interface object are updated (e.g., when the
notification badge 5150 appears, disappears or changes so as to indicate that the number of
notifications has changed).
[00211]          In some embodiments the device detects a selectable user interface object
removal input and in response to detecting the selectable user interface object removal input
the device removes a selectable user interface object from the folder view. For example, in
Figure 5WW, the device detects contact 5152 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of an application icon 5002-19 on the
display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement 5154 of the contact 5152 across
the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) towards a location that corresponds to a
portion of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is outside of the folder view 5148. In some
embodiments, the input is a quick gesture that does not specify a particular location outside of
the folder view (e.g., the gesture is a flick gesture or a quick tap and drag gesture that does
not include a pause outside of the folder view), and the device moves the selectable user
interface object to an automatically determined location on the display (e.g., touch screen
 112) that is outside of the folder view.      Continuing the example above, in response to
detecting the contact 5152 and subsequent movement 5154 of the contact, the device removes
the action icon 5002-19 from the folder view 5148, closes the folder view, and displays the
                                                66

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
action icon 5002-19 at the first open location in the arrangement of selectable user interface
objects on the display (e.g., touch screen 112). In this example, the action icon 5002-19 is
displayed at the bottom right hand corner of the three-by-four array of selectable user
interface objects on the display (e.g., touch screen 112 in Figure 5XX).
[00212]          In some embodiments, when a selectable user interface object has been
removed from the folder associated with a folder icon, the device updates the folder icon
associated with the folder. For example, in Figure 5WW the folder icon 5004-1-b associated
with the displayed folder view 5148 includes four reduced scale representations (e.g., "x4,"
"x5," "x6," and "x7") of the selectable user interface objects that are contained within the
folder associated with the folder icon 5004-1-b. In some embodiments, empty spaces in the
folder icon indicate that the folder view includes space to add more selectable user interface
objects, as illustrated in folder icon 5004-1-b in Figure 5WW. However, after the selectable
user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-19) is removed from the folder associated with
the folder icon (e.g., 5004-1-b), the device changes the appearance of the folder icon (e.g.,
5004-1-b in Figure 5XX), so as to indicate that the selectable user interface object (e.g.,
5002-19) has been removed from the folder. For example, in Figure 5XX, the folder icon
5004-1-b shows the reduced scale representations in the folder (e.g., "x2," "x3," "x4," "x5,"
"x6," and "x7" are displayed) rearranged so as to indicate that there is one less selectable user
interface object in the folder associated with the folder icon 5004-1-b.
[00213]          In some embodiments, the device detects an action icon selection input (e.g.,
tap gesture 5155 at a location that corresponds to an action icon 5002-12 on the touch screen
 112 in Figure 5XX) while the device is in user interface reconfiguration mode, and in
response to the action icon selection input while the device is in user interface reconfiguration
mode, the device does not activate an application (e.g., a camera application) that is
associated with the action icon (e.g.,         camera application icon 5002-12).        In some
embodiments, the device detects a folder view display input (e.g., tap gesture 5156 at a
location that corresponds to a folder icon 5004-1-b in Figure 5XX). In response to detecting
the folder view display input the device displays a folder view 5158 that includes content of
the folder (e.g., action icons 5002-20, 5002-21, 5002-22, 5002-23, 5002-24, and 5002-25) on
the display (e.g., touch screen 112), as illustrate in Figure 5YY.
[00214]          In some embodiments, while the device is in a user interface reconfiguration
mode, the device detects an input that corresponds to a request to activate an application
                                                 67

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
associated with one of the action icons (e.g., tap gesture 5156, which corresponds to a request
to activate an app-7 application that corresponds to the app-7 application icon 5002-25).
However, in accordance with some embodiments, in response to detecting the input the
device does not activate the application icon while the device is in user interface
reconfiguration mode.
[002151          In some embodiments the device detects a selectable user interface object
removal input and in response to detecting the selectable user interface object removal input
the device removes a selectable user interface object from the folder view.            In some
embodiments, when the selectable object removal input meets predefined conditions, the
selectable user interface object is positioned within an arrangement of selectable user
interface objects in accordance with the selectable object removal input. For example, in
Figure 5YY, the device detects contact 5162 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of an application icon 5002-22 on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement 5164 of the contact 5152 across touch
sensitive surface (e.g., movement across touch screen 112 from contact location 5162-a
within the folder view 5158 in Figure 5YY to a contact location in Figure 5ZZ that
corresponds to a portion of the touch screen 112 that is outside of the folder view 5158). In
some embodiments, the device detects the contact at a location (e.g., contact location 5162-b)
on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location on the
display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is outside of the folder view 5158 for more than a
threshold time period, and in response, the device ceases to display the folder view, as
illustrated in Figure 5AAA.
[00216]          In some embodiments, after the folder view ceases to be displayed the device
continues to detect movement 5166 of the contact 5162 (e.g., movement from the second
contact location 5162-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 5AAA to a third contact location 5162
c on touch screen 112 in Figure 5BBB that corresponds to a location within an arrangement
of selectable user interface objects on the touch screen 112). In response to the continued
movement 5166, the device moves the selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002
22) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in accordance with the movement of the contact.
In some embodiments, the selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002) that was
removed from the folder in this way is placed in accordance with the selectable user interface
object input. Continuing the example from above, the device detects a termination of the
input (e.g., a liftoff of the contact 5162 from the touch screen 112 at contact location 5162-c
                                                68

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
in Figure 5BBB) that is associated with a location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that
is within the arrangement of selectable user interface objects. As illustrated in Figure 5BBB,
the contact 5162-c and the action icon 5002-22 are located in between two of the other
selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-6 and 5004-7) and upon detecting a termination
of the input (e.g., liftoff of contact 5162-c in Figure 5BBB) the selectable user interface
object is displayed at the location within the arrangement of selectable user interface objects
that was indicated by the input (e.g., the App-4 action icon 5002-22 is displayed in between
the notes action icon 5002-6 and the games folder icon 5004-7 on the touch screen 112 in
Figure 5CCC).
[002171         In some embodiments, when a selectable user interface object has been
removed from the folder associated with a folder icon, the device updates the folder icon
associated with the folder. For example, in Figure 5YY the folder icon 5004-1-b associated
with the displayed folder view 5158 displays six reduced scale representations (e.g., "x2,"
 "x3," "x4," "x5," "x6," and "x7") of the selectable user interface objects that are contained
within the folder associated with the folder icon 5004-1-b. However, after the selectable user
interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-22) is removed from the folder associated with the
folder icon (e.g., 5004-1-b), the device changes the appearance of the folder icon (e.g., from
5004-1-b in Figures 5XX-5ZZ to 5004-1-b in Figure 5AAA), so as to indicate that the
selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-22) has been removed from the folder.              For
example, in Figure 5AAA, the folder icon 5004-1-b shows all of the reduced scale
representations in the folder rearranged (e.g., only "x2," "x3," "x5," "x6," and "x7" are
displayed), so as to indicate that there is one less selectable user interface object in the folder
associated with the folder icon 5004-1-b. Additionally, in some embodiments, the reduced
scale representation of the removed selectable user interface object ceases to be displayed
within the folder icon. For example, reduced scale representation "x4" is no longer displayed
in the folder icon 5004-1-b in Figure 5CCC because action icon 5002-22 has been removed
from the folder).
[00218]         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5CCC-5EEE, which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for navigating through pages of selectable user interface objects
within a folder view in accordance with some embodiments.             In some embodiments, the
device detects a folder view display input (e.g., tap gesture 5168 at a location on the touch
screen 112 that corresponds to a location of a folder icon 5004-2 on the touch screen 112 in
Figure 5CCC). In response to detecting the folder view display input the device displays a
                                                69

  WO 2011/126501                                                             PCT/US2010/050056
folder view 5170 that includes content of the folder (e.g., action icons 5002-26, 5002-27,
5002-28, 5002-29, 5002-30, 5002-31, 5002-32, 5002-33, 5002-34, 5002-35, 5002-36, and
5002-37) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) as illustrated in Figure 5EEE.
[00219]         In some embodiments, when the folder view display input is a request to
display a folder view for a folder icon (e.g., 5004-2) that is in a tray (e.g., 5006 in Figure
5CCC) in the user interface, the device displays an animation of the folder view expanding
from the dock. For example in Figure 5CCC, the device detects tap gesture 5168 on a folder
icon 5004-2 that is in the tray 5006, and in Figure 5EEE a folder view 5170 of the folder is
displayed.    In some embodiments, the device displays a transition animation before
displaying the folder view, as illustrated in Figure 5DDD.          For example, in response to
detecting the tap gesture 5168 the device divides the wallpaper background into a first portion
5172 and a second portion 5174 and displays an animation of a wallpaper background sliding
back (e.g., the second portion 5174 moving away from the first portion 5172) so as to reveal
selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-34, 5002-35, 5002-36, 5002-37 in Figure 5DDD)
that appear to be beneath the wallpaper background. At the end of the animation the contents
or a portion of the contents of the folder are displayed in the folder view 5170 on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112).
[00220]         In some embodiments the folder includes more selectable user interface
objects than can be displayed in the folder view (e.g., 5170 in Figure 5EEE).                In some
embodiments the folder has a maximum number of selectable user interface objects that can
be added to the folder, where the maximum number is based on the maximum number of
selectable user interface objects that can be displayed in the folder view for the folder. For
example in Figure 5EEE, only 12 selectable user interface objects could be added to the
folder associated with the folder view 5170. However, in some embodiments, the folder view
contains a plurality of "pages" or sets of selectable user interface objects, and the folder can
hold additional selectable user interface objects that do not fit in the first set of selectable user
interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002-26, 5002-27, 5002-28, 5002-29, 5002-30, 5002-31,
5002-32, 5002-33, 5002-34, 5002-35, 5002-36, and 5002-37) by displaying the additional
selectable user interface objects that are part of subsequent sets of selectable user interface
objects. For example, in Figure 5EEE the device detects a next page input including contact
5176 and subsequent movement 5178 of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112). In response to detecting the next page input, the device displays a second
set of selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002-38, 5002-39, 5002-40, 5002
                                                70

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
41, 5002-42, and 5002-43 in Figure 5FFF) within the folder view 5170 for the folder. In
other words the folder includes eighteen selectable user interface objects with twelve
selectable user interface objects in a first page and six selectable user interface objects on a
second page.
[00221]        Attention is now directed towards Figures 5GGG-5MMM, which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for removing selectable user interface objects from a folder in
accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, the device detects a folder view
display input (e.g., tap gesture 5168 at a location that corresponds to a folder icon 5004-2 on
the touch screen 112 in Figure 5 CCC). In response to detecting the folder view display input
the device displays a folder view 5182 that includes content of the folder (e.g., action icons
5002-26, 5002-27, 5002-28, 5002-29, 5002-30, 5002-31, 5002-32, 5002-33, 5002-34, 5002
35, 5002-36, and 5002-37), as illustrated in Figure 5GGG.
[00222]        In some embodiments the folder view (e.g., 5182) includes all of or
substantially all of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in some of these embodiments, the
device displays a selectable user interface object removal region (e.g., 5184 in Figure
5GGG). In some embodiments, in response to detecting a removal request that corresponds
to a request to move a respective selectable user interface object into the selectable user
interface object removal region 5184, the device removes the respective selectable user
interface object from the folder. For example, in Figure 5GGG, the device detects a contact
5186 and movement 5188 of the contact (e.g., movement from a first contact location 5168-a
in Figure 5GGG that corresponds to a location of the respective selectable user interface
object 5002-32 on the touch screen 112 to a second contact location 5186-b in Figure 5HHH
that corresponds to a location on the touch screen 112 that is proximate to or within the
selectable user interface object removal region 5184). Continuing this example, the device
moves the respective selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-32) into the
selectable user interface object removal region 5184. In some embodiments, in response to
detecting termination of the input (e.g., liftoff of contact 5186-b in Figure 5HHH), the device
ceases to display the respective selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-32)
from the folder view 5182 and automatically rearranges the selectable user interface objects
within the folder view 5182 so as to close any gaps in the arrangement of the selectable user
interface objects. For example in Figure 5III the selectable user interface objects have been
rearranged so as to fill in the gap that remained in Figure 5HHH after the respective
selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-32) was removed from the folder view.
                                                 71

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[002231         In some embodiments, the folder view ceases to be displayed automatically
after a selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-32) is removed from the folder
(e.g., the device automatically switches from the user interface displayed in Figure 5111 to the
user interface displayed in Figure 5JJJ. In some embodiments the device detects an exit
folder view input (e.g., tap gesture 5190 on "exit folder" icon in the upper right corner of the
folder view 5182 in Figure 5111).      In response to detecting the exit folder view input, the
device ceases to display the folder view and redisplays the home screen, as illustrated in
Figure 5JJJ. In some embodiments the selectable user interface object (e.g., 5002-32) that
was removed from the folder is displayed on the home screen, as illustrated in Figure 5JJJ.
[00224]         In some embodiments, the device detects a folder view display input (e.g., tap
gesture 5192 at a location that corresponds to a folder icon 5004-2 in Figure 5JJJ). In
response to detecting the folder view display input the device redisplays the folder view 5182
that includes the modified content of the folder (e.g., action icons 5002-26, 5002-27, 5002
28, 5002-29, 5002-30, 5002-31, 5002-33, 5002-34, 5002-35, 5002-36, and 5002-37), as
illustrated in Figure 5KKK.       In some embodiments, instead of, or in addition to, the
selectable user interface object removal region described above, the device displays an object
modification target associated with one or more of the selectable user interface objects. For
example, in Figure 5KKK each of the selectable user interface objects has an object
modification target associated with it (e.g., action icon 5002-37 has a respective object
modification target 5194).
[002251         In some embodiments, when the device detects a request to activate the object
modification target for a respective selectable user interface object (e.g., tap gesture 5196 at a
location on the touch screen 112 that corresponds to a location of an object modification
region for action icon 5002-37), the device displays an object modification dialogue.         For
example in Figure 5LLL the device displays a pop-up dialogue 5198 that provides the user
with options for modifying the selectable user interface object (e.g., deleting action icon
5002-37, removing action icon 5002-37 from the folder, or canceling the object modification
operation). In this example, in response to an input that corresponds to a request to delete the
selectable user interface object (e.g., tap gesture 5200 on a delete button), the device deletes
the selectable user interface object (e.g., removing the action icon 5002-37 from the folder
associated with the folder view and from the device entirely, so that it is not displayed on a
home screen or any other folder view, as illustrated in Figure 5MMM).                    In some
embodiments, when the selectable user interface is deleted an application associated with the
                                                 72

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
selectable user interface object is deleted from the device. In this example, in response to an
input that corresponds to a request to cancel the object modification operation (e.g., tap
gesture 5202 on a cancel icon), the device ceases to display the object modification dialogue
5198 without modifying the selectable user interface object (e.g., action icon 5002-37)
thereby returning to the user interface displayed in Figure 5KKK.             In this example, in
response to an input that corresponds to a request to remove the selectable user interface
object from the folder (e.g., tap gesture 5204 on a remove button), the device removes the
selectable user interface object from the folder (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 5MMM) without
removing the selectable user interface object from the device (e.g., removing the action icon
5002-37 from the folder associated with the folder view and displaying the action icon 5002
37 on the home screen as illustrated in Figure 5NNN).
[00226]         Attention is now directed towards Figures 5NNN-5000, which illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for displaying a folder view while in a normal operating mode in
accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments the device detects an input that
corresponds to a request to exit the user interface reconfiguration mode and return to a
normal operation mode. For example, in Figure 5NNN the device detects a request to return
to normal operation mode (e.g., a press input 5206 on home button 204 in Figure 5NNN). In
response to the request to return to the normal operation mode, the device returns to normal
operation mode so that the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder
icons 5004) in Figures 5000-5PPP can no longer be rearranged (although, in some
embodiments, the arrangement of selectable user interface objects can be scrolled in one or
two dimensions).
[002271         In some embodiments, while the device is in a normal operation mode,
selection of a respective action icon 5002 results in activating an application associated with
the respective action icon. For example in Figure 5000, in response to detecting selection
of the photos action icon (e.g., detecting a tap gesture 5208 at a location on the touch
sensitive surface that corresponds to the photos action icon 5002-1), the device displays a
photos application (e.g., launching the photos application if the photos application is not
already running, or simply displaying the photos application if the photos application is
already running). In contrast, in some embodiments, in response to detecting selection of a
respective folder icon 5004 results in displaying a folder view for the folder. For example, in
Figure 5000, after detecting selection of a games folder icon (e.g., detecting a tap gesture
5210 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the games folder icon
                                                73

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
5004-7), the device displays a folder view 5212 for the games folder. In some embodiments,
while the device is in a normal operation mode, selection of a respective action icon 5002
within a folder view (e.g., folder view 5212) results in activating an application associated
with the respective action icon. For example, in response to detecting selection of the photos
action icon (e.g., detecting a tap gesture 5214 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to the stocks action icon 5002-9), the device
displays a photos application (e.g., launching the stocks application if the stocks application
is not already running, or simply displaying the stocks application if the stocks application is
already running) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00228]          Figures 6A-6E are flow diagrams illustrating a method 600 of creating a new
folder in accordance with some embodiments. The method 600 is performed at a
multifunction device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure
 1) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch
screen display (e.g., 112 in Figures 5A-5N, 5P-5PPP) and the touch-sensitive surface is on
the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface.
Some operations in method 600 may be combined and/or the order of some operations may
be changed.
[00229]          As described below, the method 600 provides an intuitive way to create a new
folder. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when creating new folders,
thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated computing
devices, enabling a user to create a new folder faster and more efficiently conserves power
and increases the time between battery charges.
[00230]          The device displays (602) a plurality of selectable user interface objects on the
display (e.g., in Figure 5M, the device displays a plurality of action icons 5002 and a plurality
of folder icons 5004 on touch screen 112).         In some embodiments, the selectable user
interface objects are (604) action icons 5002. For example, action icons 5002 may include
one or more activateable icons that represent a software programs (e.g., photos application
icon 5002-1, clock application icon 5002-2, browser application icon 5002-3, solitaire
application icon 5002-4, weather application icon 5002-5, notes application icon 5002-6,
texts application icon 5002-7, maps application icon 5002-8, stock application icon 5002-9,
camera application icon 5002-12, racing application icon 5002-13, email application icon
5002-14, phone application icon 5002-15, iPod application icon 5002-16), files (e.g.,
                                               74

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
document action icon 5002-11), bookmarks (e.g., bookmark action icon 5002-10), etc.
Similarly, a first folder icon 5004-1-b is associated with a first folder, while a second folder
icon 5004-2 is associated with a second folder.
[00231]         In response to detecting an input that corresponds to selection of a respective
selectable user interface object, the device activates (606) an application that is associated
with the respective selectable user interface object. In some embodiments, applications are
only activated when the device is in a normal operation mode.          For example, selecting a
solitaire application icon 5002-1 in Figure 5A (e.g., while the device is in a normal operation
mode) would launch a solitaire game application.        It should be understood that, when an
action icon 5002 represents a file and detecting an input that corresponds to selection of the
action icon displays an application that is used to view and/or edit the file. For example, if
the device detected an input (e.g., a tap gesture) that corresponds to selection of a bookmark
icon (e.g., 5002-10 in Figure 5A) that is associated with a bookmarked webpage, the device
would launch a web browser and navigate to the bookmarked webpage. As another example,
if the device detected an input that corresponds to selection of a document icon (e.g., 5002-11
in Figure 5A) that is associated with a spreadsheet document, the device would launch a
spreadsheet editing/viewing application and display the spreadsheet document within the
spreadsheet editing/viewing application.      In some embodiments the action icon is an
application launch icon and selecting the action icon launches the application if the
application is not currently running or displays the application if the application is currently
running, but is hidden from view. In other words, in response to detecting selection of an
action icon, the device displays a view of an application, however, if the application is not
running when the input is detected, the device must first launch the application, whereas if
the application is already running when the input is detected the device can simply display a
current view of the application and does not need to launch the application.
[00232]         The device detects (608) a first input. For example, as illustrated in Figure
5M, the device detects a finger contact 5040 at a location (e.g., a first location 5040-a in
Figure 5M) on a touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a first object (e.g., the solitaire
application icon 5002-4) and detects subsequent movement 5042 of the finger contact across
the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., to a second location 5040-b in Figure 5N).            In some
embodiments, the first input is (610) a gesture (e.g., a finger drag gesture) that is detected on
a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments the touch-sensitive surface is distinct from
                                               75

  WO 2011/126501                                                             PCT/US2010/050056
the display. In some embodiments the touch-sensitive surface is combined with the display
as a touch screen 112.
[002331         In response to detecting the first input, the device moves (612) a first object in
the plurality of selectable user interface objects across the display (e.g., touch screen 112) to a
location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is proximate to a second object in the
plurality of selectable user interface objects. For example, in Figure 5N the solitaire
application icon 5002-4 has been moved from a previous location to a current location (e.g.,
5002-4 in Figure 5N) that is proximate to a second object (e.g., racing application icon 5002
 13 in Figure 5N). In some embodiments, the location is over or at least partly overlapping
the second object or an activation region for the second object, as illustrated in Figure 5N,
where the solitaire application icon 5002-4 partly overlaps the racing application icon 5002
 13. In some embodiments, the location is over or at least partly overlapping an activation
region for the second object, as described in greater detail below with reference to method
900.
[00234]         The device detects (614) that the first input meets predefined folder-creation
criteria while the first object is proximate to the second object.         In some embodiments,
detecting that the first input meets predefined folder-creation criteria includes detecting (616)
termination of the first input while the first object is proximate to the second object. For
example, in Figure 5N, the device detects a liftoff of the contact 5040-b while the solitaire
application icon 5002-4 is overlapping with the racing application icon 5002-13. As another
example, in Figure 5N, the device detects a pause of the contact 5040 while the solitaire
application icon 5002-4 is overlapping with the racing application icon 5002-13 for more
than a predetermined period of time (e.g., 0.5 seconds, 1 second, 1.5 seconds or any
reasonable period of time). In some embodiments, the device is (618) in a user interface
reconfiguration mode (i.e., not in a normal operation mode) when the first input is detected,
as described in greater detail above. Additionally, it should be understood that, in some
embodiments the selectable user interface objects cannot be moved (e.g., repositioned within
the arrangement of selectable user interface objects) when the device is in the normal
operation mode.
[002351         Operations 622-636 are performed (620) in response to detecting that the first
input meets predefined folder-creation criteria while the first object is proximate to the
second object. In some embodiments, in response to detecting that the first input meets
                                                 76

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
predefined folder-creation criteria of the first input while the first object is proximate to the
second object, ceasing (622) to display the first object and the second object (e.g., as
illustrated in Figure 5N and 5S). For example, in Figure 5S, after the device has detected that
the first input meets predefined folder-creation criteria (e.g., by detecting termination of the
input or a pause in the input for more than a predetermined period of time), the solitaire
application icon 5002-4 and the racing application icon 5002-13, which were previously
displayed in Figure 5N are no longer displayed in Figure 5S. Instead a folder icon 5004-7,
which represents a folder that contains the solitaire application icon and the racing
application icon is displayed. In some embodiments, ceasing to display the second object
includes displaying an animation of the second object transforming into a folder icon that
corresponds to the folder. For example in Figure 5S a folder icon 5004-7 has replaced racing
application icon 5002-13 from Figure 5N. In some embodiments, a reduced scale
representations of the first object and/or the second object are displayed in the folder icon, as
described in greater detail below with reference to Figures 11 A-1 IC. For example in Figure
5S the folder icon includes reduced scale representations (e.g., "0"and "S") of the solitaire
application icon 5002-4 and the racing application icon 5002-13, respectively.
[00236]         The device creates (624) a folder that contains the first object and the second
object. In some embodiments, creating the folder includes displaying (626) a folder icon that
is representative of the folder (e.g., as described in greater detail below with reference to
method 1100). For example, the device creates folder that includes the solitaire application
icon 5002-4 and the racing application icon 5002-13, and displays folder icon 5004-7, as
illustrated in Figure 5S. In some embodiments, folders icons have different properties from
other selectable objects, (e.g., action icons such as application icons, bookmark icons,
document icons, etc.), as described in greater detail below with reference to method 700. In
some embodiments, the folder icon is displayed (628) at a location on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) that was previously occupied by the second selectable object. For example in
Figure 5N the racing application icon 5002-13 is the last selectable user interface object in
the arrangement of selectable user interface objects (e.g., from left to right, top to bottom),
while in Figure 5S, the folder icon 5004-7 that contains the racing application icon 5002-13 is
displayed as the last selectable user interface object in the arrangement of selectable user
interface objects. In some embodiments, displaying the folder icon includes displaying (630)
an animation of the second selectable object changing (e.g., morphing) into the folder icon.
In some embodiments, existing folders cannot be combined in this manner. For example,
                                                77

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
even if the device detected an input that corresponded to dragging a first folder (e.g., 5004-2
in Figure 5N) on top of a second folder (e.g., 5004-1-b in Figure 5N), the device would not
add the first folder to the second folder.
[002371         In some embodiments, after creating the folder, the device automatically
displays (632) a folder view that includes contents of the folder. For example, the device
moves automatically from the user interface displayed in Figure 5N to the user interface
displayed in Figure 5Y in response to detecting that the first input meets predefined folder
creation criteria, the device displays a folder view (e.g., the area 5092 that contains the
solitaire application icon 5002-4 and the racing application icon 5002-13, as illustrated in
Figure 5Y).
[00238]         In some embodiments, after detecting the first input, the device displays the
plurality of user interface objects in a first arrangement on the display. For example, in
Figure 5X, the selectable user interface object (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004)
are displayed in a two-dimensional grid arrangement, with each selectable user interface
object having a respective position within the grid arrangement.            In some of these
embodiments, after creating the folder, the device displays (634) a folder view (e.g., 5092 in
Figure 5Y) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112). In some embodiments, displaying the
folder view includes displaying the first object and the second object within the folder view.
It should be understood that a respective folder view is a portion of the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) that includes the contents of the folder. For example, the region 5078 in Figure
5T, the shaded region 5092 in Figures 5Y-5Z, the shaded region 5106 in Figures 5DD-5GG,
the shaded region 5138 in Figures 5TT-5UU, the shaded region 5148 in Figure 5WW, the
shaded region 5158 in Figures 5YY-5ZZ, the shaded region 5170 in Figure 5EEE-5FFF and
the shaded region 5212 in Figure 5PPP are all folder views that are a portion of the display
(e.g., touch screen 112). In some embodiments, the folder view is substantially all of the
display (e.g., touch screen 112). For example, the region 5080 in Figure 5U and the region
5182 in Figures 5GGG-5III, 5KKK, 5MMM are folder views that are substantially all (or all)
of the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00239]         In some embodiments, the device displays an animated transition from the first
arrangement to the folder view (e.g., as described in greater detail below with reference to
method 1200). In some embodiments, displaying the folder view includes displaying (636) a
folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5Y) and a representation of at least a portion of the first
                                               78

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
arrangement, so as to indicate a location of the folder icon within the first arrangement. For
example, in Figure 5Y, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-1, 5002-2, 5002-3,
5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8, 5002-6, 5004-1-b 5002-10, 5002-11, and 5002-12) that were
displayed above the folder icon (e.g., in Figure 5X) continue to be displayed above the folder
icon 5004-7, while the selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-14, 5002-15, 5002-16,
5004-2) that were displayed below the folder icon 5004-7 are no longer displayed below the
folder icon 5004-7.
[00240]         In some embodiments, while the device is in a normal operation mode, the
selectable user interface objects include (638) one or more action icons (e.g., 5002 in Figure
5000) and one or more folder icons (e.g., 5004 in Figure 5000).               In some of these
embodiments, the device detects (640) a second input. In some embodiments, in response to
detecting the second input: when the second input corresponds to a request to select a
respective action icon, the device activates (642) an application associated with the respective
action icon; and when the second input corresponds to a request to select the folder icon, the
device displays a folder view that includes contents of the folder associated with the folder
icon. For example, in Figure 5000, a tap gesture 5208 at a location on the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen display 112) that corresponds to a location of an action icon (e.g.,
photos application icon 5002-9) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) activates an
application (e.g., a photos application) that is associated with the action icon, while in
response to detecting a tap gesture 5210 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112) at a location that corresponds to location of the folder icon (e.g., folder
icon 5004-7 in Figure 5000) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) the device displays a
folder view 5212 that includes contents (e.g., action icons 5002-9, 5002-4, 5002-13, 5002-8)
of the folder associated with the folder icon 5004-7.
[00241]         In some embodiments, after creating the folder, the device displays (644) a
folder view that includes contents of the folder and displays an object removal region. For
example, in Figure 5Y the object removal region is the first portion 5084 of the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112). As another example, in Figures 5GGG-5HHH the object removal region
5184 is a separately identified portion of the display (e.g., touch screen 112). As yet another
example, in Figure 5WW the portions of the display (e.g., touch screen 112) above and below
the folder view 5148 are both object removal regions. In some embodiments, the folder view
includes the object removal region (e.g., folder view 5182 with object removal region 5184 in
Figures 5GGG-5HHH). In some embodiments, the object removal region is outside of the
                                               79

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
folder view (e.g., object removal region 5084 is outside of folder view 5092 in Figure 5Y).
In some embodiments, the object removal region is displayed all the time (e.g., the object
removal region is a portion of the home screen that is displayed while displaying the folder
view).   In some embodiments, the object removal region is only displayed while in icon
reconfiguration mode (e.g., in Figure 5S no object removal region is displayed, while in
Figure 5Y an object removal region 5084 is displayed above the folder view 5092). In some
embodiments, the object removal region is displayed only while in icon reconfiguration mode
and currently detecting an input that corresponds to a request to move an object (e.g., in
Figure 5GGG the object removal region 5184 is only displayed when the device detects the
movement of contact 5186 across the touch-sensitive surface).
[00242]         In some embodiments, while displaying the folder view, the device detects
(646) a second input that corresponds to a request to move a respective selectable user
interface object into the object removal region, and in response to detecting the second input,
the device removes (648) the respective selectable user interface object from the folder. For
example, in Figure 5Y, the device detects a contact 5100-a at a location on the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to the solitaire application icon
5002-4 and subsequent movement 5102 of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112) into the object removal region 5084 that is the first portion of the display
(e.g., touch screen 112). Continuing this example, in response to detecting this gesture, the
device removes the solitaire application icon 5002-4 from the folder and from the folder view
5092, as illustrated in Figure 5Z and returns the solitaire application icon 5002-4 to the first
arrangement of selectable user interface objects, as illustrated in Figure 5AA.
[00243]         In some embodiment, prior to detecting the first input, the plurality of user
interface objects are displayed (650) in a first arrangement on the display (e.g., touch screen
 112), and when the second input corresponds to a request to move the respective selectable
user interface object into the object removal region and termination of the second input is
detected: the device ceases to display the folder view; and displays (652) the respective
selectable user interface object at a predetermined location in the first arrangement (e.g., at an
end of the first arrangement or at a first open location within the first arrangement). In other
words, in some embodiments, the second input corresponds to a flick gesture that includes a
contact at a location on the touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to a location of the
respective selectable user interface object and includes a lateral movement on the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to movement on the display (e.g.,
                                                80

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
touch screen 112) towards a location of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112)
that corresponds to the object removal region on the display (e.g., touch screen 112). For
example, in Figure 5VV the device displays a first arrangement of selectable user interface
objects (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004), and in Figure 5WW the device detects
a gesture including a contact 5152 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
screen 112) that corresponds to a location of the app-i application icon 5002-19 on the
display (e.g., touch screen 112) and movement 5154 of the contact to a location on the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location on the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112) that is outside of a folder view 5148. In this example, in response to
detecting the gesture, the device ceases to display the folder view and displays the app-i
application icon 5002-19 in the first arrangement, as illustrated in Figure 5XX.
[00244]          In some embodiments, prior to detecting the first input, the plurality of user
interface objects are displayed (650) in a first arrangement on the display; when the device
continues to detect the second input at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
screen 112) that corresponds to a location of the object removal region on the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112) for more than a predetermined amount of time: the device ceases to display
the folder view; the device detects (654) termination of the second input at a respective
location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location
on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is within the first arrangement; and in response to
detecting termination of the second input, and the device displays (656) the respective
selectable user interface object at the respective location in the first arrangement. In other
words, in some embodiments, the second input corresponds to a tap and drag gesture that
includes a contact moving into a region on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112)
that corresponds to the object removal region on the display (e.g., touch screen 112). For
example, in Figure 5XX the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002 and
folder icons 5004) are arranged in a first arrangement, and in Figure 5YY the device detects a
second input (e.g., the gesture including contact 5162 and movement 5164 of the contact on
the touch screen 112) that corresponds to movement of the app-4 application icon 5002-22
out of the folder view 5158 into the object removal region 5084. In this example, in response
to detecting a pause of the contact (e.g., 5162-b in Figure 5ZZ) in the object removal region
the device ceases to display the folder view 5158 and displays the first arrangement (e.g., as
illustrated in Figure 5AAA), and detects subsequent movement (e.g., 5166) of the contact
within the first arrangement on the touch screen 112. In this example, when the device
                                                81

  WO 2011/126501                                                             PCT/US2010/050056
detects termination (e.g., liftoff of contact 5162-c from touch screen 112 in Figure 5BBB),
the device displays the app-4 application icon 5002-22 at a location in the first arrangement
that corresponds to the location of the app-4 application icon 5002-22 when the termination
of the input was detected, as illustrated in Figure 5CCC.
[002451          In some embodiments, after creating the folder, the device detects (658) a
second input that corresponds to a request to move a respective selectable user interface
object of the first object and the second object out of the folder; and when the second input is
detected before the creation of the folder has been confirmed, the device deletes (660) the
folder and redisplays the first object and the second object.      For example, in Figure 5Y, the
first input that the device detects after creating the folder is an input (e.g., contact 5100 and
movement 5102 of the contact on the touch screen 112) that corresponds to a request to move
the solitaire application icon 5002-4 out of the folder that was created by dragging the
solitaire application icon 5002-4 on top of the racing application icon 5002-13.            In this
example, the input is received before creation of the folder has been confirmed, and thus,
after the solitaire application icon 5002-4 has been moved out of the folder, the device deletes
the folder 5004-7 in Figure 5AA and redisplays the racing application icon 5002-13 on the
display (e.g., touch screen 112), as illustrated in Figure 5CC.
[00246]          In some embodiments, the first object is the respective object that is moved
out of the folder and deleting (662) the folder and the redisplaying includes: displaying the
first object at a location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is determined based on the
second input; and displaying the second object at a location on the display (e.g., touch screen
 112) that was previously occupied by a folder icon of the folder. Continuing the example
described above with reference to Figures 5AA and 5CC, the device displays the folder icon
5004-7 in the fourth row on the left end of selectable user interface objects on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112) in Figure 5AA, and in Figure 5CC the racing application icon 5002
 13 has replaced the folder icon 5004-7 at the left end of the fourth row of selectable user
interface objects. In some embodiments, displaying the second object includes displaying
(664) an animation of the folder icon changing (e.g., morphing) into the second object. For
example, in Figure 5BB the device displays an animation 5104 the racing application icon
5002-13 expanding to fill the space previously occupied by the folder icon 5004-7 (e.g., as
illustrated in Figure 5AA).
                                                   82

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[002471          In contrast, when the second input is detected after the creation of the folder
has been confirmed, the device displays the respective object outside of the folder while
continuing to display the folder. For example, when the creation of the folder has been
confirmed, as illustrated in Figure 5DD, removing a single application icon out from the
folder (e.g., removing solitaire application icon 5002-4 in Figure 5EE in response to detecting
contact 5112 and movement 5114 of the contact), does not result in deleting the folder.
Rather, in this example, the folder continues to be displayed (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5FF). In
other words, in some embodiments, after the folder creation is confirmed, the folder is only
deleted when the last icon is removed, and when the last icon is removed, the folder collapses
(e.g., rather than changing back to one of the action icons).
[00248]          In some embodiments, the creation of the folder is confirmed (668) when the
device detects an input that corresponds to a request to perform an action that manipulates the
folder. Such actions include but are not limited to opening (670) the folder, closing (672) the
folder, moving (674) the folder, renaming (676) the folder, adding (678) an additional
selectable user interface object to the folder, entering (680) a user interface reconfiguration
mode, leaving (682) a user interface reconfiguration mode. In some embodiments, the
creation of the folder is confirmed when the device receives other predefined inputs that
correspond to a request to manipulate the folder. In other words, creation of the folder is
confirmed by actions that indicate that the creation of the folder was intentional and not
accidental.
[00249]          Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200 (e.g., Figures 7A-7C, 8A-8C, 9A-9B, 10A-OB, 1IA-I1C,
 12A-12E and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 600
described above. For example, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002
and folder icons 5004) described with reference to Figures 6A-6E may have one or more of
the characteristics of the various selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action
icons 5002 and folder icons 5004) described herein with reference to any of methods 700,
800, 900, 1000, 1100, or 1200. For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[002501          Figures 7A-7C are flow diagrams illustrating a method 700 of managing
folder icons and action icons in accordance with some embodiments. The method 700 is
performed at a multifunction device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction
device 100, Figure 1) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
                                                83

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
display is a touch screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some
embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in
method 700 may be combined and/or the order of some operations may be changed.
[002511          As described below, the method 700 provides an intuitive way to manage
folder icons and action icons. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when
managing folder icons and action icons, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine
interface. For battery-operated computing devices, enabling a user to manage folder icons and
action icons faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between
battery charges.
[00252]          The device concurrently displays (702) one or more action icons (e.g.,
application icons and other activateable icons besides folder icons) and one or more folder
icons on the display. The device has a normal operation mode for activating applications
(e.g., as illustrated in Figures 5A, 5L, 5000-5PPP) and a user interface reconfiguration
mode for rearranging the action icons and the folder icons on the display (e.g., as illustrated
in Figures 5B-5K, 5M-5N, 5P-5NNN). In some embodiments, while the device is in the user
interface reconfiguration mode, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002
and folder icons 5004) oscillate about respective average positions so as to indicate that the
device is in user interface reconfiguration mode and that the selectable user interface objects
(e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004) can be moved around the display.
[00253]          The device detects (704) a first input (e.g., tap gesture 5155 in Figure 5XX,
tap gesture 5156 in Figure 5XX, tap gesture 5208 in Figure 5000, or tap gesture 5210 in
Figure 5000). In some embodiments, the first input corresponds to a request to select the
respective folder icon when the first input is (706) a tap gesture at a location on a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of the respective
folder icon on the display (e.g., tap gesture 5156 in Figure 5XX at a location that corresponds
to folder icon 5004-1-b, or tap gesture 5210 in Figure 5000 at a location that corresponds to
folder icon 5004-7 on touch screen 112). In some embodiments, the first input corresponds
to a request to select the respective action icon when the first input is (708) a tap gesture at a
location on a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of
the respective action icon on the display (e.g., tap gesture 5155 in Figure 5XX at a location
that corresponds to camera application icon 5002-12, or tap gesture 5208 in Figure 5000, at
a location that corresponds to photos application icon 5002-1 on the touch screen 112).
                                                84

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[002541          Operations 712-718 and 744-766 are performed (710) in response to detecting
the first input.
[002551          In some embodiments the device determines whether the first input is a
request to select a folder to select an action icon. When the first input is a request to select
(712) an action icon, the device performs operations discussed in greater detail below with
reference to operations 744-766. In contrast, when the when the first input is a request to
select (714) an action icon, the device performs operations discussed in greater detail below
with reference to operations 716-742.
[00256]          When the device determines that (716) the first input corresponds to a request
to select a respective folder icon of the one or more folder icons, the device displays (718)
contents of a folder associated with the respective folder icon without regard for whether the
device is in the normal operation mode or the user interface reconfiguration mode.           For
example, in Figure 5XX the device detects a tap gesture 5156 at a location that corresponds
to folder icon 5004-1-b while the device is in user interface reconfiguration mode, and in
response to detecting the tap gesture 5156, the device displays a folder view 5158 for the
folder associated with the folder icon 5004-1-b, as illustrated in Figure 5YY. Similarly, in
Figure 5000 the device detects a tap gesture 5210 at a location that corresponds to folder
icon 5004-7 while the device is in normal operation mode, and in response to detecting the
tap gesture 5210, the device displays a folder view 5212 for the folder associated with the
folder icon 5004-7, as illustrated in Figure 5PPP.
[002571          In some embodiments, while the device is in user interface reconfiguration
mode, the folder icon can also be moved in response to a folder repositioning input. For
example, in Figure 5QQ the device detects a contact 5132 at a location on the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of a folder icon 5004-7 on the
display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement 5134 of the contact across the
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112). In response to detecting the input, the device
moves the folder icon 5004-7 to a location within the arrangement of selectable user interface
objects on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is determined based on the input, as
illustrated in Figure 5SS. In some embodiments, folder icons cannot be repositioned while
the device is in the normal operation mode. In other words, an identical gesture performed
while the device is in normal operation mode would not cause the device to reposition the
folder icon within the arrangement of selectable user interface objects.
                                                85

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[002581         In some embodiments, displaying contents of a folder associated with the
respective folder icon includes displaying (720) a plurality of action icons (e.g., in Figure
5YY the device displays action icons 5002-20, 5002-21, 5002-21, 5002-22, 5002-23, 5002
24, and 5002-25 in folder view 5158, or in Figure 5PPP the device displays action icons
5002-9, 5002-4, 5002-13, 5002-8 in folder view 5212). In some of these embodiments, the
device detects (724) selection of a respective action icon in the plurality of action icons. In
some of these embodiments, operations 728-734 are performed (726) in response to detecting
selection of the respective action icon. In some embodiments the device determines whether
the device is in normal operation mode or user interface reconfiguration mode. In some of
these embodiments, when the device is (728) in the normal operation mode, the device
activates (730) an application associated with the respective action icon (e.g., in Figure 5PPP
when the device detects a tap gesture 5214 at a location that corresponds to a stocks
application icon 5002-9 and in response the device activates a stocks application associated
with the stocks application icon 5002-9); and, when the device is (732) in the user interface
reconfiguration mode, the device continues (734) to display the respective action icon
without activating the application associated with the respective action icon. For example, in
Figure 5YY, the device detects a tap gesture 5161 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of an app-7 application icon 5002-25
on the display (e.g., touch screen 112), and in response the device does not activate any
application associated with the app-7 application icon 5002-25.
[002591         In some embodiments, the action icon within the folder is moved in response
to an action icon movement input while the device is in user interface reconfiguration mode.
For example, in Figure 5TT, while the device is in user interface reconfiguration mode, the
device detects an action icon movement input including contact 5140 at a location on the
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of a stocks
application icon 5002-9 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement
5142 of the contact to a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that
corresponds to a location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is within the folder view
5138, as illustrated in Figure 5TT. In response to the action icon movement input, the device
moves the stock application icon 5002-9 into a new position in the arrangement of selectable
user interface objects within the folder view 5138 that is based on the movement of the input
on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112), as illustrated in Figure 5UU.
                                                86

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
[002601         In some embodiments, the first input corresponds to a request to select the
respective folder icon; and the device is in user interface reconfiguration mode when the first
input is detected.      In some of these embodiments, while remaining (736) in user
reconfiguration mode the device displays (738) contents of a folder.           In some of these
embodiments, after displaying contents of the folder the device detects (740) a second input;
and in response to detecting the second input, the device ceases (742) to display the folder
view. For example, in Figure 5SS the device detects a first input (e.g., tap gesture 5136) at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a folder
icon 5004-7, and in response to detecting the tap gesture, the device displays a folder view
(e.g., 5138 in Figures 5TT-5UU) that includes contents (e.g., action icons 5002-9, 5002-4,
5002-13, and 5002-8) of the folder associated with the folder icon 5004-7 on the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112). While displaying the folder view 5138, the device detects a second input
(e.g., tap gesture 5144) at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112)
that is outside of the folder view 5138 (e.g., a tap gesture that is located in the region of the
touch screen 112 below the folder view), and in response to detecting the second input the
device ceases to display the folder view on the display (e.g., touch screen 112), as illustrated
in Figure 5VV.
[00261]         The device determines (744) that first input corresponds to a request to select a
respective action icon of the one or more action icons (e.g., tap gesture 5155 in Figure 5XX at
a location that corresponds to camera application icon 5002-12, or tap gesture 5208 in Figure
5000, at a location that corresponds to photos application icon 5002-1).                In some
embodiments the device determines whether the device is in normal operation mode or user
interface reconfiguration mode.     When the device is (746) in normal operation mode, in
response to detecting the first input the device performs operations 750-756 as discussed in
greater detail below.     In contrast, when the when the device is (748) in user interface
reconfiguration mode, in response to detecting the first input, the device performs, operations
758-766, as discussed in greater detail below.
[00262]         In some embodiments, operations 752-756 are performed when the device is
(750) in the normal operation mode. The device activates (752) an application associated
with the respective action icon.     For example, in Figure 5000 the device detects a tap
gesture 5208 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that
corresponds to a location of a photos application icon 5002-1 on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) and in response to detecting the tap gesture 5208 the device activates a photos
                                               87

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
application that is associated with the photos application icon 5002-1. In some embodiments,
while the device is in the normal operation mode, a function of a respective action icon that is
associated with a respective application is to activate (754) the respective application (e.g.,
the action icon is an application launch icon); and while in normal operation mode, the
application icons and folder icons cannot be rearranged (756) on the display (e.g., the relative
positions of selectable user interface objects within the arrangement of selectable user
interface objects is fixed).     It should be understood that, although the arrangement of
selectable user interface objects may be scrolled, paged through, or otherwise translated
across the display (e.g., touch screen 112), these operations do not entail any rearrangement
of the selectable user interface objects, because the relative positions of respective selectable
user interface objects to each other remains unchanged when the device performs these
operations.
[00263]         Operations 760-766 are performed when (758) the device is in the user
interface reconfiguration mode. The device continues (760) to display the respective action
icon without activating the application associated with the respective action icon.           For
example, in Figure 5XX the device detects a tap gesture 5155 at a location that corresponds
to a camera application icon 5002-12 and in response to detecting the tap gesture 5155 the
device does not activate a camera application that is associated with the photos application
icon 5002-12, and merely continues to display the arrangement of selectable user interface
objects as illustrated in Figure 5XX.      In some embodiments, the action icon can also be
moved by a tap and drag gesture. For example, in Figure 5XX if the device were to detect
subsequent movement of the contact 5155 across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
screen 112), the device would, in response to detecting the movement, move the action icon
5002-12 across the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in accordance with the movement.
[00264]         In some embodiments, while the device is in the user interface reconfiguration
mode, the respective action icon is prevented (762) from being used to activate the respective
application (e.g., a request to select the camera application icon 5002-12 fails to activate the
application icon).    In some embodiments, when the device is in the user reconfiguration
mode, one or more of the action icons includes (764) a deletion region for deleting the action
icon, while none of the folder icons include a deletion region for deleting the folder icon. For
example, the device displays object removal badges 5010 in Figure 5B that are associated
with a plurality of the action icons (e.g., 5002-4, 5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-10, 5002-11,
and 5002-13) but does not show object removal badges associated with any of the folder
                                                88

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
icons (e.g., 5004-1-b or 5004-2). In some embodiments, the device detects a deletion input
that includes selection of a respective deletion region for a respective action icon (e.g., tap
gesture 5011 in Figure 5B); and deletes the respective action icon (e.g., weather application
icon 5002-5). In some embodiments one or more of the action icons do not include deletion
regions. For example in Figure 5B a plurality of the action icons (e.g., action icons 5002-1,
5002-2, 5002-3, 5002-9, 5002-12, 5002-14, 5002-15, and 5002-16) are associated with
applications (e.g., phone, email, camera, web browser) that provide access to fundamental
features of the device and thus cannot be deleted by the device while in user interface
reconfiguration mode. In some embodiments, while in user interface reconfiguration mode,
the application icons and folder icons can be rearranged (766) on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) in response to detected inputs, as described in greater detail above.
[002651         Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
600, 800, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200 (e.g., Figures 6A-6E, 8A-8C, 9A-9B, 10A-OB, 1IA-I1C,
 12A-12E and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 700
described above. For example, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002
and folder icons 5004) described with reference to Figures 7A-7C may have one or more of
the characteristics of the various selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action
icons 5002 and folder icons 5004) described herein with reference to any of methods 600,
800, 900, 1000, 1100, or 1200. For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00266]         Figures 8A-8C are flow diagrams illustrating a method 800 of naming a new
folder in accordance with some embodiments. The method 800 is performed at a
multifunction device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure
 1) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch
screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some embodiments, the
display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 800 may be
combined and/or the order of some operations may be changed.
[002671         As described below, the method 800 provides an intuitive way to name a new
folder. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when naming a new folder,
thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated computing
devices, enabling a user to name a new folder faster and more efficiently conserves power
and increases the time between battery charges.
                                               89

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[002681         The device receives (802) an input that corresponds to a request to create a
folder that contains a first item and a second item (e.g., the items may be applications,
software programs, or files that correspond to icons or other selectable user interface objects
on the display). In some embodiments, the folder initially contains just the first item and the
second item (i.e., the first item and the second item are the first two items in the folder).    In
some embodiments, the request to create a folder that contains a first item and a second item
includes (804) an input that corresponds to a request to move the first item proximate to the
second item or a request to drag a first item on top of a second item (e.g., as described in
greater detail above with reference method 600).         For example, in Figure 5M the device
detects a contact 5040 at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a first contact location
5040-a on touch screen 112 in Figure 5M) that corresponds to a location of a solitaire
application icon 5002-4 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement
5042 of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., movement of the contact across
the touch screen 112 to a second location 5040-b in Figure 5N). In response to detecting the
input the device moves the solitaire application icon 5002-4 proximate to (or on top of) a
racing application icon 5002-13, as illustrated in Figure 5N.        In this example, the device
detects a predetermined folder creation criteria (e.g., termination of the contact 5040-b in
Figure 5N) and creates a folder including the solitaire application icon 5002-4 and the racing
application icon 5002-13, and displays a folder icon 5004-7 for the folder, on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112) as illustrated in Figures 50 and 5S. As another example, the device
could receive a first input selecting a first item, a second input selecting a second item and a
third input corresponding to a command to perform a new folder creation operation (e.g., a
click on a "new folder" command in a file browser or a contextual menu, etc.).
[002691         Operations 808-844 are performed (806) in response to receiving the input.
The device creates (808) the folder that contains the first item and the second item. The
device determines (810) a first plurality of descriptors that are associated with the first item
(e.g., "Game," "Card Game" "Solitaire Game"). The device also determines (812) a second
plurality of descriptors that are associated with the second item (e.g., "Game," "Action
Game," "Racing Game"). In some embodiments, the device determines whether there is a
common descriptor that is shared by the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality
of descriptors.   Continuing the example, from above, both the solitaire application and the
racing application are associated with the common descriptor "Game." When there is (814) a
                                                 90

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
common descriptor, the device performs operations 824-844, as described in greater detail
below.
[002701         In some embodiments, when there is not (816) a common descriptor, the
device determines that the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors
do not (818) share any common descriptors: the device automatically generates (820) a folder
name for the folder based on a descriptor from the first plurality of descriptors; and displays
(822) an icon for the folder with the automatically generated folder name on the display. In
other words, the folder name for the folder is determined based on descriptors of only one of
the two items that are initially added to the folder. In some embodiments the descriptors are
descriptors of a first item selected to be added to the folder (e.g., if more than one item is
selected before the folder has been created). In some embodiments, the descriptors are
descriptors of a first item added to the folder.      For example, in Figure 50, the camera
application that is associated with the camera application icon 5002-12 is associated with
descriptors such as "Photography" and "Camera Management," while the stocks application
that is associated with the stocks application icon 5002-9 has descriptors such as "Utilities,"
and "Financial Management." In this example, the two application icons are associated with
applications do not share any descriptors.       Thus, in this example, the folder created by
dragging the camera application icon 5002-12 proximate to the stocks application icon 5002
9 is named the "Photography" folder 5004-10, while the folder created by dragging the stocks
application icon 5002-9 proximate to the camera application icon 5002-12 is named the
"Utilities" folder 5004-11. In other words, in some embodiments, when the two items do not
share any common descriptors are used to create a folder, the name of the resulting folder
depends on an order in which the items (e.g., the icons associated with the applications) are
selected.
[002711         When the device determines (824) that the first plurality of descriptors and the
second plurality of descriptors share at least a first common descriptor.        For example, in
Figure 50, the solitaire application that is associated with the solitaire application icon 5002
4 is associated with descriptors such as "Game," "Card Game" "Solitaire Game," while the
racing application that is associated with the racing application icon 5002-13 has descriptors
such as "Game," "Action Game," "Racing Game." In this example, the two application icons
are associated with applications that share only a single descriptor (e.g., "Game") and thus
that descriptor is selected as the common descriptor. In some embodiments, the first plurality
of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors share a set of one or more descriptors;
                                                91

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
descriptors in the shared set of one or more descriptors have varying levels of specificity; and
a most specific descriptor in the shared set of one or more descriptors is selected (826) by the
device as the first common descriptor. For example, in Figure 50, the car race application
that is associated with the car race application icon 5002-17 is associated with descriptors
such as "Game," "Action Game" "Racing Game," while the air race application that is
associated with the racing application icon 5002-18 has descriptors such as "Game," "Action
Game," "Racing Game."         In this example, the two application icons are associated with
applications that share multiple descriptor (e.g., "Game") and thus the most specific
descriptor (e.g., "Racing Game") is selected as the common descriptor.
[00272]         In some embodiments, the first plurality of descriptors includes a plurality of
tags that were previously assigned to the first item; the second plurality of descriptors
includes a plurality of tags that were previously assigned to the second item; and the first
common descriptor is (828) a tag that is included in the first plurality of tags and in the
second plurality of tags. In some embodiments, the tags are assigned by a user of the device
to respective items, and apply only to locally stored items. In some embodiments, the tags
are assigned at a remote server and are sent to the device by the remote server.
[00273]         In some embodiments, the first plurality of descriptors includes a first
hierarchy of categories; the second plurality of descriptors includes a second hierarchy of
categories; and the first common descriptor is (830) a category that is included in the first
hierarchy of categories and in the second hierarchy of categories (e.g., "Games" > "Card
Game" > "Solitaire Game" or "Games" > "Action Game" > "Racing Game").                   In some
embodiments, the first hierarchy of categories is (832) a set of categories to which the first
item has been assigned within an application database (e.g., a database of applications in an
application store), and the second hierarchy of categories is a set of categories to which the
second item has been assigned within the application database. In some embodiments, the
application database is (834) a database of applications in an application store. For example,
in some embodiments, the descriptors are based at least in part on the category names for
applications in a dedicated application store for a mobile device (e.g., the App Store for the
Apple iPhone). In some embodiments these category names are supplemented by additional
tags that indicate additional information about the items (e.g., a name of a creator of the item,
a date/time of creation of the item, etc.).
                                                92

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
[002741         When the first plurality of descriptors and the second plurality of descriptors
share at least a first common descriptor, the device automatically generates (836) a folder
name for the folder based on the first common descriptor. After generating the folder name,
the device displays (838) an icon for the folder with the automatically generated folder name
on the display.     Continuing the example from above, the folder created by dragging the
solitaire application icon 5002-4 proximate to the racing application icon 5002-13 is named
the "Games" folder 5004-7, as illustrated in Figures 50 and 5S.
[002751         In some embodiments, the device concurrently displays (840) the icon for the
folder and a folder view for the folder that shows contents of the folder. For example, in
response to detecting the input (e.g., contact 5040 and movement 5042 in Figure 5M) that
caused the device to create the folder (e.g., folder 5004-7 in Figure 5S), the device
automatically displays a folder view 5092 in Figure 5Y for the folder. In other words, the
device automatically, without any further intervention from the user, transitions from the user
interface illustrated in Figure 5M (where the folder creation input is detected) to the user
interface illustrated in Figure 5S (where the folder is created and a folder icon 5004-7 is
displayed) and the user interface illustrated in Figure 5Y (where a folder view 5092 for the
folder is displayed).
[00276]         In some embodiments, in response to receiving the input, the device displays
(842) a notification that the folder has been created, wherein the notification includes
instructions for renaming the folder. For example in Figure 5P, after creating the folder the
device displays a name confirmation dialogue 5064 that provides the user with options for
confirming creation of the folder, renaming the folder and cancelling creation of the folder, as
discussed in greater detail above. In some embodiments, in response to receiving the input,
the device displays (844) a text entry field for renaming the folder. For example in Figure
5P, if the device detects an input that corresponds to a request to rename the folder (e.g., tap
gesture 5070 on a renaming button) the device displays a dialogue 5072 for changing the
name of the new folder (e.g., from "games" to "fun" as illustrated in Figure 5Q). As another
example, in response to detecting an input (e.g., tap gesture 5098 in Figure 5Y) that
corresponds to a request to activate a folder renaming button, the device displays a folder
renaming region 5108 that includes a text entry field, as illustrated in Figure 5DD.
[002771         In some embodiments, the device detects (846) an additional input, and in
response to detecting the additional input the device adds (848) a third item to the folder. In
                                               93

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
some of these embodiments, the device determines (850) a third plurality of descriptors that
are associated with the third item. In some of these embodiments, the device selects (852) a
second descriptor that is shared by the first plurality of descriptors, the second plurality of
descriptors and the third plurality of descriptors. In some of these embodiments, the device
automatically generates (854) a new folder name for the folder based on the second
descriptor. In other words, in these embodiments, the name of the folder changes when the
contents of the folder change. For example, if the solitaire application icon 5002-4 were to be
added to the folder associated with the racing games folder icon 5004-8, the device would
change the name of the racing games folder icon 5004-8 to a new name (e.g., from "Racing
Games" to "Games") where the new name is based at least in part on a descriptor that is
shared by all three of the items within the folder (e.g., solitaire application icon 5002-4, car
race application icon 5002-17 and air race application icon 5002-18). In contrast, in some
embodiments, the folder name is fixed when the folder is created, and thus adding new items
to the folder does not change the folder name.
[00278]         Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
600, 700, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200 (e.g., Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 9A-9B, 10A-OB, 1IA-I1C,
 12A-12E and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 800
described above. For example, the items (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004)
described with reference to Figures 8A-8C may have one or more of the characteristics of the
various selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons
5004) described herein with reference to any of methods 600, 700, 900, 1000, 1100, or 1200.
For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[002791         Figures 9A-9B are flow diagrams illustrating a method 900 of adjusting an
activation region for a selectable user interface object in response to an icon management
input in accordance with some embodiments. The method 900 is performed at a multifunction
device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1) with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch screen
display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some embodiments, the display
is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 900 may be
combined and/or the order of some operations may be changed.
[00280]         As described below, the method 900 provides an intuitive way to manage
icons. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when managing icons, thereby
                                                94

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated computing devices,
enabling a user to manage icons faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases
the time between battery charges.
[00281]          The device displays (902) a plurality of icons on the display (e.g., selectable
user interface objects such as application icons 5002 and/or folder icons 5004 on touch screen
 112). A first icon (e.g., an action icon or a folder icon) in the plurality of icons is displayed
(904) at a first location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112). A second icon (e.g., an action
icon or a folder icon) in the plurality of icons that is distinct from the first icon, has (906) an
activation region with a default size that is at a second location on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112), the second location is distinct from the first location. For example, in Figure
5KK the first icon (e.g., stocks application icon 5002-9) is displayed on the right side of the
second row of selectable user interface objects.         In this example, a second icon 5004-7
initially has a default activation region (e.g., 5122-13-a in Figure 5KK).                In some
embodiments each of the icons (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004) has an
activation region that is a default size (e.g., activation regions 5122 in Figure 5KK). In some
embodiments the activation regions 5122 are hidden activation regions (e.g., the activation
regions are not displayed on the display).
[00282]          The device detects (908) an input that corresponds to a request to move the
first icon. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5KK, the device detects a finger contact 5120
at a location on a touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first icon (e.g., stocks
application icon 5002-9 in Figure 5KK) and movement 5121 of the finger contact across the
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., from a first location 5120-a in Figure 5KK to a second location
5120-b in Figure 5LL to a third location 5120-c in Figure 5MM on the touch screen 112).
After detecting the input, the device changes (910) a size of the activation region for the
second icon from the default size based on a distance from the first location to a location of
the second icon. For example, in Figure 5KK the device changes a size of the activation
region 5122-13 for the second icon (e.g., games folder icon 5004-7) from a default activation
region 5122-13-a in Figure 5KK to an enlarged activation region 5122-13-b in Figures 5LL
5MM.      In some embodiments, the size of the activation region is changed in response to
detecting a contact at a location on a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that
corresponds to a location of the first icon (e.g., the device changes the activation region 5122
 13-a to activation region 5122-13-b in response to simply detecting contact 5120 in Figure
5KK) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).            In some embodiments, the size of the
                                                  95

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
activation region is changed in response to detecting movement of the contact away from a
location on a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of
the first icon (e.g., the device changes the activation region 5122-13-a to activation region
5122-13-b only after detecting at least some movement 5121 of contact 5120, as illustrated in
Figure 5LL) on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[00283]         In some embodiments, the size of the activation region of the second icon is
also changed (912) based at least in part on a type of the second icon. In some embodiments,
when the second icon is a folder icon, the activation region has (914) a first size (e.g.,
because and the first operation is adding the first icon to the folder represented by the second
icon). In some of these embodiments, when the second icon is an action icon, the activation
region has a second size that is smaller than the first size (e.g., because the first operation is
creating a folder including the first icon and the second icon, In other words, the activation
regions are adjusted so as to make it easiest to move an icon, next easiest to an add icon to a
preexisting folder, hardest to create new folder from two activation icons).
[00284]         In some embodiments, for one or more respective icons in the plurality of
icons other than the first icon, the device changes (916) a size of a respective activation
region for a respective icon from a respective default size based on a distance from the first
location to a respective location of the respective icon (e.g., in response to detecting a contact
at a location on a touch-sensitive surface that corresponds to the first icon or in response to
detecting movement of the contact away from a location on a touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to the first icon). For example, in Figure 5LL the size of the activation region
for the photos application icon 5002-1 has been increased from a default size 5122-1-a to a
larger size 5122-1-b based on the distance from the first location (e.g., the location of the
contact 5120-a in Figure 5KK) to a respective location of the photos application icon 5002-1
in Figure 5LL.       Similarly, it should be noted that, in some embodiments, the default
activation regions (e.g., 5122-5-a, 5122-6-a, 5122-9-a, 5122-10-a, 5122-14-a, 5122-15-a,
5122-16-a, 5122-17-a in Figure 5KK) for a plurality of the other icons (e.g., selectable user
interface objects 5002-1, 5002-2, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5004-1-b, 5002-10, 5004-7, 5002-14,
5002-15. 5002-16, 5004-2, respectively in Figure 5KK-5LL) have been adjusted, as
illustrated in Figure 5LL (e.g., by adjusted activation regions 5122-5-b, 5122-6-b, 5122-9-b,
5122-10-b, 5122-14-b, 5122-15-b, 5122-16-b, 5122-17-b, respectively in Figure 5LL).
                                                96

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
[002851           In response to detecting the input, the device moves (918) the first icon across
the display (e.g., touch screen 112) away from the first location. For example, in Figure 5LL
the device displays the stocks application icon 5002-9 moving away from the first location
(e.g., the location of the stocks application icon 5002-9 in Figure 5KK).                In some
embodiments, when the first icon is at least partly within the activation region of the second
icon for more than a predetermined period of time, the device displays (920) an indication of
an action that will be performed when the input is terminated (e.g., an animation indicating
that a new folder will be created or an animation indicating that the first icon will be added to
a folder represented by the second icon). For example, when the second icon is a folder icon
the device may highlight the folder icon so as to indicate that the first icon will be added to a
folder. As another example, when the second icon is an action icon, the device may highlight
the action icon to indicate that a folder will be created that includes the first icon and the
second icon.
[002861           The device detects (922) that the input meets predefined trigger criteria (e.g.,
detecting lift off of the finger contact). In some embodiments, detecting that the input meets
predefined trigger criteria includes detecting (924) termination of the first input.           For
example, termination of a first input is detected when the device detects a liftoff of contact
5120-c from the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112).
[002871           Operations 928-946 are performed (926) in response to detecting that the input
meets predefined trigger criteria. In some embodiments the device determines whether the
first icon is at least partly within the activation region of the second icon. When the first icon
is (928) at least partly within the activation region of the second icon, the device performs
operations 932-938, as discussed in greater detail below. In contrast, when the first icon is
(930) not at least partly within the activation region of the second icon, the device performs
operations 940-946, as discussed in greater detail below.
[00288]           When the device determines (932) that first icon is at least partly within the
activation region (e.g., 5122-13-b in figure 5MM) of the second icon, the device performs
(934) a first operation that is associated with the second icon. In some embodiments, the first
operation includes creating (936) a folder including the first icon and the second icon (e.g., as
described in greater detail above with reference to method 600).           For example, in Figure
5MM the device detects termination of the input (e.g., liftoff of contact 5120-c) and in
response to detecting termination of the input, the device adds the stocks application icon
                                                  97

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
5002-9 to the folder that is represented by the games folder icon 5004-7, as illustrated in
Figure 5NN. In some embodiments the first operation includes adding (938) the first icon to
a folder that is represented by the second icon.           For example, if the device detected
termination of the input when the stocks application icon 5002-9 was at least partly within the
activation region for another action icon, the device would create a folder including the
stocks application icon 5002-9 and the other action icon, as described in greater detail above
with reference to Figures 5M-5N.
[00289]          When the device determines (940) that the first icon is outside of the
activation region of the second icon, the device performs (942) a second operation that is
distinct from the first operation.      In some embodiments, the second operation includes
rearranging (944) the plurality of icons on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) so that the first
icon is proximate to a location of the second icon on the display. For example, in Figure
500 the device detects an input (e.g., contact 5124 and movement 5126 of the contact) and
detects that predefined trigger criteria have been met (e.g., that the contact 5124 has paused
for more than a predetermined period of time) at a location 5124-b that is outside of an
activation region 5128-11 of a second icon (e.g., games folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 500).
Continuing this example, in response to determining that the predefined criteria have been
met, the device rearranges the icons (e.g., so that all of the icons on the third row of the
arrangement are shifted one space to the left). In some embodiments, the second operation
includes returning (946) the first icon to the first location on the display. For example, if the
device were to detect termination of the contact 5120-c in Figure 5MM while the stocks
application icon 5002-9 is outside of the activation region 5122-13-b for the games folder
icon 5004-7, the device would return the stocks application icon 5002-9 to its previous
location (e.g., the location of the stocks application icon 5002-9 in Figure 5LL).
[00290]          It should be understood that in some embodiments, one advantage of adjusting
the size of activation regions for icons on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) based on a
distance of the icon is that it provides a larger target for icons that are further away from the
icon that is being moved. Typically when a touch gesture occurs over a longer distance, the
gesture will include movement that is faster than would be part of a touch gesture that
occurred over a shorter distance. Additionally, typically touch gestures that include faster
movement are less accurate than touch gestures that include slower movement. Thus, by
increasing the size of activation regions for icons that are further away from the starting point
of the touch gesture the device compensates for the decreased accuracy of touch gestures that
                                                 98

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
must traverse a longer distance across a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) to
reach the icons that are further away from the starting point, thereby improving the user
machine interface.
[00291]         Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
600, 700, 800, 1000, 1100, 1200 (e.g., Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 8A-8C, 10A-OB, 1IA-I1C,
 12A-12E and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 900
described above. For example, the icons (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004)
described with reference to Figures 9A-9B may have one or more of the characteristics of the
various selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons
5004) described herein with reference to any of methods 600, 700, 800, 1000, 1100, or 1200.
For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00292]         Figures    10A-10B    are  flow    diagrams illustrating   a method    1000  of
reconfiguring icons on a display in response to an icon management input in accordance with
some embodiments. The method 1000 is performed at a multifunction device (e.g., device
300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1) with a display and a touch
sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch screen display and the touch
sensitive surface is on the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the
touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 1000 may be combined and/or the order
of some operations may be changed.
[00293]         As described below, the method 1000 provides an intuitive way to manage
icons. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when managing icons, thereby
creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated computing devices,
enabling a user to manage icons faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases
the time between battery charges.
[00294]         The device displays (1002) a plurality of icons on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) in a first arrangement (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004 in Figure
5KK). The device detects (1004) an input that corresponds to a request to move a first icon
in the plurality of icons from a first position on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) to a
second position on the display. For example, the device detects a contact 5120 at a location
on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of a
stocks application icon 5002-9 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent
movement 5121 of the contact (e.g., from a first location 5120-a in Figure 5KK to a second
                                                99

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
location 5120-b in Figure 5LL to a third location 5120-c in Figure 5MM on the touch screen
 112), which corresponds to a request to move the stocks application icon 5002-9 from its
initial location in Figure 5KK to a location that is proximate to the games folder icon 5004-7
in Figure 5KK on the display (e.g., touch screen 112).
[002951          Operations 1008-1034 are performed (1006) in response to detecting the input.
The device moves (1008) the first icon from the first position to the second position. For
example, as illustrated in Figures 5KK-5MM the device moves the stocks application icon
5002-9 across the display (e.g., touch screen 112) towards the games folder icon 5004-7. In
some embodiments, in response to detecting the input, the device displays (1010) a residual
image of the first icon at the first position. In these embodiments, the residual image of the
first icon is visually distinct from the first icon. In some embodiments, the residual image of
the first icon is a grayed-out, translucent, semi-transparent, reduced contrast, or ghost image
of the first icon. In some embodiments, in response to detecting the input, the device displays
(1012) an empty space at the first position (e.g., as illustrated in Figures 5LL-5MM, where an
empty space is displayed at the right end of the second row of icons).
[00296]          The device maintains (1014) positions of each respective icon in the plurality
of icons other than the first icon until automatic reconfiguration criteria have been met. For
example, in Figures 5LL-5MM, the device continues to display all of the icons other than the
stocks application icon 5002-9 in the same positions on the display (e.g., touch screen 112),
even though there is an empty space in the arrangement of icons where the stocks application
icon 5002-9 was previously located.
[002971          The device determines (1016) that the automatic reconfiguration criteria have
been met (e.g., at some later point in time).             In some embodiments, the automatic
reconfiguration criteria are met when a predetermined period of time (e.g., 0.5 seconds, 1
second, 2 seconds, etc.) has passed (1018) since the input (or a beginning of the input) was
detected.     In some embodiments the predetermined period of time is measured from a
beginning of the input. In some embodiments the predetermined period of time is measured
from an end of the input. In some embodiments, the automatic reconfiguration criteria are
met when a predetermined period of time has passed (1020) and the first icon is not currently
located at a position on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is within an activation region
of another icon. In other words, in these embodiments, in addition to the predetermined
period of time having passed, the first icon must be displayed at a location on the display
                                                 100

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
(e.g., touch screen 112) that is outside of any of the activation regions of other icons. In some
embodiments, the automatic reconfiguration criteria are met when device detects (1022)
termination of the input. For example, in Figure 5MM the device detects a liftoff of contact
5120-c and in response the device adds the stocks application icon 5002-9 to the folder
associated with the games folder icon 5004-7 as illustrated in Figure 5NN and subsequently
rearranges the icons, as illustrated in Figure 500.        In some embodiments, the automatic
reconfiguration criteria are met while the first icon is still moving (1024) on the display. In
other words, in some embodiments, the predetermined period of time elapses while the input
continues to be detected by the device (e.g., before detecting liftoff of the contact from the
touch-sensitive surface).
[00298]         In response to determining that the automatic reconfiguration criteria have
been met, the device moves (1026) one or more of the icons in the plurality of icons other
than the first icon to form a second arrangement that is distinct from the first arrangement.
For example, the folder icon 5004-1-b is shifted from the third row in the arrangement of
Figure 5NN to the second row in the arrangement of Figure 500, while action icons 5002
 10, 5002-11 and 5002-12 are shifted to the left and games folder 5004-7 is shifted up from
the fourth row in the arrangement of Figure 5NN to the third row in the arrangement of
Figure 500. In some embodiments, the second arrangement includes (1028) an icon at the
first position that is distinct from the first icon. For example, in Figure 500 the device
displays a folder icon 5004-1-b at the location that was previously occupied by the stocks
application 5002-9 in Figure 5KK.         In some embodiments, the first icon (e.g., stocks
application icon 5002-9) has been moved to a different position within the icons. In some
embodiments, the first icon (e.g., stocks application icon 5002-9) has been removed from the
plurality of icons (e.g., by being added to a folder 5004-7).
[00299]         In some embodiments, the second arrangement is formed (1030) after (or in
response to) detecting that the input meets predefined trigger criteria (e.g., detecting
termination of the input) and the second arrangement includes displaying (1032) the icons in
a predefined arrangement on the display (e.g., a two-dimensional grid or other regularly
spaced arrangement on the touch screen 112).         In some embodiments, when the automatic
reconfiguration criteria have been met, reconfiguring (1034) the icons dynamically as the first
icon is moved around the display (e.g., so as to avoid overlap between the first icon and other
icons on the touch screen 112). In other words, in some embodiments, the device moves a
second icon from a respective initial position to a respective new position when the second
                                                101

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
position of the first icon at least partially overlaps with the respective initial position of the
second icon, so as to accommodate display of the first icon at the second position in the first
area.   For example, rearranging the icons includes swapping positions of the first icon with
positions of other icons as the first icon is moved around the display (e.g., while continuing to
detect the contact on the touch screen 112).
[00300]         Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
600, 700, 800, 900, 1100, 1200 (e.g., Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 8A-8C, 9A-9B, 1IA-I1C, 12A
 12E and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 1000 described
above. For example, the icons (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004) described with
reference to Figures 10A-10B may have one or more of the characteristics of the various
selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder icons 5004)
described herein with reference to any of methods 600, 700, 800, 900, 1100, or 1200. For
brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00301]         Figures 11 A-1 IC are flow diagrams illustrating a method 1100 of updating a
dynamic folder icon to provide a visual indication as to the contents of a folder associated
with the dynamic folder icon in accordance with some embodiments. The method 1100 is
performed at a multifunction device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction
device 100, Figure 1) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
display is a touch screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some
embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in
method 1100 may be combined and/or the order of some operations may be changed.
[00302]         As described below, the method 1100 provides an intuitive way to manage a
folder. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when managing folders, thereby
creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated computing devices,
enabling a user to manage folders faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases
the time between battery charges.
[00303]         The device displays (1102) a dynamic folder icon (e.g., games folder icon
5004-7 in Figure 5SS).      The dynamic folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5SS) includes a
visual indication (e.g., "0," "R," "S," and "M" in games folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5SS) of
current content in a folder that is associated with the dynamic folder icon.             In some
embodiments, the dynamic folder icon indicates (1104) a number of action icons that are
contained within the folder associated with the dynamic folder icon. For example, the games
                                                102

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5SS includes four reduced scale representations of selectable
user interface objects that are within the folder associated with the folder icon (e.g., the boxes
containing "0," "R," "S," and "M" in the games folder icon 5004-7).
[00304]         In some embodiments, the content has (1106) a spatial arrangement within the
folder and the dynamic folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5TT) provides a visual indication
as to the spatial arrangement of the content within the folder. In some embodiments, the
content includes a plurality of action icons (e.g., 5002-4, 5002-13, 56002-9, 5002-8 in Figure
5TT), the spatial arrangement is a predefined grid of action icons (e.g., a one-by-four grid of
action icons as illustrated in folder view 5138 of Figure 5TT), and a plurality of respective
action icons each has (1108) one or more horizontally adjacent neighboring action icons. In
some embodiments, the dynamic folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5TT) includes reduced
scale representations (e.g., the boxes containing "0," "R," "S," and "M" in the games folder
icon 5004-7) of at least a subset of the plurality of action icons, and the reduced scale
representations   are arranged (1110)       so that, for a plurality of the reduced scale
representations, each reduced scale representation of a respective action icon is horizontally
adjacent to a reduced scale representation of one of the neighboring action icons for the
respective action icon. In some embodiments, the folder includes a plurality of action icons
having a first scale; and displaying the dynamic folder icon includes displaying (1112)
reduced scale representations of one or more of action icons in the plurality of action icons at
a second scale within the dynamic folder icon, the second scale being smaller than the first
scale.
[003051         For example, in Figure 5TT, in response to a folder display input (e.g., tap
gesture 5136 in Figure 5SS), the device displays a folder view 5138 for a folder associated
with the games folder icon 5004-7. As illustrated in Figure 5TT the folder view includes four
selectable user interface objects including a solitaire application icon 5002-4, a racing
application icon 5002-13, a stocks application icon 5002-9 and a maps application icon 5002
8, with a spatial arrangement in a line from left to right. In this example, the games folder
icon 5004-7 provides a visual indication of the spatial arrangement of these action icons by
displaying the reduced scale representations of the content in an order that is based on the
order of the action icons within the folder view. In particular, the racing application icon
5002-13 is in between the solitaire application icon 5002-4 (on the left) and the stocks
application icon 5002-9 (on the right), and the reduced scale representation of the racing
application icon (e.g., "R" in the games folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5TT) is in between the
                                               103

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
reduced scale representation of the solitaire application icon (e.g., "0" in the games folder
icon 5004-7 in Figure 5TT) and the reduced scale representation of the solitaire application
icon (e.g., "S" in the games folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5TT).
[00306]         The device detects (1114) an input that corresponds to a request to modify
content in the folder. For example, in Figure 5TT the device detects a contact 5140 at a
location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location
of the stocks application icon 5002-9 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent
movement 5142 of the contact to a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen
 112) that corresponds to a location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is within the
folder view 5138. In some embodiments, the folder is an automatically created folder; and
detecting an input that corresponds to a request to modify content in the folder includes
detecting (1116) an input associated with a respective application such that a respective
action icon associated with the respective application is added to, removed from or moved
within the folder (e.g., the folder is a recently added application folder, and the input is that a
new application has been added to the device, or the folder is a most frequently used
application folder, and the input is the use of an application that renders that application the
most frequently used application).       For example, when a user launches an application, an
application icon associated with the application is moved into a "recently used applications"
folder.
[003071         Operations 1120-1136 are performed (1118) in response to detecting the input.
The device modifies (1120) the content in the folder; and updates the dynamic folder icon
(e.g., 5004-7 in Figure 5UU) to include a visual indication of a spatial arrangement of the
modified content within the folder. It should be understood that the modification of the
content in the folder can include repositioning content within the folder, deleting content
from the folder and/or adding content to the folder.
[00308]         In some embodiments,         the device detects a repositioning        input that
corresponds to a request to reposition a first action icon within the folder; and in response to
detecting the repositioning input: the device repositions (1122) the first action icon within the
folder in accordance with the repositioning input; and repositions a reduced scale
representation of the action icon within the dynamic folder icon in accordance with the
repositioning of the first action icon within the folder. For example, in Figure 5TT the device
detects a repositioning input including a contact 5140 at a location on the touch-sensitive
                                                 104

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location of the stocks application icon
5002-9 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) and subsequent movement 5142 of the contact
to a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a
location on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) that is within the folder view 5138. In this
example, in response to detecting the repositioning input, the device moves the stocks
application icon 5002-9 to a new position within the folder view 5138 as illustrated in Figure
5UU (e.g., so that the solitaire application icon 5002-4 is displayed in between the stocks
application icon 5002-9 and the racing application icon 5002-13).          Additionally, in this
example, the device rearranges the reduced scale representations within the games folder icon
5004-7, as illustrated in Figure 5UU, so that the reduced scale representations provide a
visual indication as to the updated spatial arrangement of content within the folder. In
particular, the reduced scale representation of the solitaire application icon (e.g., "0" in the
games folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5UU) is in between the reduced scale representation of
the stocks application icon (e.g., "S" in the games folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5UU) and the
reduced scale representation of the racing application icon (e.g., "R" in the games folder icon
5004-7 in Figure 5UU).
[00309]          In some embodiments, the device detects an icon removal input that
corresponds to a request to remove a first action icon from the folder; and in response to
detecting the icon removal input: the device removes (1124) the first action icon from the
folder; and removes a reduced scale representation of the first action icon from the dynamic
folder icon.    For example, in Figure 5EE the device detects an icon removal input that
includes a contact 5112 at a location that corresponds to a solitaire application icon 5002-4
and subsequent movement 5114 of the contact out of the folder view 5106 into a first portion
5108 of the background that is an object removal region. In response to this icon removal
input, the device removes the solitaire application icon 5002-4 from the folder view 5106, as
illustrated in Figure 5FF.     Additionally, in this example, while the device previously
displayed a reduced scale representation of the solitaire application icon (e.g., "0" in play
folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5EE) in the folder icon 5004-7 associated with the folder view
5106, the device ceases to display the reduced scale representation of the solitaire application
icon (e.g., in Figure 5FF "0" is no longer displayed in the play folder icon 5004-7).
[00310]          In some embodiments, the device detects an icon addition input that
corresponds to a request to add a first action icon to the folder; and in response to detecting
the icon removal input: the device adds (1126) the first action icon to the folder; and adds a
                                               105

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
reduced scale representation of the first action icon to the dynamic folder icon. For example,
in Figures 500-5PP the device detects an icon addition input that includes a contact 5124-a
at a location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a
location of a maps application icon 5002-8 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in Figure
500 and subsequent movement (e.g., 5126 and 5130) of the contact on the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen 112) to a location that corresponds to a location on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112) of an activation region 5128-11 of a games folder icon 5004-7. In
response to this icon addition input, the device adds the maps application icon 5002-8 to the
folder associated with the games folder icon 5004-7, as illustrated in Figure 5TT.
Additionally, in this example, while the device previously did not display any reduced scale
representation of the maps application icon in the folder icon 5004-7 (e.g., as illustrated in
Figures 500-5PP), after (or in conjunction with) adding the maps application icon 5002-8 to
the games folder icon 5004-7, the device displays a reduced scale representation of the maps
application icon (e.g., in Figure 5QQ "M") within the games folder icon 5004-7.
[00311]         In some embodiments, content of the folder includes an action icon and the
dynamic folder icon changes (1128) when there is a notification from an application that
corresponds to the action icon. In some embodiments, the dynamic folder icon changes by
displaying (1130) a status indicator on the dynamic folder icon. For example in Figure 5B, a
folder icon 5004-1-b displays a notification badge 5012 indicating that one of the applications
that are associated with an application icon within the folder represented by the folder icon
5004-1-b has a notification.     In some embodiments, the dynamic folder icon changes by
displaying (1132) a status indicator on a reduced scale version of the action icon within the
dynamic folder icon.       For example in Figure 5B, a folder icon 5004-1-b displays a
notification badge 5014 on a reduced scale representation (e.g., "x7") within the folder icon
5004-1-b, which      indicates that the application        associated with the reduced scale
representation has a notification (e.g., if the application associated with "x7" is an email
application, then the notification typically will indicate that a new email has arrived).
[00312]         In some embodiments, the appearance of the dynamic folder icon changes
(1134) when the device is in a user interface reconfiguration mode. In some embodiments,
the folder has limited space (e.g., 9 slots, 12 slots, 16 slots, or any other reasonable number)
for displaying selectable user interface objects (e.g., selectable user interface objects such as
application icons and/or file icons) and the appearance of the dynamic folder icon in user
interface reconfiguration mode indicates (1136) whether the folder has space to display any
                                                106

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
additional selectable user interface objects (e.g., by displaying room for extra reduced scale
representations of action icons).
[00313]         For example, in Figure 5A, while the device is in a normal operation mode, a
dynamic folder icon 5004-1-a displays reduced scale representations (e.g., "xl," "x2," "x3,"
"x4," "x5," and "x6") which represent contents (e.g., action icons 5002) within the folder.
However, in this example there are more than six action icons 5002 within the folder, and
thus the device only displays reduced scale representations of the first six action icons within
the dynamic folder icon.     Continuing this example, when the device enters a user interface
reconfiguration mode (e.g., in response to detecting press and hold gesture 5008 in Figure
5A) the device changes the dynamic folder icon (e.g., from dynamic folder icon 5004-1-b in
Figure 5A to dynamic folder icon 5004-1-b in Figure 5B) shifts the reduced scale
representations within the dynamic icon upwards to reveal an additional reduced scale
representation (e.g., "x7" in the folder icon 5004-1-b) within the folder icon 5004-1-b while
ceasing to display the first three reduced scale representations of folder icons (e.g., "x1,"
"x2," and "x3") within the folder icon 5004-1-b. In this example, the dynamic folder icon
also displays two empty spaces next to the new reduced scale representation. In addition to
providing an indication that there are more than six items in the folder associated with the
folder icon 5004-1-b, changing the dynamic folder icon by showing two empty spaces next to
the new reduced scale representation also provides a visual indication that there is room to
display additional action icons within the folder view.
[00314]         Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1200 (e.g., Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 8A-8C, 9A-9B, 10A-10B, 12A
 12E and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 1100 described
above. For example, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder
icons 5004) described with reference to Figures 11 A-IIC may have one or more of the
characteristics of the various selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action icons
5002 and folder icons 5004) described herein with reference to any of methods 600, 700, 800,
900, 1000, or 1200. For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[003151         Figures 12A-12E are flow diagrams illustrating a method 1200 of providing
contextual information in conjunction with displaying content of a folder in accordance with
some embodiments. The method 1200 is performed at a multifunction device (e.g., device
300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1) with a display and a touch
                                               107

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a touch screen display and the touch
sensitive surface is on the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the
touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 1200 may be combined and/or the order
of some operations may be changed.
[003161         As described below, the method 1200 provides an intuitive way to display
content of a folder. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when managing
folders by providing contextual information in conjunction with displaying content of a
folder, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated
computing devices, enabling a user to manage folders faster and more efficiently conserves
power and increases the time between battery charges.
[003171         The device displays (1202) a folder icon (e.g., folder icon 5004-7 in Figure
5S) over a wallpaper background on the display (e.g., touch screen 112), the folder icon
corresponding to a folder that contains content, the content including one or more selectable
user interface object (e.g., application icons, bookmark icons, and/or document icons).           In
some embodiments, prior to detecting the first input, the device displays (1204) one or more
additional selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002-1, 5002-2, 5002-3, 5002-5,
5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8, 5002-9, 5002-10, 5002-11, 5002-12, 5002-14, 5002-15, 5002-16 and
folder icons 5004-1-b and 5004-2 in Figure 5S).
[00318]         The device detects (1206) a first input (e.g., tap gesture 5076 in Figure 5S)
that corresponds to a request to display content of the folder (e.g., the folder associated with
folder icon 5004-7 in Figure 5S).
[00319]         Operations 1210-1226 are performed (1208) in response to detecting the first
input (e.g., tap gesture 5076 in Figure 5S).         The device divides (1210) the wallpaper
background into a first portion (e.g., 5084 in Figures 5X-5AA) and a second portion (e.g.,
5086 in Figures 5X-5AA).      In some embodiments, the one or more additional selectable user
interface objects include: a first set of additional selectable user interface objects (e.g., action
icons 5002-1, 5002-2, 5002-3, 5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8, 5002-9, 5002-10, 5002-11,
5002-12 and folder icon 5004-1-b in Figures 5X-5AA) that have predefined locations on the
first portion 5084 of the wallpaper background; and a second set of additional selectable user
interface objects (e.g., 5002-14, 5002-15, 5002-16 and folder icon 5004-2 in Figures 5X and
5AA) that have predefined locations on the second portion 5086 of the wallpaper background
(1204).
                                                 108

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
[00320]          In some embodiments, the folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figures 5X-5AA) is
displayed (1212) within the first portion (e.g., 5084 in Figures 5X-5AA) of the wallpaper. In
some embodiments, when the folder icon (e.g., 5004-2 in Figures 5CCC-5FFF) is one of a
plurality of selectable user interface objects in a dock area (e.g., 5006 in Figures 5CCC
5FFF) of the display (e.g., touch screen 112), the first portion (e.g., 5172 in Figures 5DDD
5FFF) includes the dock area of the display. In contrast, in these embodiments, when the
folder icon (e.g., 5004-7 in Figures 5X-5AA) is one of a plurality of selectable user interface
objects outside of the dock area (e.g., 5006 in Figures 5X-5AA) of the display (e.g., touch
screen 112), the second portion (e.g., 5086 in Figures 5X-5AA) includes the dock area (e.g.,
5006 in Figures 5X-5AA) of the display. In other words, in accordance with these
embodiments, the wallpaper splits above the folder icon when the folder icon is in a dock
(e.g., as illustrated in Figures 5CCC-5FFF), and the wallpaper splits below the folder icon
when the folder icon is in a navigation area above the dock (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 5X
5AA). In some embodiments, the navigation area (e.g., the home screen with the plurality of
selectable user interface objects) has a plurality of pages (e.g., which can be navigated
through in response to detecting horizontal swipe gestures), and the dock region stays in a
fixed location even while the device scrolls through the arrangement of selectable user
interface objects in the navigation area.
[00321]          The device moves (1214) the second portion away from the first portion. For
example in Figures 5X-5Y the second portion 5086 is moved away from the first portion
5084. As another example, in Figure 5DD the second portion 5174 is being moved away
from the first portion 5172. In some embodiments, the first portion is also moved away from
the second portion.     For example in Figure 5VV-5WW the device moves both the upper
portion of the wallpaper background and the lower portion of the wallpaper background away
from each other.       In some embodiments, moving the first portion away from the second
portion includes moving (1216) the first set of additional selectable user interface objects in
accordance with movement of the first portion of the wallpaper background and moving the
second set of additional selectable user interface objects in accordance with movement of the
second portion of the wallpaper background. For example as illustrated in Figure 5X-5Y, the
selectable user interface objects (e.g., 5002-14, 5002-15, 5002-16, and 5004-2 in Figure 5X)
in the second portion 5086 are moved off the display (e.g., touch screen 112) as the second
portion 5086 is moved away from the first portion 5084.
                                               109

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
[003221         In some embodiments, dividing the wallpaper background includes dividing
(1218) the wallpaper along a dividing line so that a contour of a first edge (e.g., 5088 in
Figure 5X) of the first portion is complementary to a contour of a second edge (e.g., 5090 in
Figure 5X) of the second portion (e.g., the first edge of the first portion and the second edge
of the second portion fit together like puzzle pieces), and moving the second portion away
from the first portion includes adjusting the contour of the first edge and/or adjusting the
contour of the second edge so that the contour of the first edge ceases to be complementary to
the contour of the second edge (e.g., after the portions have moved apart, the first portion and
the second portion no longer fit together like puzzle pieces). For example, as illustrated in
Figure 5X the contour of the first edge 5088 is initially complementary to the contour of the
second edge 5090, while in Figure 5Y the contour of the first edge 5088 is no longer
complementary to the contour of the second edge 5090. In some embodiments, the folder
icon is displayed within the first portion of the wallpaper; and the contour of the first edge
includes (1220) a cut-out shape (e.g., 5094 in Figures 5X-5Y) was defined by the dividing
line. In some of these embodiments, the cut-out shape provides a visual indication of a
location of the folder icon within the first portion. For example in Figures 5X-5Y the cut-out
shape 5094 points to the folder icon 5004-7 that is associated with the folder view 5092.
[00323]         The device displays (1222) content of the folder in an area between the first
portion and the second portion. For example, the content of the folder includes a plurality of
application icons (e.g., 5002-4 and 5002-13 in Figure 5Y or 5002-26, 5002-27, 5002-28,
5002-29, 5002-30, 5002-31, 5002-32, 5002-33, 5002-34, 5002-35, 5002-36, and 5002-37 in
Figure 5EEE) and the application icons are revealed as though they were underneath the
wallpaper (e.g., as though the wallpaper is a sliding door that has opened to reveal the
application icons behind the wallpaper), as illustrated in Figures 5X-5Y and Figures 5CCC
5EEE
[00324]         In some embodiments, a size of the area between the first portion and the
second portion is determined (1224) based on a number of selectable user interface objects
within the folder. For example, in Figure 5Y the folder only includes two selectable user
interface objects and thus the folder view 5092 takes up substantially less than half of the
display. As another example, in Figure 5EEE where the folder includes at least twelve
selectable user interface objects, the folder view 5170 takes up more than half of the display.
Thus, the folder view (e.g., 5092 or 5170) takes up only as much room on the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112) as necessary, thereby leaving more room on the display (e.g., touch screen
                                                110

  WO 2011/126501                                                            PCT/US2010/050056
 112) to show contextual information (e.g., other selectable user interface objects outside of
the folder view).
[00325]         In some embodiments, prior to detecting the first input, the device displays
one or more additional selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002-1, 5002-2,
5002-3, 5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8, 5002-9, 5002-10, 5002-11, 5002-12 and folder icon
5004-1-b in Figures 5X-5AA); and, in response to detecting the first input, the device visually
distinguishes (1226) (e.g., by highlighting) the folder icon from the one or more additional
selectable user interface objects (e.g., by changing the brightness, contrast, hue, saturation,
color, etc. of the additional selectable user interface objects as compared to the brightness,
contrast, hue, saturation, color, etc. of the folder icon). In some embodiments, the initial
brightness, contrast, hue, saturation, color, etc. (e.g., prior to detecting the first input) of the
additional selectable user interface objects is the same as the brightness, contrast, hue,
saturation, color, etc. of the folder icon. For example in Figures 5Y-5V the device displays
the folder icon 5004-7 at a normal opacity and saturation while in the other selectable user
interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002-1, 5002-2, 5002-3, 5002-5, 5002-6, 5002-7, 5002-8,
5002-9, 5002-10, 5002-11, 5002-12 and folder icon 5004-1-b in Figures 5X-5AA) are
displayed at reduced opacity and saturation.
[00326]         In some embodiments, operations 1230-1232 are performed while the device
is (1228) in a normal operation mode when the first input is detected. In some of these
embodiments, the device detects (1230) a second input that corresponds to activation of a
respective selectable user interface object in the folder; and, in response to detecting the
second input, the device performs (1232) an operation associated with the respective
selectable user interface object. For example, in Figure 5PPP the device displays a folder
view 5212 while the device is in a normal operation mode. In this example, the device
detects a second input (e.g., tap gesture 5214) at a location that corresponds to a stocks
application icon 5002-9 and in response to the second input the device activates (e.g.,
launches or displays a view for) a stocks application.
[003271         In some embodiments, operations 1236-1238 are performed while the device
is (1234) in a user interface reconfiguration mode when the first input is detected. In some of
these embodiments, the device detecting (1236) a second input that corresponds to a request
to move a respective selectable user interface object within the folder; and in response to
detecting the second input, the device moves (1238) the respective selectable user interface
                                               111

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
object within the folder. For example, in Figure 5TT the device displays a folder view 5138
while the device is in a user interface reconfiguration mode.       In this example, the device
detects a second input (e.g., contact 5140 at a location on the touch screen 112 that
corresponds to a location of a stocks application icon 5002-9 and movement 5142 of the
contact across the touch screen 112) and in response to the second input the device moves the
stocks application icon 5002-9 in the folder view 5138 in accordance with the input to a new
location within the folder view, as illustrated in Figure 5SS.
[00328]          In some embodiments, operations 1242-1244 are performed while displaying
(1240) content of the folder in the area between the first portion and the second portion:
detecting (1242) an input that corresponds to selection of the first portion or the second
portion. In some embodiments, in response to detecting the input, the device ceases (1244) to
display the content of the folder (e.g., collapsing the area by moving the first portion and the
second portion together). For example in Figure 5UU, while the device is displaying a folder
view 5138 including content (e.g., action icons 5002-9, 5002-4, 5002-13 and 5002-8), the
device detects a second input (e.g., tap gesture 5144) at a location on the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) that is outside of the folder view 5138 and in response to detecting the second
input the device ceases to display the folder view 5138, as illustrated in Figure 5VV.
[00329]          In  some    embodiments,     the   device  enters   (1246)   a   user  interface
reconfiguration mode; and, while displaying (1248) content of the folder in the area between
the first portion and the second portion: the device detects (1250) an input that corresponds to
a request to move a respective selectable user interface object from the area between the first
portion and the second portion into the first portion or the second portion. In some of these
embodiments, in response to detecting the input, the device removes (1252) the respective
selectable user interface object from the folder. In some embodiments, in response to moving
the selectable user interface object out of the folder, the folder view ceases to be displayed
(e.g., by collapsing the area by moving the first portion and the second portion together). For
example in Figure 5YY, while the device is displaying a folder view 5148 the device detects
an input that corresponds to a request to move a selectable user interface out of the folder
view 5148. In particular, the device detects a contact 5162 at a location (e.g., a first location
5162-a in Figure 5YY) on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that
corresponds to a location of an app-4 application icon 5002-22 on the display (e.g., touch
screen 112) and subsequent movement 5164 of the contact to a location on the touch
                                                112

  WO 2011/126501                                                           PCT/US2010/050056
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112) that corresponds to a location on the display (e.g.,
touch screen 112) that is outside of the folder view (e.g., to a second location 5162-b as
illustrated in 5ZZ). In this example, after detecting a pause in the movement for more than a
predetermined period of time the device ceases to display the folder view as illustrated in
Figure 5AAA. Subsequently, the selectable user interface object (e.g., app-4 application icon
5002-22 is removed from the folder and displayed in the arrangement of selectable user
interface objects outside of the folder view, as illustrated in Figure 5CCC.
[00330]         In some embodiments, a first portion of the content of the folder is displayed
(1254) in the area (e.g., folder view 5170 in Figure 5EEE) between the first portion and the
second portion. In some of these embodiments, the device detecting (1256) a next-portion
input that corresponds to a request to display a next portion of the content of the folder; and
in response to detecting the next-portion input, the device displays (1258) a second portion of
the content of the folder in the area between the first portion and the second portion. (e.g.,
detecting a flick gesture to the left or to the right causes a next page of application icons or a
previous page of application icons to be displayed in the area). For example, in Figure 5EEE
the device displays a first portion of content of the folder that includes a first plurality of
selectable user interface objects (e.g., or 5002-26, 5002-27, 5002-28, 5002-29, 5002-30,
5002-31, 5002-32, 5002-33, 5002-34, 5002-35, 5002-36, and 5002-37 in Figure 5EEE)
within a folder view 5170. In response to detecting a swipe gesture (e.g., contact 5176 and
movement 5178 of the contact to the left at a location on the touch screen 112 that
corresponds to a location within the folder view 5170) the device displays a second portion of
content of the folder that includes a second plurality of selectable user interface objects (e.g.,
or 5002-38, 5002-39, 5002-40, 5002-41, 5002-42, 5002-43 in Figure 5FFF) within the folder
view 5170 on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in Figure 5FFF.
[00331]         In some embodiments, a first portion of the content of the folder is displayed
(1260) in the area between the first portion and the second portion.           In some of these
embodiments, the device detects (1262) a scrolling input that corresponds to a request to
scroll the content of the folder; and in response to detecting the scrolling input, the device
scrolls (1264) the content of the folder laterally on the display (e.g., touch screen 112) in the
area between the first portion and the second portion so as to display a second portion of the
content. In other words, in some embodiments, instead of distinct portions of the contents of
the folder, a list or array of selectable user interface objects can be continuously scrolled
through by the device in response to detecting scrolling inputs (e.g., a flick gesture including
                                                 113

  WO 2011/126501                                                          PCT/US2010/050056
contact 5176 and subsequent movement 5178 of the contact on a touch screen 112 that
corresponds to a location within the folder view, as illustrated in Figure 5EEE).
[00332]         Note that details of other processes described herein with respect to methods
600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100 (e.g., Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 8A-8C, 9A-9B, 10A-OB, 11A
 1IC and 5A-5PPP) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the method 1100 described
above. For example, the selectable user interface objects (e.g., action icons 5002 and folder
icons 5004) described with reference to Figures 12A-12E may have one or more of the
characteristics of the various selectable user interface objects/icons/items (e.g., action icons
5002 and folder icons 5004) described herein with reference to any of methods 600, 700, 800,
900, 1000, or 1100. For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00333]         The operations in the information processing methods described above may be
implemented by running one or more functional modules in information processing apparatus
such as general purpose processors or application specific chips. These modules,
combinations of these modules, and/or their combination with general hardware (e.g., as
described above with respect to Figures 1A, lB and 3) are all included within the scope of
protection of the invention.
[00334]         The operations described above with reference to Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7C, 8A
8C, 9A-9B, 10A-OB, 11 A-1 IC, 12A-12E may be implemented by components depicted in
Figures lA-iC. For example, detection operation 608, object movement operation 612, and
folder creation operation 624 may be implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180,
and event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch
sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to
application 136-1.    A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the
event information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact
at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface corresponds to a predefined event or
sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface. When a respective predefined
event or sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated
with the detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 may utilize or call data
updater 176, object updater 177 or GUI updater 178 to update the application internal state
 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to
update what is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having
                                              114

  WO 2011/126501                                                         PCT/US2010/050056
ordinary skill in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components
depicted in Figures 1A-IC.
[003351         The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with
reference to specific embodiments.      However, the illustrative discussions above are not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many
modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments
were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its
practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention
and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use
contemplated.
                                              115

What is claimed is:
1.           A method comprising:
at a multifunction device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface:
             displaying a folder including a first selectable user interface object;
             detecting a first input; and
             in response to detecting the first input:
                   moving the first selectable user interface object to a position that is outside of
the folder; and
                   in accordance with a determination that the first selectable user interface object
was a last selectable user interface object in the folder, deleting the folder.
2.           The method of claim 1, further comprising:
in response to detecting the first input, in accordance with a determination that the first selectable
user interface object was not the last selectable user interface object in the folder, continuing to
display the folder including a second selectable user interface object without including the first
selecting user interface object.
3.           The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the first input is a gesture that is detected
on the touch-sensitive surface.
4.           The method of any of claims 1-3, the method further comprising:
             in response to receiving a second input corresponding to selection of the first
selectable user interface object, displaying an application.
5.           The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein the multifunction device is in a user
interface reconfiguration mode when the first input is detected.
6.           The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein deleting the folder includes deleting a
folder icon that is representative of the folder.
7.           The method of claim 6, wherein the first selectable user interface object is displayed
at a location on the display that was previously occupied by the folder icon.
8.           The method of any of claims 6-7, wherein deleting the folder icon includes
displaying an animation of the folder icon changing into the first selectable user interface object.
                                                   116

9.           The method of any of claims 6-8, further comprising:
             before detecting the first input, displaying a plurality of selectable user interface
objects outside of the folder; and
             after deleting the folder icon that is representative of the folder, rearranging one or
more of the plurality of selectable user interface objects.
10.          The method of claim 9, wherein rearranging one or more of the plurality of selectable
user interface objects closes a gap left by the deletion of the folder icon in a previous predefined
arrangement of the plurality of selectable user interface objects.
11.          A multifunction device, comprising:
             a display:
             a touch-sensitive surface;
             one or more processors;
             a memory; and
             one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for performing the method of any of claims 1-10.
12.          A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs,
the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more
processors of a multifunction device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface, cause the
electronic device to perform the method of any of claims 1-10.
                                                   117

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
