ABSTRACT
In one aspect, the present invention encompasses safe and efficient methods for providing
highly pure acrylic acid. In certain embodiments, the inventive methods include the step of
producing polypropiolactone from ethylene oxide at a first location, transporting the polymer
to a second location and pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone to provide glacial acrylic acid. In
certain embodiments, the step of pyrolyzing the polymer is performed continuously in
conjunction with a polymerization process to make SAPs. See Fig. 1.

WO 2013/126375                                  PCT/US2013/026810
                            1/4
                                     +0
               ETHYLNE     PROPIOLACTONE
                                                   0
                          PLYP   O       HEAT   HACRLI00I
                       POLYPROPIOLACTONE      ACRYLIC ACID
                         FIG. 1

   WO 2013/126375                                                               PCT/US2013/026810
                       ACRYLIC ACID PRODUCTION METHODS
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            This application claims priority to US Application No. 61/601,707, filed
    February 22, 2012, and to US Application No. 61/605,252, filed March 1, 2012, each of
 5  which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
            The production and use of acrylic acid (AA) has grown significantly in recent
    decades as the demand for polyacrylic acid-based superabsorbent polymers (SAPs) has
    grown. SAPs are used extensively for the manufacture of diapers and in agricultural
    applications. The successful manufacture of SAPs requires the use of highly pure glacial
10  acrylic acid. Problems arise from the fact that glacial acrylic acid is not stable for storage
    and transport: the material can undergo unexpected violent polymerization reactions. The
    polymerization of acrylic acid can be very violent, evolving considerable heat and pressure
    and ejecting hot vapor and polymer, which may autoignite. An explosion hazard exists due
    to extremely rapid pressure build up. Several case histories are known in which vessels of
15  acrylic acid exploded due to violent ("runaway") polymerization.
            Various techniques have been developed to stabilize glacial AA (see, for example
    US Patent Nos. 4,480,116; 4,797,504; and 6,403,850) and most commercial AA contains
    hydroquinone monomethyl ether (MEHQ) and dissolved oxygen for this purpose.
    Nevertheless, the transport and storage of glacial AA remains problematic. Even with
20  successful stabilization against runaway polymerization, diacrylic acid is formed during
    storage. The formation of diacrylic acid cannot be prevented by chemical additives and
    diacrylic acid may adversely affect the performance of acrylic acid in some applications.
    For these reasons, many processes which use acrylic acid rely upon on-site purification of
    glacial AA from commercial grade AA. This is an energy intensive process that requires
25  expertise, as well as sophisticated equipment and controls which add to the complexity
    and cost of processes using glacial AA as a feedstock.
            Additionally, recent discoveries of large ethane-rich shale gas reserves in the
    United States and elsewhere have the potential to impact chemical industries and more
                                                1

   WO 2013/126375                                                               PCT/US2013/026810
    specifically, the production of acrylic acid. Currently almost all commercial acrylic acid is
    derived from propylene oxidation. Propylene is primarily a product of oil refining and its
    price and availability are closely tied to crude oil prices. Because of this, acrylic acid
    prices have risen dramatically in recent years.
 5                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            There remains a need for methods to transport and/or store glacial acrylic acid
    (AA) in a safe and/or energy efficient manner. Additionally, there remains a need for
    methods to provide an alternative to route to AA that does not rely on propylene oxidation.
            In one aspect, the present invention provides a solution to the problems inherent in
10  the storage and transportation of glacial acrylic acid.
            In one aspect, the present invention enables a less expensive feedstock to be used
    for acrylic acid production.
            In one aspect, the present invention provides the ability to utilize a less expensive
    feedstock at one site to satisfy broader geographic demand for acrylic acid and its
15  derivatives. For example, the present invention can be deployed to utilize the C2
    component of shale gas and carbon monoxide to make the polymer polypropiolactone
    (PPL).
                                                            00                          0
                               CO
        C2 Feedstock           c             -              O'
                                                        POLYPROPIOLACTONE
            PPL is a stable material that can be safely transported and stored for extended
20  periods without the safety concerns or the quality declines attendant with shipping and
    storing glacial AA. When glacial acrylic acid is needed, methods of the present invention
    provide it in highly pure form via a step of decomposing the polypropiolactone at the point
    of AA use. Therefore, in certain embodiments the present invention enables access to
    acrylic acid in a safe and/or less expensive and/or highly flexible fashion.
                                                  2

   WO 2013/126375                                                              PCT/US2013/026810
             In certain embodiments, a method of the present invention includes the steps of:
                 -   forming polypropiolactone at a first location;
                 -   isolating the polypropiolactone;
                 -   transporting the isolated polypropiolactone to a second location;
 5               -   optionally storing the polypropiolactone in inventory until acrylic acid is
                     needed; and
                 -   pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention provides a method for producing
    acrylic acid, the method including the steps of: forming polypropiolactone at a first
10  location; isolating at least some of the polypropiolactone; and pyrolyzing at least some of
    the isolated polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid at a second location. In certain
    embodiments, the present invention provides a method for producing acrylic acid, the
    method including the steps of: receiving at a second location polypropiolactone formed at
    a first location; and pyrolyzing at least some of the received polypropiolactone to liberate
15  acrylic acid at the second location.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    FIG. 1 shows a schematic of certain embodiments of the present invention.
    FIG. 2 shows exemplary first and second locations according to certain embodiments of
             the present invention.
20  FIG. 3 shows an embodiment of the invention wherein the step of transporting the
             polypropiolactone to a second location comprises the substeps of forming a
             thermoplastic propiolactone composition into a useful article which can be
             marketed to a consumer, and collecting the useful article as a post-consumer
             recycling stream which can then be treated as described herein to provide acrylic
25           acid.
    FIG. 4 shows a H NMR spectrum of a sample of polypropiolactone useful for practicing
             the present invention.
                                                  3

   WO 2013/126375                                                                 PCT/US2013/026810
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             In certain embodiments, the present invention provides a method for producing
    acrylic acid, the method including the steps of: forming polypropiolactone at a first
 5  location; isolating at least some of the polypropiolactone; and pyrolyzing at least some of
    the isolated polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid at a second location. In certain
    embodiments, the method further includes the step of transporting the isolated
    polypropiolactone to the second location prior to pyrolyzing at least some of the isolated
    polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid.
10           In certain embodiments, the present invention provides a method for producing
    acrylic acid, the method including the steps of: receiving at a second location
    polypropiolactone formed at a first location; and pyrolyzing at least some of the received
    polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid at the second location.
             In certain embodiments, the method includes the step of storing the
15  polypropiolactone prior to pyrolyzing at least some of the isolated polypropiolactone to
    liberate acrylic acid. The step of storing the polypropiolactone can occur at the first
    location, at the second location, at one or more other locations (e.g., during transportation),
    or at any combination of these locations. In certain embodiments, the polypropiolactone is
    stored at the first location prior to transporting it from the first location. In certain
20  embodiments, the polypropiolactone is stored at the second location prior to pyrolyzing at
    least some of it. In certain embodiments, the polypropiolactone is stored for at least 1
    week, for at least 1 month, for at least 6 months, for at least 1 year, or for at least 2 years.
             Price differences between different locations can make it advantageous to form
    polypropiolactone at one location, and pyrolyze polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid
25  at a different location. The ability to safely store and transport polypropiolactone enables
    the formation of polypropiolactone at a first location where the cost of raw materials is
    less than at a second location, followed by transportation to the second location and
    subsequent pyrolysis to liberate acrylic acid.
                                                   4

   WO 2013/126375                                                              PCT/US2013/026810
             In certain embodiments, methods of the present invention are characterized in that
    the location where the polypropiolactone is produced (i.e. the first location) and the
    location where at least a portion of the polypropiolactone is pyrolyzed (i.e. the second
    location) are at least 100 miles apart. In certain embodiments, the first location and the
 5  second location are between 100 and 12,000 miles apart. In certain embodiments, the first
    location and the second location are at least, 250 miles, at least 500 miles, at least 1,000
    miles, at least 2,000 or at least 3,000 miles apart. In certain embodiments, the first location
    and the second location are between about 250 and about 1,000 miles apart, between about
    500 and about 2,000 miles apart, between about 2,000 and about 5,000 miles apart, or
10  between about 5,000 and about 10,000 miles apart. In certain embodiments, the first
    location and the second location are in different countries. In certain embodiments, the
    first location and the second location are on different continents.
             In certain embodiments where methods of the present invention include the step of
    transporting polypropiolactone from a first location to a second location, the step of
15  transporting comprises moving the polypropiolactone a distance of more than 100 miles.
    In certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving the polypropiolactone
    a distance of more than 500 miles, more than 1,000 miles, more than 2,000 miles or more
    than 5,000 miles. In certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving the
    polypropiolactone a distance of between 100 and 12,000 miles. In certain embodiments,
20  the step of transporting comprises moving the polypropiolactone a distance of between
    about 250 and about 1000 miles, between about 500 and about 2,000 miles, between about
    2,000 and about 5,000 miles, or between about 5,000 and about 10,000 miles. In certain
    embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving the polypropiolactone from a
    first country to a second country. In certain embodiments, the step of transporting
25  comprises moving the polypropiolactone from a first continent to a second continent.
             In certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving the
    polypropiolactone from the North America to Europe. In certain embodiments, the step of
    transporting comprises moving polypropiolactone from the North America to Asia. In
    certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving the polypropiolactone
30  from the US to Europe. In certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving
    polypropiolactone from the US to Asia. In certain embodiments, the step of transporting
                                                 5

   WO 2013/126375                                                                PCT/US2013/026810
    comprises moving polypropiolactone from the Middle East to Asia. In certain
    embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving polypropiolactone from the
    Middle East to Europe. In certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving
    polypropiolactone from Saudi Arabia to Asia. In certain embodiments, the step of
 5  transporting comprises moving polypropiolactone from Saudi Arabia to Europe.
             In certain embodiments, the step of transporting comprises moving the
    polypropiolactone by a means selected from: truck, train, tanker, barge, ship, and
    combinations of any two or more of these. In certain embodiments, the method includes
    the steps as described above wherein, on a predetermined day, the price of ethylene at the
10  first location is less than the price of ethylene at the second location. In certain
    embodiments, the method includes the steps as described above wherein, on a
    predetermined day, the price of ethylene at the first location is less than the price of
    propylene at the second location. In certain embodiments, the method includes the steps as
    described above wherein, on a predetermined day, the price of the C2 component of shale
15  gas at the first location is less than the price of ethylene at the second location. In certain
    embodiments, the method includes the steps as described above wherein, on a
    predetermined day, the price of the C2 component of shale gas at the first location is less
    than the price of propylene at the second location. In certain embodiments, the method
    includes the steps as described above wherein, on a predetermined day, the price of ethane
20  at the first location is less than the price of ethane at the second location. In certain
    embodiments, the method includes the steps as described above wherein, on a
    predetermined day, the price of ethane at the first location is less than the price of propane
    at the second location. The predetermined day can be any day between 15 and 365 days
    inclusive, between 15 and 180 days inclusive, between 30 and 90 days inclusive, between
25  30 and 60 days inclusive, or between 60 and 90 days inclusive prior to the day on which
    forming the polypropiolactone occurs.
             The price differences between different locations can arise because of the first
    location's access to ethane from a shale play or basin. Access can be via physical
    proximity to the shale gas, or via access to a pipeline providing shale gas. In certain
30  embodiments, the price differences between different locations arise because of the first
    location's physical proximity to a shale play or basin. In certain embodiments, the first
                                                   6

   WO 2013/126375                                                               PCT/US2013/026810
    location is characterized in that it is located within 600 miles, 450 miles, 300 miles or 150
    miles of a shale play or basin. See, e.g., Platts World Shale Resources Map.
            It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that such materials have reported
    prices (e.g., a daily price), even if the price fluctuates throughout the specified period (e.g.,
 5  a day), and that is the price that is intended. Such prices can be found by reference to
    commercial sources, e.g., Platts (including ethylene, propylene), ICIS (including ethylene,
    propylene). It will similarly be recognized by those skilled in the art that such materials
    have reported prices for areas that may be defined by geographic and/or political and/or
    other considerations (e.g., individual nations such as China, the United States, Saudi
10  Arabia or Brazil, or larger regions such as Northwest Europe, or smaller regions), and one
    skilled in the art will understand for any given location which is the appropriate price to
    consult.
            Because of such price differentials, it can be advantageous to export
    polypropiolactone from the first location to a party intending to pyrolyze at least some of
15  the polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid at the second location. Thus, in certain
    embodiments, the present invention provides a method including the steps of: forming
    polypropiolactone at a first location; isolating at least some of the polypropiolactone; and
    dispatching at least some of the isolated polypropiolactone to a second location for
    pyrolysis to liberate acrylic acid. The dispatching can take the form of any action intended
20  to deliver the polypropiolactone ultimately for pyrolysis to acrylic acid (e.g., transporting,
    exporting, offering for sale).
            In certain embodiments, the method is characterized in that the liberated acrylic
    acid is glacial acrylic acid. In certain embodiments, the liberated glacial acrylic acid is of a
    purity suitable for direct use in the manufacture of acrylic acid polymers such as SAPs.
25          In certain embodiments, the polypropiolactone produced in the first step is
    characterized in that it is a liquid. In certain embodiments, such liquid polypropiolactone
    compositions have a significant amount of relatively low-molecular weight oligomers. In
    certain embodiments, the number average molecular weight (MN) of the polypropiolactone
    produced is between about 200 g/mol and about 10,000 g/mol. In certain embodiments,
                                                    7

   WO 2013/126375                                                              PCT/US2013/026810
    the MN of the polypropiolactone produced is less than about 5,000 g/mol, less than about
    3,000 g/mol, less than about 2,500 g/mol, less than about 2,000 g/mol, less than about
    1,500 g/mol, less than about 1,000 g/mol, or less than about 750 g/mol. In certain
    embodiments, the polypropiolactone produced comprises oligomers containing from 2 to
 5  about 10 monomer units. In certain embodiments, such oligomers comprise cyclic
    oligomers. In certain embodiments, cyclic oligomers contain, on average about 2
    monomer units, about 3 monomer units, about 4 monomer units, about 5 monomer units,
    about 6 monomer units, up to about 10 monomer units, or mixtures of two or more of
    these materials.
10           In certain embodiments, the polypropiolactone produced in the first step is
    characterized in that it is a solid. In certain embodiments, the method includes the
    additional step of pelletizing the solid polypropiolactone such that it can be easily handled
    in bulk. In certain embodiments, solid polypropiolactone compositions comprise a
    significant percentage of high molecular weight polymer chains. In certain embodiments,
15  such high molecular polypropiolactone is characterized in that it has an MN between about
    10,000 g/mol and about 1,000,000 g/mol. In certain embodiments, high molecular
    polypropiolactone is characterized in that it has an MN greater than about 10,000 g/mol,
    greater than about 20,000 g/mol, greater than about 50,000 g/mol, greater than about
    70,000 g/mol, greater than about 100,000 g/mol, greater than about 150,000 g/mol, greater
20  than about 200,000 g/mol, or greater than about 300,000 g/mol.
             In certain embodiments, the step of forming the polypropiolactone comprises a
    step of polymerizing beta propiolactone (BPL). The polymerization may be accomplished
    by contacting BPL with carboxylate polymerization initiators. The initiation process
    covalently incorporates such carboxylates into the polymer chain. In certain embodiments,
25  the present invention provides a solution to a potentially undesirable effect of this bound
    initiator: namely, when the PPL is depolymerized to provide acrylic acid, the carboxylic
    acid corresponding to the polymerization initiator may also be liberated and may act as a
    contaminant in the acrylic acid produced. Therefore, in certain embodiments, the step of
    polymerizing the BPL comprises contacting the BPL with a polymerization catalyst
30  comprising an acrylate anion. Such polymers have the advantage that no non-acrylate
                                                    8

   WO 2013/126375                                                           PCT/US2013/026810
    materials arising from the bound initiator will contaminate the subsequent acrylic acid
    stream produced from the polymer.
                      polymerization
                      initiator
            O         R-CO 2 P       RA  O        OH  depolym erization o    nn          OH
     PROPIOLACTONE                 POLYPROPIOLACTONE                            ACRYLIC ACID
            In certain embodiments, the step of polymerizing the BPL comprises contacting
 5  BPL with a polymerization catalyst comprising an anion of a non-volatile material. In
    certain embodiments, PPL made with such non-volatile initiators are desirable because
    they produce fewer volatile byproducts which may contaminate the acrylic acid stream
    produced. In certain embodiments, a non-volatile initiator used in such embodiments
    comprises a polyacid. In certain embodiments, a polyacid comprises a polymeric material,
10  or an acid-functionalized solid. In certain embodiments, a polyacid comprises a
    polycarboxylic acid. In certain embodiments, a polyacid comprises a sulfonic acid. In
    certain embodiments, a polyacid comprises both carboxylic and sulfonic acid groups.
            In certain embodiments, the step of forming the polypropiolactone comprises a
    step of reacting ethylene oxide with carbon monoxide. In certain embodiments, the step of
15  forming the polypropiolactone comprises the step of carbonylating ethylene oxide to
    provide propiolactone which is then polymerized to provide PPL. In certain embodiments,
    the BPL is not isolated and is polymerized in situ to provide the PPL.
            In certain embodiments, the step of forming the polypropiolactone comprises
    performing an alternating copolymerization of ethylene oxide and carbon dioxide.
                                                  9

   WO 2013/126375                                                              PCT/US2013/026810
                   0                                          0
                            +    CO          -+0
              Ethyene oxide
                                                  Propiolactone
                                                                     Heat
                                                                             HO
                                                 PoiyPfopiiactone              Acryk Acid
                                              SCHEME 1
             In certain embodiments, the step of pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone, comprises
    heating the PPL to a temperature of greater than 100 'C, greater than 150 'C, greater than
 5  175 'C, greater than 200 'C, or greater than about 220 'C. In certain embodiments, the
    step of pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone comprises heating the PPL in an inert
    atmosphere. In certain embodiments, the step of pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone
    comprises heating the PPL under a reduced pressure. In certain embodiments, the step of
    pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone comprises heating the PPL in the presence of a
10  depolymerization catalyst.
             In certain embodiments, methods of the present invention include the additional
    step of isolating the acrylic acid from the pyrolysis step. In certain embodiments, the step
    of isolating the acrylic acid comprises condensing the acid from a gaseous stream released
    from the pyrolysis step. In certain embodiments, the acrylic acid is not isolated, but is
15  introduced directly into a polymerization reactor where it is polymerized to polyacrylic
    acid (e.g. by anionic or radical olefin polymerization methods.)
             In certain embodiments, the step of pyrolyzing the PPL is performed continuously
    (e.g. in a fed batch reactor or other continuous flow reactor format). In certain
    embodiments, the continuous pyrolysis process is linked to a continuous polymerization
20  process to provide AA at a rate matched to the consumption rate of the reactor. In certain
    embodiments, this method has the advantage of not requiring the addition and/or removal
    of stabilizers to or from the acrylic acid feed of the polymerization reactor.
                                                 10

   WO 2013/126375                                                               PCT/US2013/026810
             In certain embodiments, the step of transporting the polypropiolactone to a second
    location comprises the substeps of:
                 -    forming a thermoplastic propiolactone composition into a useful article
                      which can be marketed to a consumer, and
 5               -    collecting the useful article as a post-consumer recycling stream.
             The recycle stream can then be treated as described above to provide acrylic acid.
    FIG. 3 shows a schematic of such an embodiment.
             Therefore, in certain embodiments, the present invention encompasses a method
    comprising the steps of:
10               -    forming a polypropiolactone polymer;
                 -    manufacturing a useful article comprising the polypropiolactone;
                 -    collecting the article comprising the polypropiolactone as a post-consumer
                      recycling stream; and
                 -    pyrolyzing the polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid.
15           In certain embodiments, the step of manufacturing a useful article from the
    polypropiolactone comprises making a consumer packaging item. In certain embodiments,
    a consumer packaging item comprises a bottle, a disposable food container, a foamed
    article, a blister pack or the like. In certain embodiments, the useful article comprises a
    film, such an agricultural film, or a packaging film. In certain embodiments, the useful
20  article comprises a molded plastic article such as eating utensils, plastic toys, coolers,
    buckets, a plastic component in a consumer product such as electronics, automotive parts,
    sporting goods and the like. In certain embodiments a useful article comprises any of the
    myriad of articles presently made from thermoplastics such as polyethylene,
    polypropylene, polystyrene, PVC and the like. In certain embodiments, the useful article
25  comprises a fiber or a fabric.
             In certain embodiments, the steps of collecting the article comprising the
    polypropiolactone as a post-consumer recycling stream; and pyrolyzing the
    polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid, include one or more additional sub-steps such as
                                                    11

    WO 2013/126375                                                               PCT/US2013/026810
     separating polypropiolactone components from non-polypropiolactone components;
     shredding, grinding, or melting the articles comprising the polypropiolactone; drying the
     shredded, ground or melted material; and/or treating polypropiolactone-containing
     material to remove non- polypropiolactone components such as colorants, fillers, additives
 5   and the like prior to the pyrolysis step.
              In certain embodiments, the step of collecting the article comprising the
     polypropiolactone as a post-consumer recycling stream includes the step of providing an
     article with indicia to convey to a consumer or a recycling facility that the material
     comprises polypropiolactone. In certain embodiments, such indicia comprise a number
10   indicator which is associated with PPL. In certain embodiments, the indicia comprise an
     SPI (Society of the Plastics Industry) recycling code.
                                             EXEMPLIFICATION
              The following examples provide non-limiting technical details of certain aspects of
15   the present invention.
     Examples 1-3: Laboratory-scale preparations of acrylic acid from Ethylene Oxide via
                    Polypropiolactone
              In this example, one chemical sequence having utility in methods of the present
     invention is performed at small laboratory scale.
                                             0                 0   0
            0    + c        Catalyst 1    o       Catalyst 2 F               Pyrolysi        OH
200
                                            - - - - - - - - - -C                        F 3C OO-"
                                                                                      CF 3 CO&
                                                [Co(CO) 41-
           Catalyst 1Catalyst                                    2
                                      N N
                                                       12

   WO 2013/126375                                                             PCT/US2013/026810
      Step 1: Carbonylationof EO and Polymerization of BPL.
             Under dry nitrogen, a 300 mL Parr high-pressure reactor was charged with catalyst
    1 ([(TPP)Al(THF)2][Co(CO) 4], 286 mg, 0.3 mmol) and 85 mL of dry, deoxygenated THF.
    The reactor was heated to 45 'C, agitated at 500 rpm, and pressurized to 150 psi with CO.
 5  After the reactor temperature stabilized, 13.5 g of EO (306 mmol) was injected under 600
    psi of CO. the reaction mixture was maintained at 600 psi for 210 min after EO injection,
    then the CO pressure was slowly vented to ambient pressure. A solution of catalyst 2 was
    then added to the reactor (PPNTFA, 1.98 g 3.0 mmol in 5 mL of methylene chloride)
    under nitrogen. The mixture was stirred in the reactor at 45 'C for 16 hours. The
10  polymerization was quenched by addition of 33 mL of 1% HCl in MeOH. 250 mL of
    MeOH was then added to precipitate the polymer. The reactor was emptied and washed
    with 20 mL of CHCl 3. The collected reaction mixture and the wash were combined, and
    filtered to yield a white solid. The solid was washed with 100 mL of MeOH, dissolved in
    40 mL of CHCl 3 and re-precipitated in 300 mL of MeOH. The precipitate was filtered
15  washed with 200 mL of MeOH and dried in vacuum oven at 40 'C for 16 hours, to provide
    15.51 g of PPL. A proton NMR spectrum (CDCl 3 ) of the polymer is shown in FIG. 4.
      Step 2: pyrolysis ofpolypropiolactone
             In a 50 mL round bottom flask, 10 g of sand, 2.0 g of poly(propiolactone) from
    Step 1, and 8.6 mg of MEHQ (hydroquinone monomethyl ether) were combined, and the
20  mixture stirred with a magnetic stir bar. The flask was connected to another 50 mL round
    bottom flask containing 8.4 mg of MEHQ by a transfer adapter bridge. The whole system
    was set under vacuum, and was closed when the pressure reached 500 mTorr. The flask
    containing the polymer was then placed in a heating mantle, and heated to 210 'C, while
    the receiving flask was immersed in dry ice/acetone bath. Acrylic acid was liberated from
25  pyrolysis of the polymer in the heated flask and was vacuum transferred to the receiving
    flask. Heating was stopped when no additional liquid was condensing in the receiving
    flask. At the end of the pyrolysis, 1.39 g of clear liquid was recovered from the receiving
    flask. GC analysis of the liquid showed that the liquid to be acrylic acid of at least 99.4%
    purity.
                                                13

   WO 2013/126375                                                                 PCT/US2013/026810
    Example 2: Use of Acrylate as the Polymerization Initiator
                                                   0
                 co      Catalyst 1     o        Catalyst 2a                  H    Pyrolysis       OH
                                                                                                 0
                                                                              q      +
                                             [co(co)4]-
                                        N --     -Catalyst     C     2a=        P=-N=P
                                    +
     Catalyst I
                                N     N
 5
                This example is performed under the conditions described in Example 1, except
    PPN acrylate is used as the polymerization catalyst. The polypropiolactone produced
10  contains acrylate end groups and its pyrolysis liberates only acrylic acid.
    Example 3: Storage of Polypropiolactone as Stable Acrylic Acid Precursor
                This example is performed under the conditions described in Example 1, except the
15  polypropiolactone is stored in air at room temperature for 1 year before pyrolysis. The
    yield and quality of the acrylic acid produced are unchanged from Example 1.
    Example 4: Pilot scale implementation of Acrylic Acid Supply Chain.
                In this example, a supply chain innovation of the present invention is demonstrated
    at pilot scale.
20              A first reactor proximate to a shale gas play is fed with 75 kg/hr of ethylene oxide
    derived from a shale gas-derived C2 product stream. The first reactor is operated at steady
                                                           14

   WO 2013/126375                                                               PCT/US2013/026810
    state conditions with a 1.5 M concentration of beta propiolactone present in the reactor
    volume. Additionally, 4850 L/hr of solvent containing 15 mol/hr of catalyst 1
    [(TPP)Al(THF)2][Co(CO) 4] is fed to the reactor. The reactor is maintained at a pressure of
    600 psig of carbon monoxide and sized such that the feed and solvent have a residence
 5  time of at least 2.5 hours, (e.g., at least 15,000 L in volume). Under these conditions, a
    reaction stream containing about 1740 mole/hr of beta-propiolactone is produced (125
    kg/hr).
             The beta-lactone stream is directed to a separation unit which separates the stream
    into a catalyst recycling stream containing solvent and catalyst and a beta propiolactone
10  stream comprising propiolactone and solvent. The catalyst recycling stream is returned to
    the first reactor and the beta propiolactone stream is fed to a second reactor where it is
    contacted with PPN-acrylate (catalyst 2a). The second reactor is a plug flow reactor sized
    such that reactants have a residence time of at least 30 minutes (e.g., 1250 L in volume)
    maintained at a temperature and catalyst load such that all of the lactone is consumed
15  during the residence time. The second reactor produces approximately 1740 mole/hr of
    polypropiolactone (123 kg/hr). The effluent of the plug flow reactor is treated with
    hydrochloric acid and methanol to precipitate the polymer. The precipitated polymer is
    pelletized and offered for sale as an acrylic acid precursor.
             The pellets are transferred 1,500 miles by cargo ship to the facility of an acrylic
20  acid end-user where they are stored in inventory.
             The inventory is used to feed a hopper joined to a fluidized bed reactor. The
    fluidized bed reactor is swept with dry nitrogen at 150 'C and fed from the hopper at a rate
    of 500 kg of polypropiolactone pellets per hour. The nitrogen sweep from the fluidized
    bed is directed to a condenser stage which produces a stream of liquid glacial acrylic acid
25  at a rate of approximately 480 kg/hr.
             It is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention herein described are
    merely illustrative of the application of the principles of the invention. Reference herein to
    details of the illustrated embodiments is not intended to limit the scope of the claims,
    which themselves recite those features regarded as essential to the invention.
                                                   15

     WO 2013/126375                                                                 PCT/US2013/026810
What is claimed is:
1. A method for producing acrylic acid, the method comprising the steps of:
        forming polypropiolactone at a first location;
        isolating at least some of the polypropiolactone; and
        pyrolyzing at least some of the isolated polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid at a second
                location.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transporting the isolated polypropiolactone to
        the second location prior to said pyrolyzing.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of transporting comprises moving the polypropiolactone a
        distance of more than 100 miles.
4. A method for producing acrylic acid, the method comprising the steps of:
    receiving at a second location polypropiolactone formed at a first location,
     and
    pyrolyzing at least some of the received polypropiolactone to liberate acrylic acid at the second
             location.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, further comprising the step of storing the polypropiolactone
        prior to said pyrolyzing.
6. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first location and the second location are between
        100 and 12,000 miles apart.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first location and the second location are at least 250 miles, at
        least 500 miles, at least 1,000 miles, at least 2,000 or at least 3,000 miles apart.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of storing the polypropiolactone occurs at the first location.
                                                     16

     WO 2013/126375                                                                PCT/US2013/026810
9. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of storing the polypropiolactone occurs at the second
       location.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of storing comprises storing the polypropiolactone for at
       least 1 week.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of storing comprises storing the polypropiolactone for at
       least 1 month.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of storing comprises storing the polypropiolactone for at
       least 6 months.
13. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein, on a predetermined day, the price of ethylene at the
       first location is less than the price of ethylene at the second location, wherein the
       predetermined day is any day between 15 and 180 days inclusive prior to the day on which said
       forming polypropiolactone occurs.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the predetermined day is any day between 30 and 90 days
       inclusive prior to the day on which said forming polypropiolactone occurs.
15. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein, on a predetermined day, the price of ethylene at the
       first location is less than the price of propylene at the second location, wherein the
       predetermined day is any day between 15 and 180 days inclusive prior to the day on which said
       forming polypropiolactone occurs.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the predetermined day is any day between 30 and 90 days
       inclusive prior to the day on which said forming polypropiolactone occurs.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the first location is characterized in that it is located within 300
       miles of a shale play or basin.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first location is characterized in that it is located within 150
       miles of a shale play or basin.
19. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the step of forming polypropiolactone comprises
       reacting ethylene oxide with carbon monoxide.
                                                     17

     WO 2013/126375                                                              PCT/US2013/026810
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of reacting ethylene oxide with carbon monoxide
       comprises carbonylating the ethylene oxide to form beta propiolactone.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of polymerizing said beta propiolactone.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of reacting ethylene oxide with carbon monoxide
       comprises contacting the ethylene oxide with a metal carbonyl compound.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of reacting ethylene oxide with carbon monoxide
       comprises copolymerizing ethylene oxide with carbon monoxide.
24. The method of any of claims 1 to 4 characterized in that the acrylic acid liberated by the pyrolysis
       is glacial acrylic acid.
25. The method of any of claims 1 to 4 comprising the additional step of feeding the acrylic acid
       liberated by the pyrolysis to an acrylic acid polymerization.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the acrylic acid is fed directly to the acrylic acid polymerization
       without isolation and storage of the acrylic acid.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein a rate of the pyrolysis is matched to a rate of polymerization in
       the acrylic acid polymerization.
                                                    18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
