                                        43
                                   ABSTRACT
[0001] The invention relates to a method of teaching resilience through use of
visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues. The method includes the following steps:
identifying and recognising a negative thought, stopping the negative thought
through means of a visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cue, eliminating the negative
thought through means of a visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cue; and creating a
positive alternative to the negative thought through use of a visual, auditory or
kinaesthetic cue. The method teaches resilience, when practised over time, which
enables the person to better deal with the negative thoughts. The invention also
relates to cues used for the method. The invention also relates to a workplace
barometer.
specPA2045718

                         1/8
      Meaning        Visual        Auditory      Kinaesthetic
     Catch and      See the...    Hear the...     Feel the...
STOP   stabilise  Freeze, net,    Stop button   Hurt Emotion
                 box, trap, hold
                 Blast, blow up,
      Eliminate    bur, melt     Rewind/ delete Separate from
DROP
                  delete button
      Create a
ROLL  Positive        See it        Hear it         Feel it
     Alternative
                    FIGURE 1

                                               1
                                      PATENTS ACT 1990
                                             Section 29
                                   Innovation Patent
APPLICANTS AND INVENTORS:
                Dr Harold John McIntosh
               48 Beach Road
                Dolphin Heads
               Queensland 4740
               Australia AND
                Elizabeth Mary-Rae McIntosh
               48 Beach Road
                Dolphin Heads
               Queensland 4740
               Australia
Title of Invention:
A METHOD OF TEACHING RESILIENCE THROUGH VISUAL, AUDITORY AND
KINAESTHETIC CUES
The applicant applies for the grant of a patent for the invention described in the
accompanying innovation patent specification:
The following is a full description of the invention including the best method of
performing the invention, known to us:
specPA2045718

                                             2
         A METHOD OF TEACHING RESILIENCE THROUGH VISUAL,
                     AUDITORY AND KINAESTHETIC CUES
[0001] The present invention relates to a method of teaching resilience through
visual, auditory and kinaesthetic cues.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002] The world is a stressful place and we have gone a long way away from living
quietly, finding food, sleeping, eating and procreation. Instead, our time and minds,
are filled with electronic stimuli, the pressures of work, of family, time stresses, and
deadlines to be met. Our attachment to our smart phones has unplugged us from
many interpersonal communications, so much of our time is spent in our head, with
our own thoughts.
[0003] In modern life people often feel less happy about themselves, or situations,
and feel negative. Such negative thoughts may have no factual basis but can make
people unhappy in a very real way. For example, people often have unrealistic
expectations about the way they look. Social media, films and magazines tend to
portray an impossible image of beauty and waist size, enhanced by digital imaging.
This is just one example where a person may feel negative and have negative
thoughts, not based in truth. Another example may be where a person is working
in an office and is worried about the outcome of a project they have just completed.
A lot of work may have gone into the project over several weeks and the bosses
have expressed their desire that it must be very well done to secure a new contract.
There is pressure therefore on the worker, to have done a good job and not to
have made any mistakes. Negative self-talk may lead the person to start to doubt
the quality of his work, or to worry that there is a problem. These problems are
perceived, but at this point in time have no basis in fact; the project has been
completed and there is no reason to assume that there is a problem or will be any
fault found with the work.
specPA2045718

                                           3
[0004] We all do it, we question and challenge our thoughts and actions, and this
can lead to negative thoughts. These negative thoughts may be addressed easily
and a person can move on, but if levels of stress or pressure increase or for other
reasons the person may handle the negative thoughts less well. Overtime the
negative thoughts may build and grow so that the person begins to feel negative
more or most of the time. The growth and poor control of these negative thoughts
can lead to short or long term mental health problems. These are serious
problems, if left unaddressed, which can cause a person to be unable to perform
their normal duties at home or at work, and may lead ultimately to depression, and
all that entails.
[0005] The physical manifestation of poor mental health is a very serious problem
for the person, their family and employer. The impact on national productivity due
to loss of work days through mental illness is on the increase and so the financial
cost should not be underestimated. It would be highly desirable for there to be a
method of treating resilience to the negative thoughts that arise to prevent the
serious issues that may result.
[0006] The inventors have, through careful experimentation, found a surprising new
method of teaching resilience to negative thoughts. Through use of the new
invention a person may be trained to have better ways to deal with negative
thoughts so that these do not accumulate or become a problem. Use of the method
is anticipated to provide a useful manner for individuals or employers to address
these potential problems at an early stage. By doing so the individual and
employers can engage the method and other strategies to improve wellbeing and
to minimise lost work days and productivity. When used in a workplace, a
workplace barometer, in itself a further inventive feature, may be used that enables
the results to be measured, before, during, and after the use of the method to track
the results. In confidential testing improvements of positivity of 15% and resilience
of 30% have been found, a most pleasing result. Through further testing it is hoped
that the method and measuring barometer can be refined with the other inventive
features and be shown to be an extremely useful method for improving workplace
specPA2045718

                                             4
health and wellbeing, and that this for the first time is properly measurable in a
repeatable process.
[0007] The following describes a non-limiting example of the invention being used
with reference to a method of teaching for people encountering every day stresses,
such as office workers. The invention is applicable to a numerous applications and
it is not intended to limit the invention to office workers, other than as defined in
the claims. The example given is an illustrative example only and not to be
considered limited in any way, other than any limitations defined in the claims.
[0008] For clarity, any prior art referred to herein, does not constitute an admission
that the prior art forms part of the common general knowledge, in Australia or
elsewhere.
[0009] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method of teaching
resilience through use of visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues that at least
ameliorates one or more of the aforementioned problems of the prior art. It is a
further, separate, object of the invention to provide apparatus for use as cues in a
method of teaching resilience. It is a yet further and separate object of the invention
to provide a workplace barometer to measure positivity and or resilience.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0010] Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of teaching resilience
through use of visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues, the method including the
following steps:
         a)    identifying/recognising a negative thought;
         b)    stopping the negative thought through means of a visual, auditory or
               kinaesthetic cue;
         c)    eliminating the negative thought through means of a visual, auditory
               or kinaesthetic cue; and
specPA2045718

                                             5
         d)   creating a positive alternative to the negative thought through use of
              a visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cue,
wherein, the method of teaching resilience, when practised over time, enables the
person to better deal with the negative thought, improving their positivity and or
resilience.
[0011] Preferably, the method is provided known as Positive Mindfulness Cognition
(Trade Mark), to identify it as a novel method developed by the inventors through
long and careful experimentation. The method of teaching may take any suitable
form, within the scope of the invention. The method of teaching may include use
of an app, provided on a portable electronic device. The method may include a
plurality of physical cards, cues or teaching aids of any suitable kind to assist in
the performance of the method. Video, audio or gaming applications may be used
with the method. On-line cues may be used with the method. The cues may be
provided in any suitable physical means. The cues may be provide through use of
any one or more of the following group: audio recordings; board games; cartoon
images; electronic images, such as provided on a screen; face-to-face teaching
methods; flash cards; on-line cue provision, including sounds and pictures; power
point presentations; use of an app to provide cues in any format, including audio
or visual; software cue provision, on any suitable device; videos recordings; work
books; or similar. Written text or pictorial elements may be used as cues. Recorded
videos or audio materials may be used as cues.
[0012] Preferably, the teaching is one on one with the person. Groups may also be
taught. There may be a general teaching to teach the approach followed by a
specific teaching of the method adapted for the person concerned. In one preferred
form of the invention, a workplace may be taught through use of the method to
improve their resilience. The method may be used to teach the members of a work
place to better deal with negativity and stresses that they deal with in their day to
day work. The method may be used as part of an on-going assessment and
training of a workplace with respect to mental health.
specPA2045718

                                           6
[0013] Preferably, the resilience is a mental resilience to negative thoughts and
similar. Preferably, the resilience is ability to navigate through life, even having
these negative thoughts, but not be overwhelmed by them but instead to deal with
them and continue with normal activities.
[0014] Preferably, the cues are visual, auditory or kinaesthetic to suit the person
being taught. A combination of visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues may be used
to teach a particular person. Any suitable cues may be used. Any suitable cues
may be used, not limited to visual, auditory or kinaesthetic in other forms of the
invention.
[0015] The visual cues may take any suitable form to cue visually. Visual cues may
include to the see the item as a word. Visual cues may include to see the item as
a picture. The picture may be on an electronic screen. Visual cues may be items
seen as a words or pictures on a screen, movie or in a thought bubble. Visual cues
may be pictures or words shown in front of you. The visual cues may be provided
in any suitable manner. The visual cues may include still or moving pictures,
cartoons, electronic images or any suitable visual representation of an image that
can be used to stimulate the desired result, through use of vision. Most preferably,
the visual cue is any image, picture or word, including moving words, images or
pictures that can be displayed. The display may be on paper or card, a board, a
screen or on the screen of a device, for example.
[0016] Most preferably, visual cues use a word displayed scrolling across a screen.
In some forms of the invention visual cues also include the step of first writing of
the word and then the erasing of the word. The writing may be through use of a
pointer, or finger and a touch electronic screen. The writing may be to make the
word in any suitable way. For example the word may be chosen from a list. The
word may be cued in any suitable way. The removal of the word may be in any
suitable way, to symbolically remove the existence of the word. The removal of the
word may be chosen from the following group: rubbing out or erasing the word in
some way; reducing the brightness of the word on a screen; reducing the colour of
specPA2045718

                                          7
a word; changing the colour or shade of the word; tearing up or destroying (such
as through use of fire, or freezing) the visual cue (physically or on a screen);
replacing the negative thought with a new recorded visual cue of positive words or
actions; any form of destruction, removal and or replacement of the negative
thoughts with visual cues to positive ones. The visual cues clearly can be varied
within the format of the invention. In a most preferred form of the invention the
visual cues are provided electronically. In a most preferred form of the invention
the visual cues are provided electronically in a manner that enables the person to
practise on their own. Any of the visual cues may include a means to remove,
destroy or replace the negative thoughts with positive ones in other ways, within
the scope of the invention.
[0017] The auditory cues may take any suitable form that may be heard to for use
as part of the method. Auditory cues may include hearing words or sounds. The
words or sounds may be heard on a radio, or through TV, cassette player or other
similar device. Preferably, the audible cues are provided through electronic means,
such as an electronic device. Most preferably, the auditory cues are provided
through use of a mobile electronic device. For example, through use of an app on
a mobile phone sounds, pictures and video can be used to provide the visual,
auditory or kinaesthetic cues that can be used by the person to train at any time.
The auditory cues may be provided in any suitable manner. Auditory cues may be
recordings of the words or sounds. The auditory cues may be recorded for the
person, to specially replace the negative words or thoughts with new positive
words or thoughts through specific auditory cues. The auditory cues can be
provided in any suitable way. Visual and auditory cues may be provided through
use of an app to give breadth of choice of stimuli, as well as providing kinaesthetic
stimuli. For example, choices may be provided and tailored then to the specific
user.
[0018] The kinaesthetic cues may be any suitable cue to stimulate a particular
feeling or emotion as part of the method. Kinaesthetic cues may be provided in
any suitable form to stimulate a particular emotion. The kinaesthetic cues may
specPA2045718

                                          8
include an experience of the feeling that the words create. The kinaesthetic cues
may be the experiencing the emotion the words/sounds/pictures create. The
kinaesthetic cue may be feeling the actual emotion created by a situation, as cued
by any suitable means. The kinaesthetic cue may be bearing witness to how the
situation makes you feel. The stimulus may be provided or stimulated through a
suitable combination of visual and auditory cues to stimulate the "felt" response.
The kinaesthetic cues may be provided through use of an app so these cues may
be controlled by the user. Use of words, sounds, pictures and video may all be
used singly or in combination to create a kinaesthetic cue that make the person
experience a particular emotion, which can then be used for the method. To
remove a negative thought or word through kinaesthetic cues, these negative
thoughts may be removed by any means including chosen from the following
group: by pulling the negative from the feeling in the heart; physically exercising it
out; flick it away; shake it away; breath it out including with big puff breathes;
sweating it out; dancing it out; drumming or beating it out; or any suitable means
to remove the feeling. Most preferably, an app is used and use of the app enables
a certain degree of choice as to the preferred kinaesthetic method to use to
address the negative thoughts or words. The kinaesthetic cues in this form would
be provided using video or animation and accompanying sounds to assist the
person in the use of the method.
[0019] For any of the forms of cues, they may include be a cue chosen from the
following group: flash cards; sounds from speakers; visuals on an electronic
screen; video provided on a screen of an electronic device; app on a PC; app on
a mobile device; mobile phone app; video recorded training; audio recorded
training; sound and visual recorded for replay; or any other suitable means.
[0020] The cues may be adapted for the individual. The visual, auditory or
kinaesthetic cues may be adapted for the individual. A collection or list of start
visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues may be used and these may be used
optionally with tailored cues for the individual. Most preferably, a structured step
specPA2045718

                                             9
by step process is used with suitable cues from the available choice, tailored to
the individual learning method and cues of the person.
[0021] Most preferably, a combination of visual, auditory and kinaesthetic cues are
used in the teaching of the method. Any suitable combination of cues, may be used
in the inventive method.
[0022] The method may include a combination of training items to cue steps. For
example, the method may include use of conventional and modern teaching
techniques. The method may include use of written cues, written cues on white
boards or electronic white boards; flash cards, on screen displays such as used
through POWER POINT ("Trade Mark"), Also, face to face interactions may be
included, as part of the method. A combination of methods of cue may be used,
together with information and other forms of teaching programs. However, the cues
function quite differently to written information generally, and with training as part
of the method work through the functional steps towards the significant change in
the person, the positive result. Preferably, a filter action is a first step of the method
to filter for negative thoughts. The filter may take any suitable form. Preferably, the
filter is a taught self-analysis to identify and or recognise that a negative thought.
The negative thought is a convenient way to refer to the negative thing that is to
be addressed. However, the negative thought may be any negative identifiable
thing that it is desirable to identify and address. The negative thought may be
chosen from the group: negative thought; negative words; or negative action;
negative attitude; negativity from other people; negative personal, social or
community beliefs; negative interactions from others. The filter step may be part of
the identifying step. The filter step may occur before the identifying step.
[0023] Preferably, the identifying or recognising step of the method is to identify or
recognise the negative thought through training of the person to recognise and
questions negativity. When recognising negativity a structured process of training
may be used to improve positivity and mental resilience. Preferably, a two part test
is used in identification or recognising a negative thought. The first test may be to
specPA2045718

                                            10
ask substantially: is this thought based on truth and proven to be the truth? The
second test may be to ask substantially: is this thought supportive and empowering
to everyone involved and moving them towards their goals? The test may be to
ask: is this thought based on truth and proven to be the truth? And then to ask: is
this thought supportive and empowering to everyone involved and moving them
towards their goals? The wording of the tests may be changed somewhat but the
intention will be the same. Preferably, if the answer to either of these test questions
is no, then the thought, word or action should be considered as negative and the
next step of the method is to be undertaken. Preferably, regular practise of the
method of recognition and identifying the negative thoughts teaches this to be a
practised skill of the user to then know that they are having a negative thought,
word or action and that this must be addressed through use of the rest of the
method. Negative Impulsive Thoughts "NITs" (Trade Mark) are a significant
problem in addressing resilience as if left untreated, like the head lice of a similar
name, they spread and become much more difficult to treat. Irritating like head lice
NITs are contagious, hard to recognise and hard to treat. It is through long and
dedicated research and experimentation that the subject inventive method has
been developed to not only identify these problems but then to go further to look
to treat them. The identifying step may include the steps of the filter step described
above, in some forms of the invention.
[0024] Either both or all the tests or questions for identifying or recognising of the
negative thoughts will be taught to the person. Any suitable cue may be used for
the identification or recognition step, similar to those described elsewhere for the
other cues.
[0025] Preferably, after the identification or recognition of negativity, there follows
an elimination of negativity set of steps. Preferably, the elimination step is the
stopping of the negativity through use of a cue, elimination of the negative thought
through use of a cue and creating a positive alternative through use of a cue. Any
sort of cue may be used during these steps of training. These steps may be varied
in terms of order during the method, however the order as presented is preferred.
specPA2045718

                                           11
[0026] Preferably, the stopping step, elimination step and positive alternative steps
are three steps performed together on the identified negative thought to turn the
thought around to a positive. These steps may be referred to as the STOP, DROP
and ROLL method whereby the negative thought, once identified is stopped by
being caught and stabilised, eliminated and then a positive alternative created
instead. The labels may be varied within the scope of the invention. It is useful to
use the STOP, DROP and ROLL terminology of the method as these actions are
readily understood by a person, stop, halt end what they are thinking, drop it, and
then roll away to more on to something more positive. There are analogies with
the defence moves to stop, drop to the ground and roll away as a strong and
powerful message to positively fight against these sometimes debilitating negative
thoughts.
[0027] Preferably, the STOP step is to catch and stabilise the identified negative
thought through use of visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues. The stop step may
include use of visual cues. The stop step may include use of visual cues such as
to see images FREEZE, NET, BOX, TRAP and HOLD the negative thought. The
person will visualise, in response to the physical cues, the negative words/thoughts
being frozen in ice to stop or trap them. The negative thoughts can be contained
in a box or net as visualised and actioned in response to cues. For BOX the person
puts the negative words or thoughts inside a box, or covers with a box to be
contained. Another form the negative thought or word may fall in a trap, so as to
contain them. In another form the negative words or thoughts, may be held. The
HOLD instruction may use hands or tools, to hold the negative words or thoughts
of the person as part of the training method. In some forms of the invention there
may be the visual cue of a picture, video or animation that illustrates the FREEZE,
NET, BOX, TRAP and HOLD, each capturing or containing the thought and
stopping it as well. Each of these visual clue images or visually shown words can
be adapted to teach the stop and contain step of the inventive method. The stop
step may include the use of auditory cues. The stop step may include the use of
auditory cues such as pressing the stop button on a PC, stereo, audio player,
specPA2045718

                                           12
cassette player or electronic device. Preferably, pressing the STOP button turns
down the volume on the device. The turning down of the volume thereby reducing
the impact of the negative thought in response to the auditory STOP action. The
stop step may include the use of kinaesthetic cues. The stop step may include the
 use of kinaesthetic cues such as holding the negative emotion in a box or glass
jar, or holding it outside of your body with the hands so that it can be assessed
with the emotion affecting the person. The STOP step may include visual cues
chosen from the following group: BLAST; BLOW UP; BURN IT; MELT IT (if
 FROZEN); EAT UP (with a PAC MAN (TRADE MARK type figure marching across
the screen); DELETE BUTTON by pressing the button mentally (for those who use
a PC); written words; images displayed. Any of the electronic forms can be seen
and then visually destroyed through these means. The written words and images
can be physically destroyed or in another way eliminated to train through use of
the method. The form of visual cue, paper or electronic does not alter the use of
the method although one form may be preferred over another. The BLAST may be
through a visual bazooka type arrangement to blow up the negative thought or
word. BLOW IT UP may use explosive. BURN IT may be to use a fire thrower or
other fire blasting device to burn away the negativity. MELT IT for FROZEN
 negative words and thoughts melts away these. Preferably, during the STOP step
the repeated use of one or more of the cues teaches and trains the person to catch
and stabilise the identified negative thought.
 [0028] Preferably, the elimination step is to eliminate the negative thought through
 use of visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues. The elimination step may include use
of visual cues. The stop step may include use of visual cues such as to see images
 BLAST, BLOW UP, BURN, MELT, PAC MAN (Trade Mark), style computer device,
 DELETE BUTTON as described for the STOP step above. The elimination step
 may include the use of auditory cues. The elimination step may include the use of
auditory cues chosen from the following group: such as hearing a "rewind" sounds
 (such as a cassette being rewound); or an imagine to press a button for "delete";
 hearing the sound of a CD or something else being broken; hearing the sound of
specPA2045718

                                          13
burning as an item (CD/cassette/USB stick or PC or any item) is burnt; hearing the
sound of the item (CD/cassette/USB stick or PC or any item) dropping in water; or
physically making a step-by-step guided recording then deleting the words. Other
forms of elimination can be trained to eliminate and destroy from the STOP stage.
The elimination step may include the use of kinaesthetic cues. The elimination step
may include the use of kinaesthetic cues such as "separate from self" to separate
the emotion they feel from themselves, removed from their bodies, hearts and
minds. This separate from self is important in kinaesthetic cued people. The
elimination step may include use of the kinaesthetic cues chosen from the group:
taking that emotion and throwing it away; putting the emotion in the box and locking
it up; any process to take the trapped emotion and destroying it including use of
fire, explosives, washed away from the tide, separate from self; or image the hurt
feelings going away with actions such as a burp. Preferably, during the elimination
step the repeated use of one or more of the cues teaches and trains the person to
eliminate the identified negative thought. Preferably, the repeated elimination step
training trains the person to eliminate the identified negative thought, fast and
effectively, and it becomes an automated process.
[0029] Preferably, the method includes a conversion of the negative thought to a
positive one. Preferably, the creating a positive alternative step is to replace the
negative thought through use of visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cues with a positive
alternative. The creating of a positive alternative step may include use of visual
cues. The creating a positive alternative step may include use of visual cues such
as to see images, to see the positive alternative replacing the negative thought.
The replacement may be as described for the STOP step. The elimination step
may include visual cues chosen from the following group: BLAST; BLOW UP;
BURN IT; MELT IT (if FROZEN); EAT UP (with a PAC MAN (TRADE MARK type
figure marching across the screen); DELETE BUTTON by pressing the button
mentally (for those who use a PC); written words; images displayed. Any of the
electronic forms can be seen and then visually destroyed through these means.
The written words and images can be physically destroyed or in another way
specPA2045718

                                           14
eliminated to train through use of the method. The form of visual cue, paper or
electronic does not alter the use of the method although one form may be preferred
over another. The BLAST may be through a visual bazooka type arrangement to
blow up the negative thought or word. BLOW IT UP may use explosive. BURN IT
may be to use a fire thrower or other fire blasting device to burn away the
negativity. MELT IT for FROZEN negative words and thoughts melts away these.
All the same processes as previously mentioned are effective and whichever
process is used for the STOP and DROP steps may also be used in the elimination
step, for replacement. Any of video, audio or a combination of these formats may
be used as cues, as well use of flashcards. This may be tailored to an individual
or chosen from available positive images useful to turn around the negativity. Each
of these visual clue images or visually shown words Most preferably, the
elimination step includes positive alternatives through use of video, audio,
electronic screen presentations, cartoon images, flash cards, through use of an
app or online software. Once the positive through is established in the mind it can
be affirmed repeatedly, with physical cues like the use of screen savers, on screen
messages, messages through use of a portable electronic device, and other
similar digital tools.
[0030] The creating a positive alternative step may include the use of auditory cues.
The creating a positive alternative step may include the use of auditory cues such
as hearing the positive alternative that replaces the sound that is being replaced.
The auditory cue may be an audio file, CD or cassette or other item corresponding
to the earlier steps. Through use of an app or PC the auditory cues can be adapted
to suit the needs of the person. A range of auditory cues may be available, in
particular through use of an App or PC.
[0031] The creating a positive alternative step may include the use of kinaesthetic
cues. The creating a positive alternative step for kinaesthetic processors involves
changing the emotional reaction and feeling to a positive emotional feeling that
replaces the negative one. The kinaesthetic cues used for this step may be
provided though any of the group: an app; motivational tools; cue cards; videos;
specPA2045718

                                            15
audio lectures; on-line contact; and coaching. Preferably, during the creating a
positive alternative step the repeated use of one or more of the cues teaches and
trains the person to replace the identified negative thought.
[0032] The inventor has coined the term "PATs" (Trade Mark) for these Positive
Affirmative Thoughts, used to replace the negative ones during training.
[0033] Preferably, a program of training using the method will be undertaken.
Preferably, the person will continue the training until they are resilient and can
themselves deal with negative thoughts and proficiently address these. Preferably,
use of the method builds mental resilience. Preferably, the method of training is
used until the person can themselves use the method alone. The use of the
method alone may be through use of cue apparatus provided during the training.
The cue apparatus may include flash cards, recorded sounds or images, videos,
sounds and cues for creating a feeling.
[0034] Preferably, other features of the method are included. These may include
the elimination of negativity in others. These other features may be chosen from
the following group: avoiding responding or reacting to negativity in others;
communicate using positive and empowering terms; defining problems and
dealing with these identified problems directly; looking to problems themselves,
and not making an issue personal; identify and label negative thoughts as a NIT
and treat it accordingly; understand that a NIT is often born out of fear from the
other person; assess others ability to reconsider eg "have you considered?"...; and
surrounding yourself with positive people.
[0035] Other techniques or features that may be included may be chosen from the
following group: business tree analogy making sure the whole tree is well nurtured
to nurture all that work in it; using positive communication strategies at all times;
the box technique, to box up a negative emotion, separate it from self and put it
aside to address later; positively managing mistakes; positively managing conflict,
complaints and aggression; and creating a positive culture.
specPA2045718

                                           16
[0036] Preferably, the creation of a positive culture is created through use of one
or more of each of these qualities: excellence; professionalism; communication;
consistency; confidentiality; integrity; ownership; team work; dealing with conflict;
systems; joy and happiness; balance; gratitude; and abundance. Preferably, the
creation of a positive culture is considered and or measured by any one or more
of the following statements:
[0037] Excellence - I always provide work and services to an exceptional quality
that adds value to all involved with my work. I constantly strive to improve my own
performance and look at ways of continuously improving the systems within the
workplace with innovation.
[0038] Professionalism - My work, behaviour, speech and demeanour reflect the
standard of the workplace and I therefore always perform all my duties in a
professional manner well above the levels expected by clients and peers alike.
[0039] Communication - I always speak positively of my fellow team members,
clients, and the work place in both public and private. All my words are for good
purpose, using positive and empowering terms. I do not use or listen to gossip,
profanity, sarcasm or derogatory language and I will only speak constructively. I
greet and farewell people using their names and take responsibility for responses
to my communication. Consistency - I provide consistent service levels within my
work so clients and team members will feel comfortable dealing with me at all
times.
[0040] Confidentiality - I acknowledge that all information about the clients, work
place, business, and all the staff remains strictly confidential to all persons outside
the work place including my partner and family.        I will not even discuss issues
already known to external individuals. I acknowledge that breach of confidentiality
is dismissible without warning.
[0041] Integrity - I always speak the truth and I deliver what I promise. I only make
offers that I am prepared to keep and I communicate any break downs in
specPA2045718

                                            17
commitments at the first opportunity.          I resolve any broken commitments
immediately.
[0042] Ownership - I take full responsibility for all of my actions, words, outcomes
and all that takes place in my life.
[0043] Team Work - I focus on working within the team cooperatively to achieve
the best results overall. I am flexible to change my work habits, to learn new skills,
to ask for help and to help others with compassion whenever necessary to achieve
team goals.     I always focus on solving problems and achieve resolutions, not
compromises.
[0044] Dealing with Conflict - I acknowledge what is being said may be true for
the speaker at that moment. I always apologise for any upsets first and then look
for a solution to the problem.     I only ever discuss concerns in private with the
person concerned.
[0045] Systems - I acknowledge that most errors in business result from system
failure and not person failure. I therefore constantly look for ways to improve all
the systems in operation in the workplace.
[0046] Joy and happiness - I will always make every day a pleasure to enjoy and
I will spread that joy and happiness to all those around me, making the workplace
fun, positive and a great place to be.
[0047] Balance - I have a balanced approach to life, remembering that my
physical, emotional, spiritual and family life is just as important as my financial
achievements.
[0048] Gratitude - I am a truly grateful person. I say thank you and show my
appreciation often and in different ways. I celebrate my wins and the wins of the
team and clients. I consistently catch myself and others doing things right.
[0049] Abundance - I allow abundance in all areas of my life and I deserve
abundance due to my positive actions. I respect my self-worth and that of others.
specPA2045718

                                          18
I easily give and receive abundance and acknowledge that I receive it back to the
level that I give it out. I acknowledge that positive actions result in positive results
but the return may not be from the direction expected. Preferably, all of these
qualities are used to create a positive culture in a work place. Preferably, a
measure of each of these qualities is used to create a score and barometer of the
health of a work place
[0050] The Workplace Barometer may measure any one or more of:
1. Workplace Environment
     * Atmosphere
     * Morale
     " Manager effectiveness
     " Safety
2. Team Functioning
     * Goals
     * Engagement
     " Roles
     " Communication
     * Performance
3. Individual's status
     * Attitude
     * Optimism
     " Stress, anxiety, depression scores
     " Work vs home and external stressors
     " Mental Resilience
[0051] Preferably, the workplace barometer includes a measure of the workplace
environment, team functioning and individual's status. A score is given for each of
the 3 areas. More detailed assessments and scores may also be given, within the
specPA2045718

                                          19
areas. Other criteria may also be assessed as part of the workplace barometer
tool. Preferably, a score is given to assess the workplace. A repeat of the
assessment after training may hope to show an improved score. The benefit of the
workplace barometer process is that these areas can be tracked over time and
watch for improvements or deterioration, after interventions or after events. The
regular use of the workplace barometer tool also allows the deterioration of
workers personal mental health to be picked up before major crises occur as the
personal scores will progressively fall and interventions can be instituted before
major illness or workplace disruption occur. Preferably, a workplace will regularly
and repeatedly use the workplace barometer to assess the score. The score may
be given an acceptable range or score and a range or score that indicates that
intervention should be made at the workplace. Tracking over time may be
beneficial. The time tracking may be conducted through use of a proprietary app.,
software or other electronic means.
[0052] Preferably, these features are considered during the hiring and retaining of
staff. Preferably, a managers' toolbox is established, so that a positive and
supportive culture is encouraged and supported throughout a manager's role.
Preferably, a workplace barometer is used to monitor how the workplace culture
and positively is doing.
[0053] Preferably, worker health and issues such as suicide prevention, prevention
of depression, anxiety and addiction are all looked for and addressed.
[0054] It has been found through careful research that use of the inventive method
increases positively scores in individuals by 15% and resilience scores by 30%.
These significant results can be repeated across a workplace. The very strong
results data supports the invention as a very useful and credible method of
addressing a negative work place.
[0055] Preferably, the invention in any of its forms is used for a work place and the
individuals are taught used for the method and are assessed before and after and
used of the method substantially increases the scores for resilience.
specPA2045718

                                            20
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0056] The invention will now be described in connection with a non-limiting
preferred embodiment with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
[0057] Figure 1 is a summary table of the visual, auditory and kinaesthetic cues
used in a preferred embodiment of the invention and the accompanying instruction
as an illustrative example of STOP, DROP and ROLL;
[0058] Figure 2 is an illustrative example table of "NITs" (Negative Impulsive
Thoughts (Trade Mark)) and the corresponding "PATs" (Positive Affirmative
Thoughts (Trade Mark)) eg negative thoughts and their positive replacement used
in a preferred embodiment of the invention;
[0059] Figure 3 is a table of a comparison of NITs, negative thoughts and nits, head
lice as a useful analogy used in a preferred embodiment of the invention;
[0060] Figure 4 is an illustrative diagram of negative versus positive thoughts used
in a preferred embodiment of the invention, with suffering on one side and
happiness on the other;
[0061] Figure 5 is a diagram used in a preferred embodiment of the invention to
distinguish between the types of cues, visual, auditory or kinaesthetic;
[0062] Figure 6 is a diagram as may be used in a preferred embodiment of the
invention to illustrate the influence on events, such as a change of owner at work,
or change in personal circumstances, on a person and the reaction;
[0063] Figure 7 is an illustrative diagram used in a preferred embodiment of the
invention illustrating the role of the amygdala;
[0064] Figure 8 is the first part of a Workplace Barometer Survey as used in a most
preferred embodiment of the invention, with questions about the workplace;
[0065] Figure 9 is the second part of a Workplace Barometer Survey as used in a
most preferred embodiment of the invention, with questions about the team; and
specPA2045718

                                           21
[0066] Figure 10 is the third part of a Workplace Barometer Survey as used in a
most preferred embodiment of the invention, with personal questions about the
person completing the survey.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS INCLUDING A BEST METHOD
[0067] With reference to Schedule 3 (9) of Patent Regulations 1991, we note that
words included in the Figures are to particularly facilitate understanding of the
invention.
[0068] Referring to Figures 1 to 10, a preferred embodiment of the invention will be
described, including the useful but optional Workplace Barometer. Referring to
Figures 2 to 7 in particular, the table of Figure 2 illustrates the types of NITs
(Negative Impulsive Thoughts (Trade Mark)) that may be filtered and identified as
such. These negative thoughts may be different for different people or different
situations but common examples are given. For example, "Nobody likes me" may
be a negative thought that impulsively arrives, this needs to filtered, recognised,
and then the elimination steps undertaken so that these can be turned around to
a suitable positive affirmation "of course they like me, and with my wonderful
positive thinking I am a joy to be around". In Figure 2 there are many Positive
replacement thoughts listed as examples of the aim to turn the NITs (Trade Mark)
into PATs (Positive Affirmative Thoughts (Trade Mark)) as the result of the use of
the method. With training over time this can enable a person to be prepared for
when these negative thoughts arise and to deal with them themselves, as a result
of the method.
[0069] Figure 3 makes a useful comparisons of NITs (Trade Mark) the negative
thoughts with nits, the itchy head lice. If a person can be trained that these NITs
(Trade Mark) are just like head lice nits, and need treatment the same way this
assists through to use of the method. Such a comparison is helpful to make to
show how these negative thoughts have such a strong detrimental influence on
the life of a person.
specPA2045718

                                          22
[0070] Figure 4 illustrates a visual representation of what the NITs (Trade Mark)
versus PATs (Trade Mark) can be like, causing suffering, debt, pain, stress and
worry, whereas PATs (Trade Mark) are all about love, relaxation, and happiness.
[0071] Figure 5 gives a clear example of visual, auditory and kinaesthetic cues and
their different nature. Different people do respond better to different forms, some
to sounds, some to things they see, some to a combination of sounds and pictures,
some to something that stimulates an emotional response, or feeling, kinaesthetic
stimuli.
[0072] Figure 6 is a simple diagram to represent how events, at work perhaps such
as a restructure, may influence how a person feels and give an original reaction.
[0073] Figure 7 is a diagram of the role of the amygdala with stimuli and response
acting on the conscious mind.
[0074] All of these tools may be used in part of the training of the invention to
explain and illustrate NITs, what they are and how to look for them, and also how
these negative thoughts can be processed and have a strongly detrimental result
on our state of mind. As part of the method there may be face to face teaching,
either one on one or in a group to some of these general principles before use of
the method itself. Where an App is used the App can provide the teaching of these
general principles and give an introduction to the person instead.
[0075] In use of the system, after the initial introduction and training a person will
be taught to filter and identify negative thoughts which may be as given in the
examples in Figure 2, use of the NITs comparison table of Figure 3 in the
introduction may assist a person to see that these negative thoughts are at least
an irritation and should be addressed at an early stage to prevent them getting
worse and their implication for your overall well-being.
[0076] A filter action is taught as part of the first step of the method to filter for
negative thoughts. Typically, the filter is a taught self-analysis to identify and or
recognise that a negative thought, such as those thoughts may be frequent to that
specPA2045718

                                            23
particular individual. The negative thought is a convenient way to refer to the
negative thing that is to be addressed. However, the negative thought may be any
negative identifiable thing that it is desirable to identify and address. The negative
thought may be chosen from the group: negative thought; negative words; or
negative action; negative attitude; negativity from other people; negative personal,
social or community beliefs; negative interactions from others. The filter step may
be part of the identifying step. The filter step may occur before the identifying step.
[0077] The training of the method, after the initial filter step, teaches a person the
important steps of identifying or recognising the filtered the negative thought, as a
NITs an irritation that needs to be addressed. The filtering, identifying and
recognising can be done all together and with practise this step will become
cohesive. However, at the start the person may need to be taught to filter happy
thoughts from negative ones, to identify it for what it is a NITs and then on this
recognition proceed through to the elimination steps.
[0078] When recognising negativity a structured process of training is used to
improve positivity and mental resilience. In the given example, a two part test is
used in identification or recognising a negative thought. The first test asks: is this
thought based on truth and proven to be the truth? The second test asks: is this
thought supportive and empowering to everyone involved and moving them
towards their goals? The test can ask: is this thought based on truth and proven to
be the truth? And then asks: is this thought supportive and empowering to
everyone involved and moving them towards their goals? The wording of the test
questions can be tailored but also can be chosen from examples. If the answer to
either of these test questions is no, then the thought, word or action should be
considered as negative and the next step of the method is to be undertaken.
Regular practise of the method of recognition and identifying the negative thoughts
teaches this to be a practised skill of the user to then know that they are having a
negative thought, word or action and that this must be addressed through use of
the rest of the method. NITs (Trade Mark) are a significant problem in addressing
resilience as if left untreated, like the head lice of a similar name, they spread and
specPA2045718

                                            24
become much more difficult to treat. Irritating like head lice NITs are contagious,
hard to recognise and hard to treat. It is through long and dedicated research and
experimentation that the subject inventive method has been developed to not only
identify these problems but then to go further to look to treat them. The identifying
step may include the steps of the filter step described above, in some forms of the
invention. Importantly the tests or questions assist in the crucial recognition of the
NITs to be turned around.
[0079] Referring to Figure 1 in particular the next part of the invention will be
described, as referred to as the STOP, DROP and ROLL action method. The
STOP, DROP and ROLL analogy is useful for this the elimination step that follows
the filter, identification and recognition steps described above of the NITs, we are
now moving on to get rid of these NITs (Trade Mark) so they may be replaced with
PATs (Trade Mark). Each of these actions is important, and needs to be carefully
taught to properly deal with the negative thoughts.
[0080] The STOP action, broadly speaking is the action stage to catch and stabilise
the negative thought through identifying and recognising that a negative thought is
happening and then taking action to STOP or contain the thought.
[0081] The DROP action is the action of elimination or destruction of that negative
thought, to get it out of the mind and away.
[0082] The final action is ROLL, and this is to create a positive alternative to the
negative thought, so that the person more forward with positivity rather than
negativity.
[0083] A trained teacher will assess how the actions of the method should be taught
for a particular person, which cues to use whether they be visual, auditory or
kinaesthetic. Different people respond differently to different types of stimuli and
cues, and it is important that these cues are given in an appropriate format. An
initial assessment may be made to assess the responsiveness to particular kinds
of cues and learning before the method is undertaken or the method may be
specPA2045718

                                            25
adapted after a few attempts to suit the best outcome. An initial assessment may
form part of the invention in some forms.
STOP-Visual
[0084] For example, as in Figure 1, for the STOP phase the visual stimuli is to
visualise or be visually stimulated by use of an image of any one or the following:
net, box, trap or net, or the written instruction FREEZE or HOLD.
[0085] The visual cues are provided as illustrated through use of recorded videos
on a Smartphone App. The visual cues could also be provided to the same person
through a range of methods including video, teaching cards, whiteboard or on
screen presentations or face to face. In the given example the smartphone app
uses videos to provide the visual cues to the person for the purpose of their
particular training. Pictures and animations could be used as well or instead.
Cards with visual cues in the form of words, pictures, or both are shown to the
person to stimulate a response. The cues are different for each STOP, DROP and
ROLL action and have been carefully developed by the inventors to work for these
particular actions. Use of thinking the word STOP will not work outside of the
method, as our mind will override such an instruction. Instead the method cleverly
uses specific, developed cues to train the person to effectively contain and deal
with the negative thought.
[0086] In which ever format the visual cues take, whether they be on cards, on a
screen or personal computer or shown on a phone, these visual cues are very
important. Each cue could be tailored to the individual, and to the nature of the
negative thoughts but the method and actions of the invention remain the same
throughout. The visual cues can be taken from an available list.
STOP-Auditory
[0087] To catch and stabilise a negative thought for a person more comfortable with
auditory cues, specific sounds are caused. For example, as illustrated the STOP
button is pressed for the auditory STOP cue so that the word STOP is said out
specPA2045718

                                           26
loud. The app, or other recording may produce the sound. The person is trained
through the method to cause the STOP sound and on hearing this is to stop, catch
and stabilise the negative thought. Other sounds could be used and the person
taught to action the STOP action in response to this alternative instruction instead.
STOP-Kinaesthetic
[0088] The third kind of cue, after visual and auditory is kinaesthetic, and for stop
the action is to feel the "hurt" emotion. Using examples from other situations where
a person felt the hurt emotion this can be trained to be stimulated when a negative
thought has been identified and recognised that the method needs to be actioned.
Likewise the hurt emotion is stimulated on the STOP action for kinaesthetic cues,
again to catch and stabilise the negative thought.
[0089] After the STOP action, where the negative thought has been identified as
such, noted and stabilised rather than allow to dominate thoughts, the next action
is DROP. DROP as an action signifies the elimination of the negative thought that
has been caught and a stabilised by the STOP action. Again the DROP action can
be actioned in a visual way using visual cues, or auditory or kinaesthetic cues as
appropriate. Usually a person will have the same form of cues for the whole
method, either visual, auditory or kinaesthetic but a combination of cues may work
well for some people particular to action a particular step. For the DROP action the
visual, auditory and kinaesthetic cues are described as follows.
DROP-Visual
[0090] The visual cue may be to blast, blow up, burn or otherwise destroy the
negative thought, use of a PAC MAC style arrangement may be used or some
other gobbling up to show that the thought has been removed or destroyed. A
simple delete button as a visual cue may work well for some people, but which
ever cue the action of eliminated is undertaken.
specPA2045718

                                           27
DROP-Auditory
[0091] When providing a cue for auditory DROP there can be use of the words
REWIND of DELETE that are spoken and heard by the person. These words give
a strong cue and instruction to remove the thought, take it away to leave a blank
canvas for what comes next. Other audio cues could be used as appropriate.
DROP-Kinaesthetic
When providing a cue for kinaesthetic for DROP there can be use of the "the feel
hurt" emotion as an illustrative suitable emotion for the drop command. The person
is trained to imagine taking that feeling and destroying it in whatever way works for
them. The destructions may be throwing away of the feeling, shooting it, burning
it, or any of the above processes to destroy. The focus of the DROP step is to drop
the emotion and to eliminate it by the person.
ROLL-Visual
[0092] When providing a visual cue for ROLL, that is to create a positive alternative
to the negative thought, there can be use of the words see it.
ROLL-Auditory
[0093] When providing an auditory cue for ROLL, there can be use of the words
hear it.
ROLL-Kinaesthetic
[0094] When providing a kinaesthetic cue for ROLL, there can be use of the words
feel it.
[0095] The negative thought will be different for different people and these methods
may be used for any and all negative thoughts and are a method applicable as and
when needed. For some people there may be a particular regular negative thought
and this can be identified so that the person can develop a specific method to
address this, as the thoughts arise.
specPA2045718

                                            28
[0096] Overtime the cues can become learned and the person can call upon these
as necessary to put into practise what they have learned. The invention is a very
useful one, that can use suitable cues, visual, auditory, kinaesthetic or a
combination to deliver training in a method to transform NITs to PATs. This unique
method could also be applicable to other uses. The strong training which can be
delivered electronically or through more conventional means is a significant
improvement over the art.
[0097] There are other aspects to the invention and in particular use of the method
not only for an individual but for individuals in a group such as a work place. In this
case other considerations are made as follows:
[0098] Elimination of Negativity from others
The Positive Mindfulness Cognition method also has processes to deal with
negativity and conflict from others:
         1.   Avoid letting the negative issues of other affect you - "Don't react,
              Respond" don't react emotionally to the NITs of others
         2.   Communicate using positive and empowering terms
         3.   Define the problem and deal with that directly
         4.   Address the problem and avoid any personal attacks/ issues
         5.   Label the negativity as a "NIT" and challenge it because it is
              inappropriate
         6.   Understand that all NITs come from FEAR - so the NIT should be
              taken as a compliment! (The other party is so fearful that you are
              better than them...)
         7.   Assess others willingness of the other party to reconsider with terms
              like
              "Interesting that you see it that way, as I believe..."
              "Have you considered... ?"
              "Are you willing to consider...?"
specPA2045718

                                           29
         8.   Create a NIT-free (positive) environment , surrounding yourself with
              positive people and education of family, friends and workplaces
[0099] Positive Communication Strategies
         1.   Use positive terms in communication only (culture statement 3)
         2.   Does not listen to or speak gossip, denigration, sarcasm or profanity
         3.   Use active listening skills to obtain full facts before any response
              provided
         4.   Ask questions to obtain motives behind words and actions
         5.   Paraphrase the information for accuracy
         6.   Ask more questions about how the situation could have been handled
              better
         7.   Don't judge or assume anything
         8.   Let the person find the solution themselves
[0026] 5 Steps to Positively managing mistakes
         1.   Use Mistakes as learning tools
         2.   Take 100% responsibility and apologise immediately
         3.   Fix the Mistake fast
         4.   Focus on the problem, not the person
         5.   Fix the underlying cause
[0027] Positively Managing Conflict, Complaints and Aggression
         1.   Focus on complaints as learning tools
         2.   Take 100% responsibility and apologise early
         3.   Fix the problem fast - (dealing only with the person involved, not
              others that are not involved)
         4.   Focus on the problem, not the person
         5.   Don't React, Respond - reactions are emotional and responses are
              values based.
         6.   Communicate with listening, paraphrasing and be on their side
specPA2045718

                                           30
         7.   Establish boundaries - of boundaries of acceptable behaviour within
              the interaction
         8.   Maintain a class act
[0028] Positive Culture Statements to direct behaviour
15 culture statements are provided that act as a guide for behavioural standards
but also can act as a disciplinary support process. They act as a powerful self
regulator in the workplace for staff to become much more self directed, self
correcting and self reliant, recognising themselves when they are out of line. Of
great import is use of the inventive measuring system, an optional aspect of the
subject application to act as a barometer for the health of a workplace, including
the individuals, the workplace itself and the team functioning known as the
Workplace Barometer Referring in particular to Figures 8, 9 and 10, a unique
system is disclosed considering each of these three factors, the health of the
workplace, individuals and the team functioning. The three factors are assessed
using a numbered scale to give an overall score or scale, as illustrated in the three
Figures. The Figures illustrate typical useful questions to stimulate suitable
responses for an assessment, these may be varied somewhat in use, or varied to
suit the particular situation or workplace. In this way a base level can be obtained
when first working with a group or workplace and then change can be measured
over time, to determine risks and improvements in these three areas. The scoring
in these three, key, areas mean that the parameters can be checked on a regular
basis and allowing the impact of any training, intervention or business event to be
accurately measured. The measurement of the individuals mental state (including
optimism, resilience, work satisfaction, anxiety, stress and depression) allows
early intervention should any individuals scores show a steady decline or
significant problems and this allows early intervention to prevent more serious
illness or absenteeism.
Excellence - I always provide work and services to an exceptional quality that
adds value to all involved with my work. I constantly strive to improve my own
specPA2045718

                                           31
performance and look at ways of continuously improving the systems within the
work place with innovation.
Professionalism - My work, behaviour, speech and demeanour reflect the
standard of the work place and I therefore always perform all my duties in a
professional manner well above the levels expected by clients and peers alike.
Communication - I always speak positively of my fellow team members, clients,
doctors and the work place in both public and private. All my words are for good
purpose, using positive and empowering terms. I do not use or listen to gossip,
profanity, sarcasm or derogatory language and I will only speak constructively. I
greet and farewell people using their names and take responsibility for responses
to my communication.
Consistency - I provide consistent service levels within my work so clients and
team members will feel comfortable dealing with me at all times.
Confidentiality - I acknowledge that all information about the clients, work place,
business, doctors and all the staff remains strictly confidential to all persons
outside the work place including my partner and family.       I will not even discuss
issues already known to external individuals. I may discuss general medical issues
or situations that are de-identified and in no way can be connected to the persons
involved.     I acknowledge that breech of confidentiality is dismissible without
warning.
Integrity - I always speak the truth and I deliver what I promise. I only make offers
that I am prepared to keep and I communicate any break downs in commitments
at the first opportunity. I resolve any broken commitments immediately.
Ownership - I take full responsibility for all of my actions, words, outcomes and
all that takes place in my life.
Team Work - I focus on working within the team cooperatively to achieve the best
results overall. I am flexible to change my work habits, to learn new skills, to ask
for help and to help others with compassion whenever necessary to achieve team
specPA2045718

                                          32
goals. I always focus on solving problems and achieve resolutions, not
compromises.
Dealing with Conflict - I acknowledge what is being said may be true for the
speaker at that moment. I always apologise for any upsets first and then look for
a solution to the problem. I only ever discuss concerns in private with the person
concerned.
Systems - I acknowledge that most errors in business result from system failure
and not person failure. I therefore constantly look for ways to improve all the
systems in operation in the workplace.
Joy and happiness - I will always make every day a pleasure to enjoy and I will
spread that joy and happiness to all those around me, making the workplace fun,
positive and a great place to be.
Balance - I have a balanced approach to life, remembering that my physical,
emotional,    spiritual and family life is just as important as my financial
achievements.
Gratitude - I am a truly grateful person. I say thank you and show my appreciation
often and in different ways. I celebrate my wins and the wins of the team and
clients. I consistently catch myself and others doing things right.
Abundance - I allow abundance in all areas of my life and I deserve abundance
due to my positive actions. I respect my self worth and that of others. I easily give
and receive abundance and acknowledge that I receive it back to the level that I
give it out. I acknowledge that positive actions result in positive results but the
return may not be from the direction expected.
The other features, can also be used to see the overall health and resilience of the
group of people. Other features to be considered may include:
[0029] Hiring and Retaining the Best Staff
In the hiring process, the new employee is explained:
specPA2045718

                                           33
         1.   The Culture statements
         2.   The importance of taking 100% responsibility
         3.   The "Best version of You" talk - the person that is presented at
              interview is the person that is being employed and it is expected to
              keep to those standards and the promises made during the interview
         4.   Conflict Resolution process (as above)
         5.   Balanced relationship talk - both the business and the worker need
              to benefit from the relationship keeping the balance. Like any
              relationship, it needs to benefit both sides and that one side does not
              feel like they are being taken advantage of.
 [0030] Managers Toolbox
 Other steps that can be used by managers are:
         1.   Attitude of Gratitude (culture statement 12)
         2.   Get everyone to buy in to Positivity principles (No-NITs and Culture
              statements)
         3.   Use of positive terms in communication - I would love to/ Absolutely /
              Anytime/ room for improvement/ challenges/ needs assistance
         4.   Walk the Talk
         5.   Holes in the Bucket Principle - leaks in the bucket (business losses)
              need to be found and reduced or stopped
         6.   Three Ts - Tasks, Timeframes and Targets. This positive planning
              strategy allows the relative priority of different tasks to be planned and
              tracked over time. The targets need to be specific and measurable.
 [0031] Suicide prevention strategies
The prevention strategies and advice to use with people at risk are based on non
judgmental support, empathy and the Positive mindfulness processes. The
strategies are:
specPA2045718

                                           34
         1.   Non-judgment (take away the observer's stigma and fear of
              depression / suicide)
         2.   Empathy (understand that depression occurs in 1 in 5 people, it is not
              their fault, there are physical changes to brain that cause mental ill
              health)
         3.   Understand      how to assess immediate suicide          risk (by non
              professional observer)
         4.   Explore reasons for living / dying (overcome the fear of open
              discussion by observer)
         5.   Support - give understanding to sufferer of the above facts, and the
              success of treatment
         6.   Offer avenues of professional support + help (Lifeline, GP, counseling,
              online, literature)
         7.   Create connectedness with self / others - reignite the care factor of
              multiple support people for the sufferer - workmates, friends, family
         8.   Create a Safe Plan (to protect if the person develops strong suicidal
              thoughts)
[0032] Suicide Strategy for Business
These provide business with guidance on what to set up in the workplace to have
a pre and post-suicide strategies at work. They provide the steps on how the work
place will reacts if acute mental incidents or suicide does occur in the workplace
or in close friends or family. This includes:
         1.   Written policy in the workplace
         2.    Non-judgmental freedom to disclose issues
         3.    Immediate referral for counselling / EAP services
         4.   Adequate time off for recovery of victims and others affected
               (including care givers)
         5.    Non-stigmatised allowance of variable function during recovery
specPA2045718

                                            35
         6.     Connectedness - create links within workplace and community - this
                is to connect with organisations, individuals and support people with
                lived experience.
         7.     Reintegrate affected individuals to social groups, activities and
                pleasurable experiences
[0033] Overall, strategies in this Positive Mindfulness Cognition program presents
tools and strategies explained above to improve the mindset of each individual.
The program also provides a scoring and measurement system called the
"Workplace Barometer" that measures individual's mental resilience, optimism and
their mental state including stress, anxiety and depression. Any workplace may
use the Workplace Barometer to measure for the mental resilience of their work
force and make a consideration of how to improve the situation. The scores will
reflect the effectiveness of any program or intervention as well as allow the impact
of business events to be measured (such as new systems being implemented,
new CEO, or manager, economic downturn, buy out from external company). A
healthy culture may be established through use of the aforementioned factors,
such as through workshops and support through a written culture statement.
[0034] In particular the workplace barometer of the invention will be used to
measure each of the three areas-individuals, the workplace atmosphere and the
effectiveness of the function of the team. Within each group the areas addressed
should be:
Individual
     -   optimism score
     -   resilience
     -   Stress score
     -   Anxiety Score
     -   Depression score
specPA2045718

                                             36
Workplace Atmosphere
     -   Happiness of staff
     -   Workplace enthusiasm
     -   Manager's effectiveness
     -   Sense of value as an employee
Team Functioning
     -   Clarity of goals
     -   Engagement of staff
     -   Clarity of Roles and responsibilities
     -   Communication effectiveness
     -   Processes for reflecting and reviewing
[0035] In a more refined form the Workplace Barometer may measure any one or
more of :
1. Workplace Environment
     " Atmosphere
     * Morale
     * Manager effectiveness
     * Safety
2. Team Functioning
     " Goals
     * Engagement
     " Roles
     " Communication
     " Performance
3. Individual's status
specPA2045718

                                            37
     "   Attitude
     * Optimism
     " Stress, anxiety, depression scores
     " Work vs home and external stressors
     " Mental Resilience
[00100]The      workplace  barometer     includes a     measure    of the workplace
environment, team functioning and individual's status, as each is important and
reflective of health. A score is given for each of the 3 areas, which can be assessed
as shown in Figures 8, 9 and 10. Figure 8 is the first part of the Workplace
barometer assessment, taking the usual details, to identify who is being assessed.
These basic details include the name of the workplace, age and sex of the person
completing the assessment. The example asks for a score to be given between 0
very low and 10 high for each of the criteria. The criteria have been carefully
chosen to assess the person and their work in the workplace. For example, how
do they feel about coming to work, do they feel valued, is it a happy workplace, is
it a safe workplace?
[00101] In the second part of the Workplace Barometer as illustrated in Figure 9,
there are included some general questions about the team of the person. Topics
such as goals, engagement, assigning roles and responsibilities, communication,
reflection and review. Again each of these are given a score from 0 to 10, 0 being
low and 10 high. Figure 8 is the third part of the Workplace Barometer shown, with
personal questions, these are designed to assess the personal wellbeing, is the
person anxious, how do they respond to stresses, are they optimistic. Careful
consideration of the results given by the person, as to the levels of response of
the person low, 1-4, medium, 5 to 8 or high 9 and 10 enable the assessment, as
part of the barometer. The questions are very useful, and have been very carefully
worked out to make an in depth assessment. However, some variation may be
made to these questions as would be understood by the person skilled in the art.
specPA2045718

                                          38
[00102] Other criteria may also be assessed as part of the workplace barometer
tool, until overall the score of the workplace can be given. A repeat of the
assessment after training, through use of the inventive system is useful as it can
produce a base level, and then show improvement over time. In other situations,
where there is an event, the result on the staff and overall workplace sentiment
may also be assessed. For example, if there have been job losses, a restructure
or change of leadership this may be a traumatic change within the workplace. The
response of the works may be small or large but are measureable as part of the
assessment process and comparable with results made at other times.
[00103] It is a strong and important benefit of the workplace barometer process
invention that these areas can be tracked over time and watch for improvements
or deterioration, after interventions or after such events. Without any such
assessment there is no measure, only the general feeling and response of the
workers. The score may be given as within an acceptable range, of a score may
indicate that intervention should be made at the workplace. Use of an App to take
the assessment, record and assess the data is useful, and may also be used to
produce reports for tracking of the results over time, again noting events at the
workplace and how these impact the results.
[00104]Scores are obtained in each area separately, resulting in independent
scoring of these areas as they can fluctuate separately for different reasons;
another clever feature of the invention. The initial scoring gives the baseline for the
workplace and the individuals and follow up scores can show the changes over
time.
[0036] The structure of these questions is unique to measure the different
parameters      in the three areas (individuals, team functioning, workplace
atmosphere) but the questions are asked in a way that focuses on the workplace
rather than the personal to overcome personal resistance to the personal
questions.
specPA2045718

                                          39
[0037] The DASS 21 score has been used including the 7 questions to consider
and determine depression, anxiety and stress.
[00105] The tools can also be used by a manager when looking to hire or retain staff,
and managers encouraged to provide a strongly supportive culture at the
workplace, that will provide a positive workplace barometer result. It has been well
established that people spend a lot of time at work, and if the workplace is not a
healthy environment, such as people are worried about job security or safety at
work for example, there overall wellbeing is under stress. It is an important issue
in the workplace to look at the impact of depression, anxiety and addiction on
works and working days. Suicide prevention is also a very important issue looking
for signs.
[00106]As mentioned elsewhere, the clear benefits of the use of the workplace
barometer as part of the invention is that it has been found, through careful
research, resulting in increased positivity scores in individuals of 15% and
resilience scores of 30%. These are clear and demonstrable advantages to the
use of the inventive method producing a measurable and useful result. Over time
the results can be tracked, including through use of an App. Tracking over time or
individual assessments can be used to provide a report to an employer or
management team. These reports can be used to look at the workplace as a whole,
the environment and state of mind of the workers, but also to make commercial
decisions on recruitment, and how to deal with future events. The resultant reports
are therefore a very useful result that cannot be produced without use of the
method in order that decisions for the business.
[0038] The method teaches a person through the unique format to be able in the
end to deal with negative thoughts and turn these around to positive ones.
Confidential test results of use of the inventive system results in a typical
improvement in the positivity scores of 15% and 30% in mental. The program
works very well to improve the individual's mindset and the workplace
environment. In individuals the improved mindset and elimination of negative
specPA2045718

                                          40
thoughts results in improvements in their work and personal lives. The workplace
is improved as each individual has improved positivity, resilience and interpersonal
skills to deal with everyday challenges, team functioning improves and early
detection and treatment can occur if mental health risks are found with the
Workplace Barometer. The subject unique and inventive system changes the
mindsets of individuals and improves workplace culture and interactions.
[0039] Figure 2 gives a useful example table of NITs the negative thoughts that
may be experienced, and some PATs that may be used through the training to turn
the negative thoughts positive. Visual people will be visualizing the positive
alternative in response to the appropriate cues, auditory people will be the hearing
the success is some form, which may be triumphant trumpets, for example, or
hearing the positive news report. Kinaesthetic people, in response to the cues, will
be feeling the change in emotion from the hurt, anger or disappointment, to
happiness, self-confidence and self-love. The particular questions asked and tools
used to train to turn these around are useful examples of the inventive method,
however, these are not limiting and alternative NITs and PATs may also be used
as would be apparent to the person skilled in the art, without moving beyond the
scope of the invention.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0040] The method may be provided to people directly, through workshops or
classes or through use of an App. In each case access to the method is through
payment to be provided in order that the method be accessed and used to produce
the results, which may then be used to make commercial decisions.
[0041] It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that changes may be made
to the embodiments disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope
of the invention, in its various aspects.
specPA2045718

                                           41
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       A method of teaching resilience through use of visual, auditory or
kinaesthetic cues, the method including the following steps:
         a)   identifying/recognising a negative thought;
         b)   stopping the negative thought through means of a visual, auditory or
              kinaesthetic cue;
         c)   eliminating the negative thought through means of a visual, auditory
              or kinaesthetic cue; and
         d)   creating a positive alternative to the negative thought through use of
              a visual, auditory or kinaesthetic cue,
wherein, the method of teaching resilience, when practised over time enables the
person to better deal with the negative thought, improving their positivity and or
resilience.
2.       The method of teaching resilience of claim 1, wherein included is use of an
app, provided on a portable electronic device.
3.       The method of teaching resilience of any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the
visual cues as seen are chosen from the group: words on an electronic screen;
pictures on an electronic screen; video movies on an electronic screen; words on
a movie; words as a thought bubble; words placed in front of a person; or a word
scrolling across an electronic screen, wherein the auditory cues are chosen from
the group: hearing words or sounds through a speaker; hearing words or sounds
on a radio; hearing words or sounds from an electronic device; hearing words or
sounds through a conventional device such as a cassette player, radio, record
player, television or video player; voices; words; sounds, electronic devices or
presentations; cartoons; videos; use of app; software used to produce the auditory
cues; face-to-face presentation or through use of flash cards which are then read
and spoken and the kinaesthetic cues are chosen from the group: experience the
specPA2045718

                                          42
feeling or emotion in your heart body and mind; feel the actual emotion created by
the situation without suppression.
4.       The method of teaching resilience of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
cues are visual or auditory cues as words on an electronic screen; pictures on an
electronic screen; video movies on an electronic screen; words on a movie; words
as a thought bubble; words placed in front of a person; or a word scrolling across
an electronic screen or hearing words or sounds through a speaker; hearing words
or sounds on a radio; hearing words or sounds from an electronic device; hearing
words or sounds through a conventional device such as a cassette player, radio,
record player, television or video player; voices; words; sounds, electronic devices
or presentations; cartoons; videos; use of app; software used to produce the
auditory cues; face-to-face presentation or through use of flash cards which are
then read and spoken.
5.       The method of teaching resilience of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the visual,
auditory or kinaesthetic cues includes a plurality of physical cards, cues or teaching
aids to assist in the performance of the method, which may be chosen from the
following group: flash card; sounds from speakers; visuals on an electronic screen;
video provided on a screen of an electronic device; app on a PC; app on a mobile
device; mobile phone app; video recorded training; audio recorded training; sound
and visual recorded for replay; or any other suitable means.
Dated this 29th day of March 2018
Harold John McIntosh AND Elizabeth Mary-Rae McIntosh
By his Patent Attorney
TJIP Patents, Trade Marks & Designs
Suite 4, 45-49 Bundock Street
Belgian Gardens, Townsville, Queensland 4810
specPA2045718

<removed-date>
                                         1/8
                      Meaning         Visual         Auditory       Kinaesthetic
                                      <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E>
                     Catch and                      <U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E>        Feel the<U+260E>
              STOP                   Freeze, net,
                      stabilise                     Stop button     Hurt Emotion
                                   box, trap, hold
<removed-apn>
                                   Blast, blow up,
                                     burn, melt                     Separate from
              DROP   Eliminate                     Rewind/ delete
                                      Pac Men,                          self
                                    delete button
                      Create a
              ROLL    Positive         See it         Hear it          Feel it
                     Alternative
                                     FIGURE 1

<removed-date>
                                                              2/8
                        NITs                                             PATs
                     <U+2701> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E>         <U+261B><U+260E><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2720><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2704><U+2720><U+2713><U+2714><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271D><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2715><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2718><U+2714><U+260E><U+2704><U+271E><U+2721><U+270C><U+2721><U+2706><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2706><U+271E><U+2721><U+2716> <U+2702> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271E>
                                                                              it right.
                <U+271A><U+2701> <U+271B><U+270E><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C> <U+2721><U+271C><U+2718><U+2720><U+270C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2716><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
                                                Of course it can be done. Other people have done greater
                                             things, so I just need to work out the solution and harness my
                                                                       own imagination.
                    3. I am stupid              Everyone makes mistakes, and each time I attempt it, I get
                                                                       better and better.
              4. He is better than I am          He is really good at that skill so I should learn from him to
                                              improve my skills in that area. We all have different areas of
                                                                            expertise.
                 5. Nobody likes me               Of course they like me, and with my wonderful positive
                                                             thinking I will be a joy to be around.
                6. <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+270C><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2715><U+2721><U+2719><U+270E><U+271E>           My attempts to lose weight have not worked yet, but I just
                                                 need to get the right information, put in the effort and my
                                                          weight issues will be a thing of the past.
              7. Nothing ever works out      This has not worked this time. What can I learn from it to have
                       for me                   a better chance of success next time? I will get better with
                                                                         every attempt.
              7. I always have bad luck       I make my own luck, and with a positive attitude, I will attract
                                                    luck as positive thoughts attract positive outcomes.
                8. Everyone is talking         I need to keep remembering that people usually act like this
                     about me                out of jealousy. What people want to talk about is up to them,
                                             but at least I know that I am doing the right thing, can hold my
                                                head up high and their rumours/criticisms/comments will at
                                                          some time be shown for what they are.
              <U+2723><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+260E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2721><U+2706><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2719><U+260E><U+2721><U+2706> <U+270C><U+2720> <U+270D><U+2715>       We will still go to the beach and enjoy the rain on our face
                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2720> <U+271E><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2715><U+260E><U+2704><U+270E>                                and wind in our hair.
                <U+2724><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2720> <U+2722><U+2713><U+270C><U+261E><U+2725> <U+2702> <U+270E><U+260E><U+2726><U+2715><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>     <U+2702><U+270C><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2714><U+2715><U+260E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+270E><U+260E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2720> <U+2722><U+2713><U+270C><U+261E> <U+271E><U+270E><U+260E><U+271E> <U+2702> <U+270E><U+260E><U+2726><U+2715><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+260E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271C><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2720><U+2714> <U+260E>
              had time for a lunch break     lunch break <U+2727> the business is doing really well and my job will
                                                                      be secure?
                   <U+2701> <U+261B><U+2715><U+2715><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271E><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2715> <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>         While I know he will come home as soon as he can, I will use
                always waiting for him        this time well and for my own benefit by reading a book,
                                                      meditating or spending time with my friends.
                                                         FIGURE 2

<removed-date>
                                                            3/8
               NITs    Negative Impulsive Thoughts                      Nits   Head Lice
              Negative thoughts                           Physical lice
              Often go unnoticed                          Often go unnoticed
              Not visible and only noticeable with        Only just visible with careful inspection and
              attention                                   attention
              Very irritating and emotionally draining    Physically irritating and emotionally
                                                          draining
<removed-apn>
              Infectious                                  Infectious
              Occurring in epidemic proportions           Occurring in epidemic proportions (in third
                                                          world)
              Spreads rapidly through people in           Spreads rapidly through people in contact
              contact
              Need to be recognised before                Needs to be suspected before treatment
              treatment can be used                       used
              Early destruction is best                   Early destruction is best
              Treatments are successful                   Treatments are successful
              Regular treatments required                 Regular treatments required
              Regular monitoring is necessary to          Regular monitoring necessary to prevent
              prevent relapse                             relapse
                                                  Some differences
              Very common problem in all ages             Common problem in children mainly
              Present in most situations                  Present mainly in schools and childcare
                                                          areas
              More common in developed worlds             Less common in developed world
                                                         FIGURE 3
                                                         FIGURE 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 4/8
FIGURE 5

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            5/8
FIGURE 7   FIGURE 6

<removed-date>
                                                                             6/8
                                                            Workplace Barometer Survey
              Workplace Team -                                          <U+2701><U+2701>
              Age                  <20       20-30        30-45         45-65        >65
              Sex                  M         F
<removed-apn>
              Occupation -         Sales     Administration         Trade /Technical / Manual             Supervisor Manager
              Executive
              Thank you for taking part in this important survey about your workplace. Please answer the questions
              honestly and quickly with the first response that comes to mind.
              General Questions about the workplace                                                                  Answers 0 (low)     <U+2702> 10
              (high)
                    1.   I look forward to and feel happy about coming to work each day.                                                <U+2704><U+260E>
                    2.   I feel appreciated and valued at work                                                                          <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                    3.   My teammates enjoy their work and are happy to come to work each day                                           <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                    4.   Our company and all the managers place great importance on the happiness of myself and all the team <U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+260E><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                    5.   If I feel unhappy with a particular element of my work, I feel as though I have the support and tools needed to help
                         me resolve the problem.                                                                                        <U+2704><U+260E>
                    6.   I feel as though my manager would be interested to know if I was unhappy at work, and would take any appropriate
                         action to help me resolve the problem.                                                                         <U+2704><U+260E>
                    7.   I have respect for the manager of my team because they are effective, supportive, positive and lead by example <U+2704><U+260E>
                    8.   When any safety issue at work needs to be raised (physical, emotional or mental), I feel that I will be supported
                         and the problem assessed without any negative impact on me                                                     <U+2704>.
                    9.   Inter-personal conflict, denigration, sarcasm and harassment are present in the workplace                      <U+2704><U+260E>
                    10. The company provides a happy, healthy and safe work environment to the best of their ability.                   <U+2704><U+260E>
                                                                             FIGURE 8

<removed-date>
                                                                 7/8
              General Questions about your Team
              Goals
              1. The goals of the team are clearly stated and have been communicated to all team members?            <U+2701>
              2. Everyone who works in the team share the same goals, stands and ethics?                         .
              3. Each individual in the team is clear about the requirements of their role and how they contribute       <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              to the collective goals of the team?
              Engagement
                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                  1. Team members are given the opportunity to make suggestions and contribute ideas to the
                      <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2704><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+261E> <U+260E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2704><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2706><U+260E><U+270C><U+2711><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2720> <U+260E><U+2711>                                                        <U+2701>
                      ways the team is run?
                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                  2.                                                  knowledged and recognised?
                  3. All team members are treated with respect and dignity?
              Assigning Roles and Responsibility
                  1. All tasks required to keep the team running smoothly have been identified and have been
                     allocated to individuals?                                                               .
                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                  2. All team members are aware of how their tasks impacts on others and have an agreed strategy
                                                                                <U+2713><U+2704><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271E><U+2715> <U+261E><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+260E><U+271D><U+2716><U+2704> <U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2717><U+2704><U+271E>
                     that enhances efficiency and reduces duplication?
                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                  3. Team members have sufficient knowledge about each ot
                     for individuals who are sick or on leave?
              Communication
              1. The team has regular team meetings?                                                                 <U+2701>
              <U+2718><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2713><U+2704><U+271E><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2720> <U+260E><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2720><U+261E><U+260E><U+271D><U+2716><U+2712><U+2720><U+2713><U+2704><U+270D> <U+270F><U+271E><U+261B><U+2711><U+2704><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B><U+270C><U+2712><U+261E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2712><U+270C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271E><U+2704><U+2717><U+2712><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712><U+270C><U+270E> <U+261E><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F> performance?             <U+2701>
              3. There are clear and well established communicate channels for keeping all team
              members (including part-timers) informed of changes in the team?                                       <U+2701>
              Reflect and Review
              1.The team has an established process for reviewing newly implemented procedures in the team?                  <U+2701>
              2. There is an established process for monitoring and reviewing team performance?                              <U+2701>
              3. There is opportunity and a process for the team to learn from mistakes and to use this
              information to improve the overall efficiency of the team?                                                     <U+2701>
                                                           FIGURE 9

<removed-date>
                                                                      8/8
              Personal Questions about you
                                                                                                Low     Medium       High
              1. All things considered, how would you rate yourself on an optimism scale?     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
                                                                                                <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              2. All things considered, how satisfied are you with your work as a whole these days?
                                                                                               <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> NA
<removed-apn>
              3. Within the workplace, how much are you able to control your job
                 and workplace situation?                                                      <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> NA
              4. If something can go wrong for me, it will.                                    <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              5. When I am criticised personally, it hurts my feelings                         <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              6. In uncertain times, I usually expect the best.                                <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              7. I'm always optimistic about my future.                                        <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              8. When I make a foolish mistake, I criticise myself                             <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              9. When someone drives badly on the road, my level of annoyance is              <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              10. I hardly ever expect things to go my way.                                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              11.   I rarely count on good things happening to me.                            <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              12.   Overall, I expect more good things to happen to me than bad.              <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              13.   In the event of someone driving into my car, my level of anger is         <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              14.   When I make repeated mistakes with a new task, the strength of my
                    self doubt to ever do it properly is                                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              15. After my house has been burgled, my level of anger is (res)                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              16. In the team at work, I can trust my team members to complete their
              Tasks (trust)                                                                    <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              17. When I have been wrongly overcharged for a bill, my annoyance
                  level is                                                                      <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              18. The level of stress I experience at work is                                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
              19. The level of stress I experience at home or outside of work is                <U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706><U+2706>
                                                               FIGURE 10

