                                            ABSTRACT
THE SELF LOADING TOOTHBRUSH
The ergonomical design of The Self Loading Toothbrush consists of a cylindrical shape in the
body (Figi) of the brush, with a tapered neck (Fig2) to which the head/brush (Fig6) is installed
on top of the tapered neck piece (Fig2).
The cylindrical shape of the body (Fig1) of The Self Loading Toothbrush holds the replacement
toothpaste cartridge (Fig4).
The replacement toothpaste cartridge (Fig4) is inserted into the top of the cylindrical body
section (Fig1) with the tapered neck (Fig2) screwed/attached onto the top of the cylindrical
body shape (Fig1).
The Self Loading Toothbrush (Fig8) has a clear see through viewing window to allow the user
to view the toothpaste usage/quantity.
The Self Loading Toothbrush (Fig1) has an inserted plunger devise, which sits inside the base
unit (Fig1).
This plunger devise is connected to a button which opens and closes the replacement
toothpaste cartridge allowing the paste to flow via two small holes in the head section, onto
the head (Fig6) of the toothbrush.
The plunger devise is operated by a spring loading mechanism (Fig7) which operates in
conjunction with the side button (Fig8) which opens the replacement toothpaste cartridge
 (Fig4).
The Self Loading Toothbrush has a flat cylindrical base allowing the unit to stand for
 convenience.
 (Fig3) is a replaceable head section, replaceable for hygiene purposes.

                                                     AUSTRALIA
                                                  Patents Act 1990
                                            COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                               INNOVATION PATENT
                                  NAME OF APPLICANT: Gregory Karol JOZWICKI
                                           ACTUAL INVENTOR: Applicant
                               INVENTION TITLE: THE SELFLOADING TOOTHBRUSH
                                    Postal Address Mr Gregory Karol JOZWICKI
                                            ADDRESS; 1 Wilderness Drive
                                     SUBURB & POST CODE; Dawesville, 6211
                                                  Western Australia.
                                                                               best method of performing it known to
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the
                                                          me

                                                -2
                                THE SELF LOADING TOOTHBRUSH
   For many years human beings have tried to maintain their oral hygiene to a high
   standard. The toothbrush was a stand alone apparatus, namely a handle with
   bristles on the top edge for cleaning the teeth.
5  The Self Loading toothbrush has been especially devised in order to provide a
   toothbrush and a toothpaste to be combined as one unit. So the consumer doesn't
   always have to carry the two separate items.
   The Self Loading toothbrush with its' ergonomical design fits into the hand of a child,
10 an adult or for elderly or disabled persons to use.
   The Self Loading toothbrush combination unit is more compact for the traveller, for
   the family and for small bathroom spaces.
15 The Self Loading toothbrush can be a stand alone unit for each family member, or
   can be economical within the family unit, by simply changing the head of the
   toothbrush for each individual, using a colour coded replacement bristle brush head
   system. (Fig3, page 8 and Fig 0, page 7 replacement bristle head).
   The ergonomical design of The Self Loading Toothbrush consists of a cylindrical
    shape with a base for the unit to stand on. (Fig5)
   Then adding the replacement toothpaste cartridge (Fig4 ), through the top of the
    cylindrical unit (Fig 7), then adding the tapered neck piece (Fig2) either
    screwed/attached to the top of (Fig 7).
2S The replacement bristle brush head (Fig3)is then attached to the top the tapered
    neck piece (Fig2).
    The Self Loading Toothbrush (Fig1) has an inserted plunger devise, which sits inside
    the base unit (Fig1).
    This plunger devise is connected to a button which opens and closes the
    replacement toothpaste cartridge allowing the paste to flow via two small holes in
    the head section, onto the head (Fig6) of the toothbrush.
    The Self Loading Toothbrush (Fig8) has a clear see through viewing window to allow
    the user to view the toothpaste usage/quantity.
    The plunger devise is operated by a spring loading mechanism (Fig 7) which
    operates in conjunction with the side button (Fig8) which opens the replacement
    toothpaste cartridge (Fig4).

                                                 -3
                                          DESCRIPTIONS
   THE SELF LOADING TOOTHBRUSH is preferable made from plastics, metal, and or
   any other suitable materials.
   The ergonomically designed toothbrush is made from a hard durable plastic, with
   replaceable bristle head and replaceable toothpaste cartridge (Fig 4)
   On the side of unit is a clear plastic strip to enable the user to easily see when the
   cartridge needs replacing (Fig 7). The plunger devise, which sits inside the base unit
   (Fig 1) pushes the contents of the cartridge to the head ensuring that no toothpaste
   is wasted.
   The head is fitted with 1 or 2 (or numerous) toothpaste exit valves possibly made
   from rubber or a soft plastic (page 7, Fig N and P)that allow the contents of the
    replaceable toothpaste cartridge to flow through to the bristles, (page 7, (0)). This
    method also confines the remainder of the contents of the replacement toothpaste
    cartridge to remain / stay uncontaminated.
   The combination toothbrush/toothpaste is compiled of 4 separate components
         1.   Base unit (Fig 1)
                  a.   The unit is available in a variety of sizes and made from a hard
                       durable plastic, this has a clear plastic strip on the side to view the
                        amount of paste remaining in the cylinder allowing the user to
                        know when this needs replacing.
                   b. A spring loaded plunger sits at the bottom of the unit, this is
                        pulled back to the second hole to enable a cartridge to be inserted
                        through the opening at the top. The plunger slowly gets pushed
I0                      up, when it reaches the top, pull back the shaft to the second
                        hole, then unscrew the top section and insert the new toothpaste
                        cartridge.
                   The plunger has a flat base to enable the unit to stand upright on a
                   surface.
                                                                                            C/F.

                                            -4
   B/F.
        2. Tapered Neck - connects base and head (Fig 2)
40             a.  The tapered neck is designed to connect the base to the
                   removable replacement bristle / brush head. The neck is built
                   around a thin tube running through the centre allowing the paste
                   to be fed up to the toothbrush head.
4S             b. A button (page 7, (J)open/close valve), is located near the bottom
                   of the neck, a valve is opened by pressing the button which allow
                   the cartridge toothpaste to be pushed through onto the bristle
                   head.
50      3. Replaceable toothbrush bristle head (Fig 3)
               a.  The bristled head of the toothbrush is designed to move freely
                   around the inside of the mouth and gums.
                b. The longer bristles are located around the outside edge of the
                    head with the shorter bristles covering the remainder of the
                    surface.
                c. The head is fitted with 1 or 2 (or numerous) small holes fitted with
                    valves (possibly rubber or a soft plastic) are located midway on the
                    bristle head to allow for the flow of toothpaste to the bristles.
        4.  Replacement toothpaste cartridge (Fig 4)
                a.  The toothpaste cartridge is constructed from a suitable material.
 5
                b. The cartridge has a cap on either end, the bottom cap is removed
                    before being inserted into the base unit and sits on the plunger.
                c.  The top cap is then removed before the neck is attached.

                                               -5
                                   Drawing References page 7
    The invention may be better understood with references to the illustration of the
70  embodiments of the invention.
         a. Flat bottom handle stand.
         b. Spring hydraulic
         c. Rubber plunger
         d. Plunger shaft
7S       e. Outer base
         f. Clear plastic viewer (toothpaste)
         g. Outer case (cartridge)
          h. Toothpaste
80       j.    Open / close valve
          k. Spring to push valve back
          I. Inner tube toothpaste flow
          m. Neck
          n. Hole toothpaste exit
          o. Bristles
          p. Hole toothpaste exit, same as in (N)
    It will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts, that various
    modification and improvements may be made to the forgoing embodiments, in
 90 addition to those already described, without departing from the basic inventive
    concepts of the present invention.

                                               -6
                             The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   CLAIM 1:
    The Self Loading Toothbrush holds a replacement toothpaste cartridge in the body
   section of this invention (page 8, Fig5 and page 7 Fig H).
   CLAIM 2
   The replaceable toothpaste cartridge in the body, transfers the toothpaste from the
   body (page 7 Fig H) to the replaceable bristle heads (page 7, Fig N, P, 0). Via the
10 inner tube toothpaste flow (page 7, Fig L). Having been pushed up from the base of
   the unit by the spring hydraulic and plunger, (page 7, B, C).
   CLAIM 3
   The replaceable bristle head (page8, Fig 3) are replaceable and interchangeable as
    required.
20  CLAIM 4
    The Self Loading Toothbrush holds a replaceable toothpaste cartridge in the body
    section of this invention, viewable from the outside(page 8, Fig8 and page 7 Fig F),
    via the clear plastic viewer.
     NAME OF APPLICANT: Gregor Karol JOZWICKI
     Date: ......    April 2018
     Signature of Applicant:

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are two pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
