                                        ABSTRACT
A method of analyzing a tumor sample includes acquiring a library comprising a plurality of
tumor members from the sample, contacting the library with a bait set to isolate selected
members, acquiring a read for a sub-genomic interval from a selected member, aligning said
read and assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) from said read for a
preselected nucleotide position.

                 Optimization of Multigene Analysis of Tumor Samples
                                      RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, in turn a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>., in turn a divisional of Australian
Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, in turn a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, in turn a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2011352070,
the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/428,568, filed
December 30, 2010; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/428,602, filed December 30, 2010;
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/428,626, filed December 30, 2010; U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/428,638, filed December 30, 2010; U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/467,798, filed March 25, 2011; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/467,748, filed March 25,
2011: U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/486,006, filed May 13, 2011; U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/486,012, filed May 13, 2011; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/486,026,
filed May 13, 2011; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/486,033, filed May 13, 2011; and U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/552,884, filed October 28, 2011. The contents of all these prior
applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        The invention relates to optimized methods for analyzing nucleic acids from tumor
samples, e.g., methods having integrated optimized nucleic acid selection, read alignment, and
mutation calling.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        Methods disclosed herein provide integration of one or more optimized elements
including bait-based selection, alignment, and mutation calling, as applied, e.g., to optimized
sets of subgenomic intervals, e.g., sets of cancer related segments of the genome described
herein. Methods described herein provide for next generation sequencing (NGS)-based
analysis of tumors that can be optimized on a cancer-by-cancer. gene-by-gene and/or site-by-site
basis.
        Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features a method of analyzing a tumor sample.
The method comprises:

         (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality of target members, e.g., tumor members,
from a sample, e.g., a tumor sample;
         (b) optionally, contacting the library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide
selected members (sometimes referred to herein as "library catch");
         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library or
library catch, e.g., by sequencing, e.g., with a next generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read; and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayeisan method)
from said read for a preselected nucleotide position, e.g., for a preselected nucleotide position in
each of a plurality of subgenomic intervals, e.g., each of a plurality genes,
thereby analyzing said sample,
wherein:
         (i) each of X nucleotide positions is analyzed under a unique set of conditions for one or a
combination of steps (b), (c), (d), or (e) (wherein unique means different from the other X-1 sets of
conditions and wherein X is at least 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 200, 300 or 500). E.g., a first set
of conditions, e.g., a set of conditions described herein, is used for a first nucleotide position, e.g.,
in a first subgenomic interval or gene, and a second set of conditions, e.g., a second set of
conditions described herein, is used for a second nucleotide position, e.g., in a second subgenomic
interval or gene;
         (ii) for each of X nucleotide positions, responsive to a characteristic, e.g., a characteristic
described herein, of a preselected alteration, e.g., mutation, that can occur at the nucleotide
position, the nucleotide position is analyzed under a unique set of conditions (wherein unique
means different from the other X-1 sets of conditions and wherein X is at lest 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40,
50, 100, 200, 300 or 500). E.g., responsive to a characteristic, e.g., a characteristic described
herein, of a preselected alteration, e.g., mutation, that can occur at a nucleotide position in a first
subgenomic interval, the nucleotide position is analyzed under a first set of conditions, and
responsive to a characteristic, e.g., a characteristic described herein, of a preselected alteration,
e.g., mutation, that can occur at a nucleotide position in a second subgenomic interval, the
nucleotide position is analyzed under second set of conditions; (iii) wherein said method is
performed on a sample, e.g., a preserved tumor sample, under conditions that allow for 95, 98, or
                                                  - 2 -

99% sensitivity or specificity for nucleotide postions in at least 2, 5, 10, 20, 50 or 100 subgenomic
intervals, e.g., genes; or
         (iv) wherein the method comprises one or more or all of:
         a) sequencing a first subgenomic interval to provide for about 500X or higher sequencing
depth, e.g., to sequence a mutation present in no more than 5 % of the cells from the sample;
         b) sequencing a second subgenomic interval to provide for about 200X or higher, e.g.,
about 200X-about 500X, sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence a mutation present in no more than
10 % of the cells from the sample;
         c) sequencing a third subgenomic interval to provide for about 10-1OOX sequencing
depth, e.g., to sequence one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g., exons) that are chosen from: a)
a pharmacogenomic (PGx) single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that may explain the ability of
patient to metabolize different drugs, or b) a genomic SNPs that may be used to uniquely identify
(e.g., fingerprint) a patient;
         d) sequencing a fourth subgenomic interval to provide for about 5-50 X sequencing
depth, e.g., to detect a structural breakpoint, such as a genomic translocation or an indel. For
example, detection of an intronic breakpoint requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to
ensure high detection reliability. Such bait sets can be used to detect, for example,
translocation/indel-prone cancer genes; or
         e) sequencing a fifth subgenomic interval to provide for about 0.1-300X sequencing
depth, e.g., to detect copy number changes. In one embodiment, the sequencing depth ranges
from about 0.1-lOX sequencing depth to detect copy number changes. In other embodiments,
the sequencing depth ranges from about 100-300X to detect a genomic SNPs/loci that is used to
assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA or loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH).
         Exemplary first and second sets of conditions include those wherein:
         a first bait set is used for the first subgenomic interval and a second bait set is used for the
second subgenomic interval;
         a first alignment method is applied to a read for the first subgenomic interval and a second
alignment method is applied to a read for second subgenomic interval;
         a first mutation calling method is applied to a nucleotide position of the first subgenomic
interval and a second mutation calling method is applied to a nucleotide position of the second
subgenomic interval.
                                                    -3-

         In an embodiment:
         a first nucleotide position is analyzed with a first set of bait conditions, a first alignment
method, and a first mutation calling method;
         a second nucleotide position is analyzed with said first set of bait conditions,a second
alignment method, and said first mutation calling method;
         a third nucleotide position is analyzed with said first set of bait conditions, said first
alignment method, and a second mutation calling method,
         to provide three nucleotide positions each analyzed under unique, as compared to the other
two, conditions.
         In an embodiment, the conditions comprise those wherein:
         a first bait set is used for the first subgenomic interval and a second bait set is used for the
second subgenomic interval;
         a first alignment method is applied to a read for the first subgenomic interval and a second
alignment method is applied to a read for second subgenomic interval; or
         a first mutation calling method is applied to a nucleotide position of the first subgenomic
interval and a second mutation calling method is applied to a nucleotide position of the second
subgenomic interval.
         Exemplary characteristics include:
         (i) the gene, or type of gene, in which the alteration is located, e.g., an oncogene or tumor
suppressor, a gene or type of gene characterized by a preselected or variant or type of variant,
e.g., a mutation, or by a mutation of a preselected frequency, or other gene or type of gene
described herein;
         (ii) the type of alteration, e.g., a substitution, insertion, deletion, or translocation;
         (iii) the type of sample, e.g., an FFPE sample, being analyzed for the alteration;
         (iv) sequence in or near said the nucleotide position of the alteration being evaluated, e.g.,
sequence which can affect the expected propensity for misalignment for the subgenomic interval,
e.g., the presence of repeated sequences in or near the nucleodited position;
         (v) a prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing the alteration, e.g.,
mutation, e.g., in a tumor of preslected type;
         (vi) the probability of observing a read showing the alteration due to base-calling error
alone); or

        (vii) a preslected depth of sequencing desired for detecting the alteration.
        In an embodiment, the characteristic is other than the identity of the
nucleotide being sequenced, i.e., the characteristic is not whether the sequence is a
or t.
        In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment, step (b) is absent.
        In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes, e.g. at least X genes from
Tables 1 and 1A, e.g., genes having the priority 1 annotation in Table 1 and 1A, are analyzed
under different conditions, and X is equal to 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises one or more of the following:
        (i) the method, e.g., (b) of the method above, comprises the use of a bait set described
herein, e.g., a bait set as described under the heading Bait, or in the BAIT Module;
        (ii) the method, e.g., (c) of the method above, comprises acquiring reads for a set or group
of subgenomic intervals or from a set or group of genes described herein;
        (iii) the method, e.g., (d) of the method above, comprises the use of a plurality of alignment
methods described herein, e.g., methods described under the heading Alignment, or in the
Alignment Module;
        (iv) the method, e.g., (e) of the method above, comprises the use of a plurality of methods
for assigning a nucleotide value to a preselected nucleotide position, described herein, e.g.,
methods described under the heading Mutation Calling, or in the Mutation Calling Module or in
the section entitled "A Bayesian Approach for Sensitive Detection of Somatic Genomic
Alterations from Next-generation Sequencing of Clinical Cancer Specimens;" or
        (v) the method comprises assigning a nucleotide value to a set of subgenomic intervals
described herein, e.g., in the sections entitled "Gene Selection or Gene Selection Module."
        In an embodiment, the method includes: (i) and one, two, three, or all of (ii)-(v).
        In an embodiment, the method includes: (ii) and one, two, three, or all of (i) and (iii)-(v).
        In an embodiment, the method includes: (iii) and one, two, three, or all of (i), (ii), (iv) and
(v).
        In an embodiment, the method includes: (iv) and one, two, three, or all of (i)-(iii) and (v).
        In an embodiment, the method includes: (v) and one, two, three, or all of (i)-(iv).
                                                  - 5 -

         Alignment
         Methods disclosed herein can integrate the use of multiple, individually tuned, alignment
methods or algorithms to optimize performance in sequencing methods, particularly in methods
that rely on massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genetic events in a large
number of diverse genes, e.g., methods of analyzing tumor samples. In embodiments, multiple
alignment methods that are individually customized or tuned to each of a number of variants in
different genes are used to analyze reads. In embodiments, tuning can be a function of (one or
more of) the gene (or other subgenomic inerval) being sequenced, the tumor type in the sample,
the variant being sequenced, or a characteristic of the sample or the subject. The selection or use
of alignment conditions that are individually tuned to a number of subgenomic intervals to be
sequenced allows optimization of speed, sensitivity and specificity. The method is particularly
effective when the alignments of reads for a relatively large number of diverse subgenomic
intervals are optimized.
         Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a
tumor sample. The method comprises:
         (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from a tumor sample;
         (b) optionally, enriching the library for preselected sequences, e.g., by contacting the
library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide selected members (sometimes referred
to herein as library catch);
         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method)
from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
         wherein
         a read from each of X unique subgenomic intervals is aligned with a unique alignment
method, wherein unique subgenomic interval means different from the other X- 1 subgenoimc
                                                    - 6 -

intervals, and wherein unique alignment method means different from the other X- 1 alingment
methods, and X is at least 2.
        In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment step (b) is absent.
        In an embodment, X is at least 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 500, or 1,000.
        In an embodiment subgenomic intervals from at least X genes, e.g. at least X genes from
Tables 1 and 1A, e.g., genes having the priority 1 annotation in Table 1 and 1A, are aligned with
unique alignment methods, and X is equal to 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
        In an embodiment, a method (e.g., element (d) of the method recited above) comprises
selecting or using an alignment method for analyzing, e.g., aligning, a read,
        wherein said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized
for, one or more or all of:
        (i) tumor type, e.g., the tumor type in said sample;
        (ii) the gene, or type of gene, in which said subgenomic interval being sequenced is
        located, e.g., a gene or type of gene characterized by a preselected or variant or type of
        variant, e.g., a mutation, or by a mutation of a preselected frequency;
        (iii) the site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed;
        (iv) the type of variant, e.g., a substitution, within the subgenomic interval being
        evaluated;
        (v) the type of sample, e.g., an FFPE sample; and
        (vi) sequence in or near said subgenomic interval being evaluated, e.g., the expected
        propensity for misalignment for said subgenomic interval, e.g., the presence of repeated
        sequences in or near said subgenomic interval.
        As referred to elsewhere herein, a method is particularly effective when the alignment of
reads for a relatively large number of subgenomic intervals is optimized. Thus, in an
embodiment, at least X unique alignment methods are used to analyze reads for at least X unique
subgenomic intervals, wherein unique means different from the other X- 1, and X is equal to 2, 3,
4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 500, or 1,000.
        In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Tables 1 and 1A,
e.g., having the priority 1 annotation in Table 1 and 1A, are analyzed, and X is equal to 2, 3, 4, 5,
10, 15, 20, or 30.
                                                    -7

         In an embodiment, a unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each
of at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 different genes.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Tables 1 and 1A, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment a
unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
         Methods disclosed herein allow for the rapid and efficient alignment of troublesome
reads, e.g., a read having a rearrangment. Thus, in embodiment where a read for a subgenomic
interval comprises a nucleotide position with a rearrangement, e.g., an indel, the method can
comprise using an alignment method that is appropriately tuned and that includes:
         selecting a rearrangement reference sequence for alignment with a read, wherein said
rearrangement reference sequence is preselected to align with a preselected rearrangement (in
embodiments the reference sequence is not identical to the genomic rearrangement);
         comparing, e.g., aligning, a read with said preselected rearrangement reference sequence.
         In embodiments, other methods are used to align troublesome reads. These methods are
particularly effective when the alignment of reads for a relatively large number of diverse
subgenomic intervals is optimized. By way of example, a method of analyzing a tumor sample
can comprise:
         performing a comparison, e.g., an alignment comparison, of a read under a first set of
         parameters (e.g., a first mapping algorithm or with a first reference sequence), and
         determining if said read meets a first predetermined alignment criterion (e.g., the read can
         be aligned with said first reference sequence, e.g., with less than a preselected number of
         mismatches);
         if said read fails to meet the first predetermined alignment criterion, performing a second
         alignment comparison under a second set of parameters, (e.g., a second mapping
         algorithm or with a second reference sequence); and,
         optionally, determining if said read meets said second predetermined criterion (e.g., the
         read can be aligned with said second reference sequence with less than a preselected
         number of mismatches),
         wherein said second set of parameters comprises use of a set of parameters, e.g., said
         second reference sequence, which, compared with said first set of parameters, is more
                                                   - 8 -

        likely to result in an alignment with a read for a preselected variant, e.g., a rearrangement,
        e.g., an insertion, deletion, or translocation.
        These and other alignment methods are discussed in more detail elsewhere herein, e.g., in
the section entitled "Alignment Module." Elements of that module can be included in methods
of analyzing a tumor. In embodiments, alignment methods from the "Alignment Module" are
combined with mutation calling methods from the "Mutation Calling Module" and/or a bait set
from the "Bait Module." The method can be applied to set of subgenomic intervals from the
"Gene Selection Module."
Mutation Calling
        Methods disclosed herein can integrate the use of customized or tuned mutation calling
parameters to optimize performance in sequencing methods, particularly in methods that rely on
massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genetic events in a large number of
diverse genes, e.g., from tumor samples. In embodiments of the method mutation calling for each
of a number of preselected subgenomic intervals is, individually, customized or fine tuned. The
customization or tuning can be based on one or more of the factors described herein, e.g., the type
of cancer in a sample, the gene in which subgenomic interval to be sequenced is located, or the
variant to be sequenced. This selection or use of alignment conditions finely tuned to a number of
subgenomic intervals to be sequenced allows optimization of speed, sensitivity and specificity.
The method is particularly effective when the alignment of reads for a relatively large number of
diverse subgenomic intervals is optimized.
        Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a
tumor sample. The method comprises:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from the sample, e.g., the tumor sample;
        (b) optionally, enriching the library for preselected sequences, e.g., by contacting the
library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide selected members, e.g., a library catch;
        (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
                                                    -9-

         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method or
a calling method described herein) from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample.
         wherein a nucleotide value is assigned for a nucleotide position in each of X unique
subgenomic intervals is assigned by a unique calling method, wherein unique subgenomic interval
means different from the other X- 1 subgenoimc intervals, and wherein unique calling method
means different from the other X-1 calling methods, and X is at least 2. The calling methods can
differ, and thereby be unique, e.g., by relying on different Bayesian prior values.
         In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment, step (b) is absent.
         In an embodiment, assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a value which is or
represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing a preselected variant,
e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide position in a tumor of type.
         In an embodiment, them method comprises assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) for at least 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions,
wherein each assignment is a function of a unque (as opposed to the value for the other
assignements) value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a
read showing a preselected variant, e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide position in a
tumor of type.
         In an embodiment, assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a set of values which
represent the probabilities of observing a read showing said preselected variant at said preselected
nucleotide position if the variant is present in the sample at a frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.)
and/or if the variant is absent (e.g., observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone).
         In an embodiment, a method (e.g., element (e) of the method recited above) comprises a
mutation calling method. The mutation calling methods described herein can include the
following:
         acquiring, for a preselected nucleotide position in each of said X subgenomic intervals:
                                                  - 10 -

        (i) a first value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing
        a read showing a preselected variant, e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide
        position in a tumor of type X; and
        (ii) a second set of values which represent the probabilities of observing a read showing
        said preselected variant at said preselected nucleotide position if the variant is present in
        the sample at a frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.) and/or if the variant is absent (e.g.,
        observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone);
        responsive to said values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) from said
reads for each of said preselected nucleotide positions by weighing, e.g., by a Bayesian method
described herein, the comparison among the values in the second set using the first value (e.g.,
computing the posterior probability of the presence of a mutation), thereby analyzing said
sample.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises one or more or all of:
        (i) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least 10, 20, 40, 50, 60,
        70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions, wherein each assignment is based on
        a unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second values;
        (ii) the assignment of method of (i), wherein at least 10, 20, 30 or 40 of the assignments
        are made with first values which are a function of a probability of a preselected variant
        being present of less than 5, 10, or 20%, e.g., of the cells in a preselected tumor type;
        (iii) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least X preselected
        nucleotide positions, each of which of which being associated with a preselected variant
        having a unique (as opposed to the other X- 1 assignments) probability of being present in
        a tumor of preselected type, e.g., the tumor type of said sample, wherein, optionally, each
        said of X assignments is based on a unique (as opposed to the other X-1 assignments)
        first and/or second value (wherein X= 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100);
        (iv) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) at a first and a second
        nucleotide position, wherein the likelihood of a first preselected variant at said first
        nucleotide position being present in a tumor of preselected type (e.g., the tumor type of
        said sample) is at least 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 times greater than the likelihood of a second
        preselected variant at said second nucleotide position being present, wherein, optionally,
                                                  - 11 -

        each assignment is based on a unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or
        second value;
        (v) assigning a nucleotide value to a plurality of preselected nucleotide positions (e.g.,
        calling mutations), wherein said plurality comprises an assignment for variants falling
        into one or more, e.g., at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or all, of the following probability ranges:
        less than .01; .01-.02;
        greater than 0.02 and less than or equal to 0.03;
        greater than 0.03 and less than or equal to 0.04;
        greater than 0.04 and less than or equal to 0.05;
        greater than 0.05 and less than or equal to 0.1;
        greater than 0.1 and less than or equal to 0.2;
        greater than 0.2 and less than or equal to 0.5;
        greater than 0.5 and less than or equal to 1.0;
        greater than 1.0 and less than or equal to 2.0;
        greater than 2.0 and less than or equal to 5.0;
        greater than 5.0 and less than or equal to 10.0;
        greater than 10.0 and less than or equal to 20.0;
        greater than 20.0 and less than or equal to 50.0; and
        greater than 50 and less than or equal to 100.0 %;
wherein, a probability range is the range of probabilities that a preselected variant at a
preselected nucleotide position will be present in a tumor of preselected type (e.g., the tumor
type of said sample) or the probability that a preselected variant at a preselected nucleotide
position will be present in the recited % of the cells in a tumor sample, a library from the tumor
sample, or library catch from that library, for a preselected type (e.g., the tumor type of said
sample), and
wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a unique first and/or second value (e.g., unique
as opposed to the other assignments in a recited probability range or unique as opposed to the
first and/or second values for one or more or all of the other listed probability ranges).
        (vi) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least 1, 2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40,
        50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions each, independently, having a
        preselected variant present in less than 50, 40, 25, 20, 15, 10, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0.5, 0.4, 0.3,
                                                  - 12 -

0.2, or 0.1 % of the DNA in said sample, wherein, optionally, each assignment is based
on a unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second value;
(vii) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) at a first and a second
nucleotide position, wherein the likelihood of a preselected variant at the first position in
the DNA of said sample is at least 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 times greater than a the
likelihood of a preselected variant at said second nucleotide position in the DNA of said
sample, wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a unique (as opposed to the
other assignments) first and/or second value;
(viii) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) in one or more or all of the
following:
(1) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
present in less than 1.0 % of the cells in said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from
said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from that library;
(2) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
present in 1.0- 2.0 % of the cells in said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said
sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from that library;
(3) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
present in greater than 2.0 % and less than or equal to 3 % of the cells in said sample, of
the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from
that library
(4) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
present in greater than 3.0 % and less than or equal to 4 % of the cells in said sample, of
the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from
that library;
(5) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
present in greater than 4.0 % and less than or equal to 5 % of the cells in said sample, of
the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from
that library;
(6) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
present in greater than 5.0 % and less than or equal to 10 % of the cells in said sample, of
                                          - 13 -

       the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from
       that library;
       (7) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
       present in greater than 10.0 % and less than or equal to 20 % of the cells in said sample,
       of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch
       from that library;
       (8) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
       present in greater than 20.0 % and less than or equal to 40 % of the cells in said sample,
       of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch
       from that library;
       (9) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
       present at greater than 40.0 % and less than or equal to 50 % of the cells in said sample,
       of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch
       from that library; or
       (10) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected variant
       present in greater than 50.0 % and less than or equal to 100 % of the cells in said sample,
       of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch
       from that library;
       wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a unique first and/or second value (e.g,,
       unique as opposed to the other assignments in the recited range (e.g., the range in (i) of
       less than 1%) or unque as opposed to a first and/or second values for a determination in
       one or more or all of the other listed ranges); or
       (ix) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) at each of X nucleotide
       positions, each nucleotide position, independently, having a likelihood (of a preselected
       variant being present in the DNA of said sample) that is unique as compared with the
       likelihood for a preselected variant at the other X-1 nucleotide positions, wherein X is
       equal to or greater than 1, 2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, and wherein each
       assignment is based on a unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second
       value.
       In embodiments of the method, a "threshold value" is used to evaluate reads, and select
from the reads a value for a nucleotide position, e.g., calling a mutation at a specific position in a
                                                 - 14 -

gene. In embodiments of the method, a threshold value for each of a number of preselected
subgenomic intervals is customized or fine tuned. The customization or tuning can be based on
one or more of the factors described herein, e.g., the type of cancer in a sample, the gene in
which subgenomic interval to be sequenced is located, or the variant to be sequenced. This
provides for calling that is finely tuned to each of a number of subgenomic intervals to be
sequenced. The method is particularly effective when a relatively large number of diverse
subgenomic intervals are analyzed.
         Thus, in another embodiment the method of analyzing a tumor comprises the following
mutation calling method:
         acquiring, for each of said X subgenomic intervals, a threshold value, wherein each of
said acquired X threshold values is unique as compared with the other X-1 threshold values,
thereby providing X unique threshold values;
         for each of said X subgenomic intervals, comparing an observed value which is a
function of the number of reads having a preselected nucleotide value at a preselected nucleotide
position with its unique threshold value, thereby applying to each of said X subgenomic
intervals, its unique threshold value: and
         optionally, responsive to the result of said comparison, assigning a nucleotide value to a
preselected nucleotide position,
         wherein X is equal to or greater than 2.
         In an embodiment, the method includes assigning a nucleotide value at at least 2, 3, 5, 10,
20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions, each having, independently, a
first value that is a function of a probability that is less than 0.5, 0.4, 0.25, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05, 0.04,
0.03, 0.02, or 0.01.
         In an embodiment, the method includes assigning a nucleotide value at at each of at least
X nucleotide positions, each independently having a first value that is unique as compared with
the other X-1 first values, and wherein each of said X first values is a function of a probability
that is less than 0.5, 0.4, 0.25, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05, 0.04, 0.03, 0.02, or 0.01,
wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Table 1, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment unique
                                                  - 15  -

first and/or second values are applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40,
or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         Embodiments of the method can be applied where threshold values for a relatively large
number of subgenomic intervals are optimized, as is seen, e.g., from the following embodiments.
         In an embodiment, a unique threshold value is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of
at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 different genes.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Table 1, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment a unique
threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of
said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a a nucleotide position in at least 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 genes from Table
1 having the priority 1 annotation is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment a unique
threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of
said genes analyzed.
         These and other mutation calling methods are discussed in more detail elsewhere herein,
e.g., in the section entitled "Mutation Calling Module." Elements of that module can be included
in methods of analyzing a tumor. In embodiments, alignment methods from the "Mutation
Calling Module" are combined with alignment methods from the "Alignment Module" and/or a
bait set from the "Bait Module." The method can be applied to set of subgenomic intervals from
the "Gene Selection Module."
Bait
         Methods described herein provide for optimized sequencing of a large number of genes
and gene products from samples, e.g., tumor samples, from one or more subjects by the
appropriate selection of baits, e.g., baits for use in solution hybridization, for the selection of
target nucleic acids to be sequenced. The efficiency of selection for various subgenomic
intervals, or classes thereof, are matched according to bait sets having preselected efficiency of
selection. As used in this section, "efficiency of selection" refers to the level or depth of
sequence coverage as it is adjusted according to a target subgenomic interval(s).
         Thus a method (e.g., element (b) of the method recited above) comprises contacting the
library with a plurality of baits to provide selected members (e.g., a library catch).
                                                  - 16 -

         Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a
tumor sample. The method comprises:
         (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality of members (e.g., target members) from a
sample, e.g., a plurality of tumor members from a tumor sample;
         (b) contacting the library with a bait set to provide selected members (e.g., a library
catch);
         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method or
a method described herein) from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein the method comprises contacting the library with a plurality, e.g., at least two, three,
four, or five, of baits or bait sets, wherein each bait or bait set of said plurality has a unique (as
opposed to the other bait sets in the plurality), preselected efficiency for selection. E.g., each
unique bait or bait set provides for a unique depth of sequencing. The term "bait set", as used
herein, collectively refers to one bait or a plurality of bait molecules.
         In an embodiment, the efficiency of selection of a first bait set in the plurality differs
from the efficiency of a second bait set in the plurality by at least 2 fold. In an embodiment, the
first and second bait sets provide for a depth of sequencing that differs by at least 2 fold.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises contacting one, or a plurality of the following
bait sets with the library:
         a) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 500X or higher sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence a mutation present in no more than
5% of the cells from the sample;
         b) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 200X or higher, e.g., about 200X-about 500X, sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence a
mutation present in no more than 10% of the cells from the sample;
                                                  - 17 -

         c) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 10-1OX sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g.,
exons) that are chosen from: a) a pharmacogenomic (PGx) single nucleotide polymorphism
(SNP) that may explain the ability of patient to metabolize different drugs, or b) a genomic SNPs
that may be used to uniquely identify (e.g., fingerprint) a patient;
         d) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 5-50 X sequencing depth, e.g., to detect a structural breakpoint, such as a genomic
translocation or an indel. For example, detection of an intronic breakpoint requires 5-50X
sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability. Such bait sets can be used to
detect, for example, translocation/indel-prone cancer genes; or
         e) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 0.1-300X sequencing depth, e.g., to detect copy number changes. In one embodiment,
the sequencing depth ranges from about 0.1-lOX sequencing depth to detect copy number
changes. In other embodiments, the sequencing depth ranges from about 100-300X to detect a
genomic SNPs/loci that is used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA or loss-of
heterozygosity (LOH). Such bait sets can be used to detect, for example, amplification/deletion
prone cancer genes.
         The level of sequencing depth as used herein (e.g., X-fold level of sequencing depth)
refers to the level of coverage of reads (e.g., unique reads), after detection and removal of
duplicate reads, e.g., PCR duplicate reads.
         In one embodiment, the bait set selects a subgenomic interval containing one or more
rearrangements, e.g., an intron containing a genomic rearrangement. In such embodiments, the
bait set is designed such that repetive sequences are masked to increase the selection efficiency.
In those embodiments where the rearrangement has a known juncture sequence, complementary
bait sets can be designed to the juncture sequence to increase the selection efficiency.
         In embodiments, the method comprises the use of baits designed to capture two or more
different target categories, each category having a different bait design strategies. In
embodiments, the hybrid capture methods and compositions disclosed herein capture a defined
subset of target sequences (e.g., target members) and provide homogenous coverage of the target
sequence, while minimizing coverage outside of that subset. In one embodiment, the target
sequences include the entire exome out of genomic DNA, or a selected subset thereof. The
                                                  - 18 -

methods and compositions disclosed herein provide different bait sets for achieving different
depths and patterns of coverage for complex target nucleic acid sequences (e.g., nucleic acid
libraries).
         In an embodiment, the method comprises providing selected members of a nucleic acid
library (e.g., a library catch). The method includes:
         providing a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library) comprising a plurality of members, e.g.,
target nucleic acid members (e.g., including a plurality of tumor members, reference members,
and/or PGx members);
         contacting the library, e.g., in a solution-based reaction, with a plurality of baits (e.g.,
oligonucleotide baits) to form a hybridization mixture comprising a plurality of bait/member
hybrids;
         separating the plurality of bait/member hybrids from said hybridization mixture, e.g., by
contacting said hybridization mixture with a binding entity that allows for separation of said
plurality of bait/member hybrid,
thereby providing a library-catch (e.g., a selected or enriched subgroup of nucleic acid molecules
from the library),
wherein the plurality of baits includes two or more of the following:
         a) a first bait set that selects a high-level target (e.g., one or more tumor members that
include a subgenomic interval, such a gene, an exon, or a base) for which the deepest coverage is
required to enable a high level of sensitivity for an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) that
appears at a low frequency, e.g., about 5% or less (i.e., 5% of the cells from the sample harbor
the alteration in their genome). In one embodiment; the first bait set selects (e.g., is
complementary to) a tumor member that includes an alteration (e.g., a point mutation) that
requires about 500X or higher sequencing depth;
         b) a second bait set that selects a mid-level target (e.g., one or more tumor members that
include a subgenomic interval, such as a gene, an exon, or a base) for which high coverage is
required to enable high level of sensitivity for an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) that
appears at a higher frequency than the high-level target in a), e.g., a frequency of about 10% (i.e.,
10% of the cells from the sample harbor the alteration in their genome). In one embodiment; the
second bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) a tumor member that includes an alteration
(e.g., a point mutation) that requires about 200X or higher sequencing depth;
                                                    - 19  -

         c) a third bait set that selects a low-level target (e.g., one or more PGx members that
includes a subgenomic interval, such as a gene, an exon, or a base) for which low-medium
coverage is required to enable high level of sensitivity, e.g., to detect heterozygous alleles. For
example, detection of heterozygous alleles requires 10-1OOX sequencing depth to ensure high
detection reliability. In one embodiment, third bait set selects one or more subgenomic intervals
(e.g., exons) that are chosen from: a) a pharmacogenomic (PGx) single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) that may explain the ability of patient to metabolize different drugs, or b) a
genomic SNPs that may be used to uniquely identify (e.g., fingerprint) a patient;
         d) a fourth bait set that selects a first intron target (e.g., a member that includes an intron
sequence) for which low-medium coverage is required, e.g., to detect a structural breakpoint,
such as a genomic translocation or an indel. For example, detection of an intronic breakpoint
requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability. Said fourth
bait sets can be used to detect, for example, translocation/indel-prone cancer genes; or
         e) a fifth bait set that selects a second intron target (e.g., an intron member) for which
sparse coverage is required to improve the ability to detect copy number changes. For example,
detection of a one-copy deletion of several terminal exons requires 0.1-300X coverage to ensure
high detection reliability. In one embodiment, the coverage depth ranges from about 0.1-lOX to
detect copy number changes. In other embodiments, the coverage depth ranges from about 100
300X to detect a genomic SNPs/loci that is used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic
DNA or loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH). Said fifth bait sets can be used to detect, for example,
amplification/deletion-prone cancer genes.
         Any combination of two, three, four or more of the aforesaid bait sets can be used, for
example, a combination of the first and the second bait sets; first and third bait sets; first and
fourth bait sets; first and fifth bait sets; second and third bait sets; second and fourth bait sets;
second and fifth bait sets; third and fourth bait sets; third and fifth bait sets; fourth and fifth bait
sets; first, second and third bait sets; first, second and fourth bait sets; first, second and fifth bait
sets; first, second, third, fourth bait sets; first, second, third, fourth and fifth bait sets, and so on.
         In one embodiment, each of the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth bait set has a
preselected efficiency for selection (e.g., capture). In one embodiment, the value for efficiency
of selection is the same for at least two, three, four of all five baits according to a)-e). In other
                                                     - 20 -

embodiments, the value for efficiency of selection is different for at least two, three, four of all
five baits according to a)-e).
         In some embodiments, at least two, three, four, or all five bait sets have a preselected
efficiency value that differ. For example, a value for efficiency of selection chosen from one of
more of:
         (i) the first preselected efficiency has a value for first efficiency of selection that is at
least about 500X or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that is
greater than the second, third, fourth or fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 2-3
fold greater than the value for the second efficiency of selection; about 5-6 fold greater than the
value for the third efficiency of selection; about 10 fold greater than the value for the fourth
efficiency of selection; about 50 to 5000-fold greater than the value for the fifth efficiency of
selection);
         (ii) the second preselected efficiency has a value for second efficiency of selection that is
at least about 200X or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that
is greater than the third, fourth or fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 2 fold
greater than the value for the third efficiency of selection; about 4 fold greater than the value for
the fourth efficiency of selection; about 20 to 2000-fold greater than the value for the fifth
efficiency of selection);
         (iii) the third preselected efficiency has a value for third efficiency of selection that is at
least about 1OOX or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that is
greater than the fourth or fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 2 fold greater than
the value for the fourth efficiency of selection; about 10 to 1000-fold greater than the value for
the fifth efficiency of selection);
         (iv) the fourth preselected efficiency has a value for fourth efficiency of selection that is
at least about 50X or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that is
greater than the fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 50 to 500-fold greater than
the value for the fifth efficiency of selection); or
         (v) the fifth preselected efficiency has a value for fifth efficiency of selection that is at
least about 1OX to 0.iX sequencing depth.
         In certain embodiments, the value for efficiency of selection is modified by one or more
of: differential representation of different bait sets, differential overlap of bait subsets,
                                                   - 21 -

differential bait parameters, mixing of different bait sets, and/or using different types of bait sets.
For example, a variation in efficiency of selection (e.g., relative sequence coverage of each bait
set/target category) can be adjusted by altering one or more of:
         (i) Differential representation of different bait sets - The bait set design to capture a given
target (e.g., a target member) can be included in more/fewer number of copies to enhance/reduce
relative target coverage depths;
         (ii) Differential overlap of bait subsets - The bait set design to capture a given target
(e.g., a target member) can include a longer or shorter overlap between neighboring baits to
enhance/reduce relative target coverage depths;
         (iii) Differential bait parameters - The bait set design to capture a given target (e.g., a
target member) can include sequence modifications/shorter length to reduce capture efficiency
and lower the relative target coverage depths;
         (iv) Mixing of different bait sets - Bait sets that are designed to capture different target
sets can be mixed at different molar ratios to enhance/reduce relative target coverage depths;
         (v) Using different types of oligonucleotide bait sets -In certain embodiments, the bait set
can include:
         (a) one or more chemically (e.g., non-enzymatically) synthesized (e.g., individually
synthesized) baits,
         (b) one or more baits synthesized in an array,
         (c) one or more enzymatically prepared, e.g., in vitro transcribed, baits;
         (d) any combination of (a), (b) and/or (c),
         (e) one or more DNA oligonucleotides (e.g., a naturally or non-naturally occurring DNA
oligonucleotide),
         (f) one or more RNA oligonucleotides (e.g., a naturally or non-naturally occurring RNA
oligonucleotide),
         (g) a combination of (e) and (f), or
         (h) a combination of any of the above.
         The different oligonucleotide combinations can be mixed at different ratios, e.g., a ratio
chosen from 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:10, 1:20, 1:50; 1:100, 1:1000, or the like. In one
embodiment, the ratio of chemically-synthesized bait to array-generated bait is chosen from 1:5,
1:10, or 1:20. The DNA or RNA oligonucleotides can be naturally- or non-naturally-occurring.
                                                  - 22 -

In certain embodiments, the baits include one or more non-naturally-occurring nucleotide to,
e.g., increase melting temperature. Exemplary non-naturally occurring oligonucleotides include
modified DNA or RNA nucleotides. Exemplary modified nucleotides (e.g., modified RNA or
DNA nucleotides) include, but are not limited to, a locked nucleic acid (LNA), wherein the
ribose moiety of an LNA nucleotide is modified with an extra bridge connecting the 2' oxygen
and 4' carbon; peptide nucleic acid (PNA), e.g., a PNA composed of repeating N-(2-aminoethyl)
glycine units linked by peptide bonds; a DNA or RNA oligonucleotide modified to capture low
GC regions; a bicyclic nucleic acid (BNA); a crosslinked oligonucleotide; a modified 5-methyl
deoxycytidine; and 2,6-diaminopurine. Other modified DNA and RNA nucleotides are known in
the art.
         In certain embodiments, a substantially uniform or homogeneous coverage of a target
sequence (e.g., a target member) is obtained. For example, within each bait set/target category,
uniformity of coverage can be optimized by modifying bait parameters, for example, by one or
more of:
         (i) Increasing/decreasing bait representation or overlap can be used to enhance/reduce
coverage of targets (e.g., target members), which are under/over-covered relative to other targets
in the same category;
         (ii) For low coverage, hard to capture target sequences (e.g., high GC content sequences),
expand the region being targeted with the bait sets to cover, e.g., adjacent sequences (e.g., less
GC-rich adjancent sequences);
         (iii) Modifying a bait sequence can be made to reduce secondary structure of the bait and
enhance its efficiency of selection;
         (iv) Modifying a bait length can be used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics of
different baits within the same category. Bait length can be modified directly (by producing
baits with varying lengths) or indirectly (by producing baits of consistent length, and replacing
the bait ends with arbitrary sequence);
         (v) Modifying baits of different orientation for the same target region (i.e. forward and
reverse strand) may have different binding efficiencies. The bait set with either orientation
providing optimal coverage for each target may be selected;
                                                 - 23 -

         (vi) Modifying the amount of a binding entity, e.g., a capture tag (e.g. biotin), present on
each bait may affect its binding efficiency. Increasing/decreasing the tag level of baits targeting a
specific target may be used to enhance/reduce the relative target coverage;
         (vii) Modifying the type of nucleotide used for different baits can be altered to affect
binding affinity to the target, and enhance/reduce the relative target coverage; or
         (viii) Using modified oligonucleotide baits, e.g., having more stable base pairing, can be
used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics between areas of low or normal GC content
relative to high GC content.
         For example, different types of oligonucleotide bait sets can be used.
         In one embodiment, the value for efficiency of selection is modified by using different
types of bait oligonucleotides to encompass pre-selected target regions. For example, a first bait
set (e.g., an array-based bait set comprising 10,000-50,000 RNA or DNA baits) can be used to
cover a large target area (e.g., 1-2MB total target area). The first bait set can be spiked with a
second bait set (e.g., individually synthesized RNA or DNA bait set comprising less than 5,000
baits) to cover a pre-selected target region (e.g., selected subgenomic intervals of interest
spanning, e.g., 250kb or less, of a target area) and/or regions of higher secondary structure, e.g.,
higher GC content. Selected subgenomic intervals of interest may correspond to one or more of
the genes or gene products described herein, or a fragment thereof. The second bait set may
include about 1-5,000, 2-5,000, 3-5,000, 10-5,000, 100-5,000, 500-5,000, 100-5,000, 1000
5,000, 2,000-5,000 baits depending on the bait overlap desired. In other embodiments, the
second bait set can include selected oligo baits (e.g., less than 400, 200, 100, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10,
5, 4, 3, 2 or 1 baits) spiked into the first bait set. The second bait set can be mixed at any ratio of
individual oligo baits. For example, the second bait set can include individual baits present as a
1:1 equimolar ratio. Alternatively, the second bait set can include individual baits present at
different ratio (e.g., 1:5, 1:10, 1:20), for example, to optimize capture of certain targets (e.g.,
certain targets can have a 5-loX of the second bait compared to other targets).
         In other embodiments, the efficiency of selection is adjusted by leveling the efficiency of
individual baits within a group (e.g., a first, second or third plurality of baits) by adjusting the
relative abundance of the baits, or the density of the binding entity (e.g., the hapten or affinity tag
density) in reference to differential sequence capture efficiency observed when using an
                                                   - 24 -

equimolar mix of baits, and then introducing a differential excess of internally-leveled group 1 to
the overall bait mix relative to internally-leveled group 2.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises the use of a plurality of bait sets that includes a
bait set that selects a tumor member, e.g., a nucleic acid molecule comprising a subgenomic
interval from a tumor cell (also referred to herein as "a tumor bait set"). The tumor member can
be any nucleotide sequence present in a tumor cell, e.g., a mutated, a wild-type, a PGx, a
reference or an intron nucleotide sequence, as described herein, that is present in a tumor or
cancer cell. In one embodiment, the tumor member includes an alteration (e.g., one or more
mutations) that appears at a low frequency, e.g., about 5% or less of the cells from the tumor
sample harbor the alteration in their genome. In other embodiments, the tumor member includes
an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) that appears at a frequency of about 10% of the cells
from the tumor sample. In other embodiments, the tumor member includes a subgenomic
interval from a PGx gene or gene product, an intron sequence, e.g., an intron sequence as
described herein, a reference sequence that is present in a tumor cell.
         In another aspect, the invention features, a bait set described herein, combinations of
individual bait sets described herein, e.g., combinations described herein. The bait set(s) can be
part of a kit which can optionally comprise instructions, standards, buffers or enzymes or other
reagenats.
Gene Selection
         Preselected subgenomic intervals for analysis, e.g., a group or set of subgenomic intervals
for sets or groups of genes and other regions, are described herein.
         Thus, in embodiments a method comprises sequencing, e.g., by a next generation
sequencing method, a subgenomic interval from at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen,
twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more genes or gene products from the acquired nucleic acid
sample, wherein the genes or gene products are chosen from: ABLi, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3,
ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A, CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRi,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL,
MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1,
PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK1 1, SUFU, or TP53, thereby analyzing the tumor
sample.
                                                 - 25 -

         Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a
tumor sample. The method comprises:
         (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from a tumor sample;
         (b) optionally, enriching the library for preselected sequences, e.g., by contacting the
library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide selected members (e.g., a library
catch);
         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method or
a method described herein) from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein the method comprises sequencing, e.g., by a next generation sequencing method, a
subgenomic interval from at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five,
thirty or more genes or gene products from the sample, wherein the genes or gene products are
chosen from: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53.
         In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment, step (b) is absent.
         In another embodiment, subgenomic intervals of one of the following sets or groups are
analyzed. E.g., subgenomic intervals associated with a tumor or cancer gene or gene product, a
reference (e.g., a wild type) gene or gene product, and a PGx gene or gene product, can provide a
group or set of subgenomic intervals from the tumor sample.
         In an embodiment, the method acquires a read, e.g., sequences, a set of subgenomic
intervals from the tumor sample, wherein the subgenomic intervals are chosen from at least 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or all of the following:
                                                    - 26 -

         A) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild-type gene or gene product chosen from at least five
or more of: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53;
         B) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five,
forty, forty-five, fifty, fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five, seventy, seventy-five, eighty, eighty-five,
ninety, ninety-five, one hundred, one hundred and five, one hundred and ten, one hundred and
fifteen, one hundred and twenty or more of subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type
gene or gene product chosen from at least five or more of: ABL2, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A,
ATM, ATR, AURKA, AURKB, BAPI, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1,
BRCA2, CBL, CARD1I, CBL, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD79A, CD79B, CDH1, CDH2,
CDH20, CDH5, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI, CHEK2, CRKL, CRLF2,
DNMT3A, DOTIL, EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB3,
ERBB4, ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA, FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1,
FLT4, FOXP4, GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124, GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1,
IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA, IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDM6A,
KDR, LRP1B, LRP6, LTK, MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL,
MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI, MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1,
NTRK2, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRB, PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAF1, RARA,
RICTOR, RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SOX1O,
SOX2, SRC, TBX22, TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNK, TNKS2, TOPI, TSC1,
TSC2, USP9X, VHL, or WT1;
         C) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, or more subgenomic intervals
from a gene or gene product according to Table 1, 1A, 2, 3 or 4;
         D) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, or more subgenomic intervals
from a gene or gene product that is associated with a tumor or cancer (e.g., is a positive or
negative treatment response predictor, is a positive or negative prognostic factor for, or enables
differential diagnosis of a tumor or cancer, e.g., a gene or gene product chosen from one or more
                                                     - 27 -

of: ABLI, AKT1, ALK, AR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, CEBPA, EGFR, ERBB2, FLT3, JAK2,
KIT, KRAS, MET, NPM1, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, RARA, AKT2, AKT3, MAP2K4, NOTCH,
and TP53;
         E) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or more subgenomic intervals including a
mutated or a wild type codon chosen from one or more of: codon 315 of the ABLI gene; codon
1114, 1338, 1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF; codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41 or 45 of
CTNNB1; codon 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR; codon 835 of FLT3; codon 12,
13, or 61 of HRAS; codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT; codon 12, 13, or 61 of KRAS; codon
88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130, 173, 233, or 267 of PTEN; codon 918
of RET; codon 175, 245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53 (e.g., at least five, ten, fifteen, twenty or more
subgenomic intervals that include one or more of the codons shown in Table 1).
         F) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, or more of
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type gene or gene product (e.g., single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP)) of a subgenomic interval that is present in a gene or gene product
associated with one or more of drug metabolism, drug responsiveness, or toxicity (also referred
to therein as "PGx" genes) chosen from: ABCB1, BCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorf144,
CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2,
FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2, MANIBI, MTHFR, NQO1, NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2,
SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1, TPMT, TYMS, UGT1A1, or UMPS;
         G) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, or more of
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type PGx gene or gene product (e.g., single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)) of a subgenomic interval that is present in a gene or gene
product associated with one or more of: (i) better survival of a cancer patient treated with a drug
(e.g., better survival of a breast cancer patient treated with paclitaxel (e.g., an ABCB1 gene)); (ii)
paclitaxel metabolism (e.g., CYP2C8 genes at different loci and mutations shown in Table 2;
CYP3A4 gene); (iii) toxicity to a drug (e.g., 6-MP toxicity as seen with ABCC4 gene (Table 2);
5-FU toxicity as seen with DPYD gene, TYMS gene, or UMPS gene (Table 2); purine toxicity as
seen with a TMPT gene (Table 2); daunorubicin toxicity as seen with NRP2 gene; Clorfl44
gene, CYPIBI gene (Table 2); or (iv) a side effect to a drug (e.g., ABCG2, TYMS, UGT1A1,
ESRI and ESR2 genes (Table 2));
                                                    - 28 -

        H) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or
more genes or gene products according to Table 3;
        J) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or
more genes or gene products according to Table 3 in a solid tumor sample from the cancer types
specified therein;
        K) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150,
200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4;
        L) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150,
200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4 in a heme tumor sample from the
cancer types specified therein;
        M) at least five genes or gene products selected from Table 1-4, wherein an allelic
variation, e.g., at the preselected position, is associated with a preselected type of tumor and
wherein said allelic variation is present in less than 5% of the cells in said tumor type;
        N) at least five genes or gene products selected from Table 1, 1A-4, which are embedded
in a GC-rich region; or
        0) at least five genes or gene products indicative of a genetic (e.g., a germline risk) factor
for developing cancer (e.g., the gene or gene product is chosen from one or more of BRCA1,
BRCA2, EGFR, HRAS, KIT, MPL, ALK, PTEN, RET, APC, CDKN2A, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6,
NF1, NF2, RB1, TP53, VHL or WT1).
        In yet another embodiment, the method acquires a read, e.g., sequences, a set of
subgenomic intervals from the tumor sample, wherein the subgenomic intervals are chosen from
one, two, three, four, five, ten, fifteen or all of the alterations described in Table lB. In one
embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration classified in one or more of
Category A, B, C, D or E. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration
in KRAS G13D in a tumor sample, e.g., a colon, lung or breast tumor sample. In other
embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in NRAS Q61K in a tumor sample,
e.g., a melanoma or colon tumor sample. In yet other embodiments, the subgenomic interval
includes an alteration in BRAF V600E in a tumor sample, e.g., a melanoma, colon, or lung tumor
sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in BRAF D594G in
a tumor sample, e.g., a lung tumor sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval
includes an alteration in PIK3CA H1047R in a tumor sample, e.g., a breast or colon tumor
                                                   - 29 -

sample. In yet other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in EGFR
L858R or T790M in a tumor sample, e.g., a lung tumor sample. In other embodiment, the
subgenomic interval includes an alteration in ERBB2 in a tumor sample, e.g., an ERBB2
amplification in a breast tumor sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes
an alteration in BRCA1 in a tumor sample, e.g., a BRCA1 biallelic inactivation in a breast tumor
sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in BRCA2 in a
tumor sample, e.g., a BRCA2 biallelic inactivation in a pancreatic tumor sample. In other
embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in ATM in a tumor sample, e.g., an
ATM biallelic inactivation in a breast tumor sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic
interval includes an alteration in TSC in a tumor sample, e.g., a TSC biallelic inactivation in a
colon tumor sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in
PTEN in a tumor sample, e.g., a PTEN biallelic inactivation in a breast or colon tumor sample.
In yet other embodiments, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration in VHL in a tumor
sample, e.g., a VHL biallelic inactivation in a kidney tumor sample. In other embodiment, the
subgenomic interval includes an alteration in ATR in a tumor sample, e.g., an ATR biallelic
inactivation in a breast tumor sample. In other embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an
alteration in MYC in a tumor sample, e.g., a MYC biallelic inactivation in a breast tumor sample.
         These and other sets and groups of subgenomic intervals are discussed in more detail
elsewhere herein, e.g., in the section entitled "Gene Selection Module."
         Any of the methods described herein can be combined with one or more of the
embodiments below.
         In other embodiments, the sample is a tumor sample, e.g., includes one or more
premalignant or malignant cells. In certain, embodiments, the sample, e.g., the tumor sample, is
acquired from a solid tumor, a soft tissue tumor or a metastatic lesion. In other embodiments, the
sample, e.g., the tumor sample, includes tissue or cells from a surgical margin. The sample can
be histologically normal tissue. In another embodiment, the sample, e.g., tumor sample, includes
one or more circulating tumor cells (CTC) (e.g., a CTC acquired from a blood sample).
         In one embodiment, the method further includes acquiring a sample, e.g., a tumor sample
as described herein. The sample can be acquired directly or indirectly.
                                                 - 30 -

         In other embodiments, the method includes evaluating a sample, e.g., a histologically
normal sample, e.g., from a surgical margin, using the methods described herein. Applicants
have discovered that samples obtained from histologically normal tissues (e.g., otherwise
histologically normal tissue margins) may still have an alteration as described herein. The
methods may thus further include re-classifying a tissue sample based on the presence of the
detected alteration.
         In another embodiment, at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90 % of the reads
acquired or analyzed are for subgenomic intervals from genes described herein, e.g., genes from
Table 1-lA, or priority 1 genes from Table 1.
         In an embodiment, at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90 % of the mutation calls
made in the method are for subgenomic intervals from genes described herein, e.g., genes from
Table 1-lA, or priority 1 genes from Table 1.
         In an embodiment, at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90 % of the unique threshold
values used the method are for subgenomic intervals from genes described herein, e.g., genes
from Table 1-lA, or priority 1 genes from Table 1.
         In an embodiment, at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90 % of the mutation calls
annotated, or reported to a third party, are for subgenomic intervals from genes described herein,
e.g., genes from Table 1-lA, or priority 1 genes from Table 1.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises acquiring a nucleotide sequence read obtained
from a tumor and/or control nucleic acid sample (e.g., an FFPE-derived nucleic acid sample).
         In an embodiment, the reads are provided by a NGS sequencing method.
         In an embodiment, the method includes providing a library of nucleic acid members and
sequencing preselected subgenomic intervals from a pluality of members of said library. In
embodiments the method can include a step of selecting a subset of said library for sequencing,
e.g., a solution-based selection or a solid support- (e.g., array-) based selection.
         In an embodiment, the method includes the step of contacting a library with a plurality of
baits to provide a selected subgroup of nucleic acids, e.g., a library catch. In one embodiment,
the contacting step is effected in solution hybridization. In another embodiment, the contacting
step is effected in a solid support, e.g., an array. In certain embodiments, the method includes
repeating the hybridization step by one or more additional rounds of hybridization. In some
                                                  - 31 -

embodiments, the methods further include subjecting the library catch to one or more additional
rounds of hybridization with the same or different collection of baits.
         In yet other embodiments, the methods further include analyzing the library catch. In one
embodiment, the library catch is analyzed by a sequencing method, e.g., a next-generation
sequencing method as described herein. The methods include isolating a library catch by, e.g.,
solution hybridization, and subjecting the library catch by nucleic acid sequencing. In certain
embodiments, the library catch can be re-sequenced. Next generation sequencing methods are
known in the art, and are described, e.g., in Metzker, M. (2010) Nature Biotechnology Reviews
11:31-46.
         In an embodiment, the assigned value for a nucleotide position is transmitted to a third
party, optionally, with explanatory annotation.
         In an embodiment, the assigned value for a nucleotide position is not transmitted to a
third party.
         In an embodiment, the assigned value for a plurality of nucleotide position is transmitted
to a third party, optionally, with explanatory annotations, and the assigned value for a second
plurality of nucleotide position is not transmitted to a third party.
         In an embodiment, at least 0.01, 0.02, 0.03, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9,
1.0, 15, or 30 megabases bases, e.g., genomic bases, are sequenced.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises evaluating a plurality of reads that include at
least one SNP.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises determining an SNP allele ratio in the sample
and/or control read.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises assigning one or more reads to a subject, e.g.,
by barcode deconvolution.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises assigning one or more reads as a tumor read or
a control read, e.g., by barcode deconvolution.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises mapping, e.g., by alignment with a reference
sequence, each of said one or more reads.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises memorializing a called mutation.
                                                - 32 -

         In an embodiment, the method comprises annotating a called mutation, e.g., annotating a
called mutation with an indication of mutation structure, e.g., a mis-sense mutation, or function,
e.g., a disease phenotype.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises acquiring nucleotide sequence reads for tumor
and control nucleic acid.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises calling a nucleotide value, e.g., a variant, e.g., a
mutation, for each of X subgenomic intervals, e.g., with a Bayesian calling method or a non
Bayesian calling method.
         In an embodiment, multiple samples, e.g., from different subjects, are processed
simultaneously.
         The methods disclosed herein can be used to detect alterations present in the genome or
transcriptome of a subject, and can be applied to DNA and RNA sequencing, e.g., targeted RNA
and/or DNA sequencing. Thus, another aspect featured in the invention includes methods for
targeted RNA sequencing, e.g., sequencing of a cDNA derived from an RNA acquired from a
sample, e.g., an FFPE-sample, to detect an alteration described herein. The alteration can be
rearrangement, e.g., a rearrangement encoding a gene fusion. In other embodiments, the method
includes detection of a change (e.g., an increase or decrease) in the level of a gene or gene
product, e.g., a change in expression of a gene or gene product described herein. The methods
can, optionally, include a step of enriching a sample for a target RNA. In other embodiments,
the methods include the step of depleting the sample of certain high abundance RNAs, e.g.,
ribosomal or globin RNAs. The RNA sequencing methods can be used, alone or in combination
with the DNA sequencing methods described herein. In one embodiment, the method includes
performing a DNA sequencing step and an RNA sequencing step. The methods can be
performed in any order. For example, the method can include confirming by RNA sequencing
the expression of an alteration described herein, e.g., confirming expression of mutation or a
fusion detected by the DNA sequencing methods of the invention. In other embodiments, the
method includes performing an RNA sequencing step, followed by a DNA sequencing step.
         In another aspect, the invention features a method comprising building a database of
sequencing/alignment artifacts for the targeted subgenomic regions. In embodiment the database
can be used to filter out spurious mutation calls and improve specificity. In an embodiment the
database is built by sequencing unrelated non-tumor (e.g., FFPE) samples or cell-lines and
                                                 - 33 -

recording non-reference allele events that appear more frequently than expected due to random
sequencing error alone in 1 or more of these normal samples. This approach may classify germ
line variation as artifact, but that is acceptable in method concerned with somatic mutations. This
mis-classification of germ-line variation as artifact may be ameliorated if desired by filtering this
database for known germ-line variation (removing common variants) and for artifacts that appear
in only 1 individual (removing rarer variation).
         Methods disclosed herein allow integration of a number of optimized elements including
optimized bait-based selection, optimized alignment, and optimized mutation calling, as applied,
e.g., to cancer related segments of the genome. Methods described herein provide for NGS
based analysis of tumors that can be optimized on a cancer-by-cancer, gene-by-gene and site-by
site basis. This can be applied e.g., to the genes/sites and tumor types described herein. The
methods optimize levels of sensitivity and specificity for mutation detection with a given
sequencing technology. Cancer by cancer, gene by gene, and site by site optimization provides
very high levels sensitivity/specificity (e.g., >99% for both) that are essential for a clinical
product.
         Methods described herein provide for clinical and regulatory grade comprehensive
analysis and interpretation of genomic aberrations for a comprehensive set of plausibly
actionable genes (which may typically range from 50 to 500 genes) using next generation
sequencing technologies from routine, real-world samples in order to inform optimal treatment
and disease management decisions.
         Methods described herein provide one-stop-shopping for oncologists/pathologists to send
a tumor sample and receive a comprehensive analysis and description of the genomic and other
molecular changes for that tumor, in order to inform optimal treatment and disease management
decisions.
         Methods described herein provide a robust, real-world clinical oncology diagnostic tool
that takes standard available tumor samples and in one test provides a comprehensive genomic
and other molecular aberration analysis to provide the oncologist with a comprehensive
description of what aberrations may be driving the tumor and could be useful for informing the
oncologists treatment decisions.
                                                  - 34 -

         Methods described herein provide for a comprehensive analysis of a patient's cancer
genome, with clinical grade quality. Methods include the most relevant genes and potential
alterations and include one or more of the analysis of mutations, copy number, rearrangments,
e.g., translocations, expression, and epigenetic markers. The out put of the genetic analysis can
be contextualized with descriptive reporting of actionable results. Methods connect the use with
an up to date set of relevant scientific and medical knowledge.
         Methods described herein provide for increasing both the quality and efficiency of care.
This includes applications where a tumor is of a rare or poorly studied type such that there is no
standard of care or the patient is refractory to established lines of therapy and a rational basis for
selection of further therapy or for clinical trial participation could be useful. E.g., methods allow,
at any point of therapy, selection where the oncologist would benefit by having the full "molecular
image" and/or "molecular sub-diagnosis" available to inform decision making.
         Methods described herein can comprise providing a report, e.g., in electronic, web-based,
or paper form, to the patient or to another person or entity, e.g., a caregiver, e.g., a physician, e.g.,
an oncologist, a hospital, clinic, third-party payor, insurance company or government office. The
report can comprise output from the method, e.g., the identification of nucleotide values, the
indication of presence or absence of an alteration, mutation, or wildtype sequence, e.g., for
sugenomic intervals associated with a tumor of the type of the sample. The report can also
comprise information on the role of a sequence, e.g., an alteration, mutation, or wildtype sequence,
in disease. Such information can include information on prognosis, resistance, or potential or
suggested therapeutic options. The report can comprise information on the likely effectiveness of
a therapeutic option, the acceptability of a therapeutic option, or the advisability of applying the
therapeutic option to a patient, e.g., a patient having a sequence, alteration or mutation identified in
the test, and in embodiments, identified in the report. E.g., the report can include information, or a
recommendation on, the administration of a drug, e.g., the administration at a preselected dosage
or in a preselected treatment regimen, e.g., in combination with other drugs, to the patient. In an
embodiment, not all mutations identified in the method are identified in the report. E.g., the report
can be limited to mutations in genes having a preselected level of correlation with the occurrence,
prognosis, stage, or susceptibility of the cancer to treatment, e.g., with a preselected therapeutic
option. Methods featured herein allow for delivery of the report, e.g., to an entity described herein,
within 7, 14, or 21 days from receipt of the sample by the entity practicing the method.
                                                  - 35 -

         Thus, methods featured in the invention allow a quick turn around time, e.g., within 7, 14
or 21 days of receipt of sample.
         Methods described herein can also be used to evaluate a histologically normal sample,
e.g., samples from surgical margins. If one or more alterations as described herein is detected,
the tissue can be re-classified, e.g., as malignant or pre-maligant, and/or the course of treatment
can be modified.
         In certain aspects, the sequencing methods described herein are useful in non-cancer
applications, e.g., in forensic applications (e.g., identification as alternative to, or in addition to,
use of dental records), paternity testing, and disease diagnosis and prognosis, e.g., for cystic
fibrosis, Huntington's Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, among others. For example, identification of
genetic alterations by the methods described herein can indicate the presence or risk of an
individual for developing a particular disorder.
         Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be
used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and materials are
described below. All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned
herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In addition, the materials, methods, and
examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
         Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed
description, drawings, and from the claims.
                                DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         The drawings are first described.
         FIG. 1A-F is a flowchart depiction of an embodiment of a method for multigene analysis
of a tumor sample.
         FIG. 2 depicts the impact of prior expectation and read depth on mutation detection.
         FIG. 3 depicts the mutation frequencies in more than 100 clinical cancer samples.
         FIG. 4 is a linear representation of a coverage histogram. The number of targets (y-axis)
are depicted as a function of coverage (x-axis). Line #1 represents the coverage using a bait set
that includes biotinylated, array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits spiked with biotinylated,
                                                  - 36 -

individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide baits (referred to herein as "Bait set #1"). Line #2
represents the coverage obtained using a bait set that includes biotinylated, array-derived RNA
oligonucleotide baits only (referred to herein as "Bait set #2"). The overall average coverage
using Bait set #2 was 924, whereas the coverage in areas of high GC content (about 68%) using
Bait set #2 was 73. In contrast, when Bait set #1 was used, the overall coverage was about 918,
but the coverage was improved to 183 in areas of high GC content.
         FIG. 5 is a coverage histogram comparing the uniformity in coverage detected with a bait
set consisting of biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide baits only (Bait set
#1) and a bait set that includes biotinylated, array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits spiked with
biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide baits ("Bait set #2"), compared to a
bait set that includes biotinylated, array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits only ("Bait set #3").
The bait sets are shown as #1, 2, and 3 in FIG. 5. Several gaps in coverage were detected using
Bait set #3, but were not detected using Bait sets #1-2, as depicted in FIG. 5.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         Optimized methods and assays for sequencing large numbers of genes and gene products
from samples, e.g., tumor samples, from one or more subjects by evaluating a selected group of
genes and gene products are disclosed. In one embodiment, the methods and assays featured in
the invention are used in a multiplex assay format, e.g., assays incorporated multiple signals
from a large number of diverse genetic events in a large number of genes. Disclosed herein are
methods and assays that are based, at least in part, on a selected group of genes or gene products
that are associated (e.g., positively or negatively) with a cancerous phenotype (e.g., one or more
of cancer risk, cancer progression, cancer treatment or resistance to treatment). Such pre
selected genes or gene products enable the application of sequencing methods, particularly
methods that rely on massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genes, e.g., from
tumor or control samples.
         Certain terms are first defined. Additional terms are defined throughout the specification.
         As used herein, the articles "a" and "an" refer to one or to more than one (e.g., to at least one) of
the grammatical object of the article.
                                                 - 37 -

        "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for the quantit:
measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Exemplary degrees of error are within 20
percent (%), typically, within 10%, and more typically, within 5% of a given value or range of values.
        "Acquire" or "acquiring" as the terms are used herein, refer to obtaining possession of a
physical entity, or a value, e.g., a numerical value, by "directly acquiring" or "indirectly
acquiring" the physical entity or value. "Directly acquiring" means performing a process (e.g.,
performing a synthetic or analytical method) to obtain the physical entity or value. "Indirectly
acquiring" refers to receiving the physical entity or value from another party or source (e.g., a
third party laboratory that directly acquired the physical entity or value). Directly acquiring a
physical entity includes performing a process that includes a physical change in a physical
substance, e.g., a starting material. Exemplary changes include making a physical entity from
two or ore starting materials, shearing or fragmenting a substance, separating or purifying a
substance, .combining two or more separate entities into a mixture, performing a chemical
reaction that includes breaking or forming a covalent or non covalent bond. Directly acquiring a
value includes performing a process that includes a physical change in a sample or another
substance, e.g., performing an analytical process which includes a physical change in a
substance, e.g., a sample, analyte, or reagent (sometimes referred to herein as "physical
analysis"), performing an analytical method, e.g., a method which includes one or more of the
following: separating or purifying a substance, e.g., an analyte, or a fragment or other derivative
thereof, from another substance; combining an analyte, or fragment or other derivative thereof,
with another substance, e.g., a buffer, solvent, or reactant; or changing the structure of an
analyte, or a fragment or other derivative thereof, e.g., by breaking or forming a covalent or non
covalent bond, between a first and a second atom of the analyte; or by changing the structure of a
reagent, or a fragment or other derivative thereof, e.g., by breaking or forming a covalent or non
covalent bond, between a first and a second atom of the reagent.
        "Acquiring a sequence" or "acquiring a read" as the term is used herein, refers to obtaining
possession of a nucleotide sequence or amino acid sequence, by "directly acquiring" or "indirectly
acquiring" the sequence or read. "Directly acquiring" a sequence or read means performing a
process (e.g., performing a synthetic or analytical method) to obtain the sequence, such as
performing a sequencing method (e.g., a Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) method). "Indirectly
acquiring" a sequence or read refers to receiving information or knowledge of, or receiving, the
                                                - 38 -

sequence from another party or source (e.g., a third party laboratory that directly acquired the
sequence). The sequence or read acquired need not be a full sequence, e.g., sequencing of at least
one nucleotide, or obtaining information or knowledge, that identifies one or more of the alterations
disclosed herein as being present in a subject constitutes acquiring a sequence.
         Directly acquiring a sequence or read includes performing a process that includes a physical
change in a physical substance, e.g., a starting material, such as a tissue or cellular sample, e.g., a
biopsy, or an isolated nucleic acid (e.g., DNA or RNA) sample. Exemplary changes include making
a physical entity from two or more starting materials, shearing or fragmenting a substance, such as a
genomic DNA fragment; separating or purifying a substance (e.g., isolating a nucleic acid sample
from a tissue); combining two or more separate entities into a mixture, performing a chemical
reaction that includes breaking or forming a covalent or non-covalent bond. Directly acquiring a
value includes performing a process that includes a physical change in a sample or another
substance as described above.
         "Acquiring a sample" as the term is used herein, refers to obtaining possession of a sample,
e.g., a tissue sample or nucleic acid sample, by "directly acquiring" or "indirectly acquiring" the
sample. "Directly acquiring a sample" means performing a process (e.g., performing a physical
method such as a surgery or extraction) to obtain the sample. "Indirectly acquiring a sample" refers
to receiving the sample from another party or source (e.g., a third party laboratory that directly
acquired the sample). Directly acquiring a sample includes performing a process that includes a
physical change in a physical substance, e.g., a starting material, such as a tissue, e.g., a tissue in a
human patient or a tissue that has was previously isolated from a patient. Exemplary changes
include making a physical entity from a starting material, dissecting or scraping a tissue; separating
or purifying a substance (e.g., a sample tissue or a nucleic acid sample); combining two or more
separate entities into a mixture; performing a chemical reaction that includes breaking or forming a
covalent or non-covalent bond. Directly acquiring a sample includes performing a process that
includes a physical change in a sample or another substance, e.g., as described above.
         "Alignment selector," as used herein, refers to a parameter that allows or directs the
selection of an alignment method, e.g., an alignment algorithm or parameter, that can optimize
the sequencing of a preselected subgenomic interval. An alignment selector can be specific to,
or selected as a function, e.g., of one or more of the following:
                                                - 39 -

1. The sequence context, e.g., sequence context, of a subgenomic interval (e.g., the
preselected nucleotide position to be evaluated) that is associated with a propensity for
misalignment of reads for said subgenomic interval. E.g., the existence of a sequence
element in or near the subgenomic interval to be evaluated that is repeated elsewhere in
the genome can cause misalignment and thereby reduce performance. Performance can
be enhanced by selecting an algorithm or an algorithm parameter that minimizes
misalignment. In this case the value for the alignment selector can be a function of the
sequence context, e.g., the presence or absence of a sequence of preselected length that is
repeated at least a preselected number of times in the genome (or in the portion of the
genome being analyzed).
2. The tumor type being analyzed. E.g., a specific tumor type can be characterized by
increased rate of deletions. Thus, performance can be enhanced by selecting an
algorithm or algorithm parameter that is more sensitive to indels. In this case the value
for the alignment selector can be a function of the tumor type, e.g., an identifier for the
tumor type. In an embodiment the value is the identity of the tumor type, e.g., breast
cancer.
3. The gene, or type of gene, being analyzed, e.g., a gene, or type of gene, can be
analyzed. Oncogenes, by way of example, are often characterized by substitutions or in
frame indels. Thus, performance can be enhanced by selecting an algorithm or algorithm
parameter that is particularly sensitive to these variants and specific against others.
Tumor suppressors are often characterized by frame-shift indels. Thus, performance can
be enhanced by selecting an algorithm or algorithm parameter that is particularly
sensitive to these variants. Thus, performance can be enhanced by selecting an algorithm
or algorithm parameter matched with the subgenomic interval. In this case the value for
the alignment selector can be a function of the gene or gene type, e.g., an identifier for
gene or gene type. In an embodiment the value is the identity of the gene.
4. The site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed. In this case the value for the
alignment selector can be a function of the site or the type of site, e.g., an identifier for
the site or site type. In an embodiment the value is the identity of the site. (E.g., if the
gene containing the site is highly homologous with another gene, normal/fast short read
alignment algorithms (e.g., BWA) may have difficulty distinguishing between the two
                                         - 40 -

        genes, potentially necessitating more intensive alignment methods (Smith-Waterman) or
        even assembly (ARACHNE). Similarly, if the gene sequence contains low-complexity
        regions (e.g., AAAAAA), more intensive alignment methods may be necessary.
        5. The variant, or type of variant, associated with the subgenomic interval being
        evaluated. E.g., a substitution, insertion, deletion, translocation or other rearrangement.
        Thus, performance can be enhanced by selecting an algorithm or algorithm parameter
        that is more sensitive to the specific variant type. In this case the value for the alignment
        selector can be a function of the type of variant, e.g., an identifier for the type of variant.
        In an embodiment the value is the identity of the type of variant, e.g., a substitution.
        6. The type of sample, a FFPE or other fixed sample. Sample type/quality can affect
        error (spurious observation of non-reference sequence) rate. Thus, performance can be
        enhanced by selecting an algorithm or algorithm parameter that accurately model the true
        error rate in the sample. In this case the value for the alignment selector can be a
        function of the type of sample, e.g., an identifier for the sample type. In an embodiment,
        the value is the identity of the sampe type, e.g., a fixed sample.
        "Alteration" or "altered structure" as used herein, of a gene or gene product (e.g., a
marker gene or gene product) refers to the presence of a mutation or mutations within the gene or
gene product, e.g., a mutation, which affects amount or activity of the gene or gene product, as
compared to the normal or wild-type gene. The alteration can be in amount, structure, and/or
activity in a cancer tissue or cancer cell, as compared to its amount, structure, and/or activity, in
a normal or healthy tissue or cell (e.g., a control), and is associated with a disease state, such as
cancer. For example, an alteration which is associated with cancer, or predictive of
responsiveness to anti-cancer therapeutics, can have an altered nucleotide sequence (e.g., a
mutation), amino acid sequence, chromosomal translocation, intra-chromosomal inversion, copy
number, expression level, protein level, protein activity, or methylation status, in a cancer tissue
or cancer cell, as compared to a normal, healthy tissue or cell. Exemplary mutations include, but
are not limited to, point mutations (e.g., silent, missense, or nonsense), deletions, insertions,
inversions, linking mutations, duplications, translocations, inter- and intra-chromosomal
rearrangements. Mutations can be present in the coding or non-coding region of the gene. In
certain embodiments, the alteration(s) is detected as a rearrangement, e.g., a genomic
rearrangement comprising one or more introns or fragments thereof (e.g., one or more
                                                 - 41 -

rearrangements in the 5'- and/or 3'-UTR). In certain embodiments, the alterations are associated
(or not associated) with a phenotype, e.g., a cancerous phenotype (e.g., one or more of cancer
risk, cancer progression, cancer treatment or resistance to cancer treatment). In one embodiment,
the alteration is associated with one or more of: a genetic risk factor for cancer, a positive
treatment response predictor, a negative treatment response predictor, a positive prognostic
factor, a negative prognostic factor, or a diagnostic factor.
        "Bait", as used herein, is type of hybrid capture reagent. A bait can be a nucleic acid
molecule, e.g., a DNA or RNA molecule, which can hybridize to (e.g., be complementary to),
and thereby allow capture of a target nucleic acid. In one embodiment, a bait is an RNA
molecule (e.g., a naturally-occurring or modified RNA molecule); a DNA molecule (e.g., a
naturally-occurring or modified DNA molecule), or a combination thereof. In other
embodiments, a bait includes a binding entity, e.g., an affinity tag, that allows capture and
separation, e.g., by binding to a binding entity, of a hybrid formed by a bait and a nucleic acid
hybridized to the bait. In one embodiment, a bait is suitable for solution phase hybridization.
        "Bait set," as used herein, refers to one or a plurality of bait molecules.
         "Binding entity" means any molecule to which molecular tags can be directly or
indirectly attached that is capable of specifically binding to an analyte. The binding entity can be
an affinity tag on each bait sequence. In certain embodiments, the binding entity allows for
separation of the bait/member hybrids from the hybridization mixture by binding to a partner,
such as an avidin molecule, or an antibody that binds to the hapten or an antigen-binding
fragment thereof. Exemplary binding entities include, but are not limited to, a biotin molecule, a
hapten, an antibody, an antibody binding fragment, a peptide, and a protein.
         "Complementary" refers to sequence complementarity between regions of two nucleic
acid strands or between two regions of the same nucleic acid strand. It is known that an adenine
residue of a first nucleic acid region is capable of forming specific hydrogen bonds ("base
pairing") with a residue of a second nucleic acid region which is antiparallel to the first region if
the residue is thymine or uracil. Similarly, it is known that a cytosine residue of a first nucleic
acid strand is capable of base pairing with a residue of a second nucleic acid strand which is
antiparallel to the first strand if the residue is guanine. A first region of a nucleic acid is
complementary to a second region of the same or a different nucleic acid if, when the two
regions are arranged in an antiparallel fashion, at least one nucleotide residue of the first region
                                                   - 42 -

is capable of base pairing with a residue of the second region. In certain embodiments, the first
region comprises a first portion and the second region comprises a second portion, whereby,
when the first and second portions are arranged in an antiparallel fashion, at least about 50%, at
least about 75%, at least about 90%, or at least about 95% of the nucleotide residues of the first
portion are capable of base pairing with nucleotide residues in the second portion. In other
embodiments, all nucleotide residues of the first portion are capable of base pairing with
nucleotide residues in the second portion.
         The term "cancer" or "tumor" is used interchangeably herein. These terms refer to the
presence of cells possessing characteristics typical of cancer-causing cells, such as uncontrolled
proliferation, immortality, metastatic potential, rapid growth and proliferation rate, and certain
characteristic morphological features. Cancer cells are often in the form of a tumor, but such
cells can exist alone within an animal, or can be a non-tumorigenic cancer cell, such as a
leukemia cell. These terms include a solid tumor, a soft tissue tumor, or a metastatic lesion. As
used herein, the term "cancer" includes premalignant, as well as malignant cancers.
         "Likely to" or "increased likelihood," as used herein, refers to an increased probability
that an item, object, thing or person will occur. Thus, in one example, a subject that is likely to
respond to treatment has an increased probability of responding to treatment relative to a
reference subject or group of subjects.
         "Unlikely to" refers to a decreased probability that an event, item, object, thing or person
will occur with respect to a reference. Thus, a subject that is unlikely to respond to treatment has
a decreased probability of responding to treatment relative to a reference subject or group of
subjects.
         "Control member" refers to a member having sequence from a non-tumor cell.
         "Indel alignment sequence selector," as used herein, refers to a parameter that allows or
directs the selection of a sequence to which a read is to be aligned with in the case of a preselcted
indel. Use of such a sequence can optimize the sequencing of a preselected subgenomic interval
comprising an indel. The value for an indel alignment sequence selector is a function of a
preselected indel, e.g., an identifier for the indel. In an embodiment the value is the identity of
the indel.
         As used herein, the term "library" refers to a collection of members. In one embodiment,
the library includes a collection of nucleic acid members, e.g., a collection of whole genomic,
                                                  - 43 -

subgenomic fragments, cDNA, cDNA fragments, RNA, RNA fragments, or a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, a portion or all of the library members comprises an adapter
sequence. The adapter sequence can be located at one or both ends. The adapter sequence can
be useful, e.g., for a sequencing method (e.g., an NGS method), for amplification, for reverse
transcription, or for cloning into a vector.
         The libary can comprise a collection of members, e.g., a target member (e.g., a tumor
member, a reference member, a PGx member, or a combination thereof). The members of the
library can be from a single individual. In embodiments, a library can comprise members from
more than one subject (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30 or more subjects), e.g., two or more
libraries from different subjects can be combined to from a library having members from more
than one subject. In one embodiment, the subject is human having, or at risk of having, a cancer
or tumor.
         "Library-catch" refers to a subset of a library, e.g., a subset enriched for preselected
subgenomic intervals, e.g., product captured by hybridization with preselected baits.
         "Member" or "library member" or other similar term, as used herein, refers to a nucleic
acid molecule, e.g., a DNA, RNA, or a combination thereof, that is the member of a library.
Typically, a member is a DNA molecule, e.g., genomic DNA or cDNA. A member can be
fragmented, e.g., sheared or enzymatically prepared, genomic DNA. Members comprise
sequence from a subject and can also comprise sequence not derived from the subject, e.g.,
adapters sequence, a primer sequence, or other sequences that allow for identification, e.g.,
"barcode" sequences.
         "Next-generation sequencing or NGS or NG sequencing" as used herein, refers to any
sequencing method that determines the nucleotide sequence of either individual nucleic acid
molecules (e.g., in single molecule sequencing) or clonally expanded proxies for individual
nucleic acid molecules in a high through-putfashion (e.g., greater than 103, 104, 105 or more
molecules are sequenced simultaneously). In one embodiment, the relative abundance of the
nucleic acid species in the library can be estimated by counting the relative number of
occurrences of their cognate sequences in the data generated by the sequencing experiment.
Next generation sequencing methods are known in the art, and are described, e.g., in Metzker, M.
(2010) Nature Biotechnology Reviews 11:31-46, incorporated herein by reference. Next

generation sequencing can detect a variant present in less than 5% of the nucleic acids in a
sample.
        "Nucleotide value" as referred herein, represents the identity of the nucleotide(s)
occupying or assigned to a preselected nucleotide position. Typical nucleotide values include:
missing (e.g., deleted); addtional (e.g., an insertion of one or more nucleotides, the identity of
which may or may not be included); or present (occupied); A; T; C; or G. Other values can be,
e.g., not Y, wherein Y is A, T, G, or C; A or X, wherein X is one or two of T, G, or C; T or X,
wherein X is one or two of A, G, or C; G or X, wherein X is one or two of T, A, or C; C or X,
wherein X is one or two of T, G, or A; a pyrimidine nucleotide; or a purine nucleotide. A
nucleotide value can be a frequency for 1 or more, e.g., 2, 3, or 4, bases (or other value described
herein, e.g., missing or additional) at a nucleotide position. E.g., a nucleotide value can comprise
a frequency for A, and a frequency for G, at a nucleotide position.
         "Or" is used herein to mean, and is used interchangeably with, the term "and/or", unless context
clearly indicates otherwise. The use of the term "and/or" in some places herein does not mean that use,
of the term "or" are not interchangeable with the term "and/or" unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
        "Primary control" refers to a non tumor tissue other than NAT tissue in a tumor sample.
Blood is a typical primary control.
        "Rearrangement alignment sequence selector," as used herein, refers to a parameter that
allows or directs the selection of a sequence to which a read is to be aligned with in the case of a
preselected rearrangement. Use of such a sequence can optimize the sequencing of a preselected
subgenomic interval comprising a rearrangement. The value for a rearrangement alignment
sequence selector is a function of a preselected rearrangement, e.g., an identifier for the
rearrangement. In an embodiment the value is the identity of the rearrangement. An "indel
alignment sequence selector" (also defined elsewhere herein) is an example of a rearrangement
alignment sequence selector.
         "Sample," "tissue sample," "patient sample," "patient cell or tissue sample" or "specimen"
each refers to a collection of similar cells obtained from a tissue, or circulating cells, of a subject
or patient. The source of the tissue sample can be solid tissue as from a fresh, frozen and/or
preserved organ, tissue sample, biopsy, or aspirate; blood or any blood constituents; bodily fluids
such as cerebral spinal fluid, amniotic fluid, peritoneal fluid or interstitial fluid; or cells from any
                                                 - 45 -

time in gestation or development of the subject. The tissue sample can contain compounds that
are not naturally intermixed with the tissue in nature such as preservatives, anticoagulants,
buffers, fixatives, nutrients, antibiotics or the like. In one embodiment, the sample is preserved
as a frozen sample or as formaldehyde- or paraformaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE)
tissue preparation. For example, the sample can be embedded in a matrix, e.g., an FFPE block or
a frozen sample.
         In one embodiment, the sample is a tumor sample, e.g., includes one or more
premalignant or malignant cells. In certain, embodiments, the sample, e.g., the tumor sample, is
acquired from a solid tumor, a soft tissue tumor or a metastatic lesion. In other embodiments, the
sample, e.g., the tumor sample, includes tissue or cells from a surgical margin. In another
embodiment, the sample, e.g., tumor sample, includes one or more circulating tumor cells (CTC)
(e.g., a CTC acquired from a blood sample).
         "Sensitivity," as used herein, is a measure of the ability of a method to detect a
preselected sequence variant in a heterogeneous population of sequences. A method has a
sensitivity of S% for variants of F% if, given a sample in which the preselected sequence variant
is present as at least F% of the sequences in the sample, the method can detect the preselected
sequence at a preselected confidence of C%, S% of the time. By way of example, a method has
a sensitivity of 90% for variants of 5% if, given a sample in which the preselected variant
sequence is present as at least 5% of the sequences in the sample, the method can detect the
preselected sequence at a preselected confidence of 99%, 9 out oflO times (F=5%; C=99%;
S=90%). Exemplary sensitivities include those of S=90%, 95%, 99% for sequence variants at
F=1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 50%, 100% at confidence levels of C= 90%, 95%, 99%, and 99.9%.
         "Specificity," as used herein, is a measure of the ability of a method to distinguish a truly
occurring preselected sequence variant from sequencing artifacts or other closely related
sequences. It is the ability to avoid false positive detections. False positive detections can arise
from errors introduced into the sequence of interest during sample preparation, sequencing error,
or inadvertent sequencing of closely related sequences like pseudo-genes or members of a gene
family. A method has a specificity of X % if, when applied to a sample set of NTotal sequences,
in which XTrue sequences are truly variant and XNot     te  are not truly variant, the method selects at
least X % of the not truly variant as not variant. E.g., a method has a specificity of 90 % if, when
applied to a sample set of 1,000 sequences, in which 500 sequences are truly variant and 500 are
                                                  - 46 -

not truly variant, the method selects 90 % of the 500 not truly variant sequences as not variant.
Exemplary specificities include 90, 95, 98, and 99 %.
        A "tumor nucleic acid sample" as used herein, refers to nucleic acid molecules from a
tumor or cancer sample. Typically, it is DNA, e.g., genomic DNA, or cDNA derived from RNA,
from a tumor or cancer sample. In certain embodiments, the tumor nucleic acid sample is
purified or isolated (e.g., it is removed from its natural state).
        A "control" or "reference" "nucleic acid sample" as used herein, refers to nucleic acid
molecules from a control or reference sample. Typically, it is DNA, e.g., genomic DNA, or
cDNA derived from RNA, not containing the alteration or variation in the gene or gene product.
In certain embodiments, the reference or control nucleic acid sample is a wild type or a non
mutated sequence. In certain embodiments, the reference nucleic acid sample is purified or
isolated (e.g., it is removed from its natural state). In other embodiments, the reference nucleic
acid sample is from a non-tumor sample, e.g., a blood control, a normal adjacent tumor (NAT),
or any other non-cancerous sample from the same or a different subject.
        "Sequencing" a nucleic acid molecule requires determining the identity of at least 1
nucleotide in the molecule. In embodiments the identity of less than all of the nucleotides in a
molecule are determined. In other embodiments, the identity of a majority or all of the
nucleotides in the molecule is determined.
        "Subgenomic interval" as referred to herein, refers to a portion of genomic sequence. In
an embodiment a subgenomic interval can be a single nucleotide position, e.g., a nucleotide
position variants of which are associated (positively or negatively) with a tumor phenotype. In
an embodiment a subgenomic interval comprises more than one nucleotide position. Such
embodiments include sequences of at least 2, 5, 10, 50, 100, 150, or 250 nucleotide positions in
length. Subgenomic intervals can comprise an entire gene, or a preselected portion thereof, e.g.,
the coding region (or portions there of), a preselected intron (or portion thereof) or exon (or
portion thereof). A subgenomic interval can comprise all or a part of a fragment of a naturally
occurring, e.g., genomic, nucleic acid. E.g., a subgenomic interval can correspond to a fragment
of genomic DNA which is subjected to a sequencing reaction. In embodiments a subgenomic
interval is continuous sequence from a genomic source. In embodiments a subgenomic interval
includes sequences that are not contiguous in the genome, e.g., it can include junctions formed
found at exon-exon junctions in cDNA.
                                                 - 47 -

         In an embodiment, a subgenomic interval comprises or consists of: a single nucleotide
position; an intragenic region or an intergenic region; an exon or an intron, or a fragment thereof,
typically an exon sequence or a fragment thereof; a coding region or a non-coding region, e.g., a
promoter, an enhancer, a 5' untranslated region (5' UTR), or a 3' untranslated region (3' UTR),
or a fragment thereof; a cDNA or a fragment thereof; an SNP; a somatic mutation, a germ line
mutation or both; an alteration, e.g., a point or a single mutation; a deletion mutation (e.g., an in
frame deletion, an intragenic deletion, a full gene deletion); an insertion mutation (e.g.,
intragenic insertion); an inversion mutation (e.g., an intra-chromosomal inversion); a linking
mutation; a linked insertion mutation; an inverted duplication mutation; a tandem duplication
(e.g., an intrachromosomal tandem duplication); a translocation (e.g., a chromosomal
translocation, a non-reciprocal translocation); a rearrangement (e.g., a genomic rearrangement
(e.g., a rearrangement of one or more introns, or a fragment thereof; a rearranged intron can
include a a 5'- and/or 3'- UTR); a change in gene copy number; a change in gene expression; a
change in RNA levels, or a combination thereof. The "copy number of a gene" refers to the
number of DNA sequences in a cell encoding a particular gene product. Generally, for a given
gene, a mammal has two copies of each gene. The copy number can be increased, e.g., by gene
amplification or duplication, or reduced by deletion.
         "Threshold value," as used herein, is a value that is a function of the number of reads
required to be present to assign a nucleotide value to a subgenomic interval. E.g., it is a function
of the number of reads having a specific nucleotide value, e.g., A, at a nucleotide position,
required to assign that nucleotide value to that nucleotide position in the subgenomic interval.
The threshold value can, e.g., be expressed as (or as a function of) a number of reads, e.g., an
integer, or as a proportion of reads having the preselected value. By way of example, if the
threshold value is X, and X+1 reads having the nucleotide value of "A" are present, then the
value of "A" is assigned to the preselected position in the subgenomic interval. The threshold
value can also be expressed as a function of a mutation or variant expectation, mutation
frequency, or of Bayesian prior. In an embodiment, a preselected mutation frequency would
require a preselected number or proportion of reads having a nucleotide value, e.g., A or G, at a
preselected position, to call that that nucleotide value. In embodiments the threshold value can
be a function of mutation expectation, e.g., mutation frequency, and tumor type. E.g., a
                                                 - 48 -

preslected variant at a preselected nucleotide position could have a first threshold value if the
patient has a first tumor type and a second threshold value if the patient has a second tumor type.
         As used herein, "target member" refers to a nucleic acid molecule that one desires to
isolate from the nucleic acid library. In one embodiment, the target members can be a tumor
member, a reference member, a control member, or a PGx member as described herein.
         "Tumor member," or other similar term (e.g., a "tumor or cancer-associated member"), as
used herein refers to a member having sequence from a tumor cell. In one embodiment, the
tumor member includes a subgenomic interval having a sequence (e.g., a nucleotide sequence)
that has an alteration (e.g., a mutation) associated with a cancerous phenotype. In other
embodiments, the tumor member includes a subgenomic interval having a wild type sequence
(e.g., a wild type nucleotide sequence). For example, a subgenomic interval from a heterozygous
or homozygous wild type allele present in a cancer cell. A tumor member can include a
reference member or a PGx member.
         "Reference member," or other similar term (e.g., a "control member"), as used herein,
refers to a member that comprises a subgenomic interval having a sequence (e.g., a nucleotide
sequence) that is not associated with the cancerous phenotype. In one embodiment, the reference
member includes a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence of a gene or gene product
that when mutated is associated with the cancerous phenotype. The reference member can be
present in a cancer cell or non-cancer cell.
         "PGx member" or other similar term, as used herein, refers to a member that comprises a
subgenomic interval that is associated with the pharmacogenetic or pharmacogenomic profile of
a gene. In one embodiment, the PGx member includes an SNP (e.g., an SNP as described
herein). In other embodiments, the PGx member includes a subgenomic interval according to
Table 1 or Table 2.
         "Variant," as used herein, refers to a structure that can be present at a subgenomic
interval that can have more than one structure, e.g., an allele at a polymorphic locus.
         Headings, e.g., (a), (b), (i) etc, are presented merely for ease of reading the specification
and claims. The use of headings in the specification or claims does not require the steps or
elements be performed in alphabetical or numerical order or the order in which they are
presented.
                                                    - 49 -

Selection of Gene or Gene Products
         The selected genes or gene products (also referred to herein as the "target genes or gene
products") can include subgenomic intervals comprising intragenic regions or intergenic regions.
For example, the subgenomic interval can include an exon or an intron, or a fragment thereof,
typically an exon sequence or a fragment thereof. The subgenomic interval can include a coding
region or a non-coding region, e.g., a promoter, an enhancer, a 5' untranslated region (5' UTR),
or a 3' untranslated region (3' UTR), or a fragment thereof. In other embodiments, the
subgenomic interval includes a cDNA or a fragment thereof. In other embodiments, the
subgenomic interval includes an SNP, e.g., as described herein.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic intervals include substantially all exons in a
genome, e.g., one or more of the subgenomic intervals as described herein (e.g., exons from
selected genes or gene products of interest (e.g., genes or gene products associated with a
cancerous phenotype as described herein)). In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval
includes a somatic mutation, a germ line mutation or both. In one embodiment, the subgenomic
interval includes an alteration, e.g., a point or a single mutation, a deletion mutation (e.g., an in
frame deletion, an intragenic deletion, a full gene deletion), an insertion mutation (e.g.,
intragenic insertion), an inversion mutation (e.g., an intra-chromosomal inversion), a linking
mutation, a linked insertion mutation, an inverted duplication mutation, a tandem duplication
(e.g., an intrachromosomal tandem duplication), a translocation (e.g., a chromosomal
translocation, a non-reciprocal translocation), a rearrangement, a change in gene copy number, or
a combination thereof. In certain embodiments, the subgenomic interval constitutes less than 5,
1, 0.5, 0.1%, 0.01%, 0.001% of the coding region of the genome of the tumor cells in a sample.
In other embodiments, the subgenomic intervals are not involved in a disease, e.g., are not
associated with a cancerous phenotype as described herein.
         In one embodiment, the target gene or gene product is a biomarker. As used herein, a
"biomarker" or "marker" is a gene, mRNA, or protein which can be altered, wherein said
alteration is associated with cancer. The alteration can be in amount, structure, and/or activity in
a cancer tissue or cancer cell, as compared to its amount, structure, and/or activity, in a normal or
healthy tissue or cell (e.g., a control), and is associated with a disease state, such as cancer. For
example, a marker associated with cancer, or predictive of responsiveness to anti-cancer
therapeutics, can have an altered nucleotide sequence, amino acid sequence, chromosomal
                                                  - 50  -

translocation, intra-chromosomal inversion, copy number, expression level, protein level, protein
activity, or methylation status, in a cancer tissue or cancer cell as compared to a normal, healthy
tissue or cell. Furthermore, a "marker" includes a molecule whose structure is altered, e.g.,
mutated (contains an mutation), e.g., differs from the wild type sequence at the nucleotide or
amino acid level, e.g., by substitution, deletion, or insertion, when present in a tissue or cell
associated with a disease state, such as cancer.
         In one embodiment, the target gene or gene product includes a single-nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP). In another embodiment, the gene or gene product has a small deletion,
e.g., a small intragenic deletion (e.g., an in-frame or frame-shift deletion). In yet another
embodiment, the target sequence results from the deletion of an entire gene. In still another
embodiment, the target sequence has a small insertion, e.g., a small intragenic insertion. In one
embodiment, the target sequence results from an inversion, e.g., an intrachromosal inversion. In
another embodiment, the target sequence results from an interchromosal translocation. In yet
another embodiment, the target sequence has a tandem duplication. In one embodiment, the
target sequence has an undesirable feature (e.g., high GC content or repeat element). In another
embodiment, the target sequence has a portion of nucleotide sequence that cannot itself be
successfully targeted, e.g., because of its repetitive nature. In one embodiment, the target
sequence results from alternative splicing. In another embodiment, the target sequence is chosen
from a gene or gene product, or a fragment thereof according to Table 1, 1A, 2, 3, or 4.
         Cancers include, but are not limited to, B cell cancer, e.g., multiple myeloma,
melanomas, breast cancer, lung cancer (such as non-small cell lung carcinoma or NSCLC),
bronchus cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, stomach cancer, ovarian
cancer, urinary bladder cancer, brain or central nervous system cancer, peripheral nervous
system cancer, esophageal cancer, cervical cancer, uterine or endometrial cancer, cancer of the
oral cavity or pharynx, liver cancer, kidney cancer, testicular cancer, biliary tract cancer, small
bowel or appendix cancer, salivary gland cancer, thyroid gland cancer, adrenal gland cancer,
osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, cancer of hematological tissues, adenocarcinomas, inflammatory
myofibroblastic tumors, gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), colon cancer, multiple myeloma
(MM), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), myeloproliferative disorder (MPD), acute
lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myelocytic leukemia (AML), chronic myelocytic leukemia
(CML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), polycythemia Vera, Hodgkin lymphoma, non
                                                  - 51 -

Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), soft-tissue sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma,
osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma,
lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
rhabdomyosarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat
gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas,
medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct
carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, bladder
carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma,
ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma,
meningioma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric cancer,
head and neck cancer, small cell cancers, essential thrombocythemia, agnogenic myeloid
metaplasia, hypereosinophilic syndrome, systemic mastocytosis, familiar hypereosinophilia,
chronic eosinophilic leukemia, neuroendocrine cancers, carcinoid tumors, and the like.
        In one embodiment, the target gene or gene product is chosen a full length, or a fragment
thereof, selected from the group consisting of ABCB1, ABCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, ABLI,
ABL2, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ATM, ATR,
AURKA, AURKB, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2,
Clorfl44, CARD11, CBL, CCND1, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CDH1, CDH2, CDH20, CDH5,
CDK4, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CEBPA, CHEKI, CHEK2, CRKL,
CRLF2, CTNNB1, CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DNMT3A,
DOTIL, DPYD, EGFR, EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB2,
ERBB3, ERBB4, ERCC2, ERG, ESRI, ESR2, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2,
FANCA, FBXW7, FCGR3A, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, FLT1, FLT3, FLT4, FOXP4,
GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124, GSTP1, GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HRAS, HSP90AA1,
IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA, IRS2, ITPA, JAKI, JAK2, JAK3, JUN,
KDR, KIT, KRAS, LRP1B, LRP2, LTK, MANIBI, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MAP2K4, MCL1,
MDM2, MDM4, MENI, MET, MITF, MLH1, MLL, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MTHFR,
MTOR, MUTYH, MYC, MYCLI, MYCN, NF1, NF2, NKX2-1, NOTCH, NPM1, NQO1,
NRAS, NRP2, NTRK1, NTRK3, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, PIK3CA, PIK3R1,
PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC, PTCH1, PTEN, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAF1, RARA, RB1, RET,
                                               - 52 -

RICTOR, RPTOR, RUNX1, SLC19A1, SLC22A2, SLCO1B3, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4,
SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SMO, SOD2, SOX10, SOX2, SRC, STK11, SULTIA1, TBX22,
TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TOPI, TP53, TPMT, TSC1, TSC2, TYMS, UGT1A1, UMPS,
USP9X, VHL, and WT1.
        In one embodiment, the target gene or gene product, or a fragment thereof, has one or
more SNPs that are relevant to pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics (PGx), e.g., drug
metabolism and toxicity. Exemplary genes or gene products include, but not limited to, ABCB1,
ABCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorfl44, CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4,
CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2, FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2, MANIBI, MTHFR, NQO1,
NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2, SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1, TPMT, TYMS, UGT1A1, and
UMPS.
        In another embodiment, the target gene or gene product, or a fragment thereof, has one or
more codons that are associated with cancer. Exemplary genes or gene products include, but not
limited to, ABLI (e.g., codon 315), AKT1, ALK, APC (e.g., codon 1114, 1338, 1450, and 1556),
AR, BRAF (e.g., codon 600), CDKN2A, CEBPA, CTNNB1 (e.g., codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41, and
45), EGFR (e.g., 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858, and 861), ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2,
FGFR3, FLT3 (e.g., codon 835), HRAS (e.g., codon 12, 13, and 61), JAK2 (e.g., codon 617),
KIT (e.g., codon 816), KRAS (e.g., codon 12, 13, and 61), MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCHI,
NPM1, NRAS, PDGFRA, PIK3CA (e.g., codon 88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, and 1049), PTEN (e.g.,
codon 130, 173, 233, and 267), RB1, RET (e.g., codon 918), TP53 (e.g., 175, 245, 248, 273, and
306).
        In yet another embodiment, the target gene or gene product, or a fragment thereof, are
associated with cancer. Exemplary genes or gene products include, but not limited to, ABL2,
AKT2, AKT3, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ATM, ATR, AURKA, AURKB, BCL2, BCL2A1,
BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1, BRCA2, CARD1I, CBL, CCND1, CCND2, CCND3,
CCNE1, CDH1, CDH2, CDH20, CDH5, CDK4, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI,
CHEK2, CRKL, CRLF2, DNMT3A, DOTIL, EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1,
EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA,
FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1, FLT4, FOXP4, GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124,
GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1, IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA,
IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDR, LRP1B, LTK, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2,
                                              - 53 -

MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI,
MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1, NTRK3, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRB, PIK3R1, PKHD1, PLCG1,
PRKDC, PTCH1, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAFI, RARA, RICTOR, RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2,
SMAD3, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SMO, SOX1O, SOX2, SRC, STK11, TBX22,
TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TOPI, TSC1, TSC2, USP9X, VHL, and WT1.
         Applications of the foregoing methods include using a library of oligonucleotides
containing all known sequence variants (or a subset thereof) of a particular gene or genes for
sequencing in medical specimens.
Gene Selection Module
         This module discloses sets of subgenomic intervals for use in methods featured in the
invention, e.g., subgenomic intervals for sets or groups of genes and other regions described
herein.
         Optimized methods and assays for sequencing large numbers of genes and gene products
from samples, e.g., tumor samples, from one or more subjects are disclosed. In one embodiment,
the methods and assays featured in the invention are used in a multiplex, multi-gene assay
format, e.g., assays that incorporate multiple signals from a large number of diverse genetic
events in a large number of genes. Disclosed herein are methods and assays that are based, at
least in part, on a pre-selected set of genes or gene products that are associated (e.g., positively or
negatively) with a cancerous phenotype (e.g., one or more of cancer risk, cancer progression,
cancer treatment response or resistance to cancer treatment). Such pre-selected genes or gene
products enable the application of sequencing methods, particularly methods that rely on
massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genes, e.g., from tumor or control
samples.
         Accordingly, the invention features a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a tumor sample.
The method comprises:
         (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from a tumor sample;
         (b) optionally, enriching the library for preselected sequences, e.g., by contacting the
library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide selected members (sometimes referred
to herein as library catch);
                                                   - 54 -

         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method or
a method described herein) from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein the method comprises sequencing, e.g., by a next generation sequencing method, a
subgenomic interval from at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five,
thirty or more genes or gene products from the sample, wherein the genes or gene products are
chosen from: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53.
         In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment, step (b) is absent.
         Thus, in embodiments a method comprises sequencing, e.g., by a next generation
sequencing method, a subgenomic interval from at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen,
twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more genes or gene products from the acquired nucleic acid
sample, wherein the genes or gene products are chosen from: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3,
ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A, CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL,
MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1,
PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK1 1, SUFU, or TP53, thereby analyzing the tumor
sample.
         In certain embodiments, the method, or the assay, further includes sequencing a
subgenomic interval from a gene or gene product chosen from one, two, three, four, five, ten,
fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five, forty, forty-five, fifty, fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five,
seventy, seventy-five, eighty, eighty-five, ninety, ninety-five, one hundred, one hundred and five,
one hundred and ten, one hundred and fifteen, one hundred and twenty or more of: ABL2,
                                                  - 55  -

ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ATM, ATR, AURKA, AURKB, BAPI, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1,
BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1, BRCA2, CBL, CARD11, CBL, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD79A,
CD79B, CDH1, CDH2, CDH20, CDH5, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI, CHEK2,
CRKL, CRLF2, DNMT3A, DOTIL, EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4,
EPHB6, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA,
FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1, FLT4, FOXP4, GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124,
GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1, IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA,
IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDM6A, KDR, LRP1B, LRP6, LTK, MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2,
MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI,
MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1, NTRK2, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRB, PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC,
PTPN11, PTPRD, RAFI, RARA, RICTOR, RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4,
SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SOX1O, SOX2, SRC, TBX22, TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3,
TNK, TNKS2, TOPI, TSC1, TSC2, USP9X, VHL, or WT1.
         In other embodiments, the method, or the assay, further includes sequencing a
subgenomic interval that is present in a gene or gene product associated with one or more of drug
metabolism, drug responsiveness, or toxicity (also referred to therein as "PGx" genes). In certain
embodiments, the subgenomic interval sequenced includes an alteration (e.g., single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP)). In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval sequenced is from a gene or
gene product chosen from one, two, three, four, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty or
more of: ABCB1, BCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorf144, CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2D6,
CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2, FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2, MANIBI,
MTHFR, NQO1, NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2, SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1, TPMT, TYMS,
UGT1A1, or UMPS.
         In other embodiments, the method, or the assay, further includes sequencing a
subgenomic interval that is present in a gene or gene product chosen from one, two, three, four,
five, ten, fifteen, twenty or more of ARFRP1, BCL2A1, CARD 11, CDH20, CDH5, DDR2,
EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA7, EPHB1, FOXP4, GPR124, GUCY1A2, INSR, LRP1B, LTK, PAK3,
PHLPP2, PLCG1, PTPRD, STAT3, TBX22 or USP9X.
         In certain embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample
includes a nucleotide sequence from at least 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or more genes or gene
products from Table 1 or 1A. In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the
                                               - 56 -

nucleic acid sample includes a nucleotide sequence from at least 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or more
genes or gene products from Table 1 or 1A acquired from a tumor sample from the cancer types
specified therein. In yet other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval includes a
combination of the Priority 1 genes and the PGx genes according to Table 1 or 1A (e.g., at least
5, 10, 20 or 30 Priority 1 genes; and at least 5, 10, 20 or 30 PGX genes according to Table 1 or
1A). In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval includes a combination of the
Priority 1 genes, Cancer genes and PGx genes according to Table 1 or 1A (e.g., at least 5, 10, 20
or 30 Priority 1 genes; at least 5, 10, 20 or 30 Cancer genes; and at least 5, 10, 20 or 30 PGX
genes according to Table 1 or 1A).
        In certain embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample
includes a codon chosen from one or more of: codon 315 of the ABLI gene; codon 1114, 1338,
1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF; codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41 or 45 of CTNNB1; codon
719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR; codon 835 of FLT3; codon 12, 13, or 61 of HRAS;
codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT; codon 12, 13, or 61 of KRAS; codon 88, 542, 545, 546,
1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130, 173, 233, or 267 of PTEN; codon 918 of RET; codon 175,
245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53. In certain embodiments, two, three, four, five, ten, fifteen,
twenty or more of the aforesaid codons are sequenced. In other embodiments, the sequenced
subgenomic interval includes one or more of the codons shown in Table 1 or 1A.
        In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample
includes a nucleotide sequence from at least one, five, ten fifteen, twenty, twenty-five or more
PGx genes or gene products from Table 1. In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic
interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a nucleotide sequence from at least 1, 5, 10, 15, 20,
25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, or more PGx genes or gene products from Table 2. In yet other
embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval includes a nucleotide sequence from at least
one PGx gene (and/or at least one PGx gene mutation) according to Table 2 that is associated
with one or more of: drug metabolism, drug responsiveness, drug toxicity or side effects. For
example, the sequenced subgenomic interval can include a nucleotide sequence from at least one
PGx gene associated with better survival of a cancer patient treated with a drug (e.g., better
survival of a breast cancer patient treated with paclitaxel (e.g., an ABCB1 gene)). In other
embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval is associated with paclitaxel metabolism (e.g.,
CYP2C8 genes at different loci and mutations shown in Table 2; a CYP3A4 gene). In yet other
                                                 - 57 -

embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval is associated with toxicity to a drug (e.g., 6
MP toxicity as seen with ABCC4 gene (Table 2); 5-FU toxicity as seen with DPYD gene, TYMS
gene, and UMPS gene (Table 2); purine toxicity as seen with TMPT gene (Table 2);
daunorubicin toxicity as seen with NRP2 gene; Clorf144 gene, CYPIBI gene (Table 2)). In
other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval is associated with a side effect to a drug
(e.g., ABCG2, TYMS, UGT1A1, ESRI and ESR2 genes (Table 2)).
         In another embodiment subgenomic intervals from one of the following sets or groups are
analyzed. E.g., subgenomic intervals associated with a tumor or cancer gene or gene product, a
reference (e.g., a wild type) gene or gene product, or a PGx gene or gene product, thereby
obtaining a selected subset of subgenomic intervals from the tumor sample.
         In an embodiment, the method sequences a subset of subgenomic intervals from the
tumor sample, wherein the subgenomic intervals are chosen from at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13 or all of the following:
         A) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild-type gene or gene product chosen from at least five
or more of: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53;
         B) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five,
forty, forty-five, fifty, fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five, seventy, seventy-five, eighty, eighty-five,
ninety, ninety-five, one hundred, one hundred and five, one hundred and ten, one hundred and
fifteen, one hundred and twenty or more of subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type
gene or gene product chosen from at least five or more of: ABL2, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A,
ATM, ATR, AURKA, AURKB, BAPI, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1,
BRCA2, CBL, CARD1I, CBL, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD79A, CD79B, CDH1, CDH2,
CDH20, CDH5, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI, CHEK2, CRKL, CRLF2,
DNMT3A, DOTIL, EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB3,
ERBB4, ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA, FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1,
FLT4, FOXP4, GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124, GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1,
                                                     - 58 -

IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA, IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDM6A,
KDR, LRP1B, LRP6, LTK, MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL,
MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI, MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1,
NTRK2, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRB, PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAFI, RARA,
RICTOR, RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SOX1O,
SOX2, SRC, TBX22, TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNK, TNKS2, TOPI, TSC1,
TSC2, USP9X, VHL, or WT1;
        C) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, or more subgenomic intervals
from a gene or gene product according to Table 1, 1A, 2, 3 or 4;
        D) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, or more subgenomic intervals
from a gene or gene product that is associated with a tumor or cancer (e.g., is a positive or
negative treatment response predictor, is a positive or negative prognostic factor for, or enables
differential diagnosis of a tumor or cancer, e.g., a gene or gene product chosen from one or more
of: ABLI, AKT1, ALK, AR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, CEBPA, EGFR, ERBB2, FLT3, JAK2,
KIT, KRAS, MET, NPM1, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, RARA, AKT2, AKT3, MAP2K4, NOTCH,
and TP53;
        E) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or more subgenomic intervals including a
mutated or a wild type codon chosen from one or more of: codon 315 of the ABLI gene; codon
1114, 1338, 1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF; codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41 or 45 of
CTNNB1; codon 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR; codon 835 of FLT3; codon 12,
13, or 61 of HRAS; codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT; codon 12, 13, or 61 of KRAS; codon
88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130, 173, 233, or 267 of PTEN; codon 918
of RET; codon 175, 245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53 (e.g., at least five, ten, fifteen, twenty or more
subgenomic intervals that include one or more of the codons shown in Table 1 or 1A).
        F) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, or more of
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type gene or gene product (e.g., single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP)) of a subgenomic interval that is present in a gene or gene product
associated with one or more of drug metabolism, drug responsiveness, or toxicity (also referred
to therein as "PGx" genes) chosen from: ABCB1, BCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorf144,
CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2,
                                                   - 59  -

FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2, MANIBI, MTHFR, NQO1, NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2,
SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1, TPMT, TYMS, UGT1A1, or UMPS;
         G) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, or more of
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type PGx gene or gene product (e.g., single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)) of a subgenomic interval that is present in a gene or gene
product associated with one or more of: (i) better survival of a cancer patient treated with a drug
(e.g., better survival of a breast cancer patient treated with paclitaxel (e.g., an ABCB1 gene)); (ii)
paclitaxel metabolism (e.g., CYP2C8 genes at different loci and mutations shown in Table 2;
CYP3A4 gene); (iii) toxicity to a drug (e.g., 6-MP toxicity as seen with ABCC4 gene (Table 2);
5-FU toxicity as seen with DPYD gene, TYMS gene, or UMPS gene (Table 2); purine toxicity as
seen with a TMPT gene (Table 2); daunorubicin toxicity as seen with NRP2 gene; Clorfl44
gene, CYPIBI gene (Table 2); or (iv) a side effect to a drug (e.g., ABCG2, TYMS, UGT1A1,
ESRI and ESR2 genes (Table 2));
         H) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or
more genes or gene products according to Table 3;
         J) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or
more genes or gene products according to Table 3 in a solid tumor sample from the cancer types
specified therein;
         K) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150,
200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4;
         L) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150,
200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4 in a heme tumor sample from the
cancer types specified therein;
         M) at least five genes or gene products selected from Table 1, 1A-4, wherein an allelic
variation, e.g., at the preselected position, is associated with a preselected type of tumor and
wherein said allelic variation is present in less than 5% of the cells in said tumor type;
         N) at least five genes or gene products selected from Table 1, 1A-4, which are embedded
in a GC-rich region; or
         0) at least five genes or gene products indicative of a genetic (e.g., a germline risk) factor
for developing cancer (e.g., the gene or gene product is chosen from one or more of BRCA1,
                                                   - 60 -

BRCA2, EGFR, HRAS, KIT, MPL, ALK, PTEN, RET, APC, CDKN2A, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6,
NF1, NF2, RB1, TP53, VHL or WT1).
         In certain embodiments, the acquiring step of the method or assay includes acquiring a
library that includes a plurality of tumor or cancer-associated members, reference members
and/or PGx members as described herein from said tumor sample. In certain embodiments, the
selecting step includes solution based hybridization (e.g., to select or enrich for the tumor or
cancer-associated member, the reference member (e.g., the wild type member), or the PGx
member, each comprising a subgenomic interval from a gene or gene product as described
herein.
         Additional embodiments or features of the present invention are as follows:
         In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes an
intragenic region or an intergenic region. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes
a gene or fragment thereof, an exon or a fragment thereof, or a preselected nucleotide position.
In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an exon or an intron, or a fragment
thereof, typically an exon or a fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval
includes a coding region or a non-coding region, e.g., a promoter, an enhancer, a 5' untranslated
region (5' UTR), or a 3' untranslated region (3' UTR), or a fragment thereof.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes an
alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) associated, e.g., positively or negatively, with a
cancerous phenotype (e.g., one or more of cancer risk, cancer progression, cancer treatment or
resistance to treatment). In yet another embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an
alteration, e.g., a point or a single mutation, a deletion mutation (e.g., an in-frame deletion, an
intragenic deletion, a full gene deletion), an insertion mutation (e.g., intragenic insertion), an
inversion mutation (e.g., an intra-chromosomal inversion), a linking mutation, a linked insertion
mutation, an inverted duplication mutation, a tandem duplication (e.g., an intrachromosomal
tandem duplication), a translocation (e.g., a chromosomal translocation, a non-reciprocal
translocation), a rearrangement, a change in gene copy number, or a combination thereof.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
nucleic acid molecule (in the same or a different subgenomic interval) not associated with the
cancerous phenotype for the tumor of the type from the sample. In one embodiment, the
                                                  - 61 -

sequenced subgenomic interval includes a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence of a
gene or gene product (e.g., an exon sequence or a fragment thereof) that when mutated is
associated with a cancerous phenotype (e.g., a wild type or a non-mutated sequence of a gene or
gene product as described herein). For example, the sequenced subgenomic interval is from a
normal (e.g., non-cancerous) reference sample (e.g., form the same subject from whom the tumor
sample was obtained); a normal adjacent tissue (NAT) or a blood sample from the same subject
having or at risk of having the tumor. In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval
is from a different subject as the tumor or cancer-associated member (e.g., is from one or more of
the same or a different tumor sample from a different subject; a normal (e.g., non-cancerous)
reference sample; a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); or a blood sample), from one or more
different subjects (e.g., healthy subjects or other subjects having or at risk of having the tumor).
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes one or
more translocation alterations as shown in Table 3, Table 4, or a combination thereof. In certain
embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval includes a translocation alteration of at least 5,
10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or more genes or gene products according to Table 3.
In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval includes a translocation alteration of
at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or more genes or gene products according to
Table 3 in a tumor sample from the cancer types specified therein. In other embodiments, the
sequenced subgenomic interval includes a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4. In other
embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval includes a translocation alteration of at least 5,
10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or more genes or gene products from Table 4
in a tumor sample from the cancer types specified therein.
         In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes an exon
sequence that includes a single nucleotide alteration associated with a cancerous phenotype. For
example, the subgenomic interval includes nucleotides 25,398,215-25,398,334 of chromosome
12. In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval includes a C-T substitution at position
25,398,286, which represents a G12S mutation in the KRAS gene.
         In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes an
in-frame deletion of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more
codons from a reference nucleotide (e.g., chromosome) sequence. In one embodiment, the
                                                   - 62 -

subgenomic interval includes an in-frame deletion of codons 746-750 of the EGFR gene (e.g.,
the subgenomic interval includes nucleotides 55,242,400 to 55,242,535 of chromosome 7, but
lacks nucleotides 55,242,464 to 55,242,479).
        In yet another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
deletion of the dinucleotide sequence "CA" from codon 64 of the PTEN gene (e.g., the
subgenomic interval includes nucleotides 9,675,214 to 89,675,274 of chromosome 10, followed
by bases 89,675,277 to 89,675,337 of chromosome 10.
        In yet another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes
an insertion of amino acid residues "Gly-Met" following codon 136 of the PTEN (e.g., the
subgenomic interval includes nucleotides 89,692,864 to 89,692,924 of chromosome 10, followed
by a nucleotide sequence "GGNATG", followed by nucleotides 89,692,925 to 89,692,980 of
chromosome 10).
        In yet another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
deletion of the CDKN2A gene (e.g., the subgenomic interval includes nucleotides 21,961,007 to
21,961,067 of chromosome 9 adjacent to bases 22,001,175 to 22,001,235 of chromosome 9).
        In another embodiment, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample
includes an inversion producing an EML4:ALK fusion (e.g., the subgenomic interval includes
nucleotides 42,522,893 to 42,522,953 of chromosome 2, juxtaposed with nucleotides 29,449,993
to 29,449,933 of chromosome 2).
        In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes an
interchromosal translocation resulting in a BCR-ABL fusion (e.g., the subgenomic interval
includes nucleotides 23,632,552 to 23,632,612 of chromosome 22, juxtaposed with nucleotides
133,681,793 to 133,681,853 of chromosome 9).
        In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes an
internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutation in the FLT3 gene (e.g., the subgenomic interval
includes nucleotides 28,608,259 to 28,608,285 of chromosome 13 repeated twice in the same
orientation.
        In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
microsatellite marker sequence (e.g., the subgenomic interval includes a microsatellite marker
sequence of D2S123, e.g., nucleotides 51,288,380 to 51,288,500 and nucleotides 51,288,560 to
51,288,680 of chromosome 2.
                                              - 63 -

        In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
nucleotide sequence corresponding to a fusion sequence (e.g., a fusion transcript or a cancer
associated alternative spliced form of a non-fusion transcript).
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
nucleotide sequence, wherein the presence or absence of a preselected allelic variant is indicative
of a cancer-related phenotype (e.g., one or more of cancer risk, cancer progression, cancer
treatment response or resistance to treatment, tumor staging, metastatic likelihood, etc.). In
certain embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a
nucleotide sequence, wherein the presence or absence of a preselected allelic variant is predictive
of a positive clinical outcome, and/or responsiveness to therapy. In other embodiments, the
sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a nucleotide sequence,
wherein the presence or absence of a preselected allelic variant is predictive of a negative clinical
outcome, and/or responsiveness to therapy. In certain embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic
interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a nucleotide sequence, wherein the presence or
absence of a preselected allelic variant is indicative of a genetic (e.g., a germline risk) factor for
developing cancer (e.g., the gene or gene product is chosen from one or more of BRCA1,
BRCA2, EGFR, HRAS, KIT, MPL, ALK, PTEN, RET, APC, CDKN2A, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6,
NF1, NF2, RB1, TP53, VHL or WT1).
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from one or
more genes or gene products shown in Table 1, 1A, 3 or 4, that is associated with a cancerous
phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of the cancer types described in Tables 1, 1A,
3 or 4.
        In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an ABL-1
gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a soft-tissue
malignancy chosen from one or more of CML, ALL or T-ALL. In other embodiments, the
sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an AKT1 gene or gene
product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of
breast, colorectal, ovarian, or non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC).
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
ALK gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of ALCL, NSCLC or neuroblastoma.
                                                 - 64 -

        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
APC gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of colorectal, pancreatic, desmoid, hepatoblastoma, glioma, or other CNS
cancers or tumors.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
BRAF gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of melanoma, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, other epithelial malignancies, or
hamatological malignancies including AML or ALL.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
CDKN2A gene or gene product,that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer
chosen from one or more of melanoma, pancreatic, or other tumor types.
        In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is
from a CEBPA gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of AML or MDS.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
CTNNB1 gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer
chosen from one or more of colorectal, ovarian, hepatoblastoma, or pleomorphic salivary
adenoma.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
EGFR gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of glioma, lung cancer, or NSCLC.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
ERBB2 gene or gene product, that is associated, e.g., positively or negatively, with a cancerous
phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of breast, ovarian, NSCLC, gastric or other
solid tumors.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
ESRI gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of breast, ovarian or endometrial tumors.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
FGFR1 gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of MPD or NHL.
                                              - 65 -

         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
FGFR2 gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer
chosen from one or more of gastric, NSCLC or endometrial tumors. In one embodiment, the
library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk
of having, one or more of gastric, NSCLC or endometrial tumors.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
FGFR3 gene or gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a
cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of bladder cancer, multiple
myeloma or T-cell lymphoma.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
FLT3 gene or gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous
phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of AML, melanoma, colorectal, papillary
thyroid, ovarian, non small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), cholangiocarcinoma, or pilocytic
astrocytoma.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
HRAS gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of rhadomyosarcoma, ganglioneuroblastoma, bladder, sarcomas, or other
cancer types.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a JAK2
gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of ALL, AML, MPD or CML.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a KIT
gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), AML, TGCT, mastocytosis, mucosal
melanoma, or epithelioma.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
KRAS gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of pancreatic, colon, colorectal, lung, thyroid, or AML.
         In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a MET
gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of renal or head-neck squamous cell carcinoma.
                                                   - 66 -

        In other embodiments, the sequenced subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is
from an MLL gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer
chosen from one or more of AML or ALL.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an NF1
gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of neurofibroma or glioma.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
NOTCHI gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a T-ALL
cancer.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
NPM1 gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of NHL, APL or AML.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an
NRAS gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of melanoma, colorectal cancer, multiple myeloma, AML, or thyroid cancer.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
PDGFRA gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer
chosen from one or more of GIST or idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
PIK3CA gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer
chosen from one or more of colorectal, gastric, gliobastoma, or breast cancer.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a
PTEN gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen
from one or more of colorectal, glioma, prostate, or endometrial cancer.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from an RB1
gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of retinoblastoma, sarcoma, breast, or small cell lung carcinoma.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a RET
gene or gene product, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of medullary thyroid, papillary thyroid, or pheochromocytoma.
                                               - 67 -

        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is from a TP53
gene or gene product that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from
one or more of breast, colorectal, lung, sarcoma, adrenocortical, glioma, or other tumor types.
        In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is a positive
predictor of therapeutic response. Examples of a positive predictor of a therapeutic response
include, but are not limited to, an activating mutation in the EGFR gene that predicts
responsiveness to small molecule EGFR TKIs (e.g., Iressa/gefitinib) in NSCLC patients;
presence of an EML4/ALK fusion gene predicts responsiveness to ALK inhibitors (e.g. PF
02341066) in NSCLC patients; presence of a BRAF V600E mutation predicts responsiveness to
BRAF inhibition (e.g. PLX-4032) in melanoma patients.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is a negative
predictor of therapeutic response. Examples of a negative predictor of a therapeutic response
include, but are not limited to, an activating mutation in the KRAS gene that predict lack of
response to anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies (cetuximab, panitumumab) in CRC patients; and
the presence of an M35 IT mutation in the BCR/Abl fusion gene predicts resistance to
Gleevec/imatinib in CML patients.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is a prognostic
factor. Examples of prognostic factors include, but are not limited to, the presence of an
insertion mutation in the FLT3 gene, which is a negative prognostic for relapse in AML patients;
the presence of specific RET gene mutations, e.g. M918T, which are negative prognostic factors
for survival in medullary thyroid carcinoma patients.
        In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample is a diagnostic
factor. Examples of prognostic factors include, but are not limited to, the presence of a BCR/Abl
fusion gene, which is diagnostic for CML; and the presence of a SMARCB 1 mutation, which is
diagnostic of Rhabdoid tumor of the kidney.
        In other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample includes a subgenomic interval from a
gene or gene product that is present in a minority (e.g., less than 5%) of the cells in the tumor
sample. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sample includes a subgenomic interval from a gene
or gene product that is associated, e.g., positively or negatively, with a cancer-related phenotype,
but which is present in a minority (e.g., less than 5%) of the cells in the tumor sample. In other
embodiments, the nucleic acid sample includes a subgenomic interval from a gene or gene
                                                 - 68 -

product that is present in less than 50, 40, 30, 10, 5, or 1% of the cells in a tumor sample. In yet
other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample includes a subgenomic interval from a gene or gene
product that is present in more than 50, 60, 70, 80%, or more of the cells in a tumor sample.
         In yet other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample includes a subgenomic interval from a
gene or gene product that is present in less than 5, 1, 0.5, 0.1%, 0.01%, 0.001% of the coding
region of the genome of the tumor cells in the tumor sample.
         In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sample includes a subgenomic interval from a gene
or gene product that is associated with a tumor or cancer (e.g., is a positive or negative treatment
response predictor, is a positive or negative prognostic factor for, or enables differential
diagnosis of a tumor or cancer, e.g., a gene or gene product chosen from one or more of: ABLI,
AKT1, ALK, AR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, CEBPA, EGFR, ERBB2, FLT3, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MET, NPM1, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, RARA, AKT2, AKT3, MAP2K4, NOTCH, and
TP53.
         In one embodiment, the cancerous phenotype associated with the gene or gene product is
the same tumor type as the tumor sample. In other embodiments, the cancerous phenotype
associated with the gene or gene product is from a different tumor type as the tumor sample.
         In certain embodiments, the method or assay includes sequencing nucleic acid samples
from tumor samples from at least X subjects, (wherein X = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40,
or more subjects). In one embodiment, the subject is human having, or at risk of having, a
cancer or tumor. The method includes sequencing at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 75 or more
genes or gene products described herein (e.g., genes or gene products from Table 1, 1A, 2, 3, or
4) from at least X subjects. In certain embodiments, the gene or gene product includes an
alteration that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., one or more of cancer risk, cancer
progression, cancer treatment response or resistance to treatment.
         In other embodiments or in addition to the aforesaid embodiments, the method or assay
includes sequencing a control or reference subgenomic interval from a gene or gene product
from the same subject as the tumor sample, e.g., a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide
sequence of a gene or gene product described herein (e.g., genes or gene products from Table 1,
1A, 2, 3, or 4). In one embodiment, the control gene or gene product is from the same subject or
a different subject as the tumor sample (e.g., is from one or more of the same or a different tumor
                                                 - 69 -

sample; a normal (e.g., non-cancerous) sample; a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); or a blood
sample), from the same subject having or at risk of having the tumor, or from a different subject.
         In other embodiments or in addition to the aforesaid embodiments, the method or assay
includes sequencing a subgenomic interval that is present in a gene associated with drug
metabolism, drug responsiveness, or toxicity (the PGx genes as described herein). In certain
embodiments, the subgenomic interval sequenced includes an alteration (e.g., single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP)).
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, includes sequencing (and/or reporting the
results of sequencing) a first set of genes or gene products from Table 1, 1A, 2, 3, or 4 from a
first subject. In other embodiments, the method, or assay, includes sequencing (and/or reporting
the results of sequencing) a second set, a third set or more (e.g., an overlapping but different) set
of genes or gene products from Table 1, 1A, 2, 3, or 4 from a first or a second subject. In certain
embodiments, the tumor sample from a first subject includes a tumor of a first type and the tumor
sample from a second subject includes a tumor of a second type. In other embodiments, the
tumor sample from the first subject and the second subject are from the same tumor type.
         In certain embodiments, the method or assay further includes one or more of:
         (i)     fingerprinting the nucleic acid sample;
         (ii)    quantifying the abundance of a gene or gene product (e.g., a gene or gene product
                 as described herein) in the nucleic acid sample;
         (iii)   quantifying the relative abundance of a transcript in the sample;
         (iv)    identifying the nucleic acid sample as belonging to a particular subject (e.g., a
                 normal control or a cancer patient);
         (v)     identifying a genetic trait in the nucleic acid sample (e.g., one or more subject's
                 genetic make-up (e.g., ethnicity, race, familial traits));
         (vi)    determining the ploidy in the nucleic acid sample; determining a loss of
                 heterozygosity in the nucleic acid sample;
         (vii)   determining the presence or absence of a gene duplication event in the nucleic
                 acid sample;
         (viii)  determining the presence or absence of a gene amplification event in the nucleic
                 acid sample; or
                                                   - 70 -

        (ix)     determining the level of tumor/normal cellular admixture in the nucleic acid
                 sample.
        In other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample includes a library, or a selected library
output, that includes a plurality of tumor nucleic acid members, reference or control (e.g., wild
type) nucleic acid members, and/or PGx associated nucleic acid members (e.g., a nucleic acid
that includes a subgenomic interval as described herein) from the tumor sample. In one
embodiment, the library (e.g., the nucleic acid library) includes a plurality of members, e.g.,
target nucleic acid members from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30 or more subjects. In one
embodiment, the subject is human having, or at risk of having, a cancer or tumor. In certain
embodiments, the library further comprises tumor or cancer-associated nucleic acid members and
control nucleic acid fragments from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30 or more subjects.
        In certain embodiments, the selected subset of subgenomic intervals are separated or
enriched from the nucleic acid sample by solution- or solid support-based hybridization. In one
embodiment, the method, or assay, provides selected members of a nucleic acid library (e.g., a
library catch). The method includes:
        providing a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library) comprising a plurality of members, e.g.,
target members (e.g., including a plurality of tumor or cancer-associated members, reference
members, and/or PGx members);
        contacting the library, e.g., in a solution- or solid support-based reaction, with a plurality
of baits (e.g., oligonucleotide baits) to form a hybridization mixture comprising a plurality of
bait/member hybrids;
        separating the plurality of bait/member hybrids from said hybridization mixture, e.g., by
contacting said hybridization mixture with a binding entity that allows for separation of said
plurality of bait/member hybrid,
thereby providing a library-catch (e.g., a selected or enriched subgroup of nucleic acid molecules
from the library),
wherein the plurality of baits includes at least one, or two of the following:
        a) a first bait set that selects a tumor or cancer-associated or a reference (e.g., wild type)
member comprising a subgenomic interval from a tumor or a reference gene or gene product as
described herein, e.g., a tumor or a reference gene or gene product as described in Table 1, 1A, 3
or 4;
                                                   - 71 -

         b) a second bait set that selects a PGx member comprising a subgenomic interval (in the
same or a different subgenomic interval as in a) from a gene or gene product as described in
Table 1 or 2.
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of sequencing said
members. In certain embodiments, tumor members from at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20,
30 or more subjects are sequenced (e.g., at least 50, 75, 100 or 150 subgenomic intervals from
the genes or gene products from Table 1 or 1A are sequenced from each subject).
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of detecting, in
the nucleic acid sample, a preselected alteration (e.g., an allelic variation) in at least 10 (e.g., 20,
30, 40) Priority, Cancer, or PGx genes or gene products from Table 1. In certain embodiments,
the alteration (e.g., the allelic variation) includes a cytogenetic abnormality, a non-reciprocal
translocation, a rearrangement, an intra-chromosomal inversion, a mutation, a point mutations, a
deletion, a change in gene copy number, an SNP, among others.
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of comparing the
detected presence or absence of the alteration (e.g., the allelic variation) to a reference value
(e.g., a literature report or the sequence of a control sample, e.g., blood matched controls or NAT
(normal adjacent tumor), from the same subject as the tumor sample, or a different subject).
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of memorializing
the presence or absence of the alteration (e.g., the preselected allelic variation), and, e.g.,
providing a report comprising the memorialization.
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of annotating the
alteration, and, e.g., annotating a preselected allelic variation with an indication of a mutation
structure, e.g., a mis-sense mutation, or function, e.g., an association with a disease phenotype.
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of providing a
data set, wherein each element of the dataset comprises the association of a tumor type, a gene
and a preselected alteration (e.g., allelic variation) (a "TGA").
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of memorializing
the presence or absence of a TGA, and optionally an associated annotation, of a subject to form a
report.
         In certain embodiments, the method, or assay, further includes the step of transmitting the
report to a recipient party.
                                                   - 72 -

         Assays, e.g., multiplex assays, that include the aforesaid selection methods and reagents
are also provided.
Nucleic Acid Samples
         A variety of tissue samples can be the source of the nucleic acid samples used in the
present methods. Genomic or subgenomic nucleic acid (e.g., DNA or RNA) can be isolated
from a subject's sample (e.g., a tumor sample, a normal adjacent tissue (NAT), a blood sample, a
sample containing circulating tumor cells (CTC) or any normal control)). In certain
embodiments, the tissue sample is preserved as a frozen sample or as formaldehyde- or
paraformaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue preparation. For example, the sample
can be embedded in a matrix, e.g., an FFPE block or a frozen sample. The isolating step can
include flow-sorting of individual chromosomes; and/or micro-dissecting a subject's sample
(e.g., a tumor sample, a NAT, a blood sample).
         An "isolated" nucleic acid molecule is one which is separated from other nucleic acid
molecules which are present in the natural source of the nucleic acid molecule. In certain
embodiments, an "isolated" nucleic acid molecule is free of sequences (such as protein-encoding
sequences) which naturally flank the nucleic acid (i.e., sequences located at the 5' and 3' ends of
the nucleic acid) in the genomic DNA of the organism from which the nucleic acid is derived.
For example, in various embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid molecule can contain less than
about 5 kB, less than about 4 kB, less than about 3 kB, less than about 2 kB, less than about 1
kB, less than about 0.5 kB or less than about 0.1 kB of nucleotide sequences which naturally
flank the nucleic acid molecule in genomic DNA of the cell from which the nucleic acid is
derived. Moreover, an "isolated" nucleic acid molecule, such as a cDNA molecule, can be
substantially free of other cellular material or culture medium when produced by recombinant
techniques, or substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically
synthesized.
         The language "substantially free of other cellular material or culture medium" includes
preparations of nucleic acid molecule in which the molecule is separated from cellular
components of the cells from which it is isolated or recombinantly produced. Thus, nucleic acid
molecule that is substantially free of cellular material includes preparations of nucleic acid
                                                 - 73 -

molecule having less than about 30%, less than about 20%, less than about 10%, or less than
about 5% (by dry weight) of other cellular material or culture medium.
         In certain embodiments, the nucleic acid is isolated from an aged sample, e.g., an aged
FFPE sample. The aged sample, can be, for example, years old, e.g., 1 year, 2 years, 3 years,
4 years, 5 years, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years, 25 years, 50 years, 75 years, or 100 years old or
older.
         A nucleic acid sample can be obtained from tissue samples (e.g., a biopsy or FFPE
sample) of various sizes. For example, the nucleic acid can be isolated from a tissue sample
from 5 to 200 tm, or larger. For example, the tissue sample can measure 5 tm, 10 tm, 20 tm,
30 pm, 40 pm, 50 pm, 70 pm, 100 pm, 110 pm, 120 pm, 150 pm or 200 pm or larger.
         Protocols for DNA isolation from a tissue sample are provided in Example 1. Additional
methods to isolate nucleic acids (e.g., DNA) from formaldehyde- or paraformaldehyde-fixed,
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are disclosed, e.g., in Cronin M. et al., (2004) Am JPathol.
164(1):35-42; Masuda N. et al., (1999) Nucleic Acids Res. 27(22):4436-4443; Specht K. et al.,
(2001) Am J Pathol. 158(2):419-429, Ambion RecoverAll TM Total Nucleic Acid Isolation
Protocol (Ambion, Cat. No. AM1975, September 2008), Maxwell@ 16 FFPE Plus LEV DNA
Purification Kit Technical Manual (Promega Literature #TM349, February 2011), E.Z.N.A.
FFPE DNA Kit Handbook (OMEGA bio-tek, Norcross, GA, product numbers D3399-00,
D3399-01, and D3399-02; June 2009), and QIAamp@ DNA FFPE Tissue Handbook (Qiagen,
Cat. No. 37625, October 2007). RecoverAll TM Total Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit uses xylene at
elevated temperatures to solubilize paraffin-embedded samples and a glass-fiber filter to capture
nucleic acids. Maxwell@ 16 FFPE Plus LEV DNA Purification Kit is used with the Maxwell@
16 Instrument for purification of genomic DNA from 1 to 10 pm sections of FFPE tissue. DNA
is purified using silica-clad paramagnetic particles (PMPs), and eluted in low elution volume.
The E.Z.N.A.      FFPE DNA Kit uses a spin column and buffer system for isolation of genomic
DNA. QIAamp@ DNA FFPE Tissue Kit uses QIAamp@ DNA Micro technology for
purification of genomic and mitochondrial DNA.Protocols for DNA isolation from blood are
disclosed, e.g., in the Maxwell@ 16 LEV Blood DNA Kit and Maxwell 16 Buccal Swab LEV
DNA Purification Kit Technical Manual (Promega Literature #TM333, January 1, 2011).
         Protocols for RNA isolation are disclosed, e.g., in the Maxwell@ 16 Total RNA
Purification Kit Technical Bulletin (Promega Literature #TB351, August 2009).
                                                - 74 -

         The isolated nucleic acid samples (e.g., genomic DNA samples) can be fragmented or
sheared by practicing routine techniques. For example, genomic DNA can be fragmented by
physical shearing methods, enzymatic cleavage methods, chemical cleavage methods, and other
methods well known to those skilled in the art. The nucleic acid library can contain all or
substantially all of the complexity of the genome. The term "substantially all" in this context
refers to the possibility that there can in practice be some unwanted loss of genome complexity
during the initial steps of the procedure. The methods described herein also are useful in cases
where the nucleic acid library is a portion of the genome, i.e., where the complexity of the
genome is reduced by design. In some embodiments, any selected portion of the genome can be
used with the methods described herein. In certain embodiments, the entire exome or a subset
thereof is isolated.
         Methods featured in the invention can further include isolating a nucleic acid sample to
provide a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library as described herein). In certain embodiments, the
nucleic acid sample includes whole genomic, subgenomic fragments, or both. The isolated
nucleic acid samples can be used to prepare nucleic acid libraries. Thus, in one embodiment, the
methods featured in the invention further include isolating a nucleic acid sample to provide a
library (e.g., a nucleic acid library as described herein). Protocols for isolating and preparing
libraries from whole genomic or subgenomic fragments are known in the art (e.g., Illumina's
genomic DNA sample preparation kit). In certain embodiments, the genomic or subgenomic
DNA fragment is isolated from a subject's sample (e.g., a tumor sample, a normal adjacent tissue
(NAT), a blood sample or any normal control)). In one embodiment, the sample (e.g., the tumor
or NAT sample) is a preserved specimen. For example, the sample is embedded in a matrix, e.g.,
an FFPE block or a frozen sample. In certain embodiments, the isolating step includes flow
sorting of individual chromosomes; and/or microdissecting a subject's sample (e.g., a tumor
sample, a NAT, a blood sample). In certain embodiments, the nucleic acid sample used to
generate the nucleic acid library is less than 5 microgram, less than 1 microgram, or less than
500ng, less than 200ng, less than 1OOng, less than 50ng, less than 1Ong, less than 5 ng, or less
than 1 ng.
         In still other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample used to generate the library includes
RNA or cDNA derived from RNA. In some embodiments, the RNA includes total cellular RNA.
In other embodiments, certain abundant RNA sequences (e.g., ribosomal RNAs) have been
                                                  - 75 -

depleted. In some embodiments, the poly(A)-tailed mRNA fraction in the total RNA preparation
has been enriched. In some embodiments, the cDNA is produced by random-primed cDNA
synthesis methods. In other embodiments, the cDNA synthesis is initiated at the poly(A) tail of
mature mRNAs by priming by oligo(dT)-containing oligonucleotides. Methods for depletion,
poly(A) enrichment, and cDNA synthesis are well known to those skilled in the art.
         The method can further include amplifying the nucleic acid sample by specific or
non-specific nucleic acid amplification methods that are well known to those skilled in the art.
In some embodiments, certain embodiments, the nucleic acid sample is amplified, e.g., by
whole-genome amplification methods such as random-primed strand-displacement amplification.
         In other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample is fragmented or sheared by physical or
enzymatic methods and ligated to synthetic adapters, size-selected (e.g., by preparative gel
electrophoresis) and amplified (e.g., by PCR). In other embodiments, the fragmented and
adapter-ligated group of nucleic acids is used without explicit size selection or amplification
prior to hybrid selection.
         In other embodiments, the isolated DNA (e.g., the genomic DNA) is fragmented or
sheared. In some embodiments, the library includes less than 50% of genomic DNA, such as a
subfraction of genomic DNA that is a reduced representation or a defined portion of a genome,
e.g., that has been subfractionated by other means. In other embodiments, the library includes all
or substantially all genomic DNA.
         In some embodiments, the library includes less than 50% of genomic DNA, such as a
subfraction of genomic DNA that is a reduced representation or a defined portion of a genome,
e.g., that has been subfractionated by other means. In other embodiments, the library includes all
or substantially all genomic DNA. Protocols for isolating and preparing libraries from whole
genomic or subgenomic fragments are known in the art (e.g., Illumina's genomic DNA sample
preparation kit), and are described herein as Examples 2A, 2B and 3. Alternative methods for
DNA shearing are described herein as Example 2B. For example, alternative DNA shearing
methods can be more automatable and/or more efficient (e.g., with degraded FFPE samples).
 Alternatives to DNA shearing methods can also be used to avoid a ligation step during library
preparation.
         The methods described herein can be performed using a small amount of nucleic acids,
e.g., when the amount of source DNA is limiting (e.g., even after whole-genome amplification).
                                               - 76 -

In one embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises less than about 5 pg, 4 pg, 3 kg, 2 kg, 1 kg, 0.8
pg, 0.7 pg, 0.6 pg, 0.5 kg, or 400 ng, 300 ng, 200 ng, 100 ng, 50 ng, 10 ng, 5 ng, 1 ng, or less of
nucleic acid sample. For example, one can typically begin with 50-100 ng of genomic DNA.
One can start with less, however, if one amplifies the genomic DNA (e.g., using PCR) before the
hybridization step, e.g., solution hybridization. Thus it is possible, but not essential, to amplify
the genomic DNA before hybridization, e.g., solution hybridization.
        The nucleic acid sample used to generate the library can also include RNA or cDNA
derived from RNA. In some embodiments, the RNA includes total cellular RNA. In other
embodiments, certain abundant RNA sequences (e.g., ribosomal RNAs) have been depleted. In
other embodiments, the poly(A)-tailed mRNA fraction in the total RNA preparation has been
enriched. In some embodiments, the cDNA is produced by random-primed cDNA synthesis
methods. In other embodiments, the cDNA synthesis is initiated at the poly(A) tail of mature
mRNAs by priming by oligo(dT)-containing oligonucleotides. Methods for depletion, poly(A)
enrichment, and cDNA synthesis are well known to those skilled in the art.
        The method can further include amplifying the nucleic acid sample by specific or
non-specific nucleic acid amplification methods that are known to those skilled in the art. The
nucleic acid sample can be amplified, e.g., by whole-genome amplification methods such as
random-primed strand-displacement amplification.
        The nucleic acid sample can be fragmented or sheared by physical or enzymatic methods
as described herein, and ligated to synthetic adapters, size-selected (e.g., by preparative gel
electrophoresis) and amplified (e.g., by PCR). The fragmented and adapter-ligated group of
nucleic acids is used without explicit size selection or amplification prior to hybrid selection.
Library Members
        "Member" or "library member" or other similar term, as used herein, refers to a nucleic
acid molecule, e.g., DNA or RNA, that is the member of a library (or "library-catch"). The
library member can be one or more of a tumor member, a reference member, or a PGx member
as described herein. Typically, a member is a DNA molecule, e.g., a genomic DNA or cDNA,
molecule. A member can be fragmented, e.g., enzymatically or by shearing, genomic DNA.
Members can comprise a nucleotide sequence from a subject and can also comprise a nucleotide
sequence not derived from the subject, e.g., primers or adapters (e.g., for PCR amplification or
                                                - 77 -

for sequencing), or sequences that allow for identification of a sample, e.g., "barcode"
sequences.
         As used herein, "target member" refers to a nucleic acid molecule that one desires to
isolate from the nucleic acid library. In one embodiment, the target members can be a tumor
member, a reference member, or a PGx member as described herein. The members that are
actually selected from the nucleic acid library is referred to herein as the "library catch." In one
embodiment, the library-catch includes a selection or enrichment of members of the library, e.g.,
the enriched or selected output of a library after one or more rounds of hybrid capture as
described herein.
         The target members may be a subgroup of the library, i.e., that not all of the library
members are selected by any particular use of the processes described herein. In other
embodiments, the target members are within a desired target region. For example, the target
members may in some embodiments be a percentage of the library members that is as low as
10% or as high as 95%-98% or higher. In one embodiment, the library catch includes at least
about 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%, 99.9% or more
of the target members. In another embodiment, the library contains 100% of the target members.
In one embodiment, the purity of the library catch (percentage of reads that align to the targets) is
at least about 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%, 99.9%
or more.
         The target members (or the library catch) obtained from genomic DNA can include a
small fraction of the total genomic DNA, such that it includes less than about 0.0001%, at least
about 0.0001%, at least about 0.001%, at least about 0.01%, or at least about 0.1% of genomic
DNA, or a more significant fraction of the total genomic DNA, such that it includes at least
about 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, or 10% of genomic DNA, or more than 10% of
genomic DNA.
         In one embodiment, the target members (or the library catch) are selected from a complex
mixture of genome. For example, the selection of the DNA from one cell type (e.g., cancer cells)
from a sample containing the DNA from other cell types (e.g., normal cells). In such
applications, the target member can include less than 0.0001%, at least 0.0001%, at least about
0.001%, at least about 0.01%, or at least about 0.1% of the total complexity of the nucleic acid
sequences present in the complex sample, or a more significant fraction such that it includes at
                                                - 78 -

least about 1%, 2%, 5%, 10% or more than 10% of the total complexity of nucleic acid
sequences present in the complex sample.
         In one embodiment, the target member (or the library catch) selected by the methods
described herein (e.g., solution hybridization selection methods) include all or a portion of exons
in a genome, such as greater than about 0.1%, 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90%, or 95% of the genomic exons. In another embodiment, the target member (or
the library catch) can be a specific group of exons, e.g., at least about 100, 200, 300, 400, 500,
600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 particular exons, e.g., exons associated with particular diseases such
as cancer. In yet another embodiment, the target member (or the library catch) contains exons or
other parts of selected genes of interest. The use of specific bait sequences allows the
practitioner to select target sequences (ideal set of sequences selected) and subgroups of nucleic
acids (actual set of sequences selected) containing as many or as few exons (or other sequences)
from a group of nucleic acids for a particular selection.
         In one embodiment, the target member (or the library catch) includes a set of cDNAs.
Capturing cDNAs can be used, for example, to find splice variants, and to identify fusion
transcripts (e.g., from genomic DNA translocations). In another embodiment, the target member
(and the library catch) is used to find single base changes and other sequence changes expressed
in the RNA fraction of a cell, tissue, or organ, e.g., in a tumor.
         The target member (or the library catch) (e.g., exons, cDNAs and other sequences) can be
related or unrelated as desired. For example, selected target member (and the library catch) can
be obtained from a group of nucleic acids that are genes involved in a disease, such as a group of
genes implicated in one or more diseases such as cancers, a group of nucleic acids containing
specific SNPs.
Design and Construction of Baits
         A bait can be a nucleic acid molecule, e.g., a DNA or RNA molecule, which can
hybridize to (e.g., be complementary to), and thereby allow capture of a target nucleic acid. In
one embodiment, a bait is an RNA molecule. In other embodiments, a bait includes a binding
entity, e.g., an affinity tag, that allows capture and separation, e.g., by binding to a binding entity,
of a hybrid formed by a bait and a nucleic acid hybridized to the bait. In one embodiment, a bait
is suitable for solution phase hybridization.
                                                  - 79 -

         Typically, RNA molecules are used as bait sequences. A RNA-DNA duplex is more
stable than a DNA-DNA duplex, and therefore provides for potentially better capture of nucleic
acids.
         RNA baits can be made as described elsewhere herein, using methods known in the art
including, but not limited to, de novo chemical synthesis and transcription of DNA molecules
using a DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. In one embodiment, the bait sequence is produced
using known nucleic acid amplification methods, such as PCR, e.g., using human DNA or
pooled human DNA samples as the template. The oligonucleotides can then be converted to
RNA baits. In one embodiment, in vitro transcription is used, for example, based on adding an
RNA polymerase promoter sequence to one end of the oligonucleotide. In one embodiment, the
RNA polymerase promoter sequence is added at the end of the bait by amplifying or
reamplifying the bait sequence, e.g., using PCR or other nucleic acid amplification methods, e.g.,
by tailing one primer of each target-specific primer pairs with an RNA promoter sequence. In
one embodiment, the RNA polymerase is a T7 polymerase, a SP6 polymerase, or a T3
polymerase. In one embodiment, RNA bait is labeled with a tag, e.g., an affinity tag. In one
embodiment, RNA bait is made by in vitro transcription, e.g., using biotinylated UTP. In
another embodiment, RNA bait is produced without biotin and then biotin is crosslinked to the
RNA molecule using methods well known in the art, such as psoralen crosslinking. In one
embodiment, the RNA bait is an RNase-resistant RNA molecule, which can be made, e.g., by
using modified nucleotides during transcription to produce RNA molecule that resists RNase
degradation. In one embodiment, the RNA bait corresponds to only one strand of the double
stranded DNA target. Typically, such RNA baits are not self-complementary and are more
effective as hybridization drivers.
         The bait sets can be designed from reference sequences, such that the baits are optimal
for selecting targets of the reference sequences. In some embodiments, bait sequences are
designed using a mixed base (e.g., degeneracy). For example, the mixed base(s) can be included
in the bait sequence at the position(s) of a common SNP or mutation, to optimize the bait
sequences to catch both alleles (e.g., SNP and non-SNP; mutant and non-mutant). In some
embodiments, all known sequence variations (or a subset thereof) can be targeted with multiple
oligonucleotide baits, rather than by using mixed degenerate oligonucleotides.
                                                - 80 -

         In certain embodiments, the bait set includes an oligonucleotide (or a plurality of
oligonucleotides) between about 100 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in length. Typically, the
bait set includes an oligonucleotide (or a plurality of oligonucleotides) between about 130
nucleotides and 230 nucleotides, or about 150 and 200 nucleotides, in length. In other
embodiments, the bait set includes an oligonucleotide (or a plurality of oligonucleotides)
between about 300 nucleotides and 1000 nucleotides in length.
         In some embodiments, the target member-specific sequences in the oligonucleotide is
between about 40 and 1000 nucleotides, about 70 and 300 nucleotides, about 100 and 200
nucleotides in length, typically between about 120 and 170 nucleotides in length.
         In some embodiments, the bait set includes a binding entity. The binding entity can be an
affinity tag on each bait sequence. In some embodiments, the affinity tag is a biotin molecule or
a hapten. In certain embodiments, the binding entity allows for separation of the bait/member
hybrids from the hybridization mixture by binding to a partner, such as an avidin molecule, or an
antibody that binds to the hapten or an antigen-binding fragment thereof.
         In other embodiments, the oligonucleotides in the bait set contains forward and reverse
complemented sequences for the same target member sequence whereby the oligonucleotides
with reverse-complemented member-specific sequences also carry reverse complemented
universal tails. This can lead to RNA transcripts that are the same strand, i.e., not
complementary to each other.
         In other embodiments, the bait set includes oligonucleotides that contain degenerate or
mixed bases at one or more positions. In still other embodiments, the bait set includes multiple or
substantially all known sequence variants present in a population of a single species or
community of organisms. In one embodiment, the bait set includes multiple or substantially all
known sequence variants present in a human population.
         In other embodiments, the bait set includes cDNA sequences or is derived from cDNAs
sequences. In other embodiments, the bait set includes amplification products (e.g., PCR
products) that are amplified from genomic DNA, cDNA or cloned DNA.
         In other embodiments, the bait set includes RNA molecules. In some embodiments, the
set includes chemically, enzymatically modified, or in vitro transcribed RNA molecules,
including but not limited to, those that are more stable and resistant to RNase.
                                                - 81 -

        In yet other embodiments, the baits are produced by methods described in US
2010/0029498 and Gnirke, A. et al. (2009) Nat Biotechnol. 27(2):182-189, incorporated herein
by reference. For example, biotinylated RNA baits can be produced by obtaining a pool of
synthetic long oligonucleotides, originally synthesized on a microarray, and amplifying the
oligonucleotides to produce the bait sequences. In some embodiments, the baits are produced by
adding an RNA polymerase promoter sequence at one end of the bait sequences, and
synthesizing RNA sequences using RNA polymerase. In one embodiment, libraries of synthetic
oligodeoxynucleotides can be obtained from commercial suppliers, such as Agilent
Technologies, Inc., and amplified using known nucleic acid amplification methods.
        Accordingly, a method of making the aforesaid bait set is provided. The method includes
selecting one or more target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences (e.g., one or more mutation
capturing, reference or control oligonucleotide sequences as described herein); obtaining a pool
of target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences (e.g., synthesizing the pool of target specific bait
oligonucleotide sequences, e.g., by microarray synthesis); and optionally, amplifying the
oligonucleotides to produce the bait set.
        In other embodiments, the methods further include amplifying (e.g., by PCR) the
oligonucleotides using one or more biotinylated primers. In some embodiments, the
oligonucleotides include a universal sequence at the end of each oligonucleotide attached to the
microarray. The methods can further include removing the universal sequences from the
oligonucleotides. Such methods can also include removing the complementary strand of the
oligonucleotides, annealing the oligonucleotides, and extending the oligonucleotides. In some of
these embodiments, the methods for amplifying (e.g., by PCR) the oligonucleotides use one or
more biotinylated primers. In some embodiments, the method further includes size selecting the
amplified oligonucleotides.
        In one embodiment, an RNA bait set is made. The methods include producing a set of
bait sequences according to the methods described herein, adding a RNA polymerase promoter
sequence at one end of the bait sequences, and synthesizing RNA sequences using RNA
polymerase. The RNA polymerase can be chosen from a T7 RNA polymerase, an SP6 RNA
polymerase or a T3 RNA polymerase. In other embodiments, the RNA polymerase promoter
sequence is added at the ends of the bait sequences by amplifying (e.g., by PCR) the bait
sequences. In embodiments where the bait sequences are amplified by PCR with specific primer
                                                - 82 -

pairs out of genomic or cDNA, adding an RNA promoter sequence to the 5' end of one of the
two specific primers in each pair will lead to a PCR product that can be transcribed into a RNA
bait using standard methods.
         In other embodiments, bait sets can be produced using human DNA or pooled human
DNA samples as the template. In such embodiments, the oligonucleotides are amplified by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In other embodiments, the amplified oligonucleotides are
reamplified by rolling circle amplification or hyperbranched rolling circle amplification. The
same methods also can be used to produce bait sequences using human DNA or pooled human
DNA samples as the template. The same methods can also be used to produce bait sequences
using subfractions of a genome obtained by other methods, including but not limited to
restriction digestion, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, flow-sorting, CsCl density gradient
centrifugation, selective kinetic reassociation, microdissection of chromosome preparations and
other fractionation methods known to those skilled in the art.
         In certain embodiments, the number of baits in the bait set is less than 1,000. In other
embodiments, the number of baits in the bait set is greater than 1,000, greater than 5,000, greater
than 10,000, greater than 20,000, greater than 50,000, greater than 100,000, or greater than
500,000.
         In one embodiment, the bait sequence selects a base complementary to a SNP, e.g., to
increase its binding capacity (e.g., affinity and/or specificity) in a target gene or gene product, or
a fragment thereof, which encodes the SNP. Exemplary genes or gene products include, but not
limited to, ABCB1, ABCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorfl44, CYPIB1, CYP2C19, CYP2C8,
CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2, FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2,
MANIBI, MTHFR, NQO1, NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2, SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1,
TPMT, TYMS, UGT1A1, and UMPS.
         In another embodiment, the bait set selects a codon in a target gene or gene product, or a
fragment thereof, which is associated with cancer. Exemplary genes or gene products include,
but not limited to, ABLI (e.g., codon 315), AKT1, ALK, APC (e.g., codon 1114, 1338, 1450,
and 1556), AR, BRAF (e.g., codon 600), CDKN2A, CEBPA, CTNNB1 (e.g., codon 32, 33, 34,
37, 41, and 45), EGFR (e.g., 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858, and 861), ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1,
FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3 (e.g., codon 835), HRAS (e.g., codon 12, 13, and 61), JAK2 (e.g., codon
617), KIT (e.g., codon 816), KRAS (e.g., codon 12, 13, and 61), MET, MLL, MYC, NF1,
                                                 - 83 -

NOTCHI, NPM1, NRAS, PDGFRA, PIK3CA (e.g., codon 88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, and 1049),
PTEN (e.g., codon 130, 173, 233, and 267), RB1, RET (e.g., codon 918), TP53 (e.g.,175, 245,
248, 273, and 306)
        In yet another embodiment, the bait set selects a target gene or gene product, or a
fragment thereof, which is associated with cancer. Exemplary genes or gene products include,
but not limited to, ABL2, AKT2, AKT3, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ATM, ATR, AURKA,
AURKB, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1, BRCA2, CARD1I, CBL,
CCND1, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CDH1, CDH2, CDH20, CDH5, CDK4, CDK6, CDK8,
CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI, CHEK2, CRKL, CRLF2, DNMT3A, DOTIL, EPHA3, EPHA5,
EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5,
ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA, FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1, FLT4, FOXP4, GATA1, GNA11,
GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124, GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1, IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R,
IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA, IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDR, LRP1B, LTK, MAP2K1, MAP2K2,
MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6,
MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI, MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1, NTRK3, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRB,
PIK3R1, PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC, PTCH1, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAFI, RARA, RICTOR,
RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SMO, SOX1O, SOX2,
SRC, STK11, TBX22, TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TOPI, TSC1, TSC2, USP9X, VHL, and
WT1.
        The length of the bait sequence can be between about 70 nucleotides and 1000
nucleotides. In one embodiment, the bait length is between about 100 and 300 nucleotides, 110
and 200 nucleotides, or 120 and 170 nucleotides, in length. In addition to those mentioned
above, intermediate oligonucleotide lengths of about 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150,
160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, and 900
nucleotides in length can be used in the methods described herein. In some embodiments,
oligonucleotides of about 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210,
220, or 230 bases can be used.
        Each bait sequence can include a target-specific (e.g., a member-specific) bait sequence
and universal tails on one or both ends. As used herein, the term "bait sequence" can refer to the
target-specific bait sequence or the entire oligonucleotide including the target-specific "bait
sequence" and other nucleotides of the oligonucleotide. The target-specific sequences in the
                                                - 84 -

baits are between about 40 nucleotides and 1000 nucleotides in length. In one embodiment, the
target-specific sequence is between about 70 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in length. In
another embodiment, the target-specific sequence is between about 100 nucleotides and 200
nucleotides in length. In yet another embodiment, the target-specific sequence is between about
120 nucleotides and 170 nucleotides in length, typically 120 nucleotides in length. Intermediate
lengths in addition to those mentioned above also can be used in the methods described herein,
such as target-specific sequences of about 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150,
160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, and 900
nucleotides in length, as well as target-specific sequences of lengths between the above
mentioned lengths.
         In one embodiment, the bait is an oligomer (e.g., comprised of RNA oligomers, DNA
oligomers, or a combination thereof) about 50 to 200 nucleotides in length (e.g., about 50, 60,
80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 190, or 200 nucleotides in length). In one
embodiment, each bait oligomer includes about 120 to 170, or typically, about 120 nucleotides,
which are a target specific bait sequence. The bait can comprise additional non-target specific
nucleotide sequences at one or both ends. The additional nucleotide sequences can be used, e.g.,
for PCT amplification or as a bait identifier. In certain embodiments, the bait additionally
comprises a binding entity as described herein (e.g., a capture tag such as a biotin molecule).
The binding entity, e.g., biotin molecule, can be attached to the bait, e.g., at the 5'-, 3'-end, or
internally (e.g., by incorporating a biotinylated nucleotide), of the bait. In one embodiment, the
biotin molecule is attached at the 5'-end of the bait.
         In one exemplary embodiment, the bait is an oligonucleotide about 150 nucleotides in
length, of which 120 nucleotides are target-specific "bait sequence". The other 30 nucleotides
(e.g., 15 nucleotides on each end) are universal arbitrary tails used for PCR amplification. The
tails can be any sequence selected by the user. For example, the pool of synthetic
oligonucleotides can include oligonucleotides of the sequence of 5'
ATCGCACCAGCGTGTN 120CACTGCGGCTCCTCA-3' (SEQ ID NO:1) with N 12 0 indicating
the target-specific bait sequences.
         The bait sequences described herein can be used for selection of exons and short target
sequences. In one embodiment, the bait is between about 100 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in
length. In another embodiment, the bait is between about 130 nucleotides and 230 nucleotides in
                                                 - 85 -

length. In yet another embodiment, the bait is between about 150 nucleotides and 200
nucleotides in length. The target-specific sequences in the baits, e.g., for selection of exons and
short target sequences, are between about 40 nucleotides and 1000 nucleotides in length. In one
embodiment, the target-specific sequence is between about 70 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in
length. In another embodiment, the target-specific sequence is between about 100 nucleotides
and 200 nucleotides in length. In yet another embodiment, the target-specific sequence is
between about 120 nucleotides and 170 nucleotides in length.
        In some embodiments, long oligonucleotides can minimize the number of
oligonucleotides necessary to capture the target sequences. For example, one oligonucleotide
can be used per exon. It is known in the art that the mean and median lengths of the protein
coding exons in the human genome are about 164 and 120 base pairs, respective. Longer baits
can be more specific and capture better than shorter ones. As a result, the success rate per
oligonucleotide bait sequence is higher than with short oligonucleotides. In one embodiment, the
minimum bait-covered sequence is the size of one bait (e.g., 120-170 bases), e.g., for capturing
exon-sized targets. In determining the length of the bait sequences, one also can take into
consideration that unnecessarily long baits catch more unwanted DNA directly adjacent to the
target. Longer oligonucleotide baits can also be more tolerant to polymorphisms in the targeted
region in the DNA samples than shorter ones. Typically, the bait sequences are derived from a
reference genome sequence. If the target sequence in the actual DNA sample deviates from the
reference sequence, for example if it contains a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), it can
hybridize less efficiently to the bait and may therefore be under-represented or completely absent
in the sequences hybridized to the bait sequences. Allelic drop-outs due to SNPs can be less
likely with the longer synthetic baits molecules for the reason that a single mispair in, e.g., 120 to
170 bases can have less of an effect on hybrid stability than a single mismatch in, 20 or 70 bases,
which are the typical bait or primer lengths in multiplex amplification and microarray capture,
respectively.
        For selection of targets that are long compared to the length of the capture baits, such as
genomic regions, bait sequence lengths are typically in the same size range as the baits for short
targets mentioned above, except that there is no need to limit the maximum size of bait
sequences for the sole purpose of minimizing targeting of adjacent sequences. Alternatively,
oligonucleotides can be titled across a much wider window (typically 600 bases). This method
                                                - 86 -

can be used to capture DNA fragments that are much larger (e.g., about 500 bases) than a typical
exon. As a result, much more unwanted flanking non-target sequences are selected.
Bait Synthesis
        The baits can be any type of oligonucleotide, e.g., DNA or RNA. The DNA or RNA
baits ("oligo baits") can be synthesized individually, or can be synthesized in an array, as a DNA
or RNA bait set ("array baits"). An oligo bait, whether provided in an array format, or as an
isolated oligo, is typically single stranded. The bait can additionally comprise a binding entity as
described herein (e.g., a capture tag such as a biotin molecule). The binding entity, e.g., biotin
molecule, can be attached to the bait, e.g., at the 5' or 3'-end of the bait, typically, at the 5'-end
of the bait.
        In some embodiments, individual oligo baits can be added to an array bait set. In these
cases, the oligo baits can be designed to target the same areas as those targeted by the array baits,
and additional oligo baits can be designed and added to the standard array baits to achieve
enhanced, or more thorough, coverage in certain areas of the genome. For example, additional
oligo baits can be designed to target areas of poor sequencing coverage following an initial
sequencing round with a standard array bait set. In some embodiments, the oligo baits are
designed to have a tiled effect over the area of coverage for the array bait set, or a tiled effect
over the area of coverage for other oligo baits.
        In one embodiment, the individual oligo baits are DNA oligos that are used to
supplement an RNA or DNA oligo array bait set, or a combination thereof (e.g., a commercially
available array bait set). In other embodiments, individual oligo baits are DNA oligos that are
used to supplement an RNA or DNA oligo bait set, or a combination thereof, that is a collection
of individually designed and synthesized oligos. In one embodiment, the individual oligo baits
are RNA oligos that are used to supplement an RNA or DNA oligo array bait set, or a
combination thereof (e.g., a commercially available array bait set). In other embodiments
individual oligo baits are RNA oligos that are used to supplement an RNA or DNA oligo bait set,
or a combination thereof, that is a collection of individually designed and synthesized oligos.
        In yet another embodiment, the individual oligo baits are DNA oligos that are used to
supplement a DNA oligo array bait set (e.g., a commercially available array bait set), and in
                                                 - 87 -

other embodiments individual oligo baits are DNA oligos that are used to supplement a DNA
oligo bait set that is a collection of individually designed and synthesized oligos.
         In yet another embodiment, the individual oligo baits are DNA oligos that are used to
supplement a RNA oligo array bait set (e.g., a commercially available array bait set), and in other
embodiments individual oligo baits are DNA oligos that are used to supplement a RNA oligo
bait set that is a collection of individually designed and synthesized oligos.
         In yet another embodiment, the individual oligo baits are RNA oligos that are used to
supplement a RNA oligo array bait set (e.g., a commercially available array bait set), and in other
embodiments individual oligo baits are RNA oligos that are used to supplement a RNA oligo bait
set that is a collection of individually designed and synthesized oligos.
         In yet another embodiment, the individual oligo baits are RNA oligos that are used to
supplement a DNA oligo array bait set (e.g., a commercially available array bait set), and in
other embodiments individual oligo baits are RNA oligos that are used to supplement a DNA
oligo bait set that is a collection of individually designed and synthesized oligos.
         In one embodiment, oligo baits are designed to target sequences in genes of particular
interest, such as to achieve increased sequencing coverage of expanded gene sets.
         In another embodiment, oligo baits are designed to target sequences representing a subset
of the genome, and are mixed and used as a pool instead of, or in addition to, array baits.
         In one embodiment, a first set of oligo baits is designed to target areas of poor sequencing
coverage, and a second set of oligo baits is designed to target genes of particular interest. Then
both sets of oligo baits are combined and, optionally, mixed with a standard array bait set to be
used for sequencing.
         In one embodiment, an oligo bait mix is used, e.g., to simultaneously sequence targeted
gene panels and to screen a panel of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) created, such as
for the purpose of looking for genomic rearrangements and copy number alterations (equivalent
of arrayed CGH (Comprehensive Genomic Hybridization)). For example, a panel of SNPs can
first be created by the array method as array baits, and then additional DNA oligonucleotide baits
can be designed to target areas of poor sequencing coverage to a targeted set of genes.
Sequencing of the collection of SNPs can then be repeated with the original array bait set plus
the additional oligo baits to achieve total intended sequencing coverage.
                                                  - 88 -

         In some embodiments, oligo baits are added to a standard array bait set to achieve more
thorough sequencing coverage. In one embodiment, oligo baits are designed to target areas of
poor sequencing coverage following an initial sequencing round with a standard array bait set.
         In another embodiment, oligo baits are designed to target sequences in genes of particular
interest. These oligo baits can be added to a standard array bait set or to existing oligo/array
hybrid bait sets to achieve, e.g., increased sequencing coverage of expanded gene sets without
going through an entire array bait pool re-design cycle.
         Oligo baits can be obtained from a commercial source, such as NimbleGen (Roche) or
Integrated DNA Technologies (IDT) for DNA oligos. Oligos can also be obtained from Agilent
Technologies. Protocols for enrichment are publicly available, e.g., SureSelect Target
EnrichmentSystem.
         Baits can be produced by methods described in US 2010/0029498 and Gnirke, A. et al.
(2009) Nat Biotechnol. 27(2):182-189, incorporated herein by reference. For example,
biotinylated RNA baits can be produced by obtaining a pool of synthetic long oligonucleotides,
originally synthesized on a microarray, and amplifying the oligonucleotides to produce the bait
sequences. In some embodiments, the baits are produced by adding an RNA polymerase
promoter sequence at one end of the bait sequences, and synthesizing RNA sequences using
RNA polymerase. In one embodiment, libraries of synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides can be
obtained from commercial suppliers, such as Agilent Technologies, Inc., and amplified using
known nucleic acid amplification methods.
         For example, a large collection of baits can be generated from a custom pool of synthetic
oligonucleotides originally synthesized on an oligonucleotide array, e.g., an Agilent
programmable DNA microarray. Accordingly, at least about 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000,
3,000, 40,000, 50,000, or 60,000 unique oligonucleotides can be synthesized simultaneously.
         In one embodiment, a minimal set of unique olignonucleotides are chosen and additional
copies (e.g., alternating between reverse complements and the original forward strands) are
added until the maximum capacity of the synthetic oligonucleotide array has been reached, e.g.,
for baits designed to capture a pre-selected set of targets (e.g., pre-selected set of exons). In
another embodiment, the target is represented at least twice, e.g., by synthesizing both forward
and reverse-complemented oligonucleotides. Synthesizing forward and reverse-complemented
oligonucleotides for a given target can provide better redundancy at the synthesis step than
                                                - 89 -

synthesizing the very same sequence twice. In yet another embodiment, the PCR product or bait
is the same for forward and reverse-complemented oligonucleotides.
         The oligonucleotides from the chips are synthesized once, and then can be amplified to
create a set of oligonucleotides that can be used many times. This approach generates a
universal reagent that can be used as bait for a large number of selection experiments, thereby
amortizing the chip cost to be a small fraction of the sequencing cost. Alternatively, bait
sequences can be produced using known nucleic acid amplification methods, such as PCR, using
human DNA or pooled human DNA samples as the template.
         Following synthesis, the oligonucleotides can be liberated (e.g., stripped) from the array
by chemical cleavage followed by removal of the protection groups and PCR amplified into
double-stranded DNA using universal primers. A second round of PCR can be used to
incorporate a promoter (e.g., T7, SP6, or T3 promoter) site into the amplicon, which is used to
transcribe the DNA into single-stranded RNA.
         In one embodiment, the baits are tiled along the sequences (e.g., exons) without gaps or
overlaps. For example, the baits can start at the "left"-most coding base in the strand of the
reference genome sequence shown in the UCSC genome browser (e.g., 5' to 3' or 3' to 5' along
the coding sequence, depending on the orientation of the gene) and additional baits are added
until all coding bases are covered. In another embodiment, at least two, three, four, or five baits
for each target are designed, overlapping by at least about 15, 30, 45, or 60 bases. After
oligonucleotide synthesis and PCR amplification using universal primers, one of the tails of the
double-stranded DNA can be enzymatically followed by the degradation of one of the strands.
The single-stranded products can be hybridized, made fully double stranded by filling in, and
amplified by PCR. In this manner, it is possible to produce baits that contain at least about 300,
400, 500, or 600 contiguous target-specific bases which is more than can be chemically
synthesized. Such long baits can be useful for applications that require high specificity and
sensitivity, or for applications that do not necessarily benefit from limiting the length of the baits
(e.g., capture of long contiguous genomic regions).
         In one embodiment, the coverage of each target can be assessed and targets that yield
similar coverage can be grouped. Distinct sets of bait sequences can be created for each group of
targets, further improving the representation. In another embodiment, oligonucleotides from
microarray chips are tested for efficacy of hybridization, and a production round of microarray
                                                 - 90 -

chips ordered on which oligonucleotides are grouped by their capture efficacy, thus
compensating for variation in bait efficacy. In yet another embodiment, oligonucleotide pools
can be aggregated to form a relatively small number of composite pools, such that there is little
variation in capture efficacy among them.
         The baits described herein can be labeled with a tag, e.g., an affinity tag. Exemplary
affinity tags include, but not limited to, biotin molecules, magnetic particles, haptens, or other
tag molecules that permit isolation of baits tagged with the tag molecule. Such molecules and
methods of attaching them to nucleic acids (e.g., the baits used in the methods disclosed herein)
are well known in the art. Exemplary methods for making biotinylated baits are described, e.g.,
in Gnirke A. et al., Nat. Biotechnol. 2009; 27(2):182-9, which is incorporated herein by reference
in entirety.
         Also known in the art are molecules, particles or devices that bind to or are capable of
separating the set of tagged baits from the hybridization mixture. In one embodiment, the
molecule, particle, or device binds to the tag (e.g., the affinity tag). In one embodiment, the
molecule, particle, or device is an avidin molecule, a magnet, or an antibody or antigen-binding
fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the tagged baits are separated using a magnetic bead
coated with streptavidin molecules.
         Exemplary methods to prepare oligonucleotide libraries are described, e.g., in Gnirke A.
et al., Nat. Biotechnol. 2009; 27(2):182-9, and Blumenstiel B. et al., Curr.Protoc.Hum. Genet.
2010; Chapter 18: Unit 18.4, which are incorporated herein by reference in entirety.
Hybridization Conditions
         The methods featured in the invention include the step of contacting the library (e.g., the
nucleic acid library) with a plurality of baits to provide a selected library catch. The contacting
step can be effected in solution hybridization. In certain embodiments, the method includes
repeating the hybridization step by one or more additional rounds of solution hybridization. In
some embodiments, the methods further include subjecting the library catch to one or more
additional rounds of solution hybridization with the same or different collection of baits.
         In other embodiments, the methods featured in the invention further include amplifying
the library catch (e.g., by PCR). In other embodiments, the library catch is not amplified.
                                                  - 91 -

        In yet other embodiments, the methods further include the step of subjecting the library
catch to genotyping, thereby identifying the genotype of the selected nucleic acids.
        More specifically, a mixture of several thousand bait sequences can effectively hybridize
to complementary nucleic acids in a group of nucleic acids and that such hybridized nucleic
acids (the subgroup of nucleic acids) can be effectively separated and recovered. In one
embodiment, the methods described herein use a set of bait sequences containing more than
about 1,000 bait sequences, more than about 2,000 bait sequences, more than about 3,000 bait
sequences, more than about 4,000 bait sequences, more than about 5,000 bait sequences, more
than about 6,000 bait sequences, more than about 7,000 bait sequences, more than about 8,000
bait sequences, more than about 9,000 bait sequences, more than about 10,000 bait sequences,
more than about 15,000 bait sequences, more than about 20,000 bait sequences, more than about
30,000 bait sequences, more than about 40,000 bait sequences, or more than about 50,000 bait
sequences.
        In some embodiments, the selection process is repeated on the selected subgroup of
nucleic acids, e.g., in order to increase the enrichment of selected nucleic acids. For example,
after one round of hybridization, a several thousand fold enrichment of nucleic acids can be
observed. After a second round, the enrichment can rise, e.g., to about 15,000-fold average
enrichment, which can provide hundreds-fold coverage of the target in a single sequencer run.
Thus, for experiments that require enrichment factors not achievable in a single round of hybrid
selection, the methods typically include subjecting the isolated subgroup of nucleic acids (i.e., a
portion or all of the target sequences) to one or more additional rounds of solution hybridization
with the set of bait sequences.
        Sequential hybrid selection with two different bait sequences (bait 1, bait 2) can be used
to isolate and sequence the "intersection", i.e., the subgroup of DNA sequences that binds to bait
1 and to bait 2, e.g., used for applications that include but are not limited to enriching for
interchromosomal. For example, selection of DNA from a tumor sample with a bait specific for
sequences on chromosome 1 followed by selection from the product of the first selection of
sequences that hybridize to a bait specific for chromosome 2 may enrich for sequences at
chromosomal translocation junctions that contain sequences from both chromosomes.
        The molarity of the selected subgroup of nucleic acids can be controlled such that the
molarity of any particular nucleic acid is within a small variation of the average molarity of all
                                                 - 92 -

selected nucleic acids in the subgroup of nucleic acids. Methods for controlling and optimizing
the evenness of target representation include, but are not limited to, rational design of bait
sequences based on physicochemical as well as empirical rules of probe design well known in
the art, and pools of baits where sequences known or suspected to underperform are
overrepresented to compensate for their intrinsic weaknesses. In some embodiments, at least
about 50%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% of the isolated subgroup of nucleic
acids is within about 20-fold, 15-fold, 10-fold, 5-fold, 3-fold, or 2-fold of the mean molarity. In
one embodiment, at least about 50% of the isolated subgroup of nucleic acids is within about 3
fold of the mean molarity. In another embodiment, at least about 90% of the isolated subgroup
of nucleic acids is within about 10-fold of the mean molarity.
         Variations in efficiency of selection can be further adjusted by altering the concentration
of the baits. In one embodiment, the efficiency of selection is adjusted by leveling the efficiency
of individual baits within a group (e.g., a first, second or third plurality of baits) by adjusting the
relative abundance of the baits, or the density of the binding entity (e.g., the hapten or affinity tag
density) in reference to differential sequence capture efficiency observed when using an
equimolar mix of baits, and then introducing a differential excess as much of internally-leveled
group 1 to the overall bait mix relative to internally-leveled group 2.
         In certain embodiments, the methods described herein can achieve an even coverage of
the target sequences. In one embodiment, the percent of target bases having at least about 50%
of the expected coverage is at least about 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90%, e.g., for short targets such as
protein-coding exons. In another embodiment, the percent of target bases having at least about
50% of the expected coverage is at least about 80%, 90%, or 95%, e.g., for targets that are long
compared to the length of the capture baits, such as genomic regions.
         Prior to hybridization, baits can be denatured according to methods well known in the art.
In general, hybridization steps comprise adding an excess of blocking DNA to the labeled bait
composition, contacting the blocked bait composition under hybridizing conditions with the
target sequences to be detected, washing away unhybridized baits, and detecting the binding of
the bait composition to the target.
         Baits are hybridized or annealed to the target sequences under hybridizing conditions.
"Hybridizing conditions" are conditions that facilitate annealing between a bait and target nucleic
acid. Since annealing of different baits will vary depending on probe length, base concentration
                                                  - 93 -

and the like, annealing is facilitated by varying bait concentration, hybridization temperature, salt
concentration and other factors well known in the art.
         Hybridization conditions are facilitated by varying the concentrations, base compositions,
complexities, and lengths of the baits, as well as salt concentrations, temperatures, and length of
incubation. For example, hybridizations can be performed in hybridization buffer containing 5x
SSPE, 5x Denhardt's, 5 mM EDTA and 0.1% SDS and blocking DNA to suppress non-specific
hybridization. RNase inhibitors can be used if the bait is RNA. In general, hybridization
conditions, as described above, include temperatures of about 25 'C to about 65 'C, typically
about 65 'C, and incubation lengths of about 0.5 hours to about 96 hours, typically about 66
hours. Additional exemplary hybridization conditions are in Example 12A-12C and Table 14
herein.
         The methods described herein are adaptable to standard liquid handling methods and
devices. In some embodiments, the method is carried out using automated liquid handling
technology as is known in the art, such as devices that handle multiwell plates (see e.g., Gnirke,
A. et al. (2009) Nat Biotechnol. 27(2):182-189). This can include, but not limited to, automated
library construction, and steps of solution hybridization including set-up and post-solution
hybridization washes. For example, an apparatus can be used for carrying out such automated
methods for the bead-capture and washing steps after the solution hybridization reaction.
Exemplary apparatus can include, but not limited to, the following positions: a position for a
multi-well plate containing streptavidin-coated magnetic beads, a position for the multiwall plate
containing the solution hybrid-selection reactions, 1/0 controlled heat blocks to preheat reagents
and to carry out washing steps at a user-defined temperature, a position for a rack of pipet tips, a
position with magnets laid out in certain configurations that facilitate separation of supernatants
from magnet-immobilized beads, a washing station that washes pipet tips and disposed of waste,
and positions for other solutions and reagents such as low and high-stringency washing buffers
or the solution for alkaline elution of the final catch. In one embodiment, the apparatus is
designed to process up to 96 hybrid selections from the bead-capture step through the catch
neutralization step in parallel. In another embodiment, one or more positions have a dual
function. In yet another embodiment, the user is prompted by the protocol to exchange one plate
for another.
                                                 - 94 -

         The directly selected nucleic acids can be concatenated and sheared, which is done to
overcome the limitations of short sequencing reads. In one embodiment, each exon-sized
sequencing target is captured with a single bait molecule that is about the same size as the target
and has endpoints near the endpoints of the target. Only hybrids that form double strand
molecules having approximately 100 or more contiguous base pairs survive stringent post
hybridization washes. As a result, the selected subgroup of nucleic acids (i.e., the "catch") is
enriched for randomly sheared genomic DNA fragments whose ends are near the ends of the bait
molecules. Mere end-sequencing of the "catch" with very short sequencing reads can give
higher coverage near the end (or even outside) of the target and lower coverage near the middle.
         Concatenating "catch" molecules by ligation and followed by random shearing and
shotgun sequencing is one method to get sequence coverage along the entire length of the target
sequence. This method produces higher percentage of sequenced bases that are on target (as
opposed to near target) than end sequencing with very short reads. Methods for concatenating
molecules by co-ligation are well known in the art. Concatenation can be performed by simple
blunt end ligation. "Sticky" ends for efficient ligation can be produced by a variety of methods
including PCR amplification of the "catch" with PCR primers that have restriction sites near
their 5' ends followed by digestion with the corresponding restriction enzyme (e.g., NotI) or by
strategies similar to those commonly used for ligation-independent cloning of PCR products such
as partial "chew-back" by T4 DNA polymerase (Aslanidis and de Jong, Nucleic Acids Res.
18:6069-6074, 1990) or treatment of uracil-containing PCR products with UDG glycosylase and
lyase endo VIII (e.g., New England Biolabs cat. E5500S).
         In another embodiment, a staggered set of bait molecules is used to target a region,
obtaining frequent bait ends throughout the target region. In some embodiments, merely end
sequenced "catch" (i.e., without concatenation and shearing) provides fairly uniform sequence
coverage along the entire region that is covered by bait including the actual sequencing target
(e.g., an exon). As staggering the bait molecules widens the segment covered by bait, the
sequenced bases are distributed over a wider area. As a result, the ratio of sequence on target to
near target is lower than for selections with non-overlapping baits that often require only a single
bait per target.
         In another embodiment, end sequencing with slightly longer reads (e.g., 76 bases) is the
typical method for sequencing short selected targets (e.g., exons). Unlike end sequencing with
                                                - 95  -

very short reads, this method leads to a unimodal coverage profile without a dip in coverage in
the middle. This method is easier to perform than the concatenate and shear method described
above, results in relatively even coverage along the targets, and generates a high percentage of
sequenced bases fall on bait and on target proper.
        In one embodiment, the selected subgroup of nucleic acids are amplified (e.g., by PCR)
prior to being analyzed by sequencing or genotyping. In another embodiment, the subgroup is
analyzed without an amplification step, e.g., when the selected subgroup is analyzed by sensitive
analytical methods that can read single molecules.
Bait Module
        Methods described herein provide for optimzed sequencing of a large number of genes
and gene products from samples, e.g., tumor samples, from one or more subjects by the
appropriate selection of baits, e.g., baits for use in solution hybridization, for the selection of
target nucleic acids to be sequenced. The efficiency of selection for various subgenomic
intervals, or classes thereof, are matched according to bait sets having preselected efficiency of
selection.
        Thus a method (e.g., element (b) of the method recited above) comprises contacting the
library with a plurality of baits to provide selected members (sometimes referred to herein as
library catch).
        Accordingly, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a tumor sample is provided. The
method comprises:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from a tumor sample;
        (b) contacting the library with a bait set to provide selected members (e.g., a library
catch);
        (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
        (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
                                                  - 96 -

         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method or
a method described herein) from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein the method comprises contacting the library with at plurality, e.g., at least two, three,
four, or five, of bait sets, wherein each bait set of said plurality has a unique (as opposed to the
other bait sets in the plurality), preselected efficiency for selection. E.g., each unique bait set
provides for a unique depth of sequencing.
         In an embodiment, the efficiency of selection of a first bait set in the plurality differs
from the efficiency of a second bait set in the plurality by at least 2 fold. In an embodiment, the
first and second bait sets provide for a depth of sequencing that differs by at least 2 fold.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises contacting one, or a plurality of the following
bait sets with the library:
         a) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 500X or higher sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence a mutation present in no more than
5 % of the cells from the sample;
         b) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 200X or higher, e.g., about 200X-about 500X, sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence a
mutation present in no more than 10 % of the cells from the sample;
         c) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 10-1OX sequencing depth, e.g., to sequence one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g.,
exons) that are chosen from: a) a pharmacogenomic (PGx) single nucleotide polymorphism
(SNP) that may explain the ability of patient to metabolize different drugs, b) a genomic SNPs
that may be used to uniquely identify (e.g., fingerprint) a patient, c) a genomic SNPs/loci that
may be used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and loss-of-heterozygosity
(LOH);
         d) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 5-50 X sequencing depth, e.g., to detect a structural breakpoint, such as a genomic
translocation or an indel. For example, detection of an intronic breakpoint requires 5-50X
sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability. Such bait sets can be used to
detect, for example, translocation/indel-prone cancer genes; or
                                                  - 97 -

         e) a bait set that selects sufficient members comprising a subgenomic interval to provide
for about 0.1-300X sequencing depth, e.g., to detect copy number changes. In one embodiment,
the sequencing depth ranges from about 0.1-lOX sequencing depth to detect copy number
changes. In other embodiments, the sequencing depth ranges from about 100-300X to detect a
genomic SNPs/loci that is used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA or loss-of
heterozygosity (LOH). Such bait sets can be used to detect, for example, amplification/deletion
prone cancer genes.
         In embodiments, the method comprises the use of baits designed to capture two or more
different target categories, each category having a different bait design strategies. In
embodiments, the hybrid capture methods and compositions disclosed herein capture a defined
subset of target sequences (e.g., target members) and provide homogenous coverage of the target
sequence, while minimizing coverage outside of that subset. In one embodiment, the target
sequences include the entire exome out of genomic DNA, or a selected subset thereof. The
methods and compositions disclosed herein provide different bait sets for achieving different
depths and patterns of coverage for complex target nucleic acid sequences (e.g., nucleic acid
libraries).
         In an embodiment the method comprises providing selected members of a nucleic acid
library (e.g., a library catch). The method includes:
         providing a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library) comprising a plurality of members, e.g.,
target nucleic acid members (e.g., including a plurality of tumor members, reference members,
and/or PGx members);
         contacting the library, e.g., in a solution- or array-based reaction, with a plurality of baits
(e.g., oligonucleotide baits) to form a hybridization mixture comprising a plurality of
bait/member hybrids;
         separating the plurality of bait/member hybrids from said hybridization mixture, e.g., by
contacting said hybridization mixture with a binding entity that allows for separation of said
plurality of bait/member hybrid,
thereby providing a library-catch (e.g., a selected or enriched subgroup of nucleic acid molecules
from the library),
wherein the plurality of baits includes two or more of the following:
                                                   - 98 -

         a) a first bait set that selects a high-level target (e.g., one or more tumor members that
include a subgenomic interval, such a gene, an exon, or a base) for which the deepest coverage is
required to enable a high level of sensitivity for an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) that
appears at a low frequency, e.g., about 5% or less (i.e., 5% of the cells from the sample harbor
the alteration in their genome). In one embodiment; the first bait set selects (e.g., is
complementary to) a tumor member that includes an alteration (e.g., a point mutation) that
requires about 500X or higher sequencing depth;
         b) a second bait set that selects a mid-level target (e.g., one or more tumor members that
include a subgenomic interval, such as a gene, an exon, or a base) for which high coverage is
required to enable high level of sensitivity for an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) that
appears at a higher frequency than the high-level target in a), e.g., a frequency of about 10% (i.e.,
10% of the cells from the sample harbor the alteration in their genome). In one embodiment; the
second bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) a tumor member that includes an alteration
(e.g., a point mutation) that requires about 200X or higher sequencing depth;
         c) a third bait set that selects a low-level target (e.g., one or more PGx members that
includes a subgenomic interval, such as a gene, an exon, or a base) for which low-medium
coverage is required to enable high level of sensitivity, e.g., to detect heterozygous alleles. For
example, detection of heterozygous alleles requires 10-1OOX sequencing depth to ensure high
detection reliability. In one embodiment, third bait set selects one or more subgenomic intervals
(e.g., exons) that are chosen from: a) a pharmacogenomic (PGx) single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) that may explain the ability of patient to metabolize different drugs, b) a
genomic SNPs that may be used to uniquely identify (e.g., fingerprint) a patient, c) a genomic
SNPs/loci that may be used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and loss-of
heterozygosity (LOH);
         d) a fourth bait set that selects a first intron target (e.g., a member that includes an intron
sequence) for which low-medium coverage is required, e.g., to detect a structural breakpoint,
such as a genomic translocation or an indel. For example, detection of an intronic breakpoint
requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability. Said fourth
bait sets can be used to detect, for example, translocation/indel-prone cancer genes; or
         e) a fifth bait set that selects a second intron target (e.g., an intron member) for which
sparse coverage is required to improve the ability to detect copy number changes. For example,
                                                     - 99 -

detection of a one-copy deletion of several terminal exons requires 0.1-OX coverage to ensure
high detection reliability. Said fifth bait sets can be used to detect, for example,
amplification/deletion-prone cancer genes.
         Any combination of two, three, four or more of the aforesaid bait sets can be used in
methods and compositions featured herein, such as, for example, a combination of the first and
the second bait sets; first and third bait sets; first and fourth bait sets; first and fifth bait sets;
second and third bait sets; second and fourth bait sets; second and fifth bait sets; third and fourth
bait sets; third and fifth bait sets; fourth and fifth bait sets; first, second and third bait sets; first,
second and fourth bait sets; first, second and fifth bait sets; first, second, third, fourth bait sets;
first, second, third, fourth and fifth bait sets, and so on.
         In one embodiment, each of the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth bait set has a
preselected efficiency for selection (e.g., capture). In one embodiment, the value for efficiency
of selection is the same for at least two, three, four of all five baits according to a)-e). In other
embodiments, the value for efficiency of selection is different for at least two, three, four of all
five baits according to a)-e).
         In some embodiments, at least two, three, four, or all five bait sets have a preselected
efficiency value that differ. For example, a value for efficiency of selection chosen from one of
more of:
         (i) the first preselected efficiency has a value for first efficiency of selection that is at
least about 500X or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that is
greater than the second, third, fourth or fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 2-3
fold greater than the value for the second efficiency of selection; about 5-6 fold greater than the
value for the third efficiency of selection; about 10 fold greater than the value for the fourth
efficiency of selection; about 50 to 5000-fold greater than the value for the fifth efficiency of
selection);
         (ii) the second preselected efficiency has a value for second efficiency of selection that is
at least about 200X or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that
is greater than the third, fourth or fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 2 fold
greater than the value for the third efficiency of selection; about 4 fold greater than the value for
the fourth efficiency of selection; about 20 to 2000-fold greater than the value for the fifth
efficiency of selection);
                                                  - 100 -

         (iii) the third preselected efficiency has a value for third efficiency of selection that is at
least about 1OOX or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that is
greater than the fourth or fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 2 fold greater than
the value for the fourth efficiency of selection; about 10 to 1000-fold greater than the value for
the fifth efficiency of selection);
         (iv) the fourth preselected efficiency has a value for fourth efficiency of selection that is
at least about 50X or higher sequencing depth (e.g., has a value for efficiency of selection that is
greater than the fifth preselected efficiency of selection (e.g., about 50 to 500-fold greater than
the value for the fifth efficiency of selection); or
         (v) the fifth preselected efficiency has a value for fifth efficiency of selection that is at
least about lOX to 0.1X sequencing depth.
         In certain embodiments, the value for efficiency of selection is modified by one or more
of: differential representation of different bait sets, differential overlap of bait subsets,
differential bait parameters, or mixing of different bait sets. For example, a variation in
efficiency of selection (e.g., relative sequence coverage of each bait set/target category) can be
adjusted by altering one or more of:
         (i) Differential representation of different bait sets - The bait set design to capture a given
target (e.g., a target member) can be included in more/fewer number of copies to enhance/reduce
relative target coverage depths;
         (ii) Differential overlap of bait subsets - The bait set design to capture a given target
(e.g., a target member) can include a longer or shorter overlap between neighboring baits to
enhance/reduce relative target coverage depths;
         (iii) Differential bait parameters - The bait set design to capture a given target (e.g., a
target member) can include sequence modifications/shorter length to reduce capture efficiency
and lower the relative target coverage depths;
         (iv) Mixing of different bait sets - Bait sets that are designed to capture different target
sets can be mixed at different molar ratios to enhance/reduce relative target coverage depths;
         (v) Using different types of oligonucleotide bait sets -In certain embodiments, the bait set
can include:
         (a) one or more chemically (e.g., non-enzymatically) synthesized (e.g., individually
synthesized) baits,
                                                  - 101 -

         (b) one or more baits synthesized in an array,
         (c) one or more enzymatically prepared, e.g., in vitro transcribed, baits;
         (d) any combination of (a), (b) and/or (c),
         (e) one or more DNA oligonucleotides (e.g., a naturally or non-naturally occurring DNA
oligonucleotide),
         (f) one or more RNA oligonucleotides (e.g., a naturally or non-naturally occurring RNA
oligonucleotide),
         (g) a combination of (e) and (f), or
         (h) a combination of any of the above.
         The different oligonucleotide combinations can be mixed at different ratios, e.g., a ratio
chosen from 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:10, 1:20, 1:50; 1:100, 1:1000, or the like. In one
embodiment, the ratio of chemically-synthesized bait to array-generated bait is chosen from 1:5,
1:10, or 1:20. The DNA or RNA oligonucleotides can be naturally- or non-naturally-occurring.
In certain embodiments, the baits include one or more non-naturally-occurring nucleotide to,
e.g., increase melting temperature. Exemplary non-naturally occurring oligonucleotides include
modified DNA or RNA nucleotides. Exemplary modified nucleotides (e.g., modified RNA or
DNA nucleotides) include, but are not limited to, a locked nucleic acid (LNA), wherein the
ribose moiety of an LNA nucleotide is modified with an extra bridge connecting the 2' oxygen
and 4' carbon; peptide nucleic acid (PNA), e.g., a PNA composed of repeating N-(2-aminoethyl)
glycine units linked by peptide bonds; a DNA or RNA oligonucleotide modified to capture low
GC regions; a bicyclic nucleic acid (BNA) or a crosslinked oligonucleotide; a modified 5-methyl
deoxycytidine; and 2,6-diaminopurine. Other modified DNA and RNA nucleotides are known in
the art.
         In certain embodiments, a substantially uniform or homogeneous coverage of a target
sequence (e.g., a target member) is obtained. For example, within each bait set/target category,
uniformity of coverage can be optimized by modifying bait parameters, for example, by one or
more of:
         (i) Increasing/decreasing bait representation or overlap can be used to enhance/reduce
coverage of targets (e.g., target members), which are under/over-covered relative to other targets
in the same category;
                                                - 102 -

         (ii) For low coverage, hard to capture target sequences (e.g., high GC content sequences),
expand the region being targeted with the bait sets to cover, e.g., adjacent sequences (e.g., less
GC-rich adjancent sequences);
         (iii) Modifying a bait sequence can be made to reduce secondary structure of the bait and
enhance its efficiency of selection;
         (iv) Modifying a bait length can be used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics of
different baits within the same category. Bait length can be modified directly (by producing
baits with varying lengths) or indirectly (by producing baits of consistent length, and replacing
the bait ends with arbitrary sequence);
         (v) Modifying baits of different orientation for the same target region (i.e. forward and
reverse strand) may have different binding efficiencies. The bait set with either orientation
providing optimal coverage for each target may be selected;
         (vi) Modifying the amount of a binding entity, e.g., a capture tag (e.g. biotin), present on
each bait may affect its binding efficiency. Increasing/decreasing the tag level of baits targeting a
specific target may be used to enhance/reduce the relative target coverage;
         (vii) Modifying the type of nucleotide used for different baits can be altered to affect
binding affinity to the target, and enhance/reduce the relative target coverage; or
         (viii) Using modified oligonucleotide baits, e.g., having more stable base pairing, can be
used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics between areas of low or normal GC content
relative to high GC content.
         In other embodiments, the efficiency of selection is adjusted by leveling the efficiency of
individual baits within a group (e.g., a first, second or third plurality of baits) by adjusting the
relative abundance of the baits, or the density of the binding entity (e.g., the hapten or affinity tag
density) in reference to differential sequence capture efficiency observed when using an
equimolar mix of baits, and then introducing a differential excess of internally-leveled group 1 to
the overall bait mix relative to internally-leveled group 2.
         In an embodiment, a library catch is provided by use of a plurality of bait sets including a
bait set that selects a tumor member, e.g., a nucleic acid molecule comprising a subgenomic
interval from a tumor cell (also referred to herein as "a tumor bait set"). The tumor member can
be any nucleotide sequence present in a tumor cell, e.g., a mutated, a wild-type, a PGx, a
reference or an intron nucleotide sequence (e.g., a member), as described herein, that is present
                                                 - 103 -

in a tumor or cancer cell. In one embodiment, the tumor member includes an alteration (e.g., one
or more mutations) that appears at a low frequency, e.g., about 5% or less of the cells from the
tumor sample harbor the alteration in their genome. In other embodiments, the tumor member
includes an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) that appears at a frequency of about 10% of
the cells from the tumor sample. In other embodiments, the tumor member includes a
subgenomic interval from a PGx gene or gene product, an intron sequence, e.g., an intron
sequence as described herein, a reference sequence, that is present in a tumor cell.
         In other embodiments, the method further includes detecting a non-tumor member, e.g., a
nucleic acid molecule (such as a subgenomic interval) that is present in a non-tumor cell. In one
embodiment, the plurality of bait sets includes a bait set that selects the non-tumor member (also
referred to herein as "a non-tumor bait set"). For example, the non-tumor member can be from a
normal (e.g., non-cancerous) reference sample (e.g., form the same subject from whom the tumor
sample was obtained); a normal adjacent tissue (NAT) or a blood sample from the same subject
having or at risk of having the tumor. In other embodiments, the non-tumor member is from a
different subject as the tumor member (e.g., is from a normal (e.g., non-cancerous) reference
sample; a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); or a blood sample), from one or more different subjects
(e.g., healthy subjects or other subjects having or at risk of having the tumor). In one
embodiment, the non-tumor member includes a subgenomic interval from a PGx gene or gene
product, an intron sequence, a reference sequence, that is present in a non-tumor cell.
         In one embodiment, the tumor bait set is chosen from one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, or all A-M of the following:
         A. A bait set that selects an exon sequence that includes a single nucleotide alteration
associated with a cancerous phenotype;
         B. A bait set that selects an in-frame deletion of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more codons from a reference nucleotide (e.g., chromosome) sequence;
         C. A bait set that selects an intragenic deletion;
         D. A bait set that selects an intragenic insertion;
         E. A bait set that selects a deletion of a full gene;
         F. A bait set that selects an inversion, e.g., an intrachromosomal inversion;
         G. A bait set that selects an interchromosal translocation;
                                                  -  104 -

         H. A bait set that selects a tandem duplication, e.g., an intrachromosomal tandem
duplication;
         I. A bait set that selects a nucleotide sequence of interest flanked by adjacent non
repetitive sequences;
         J. A bait set that selects one or more subgenomic intervals corresponding to a fusion
sequence, e.g., a preselected pair of subgenomic intervals (e.g., a preselected pair of exons)
corresponding to a fusion sequence (e.g., a fusion transcript or a cancer associated alternative
spliced form of non-fusion transcript);
         K. A bait set that selects a subgenomic interval adjacent to a nucleotide sequence that
includes an undesirable feature, e.g., a nucleotide sequence of high GC content, a nucleotide
sequence including one or more repeated elements and/or inverted repeats;
         L. A bait set that selects a rearrangement, e.g., a genomic rearrangement (e.g., a
rearrangement that includes an intron sequence, e.g., a 5' or 3'-UTR); or
         M. A bait set that selects a subgenomic interval that includes an exon adjacent to a cancer
associated gene fusion.
         Additional embodiments of the bait sets and methods of using them are as follows:
         In one embodiment, the bait set selects a member by hybridization (e.g., a bait or
plurality of baits in the bait set is complementary to one or more members, e.g., target members,
such as first-fifth members, tumor or non-tumor members, as described herein).
         In one embodiment, the library (e.g., the nucleic acid library) includes a plurality of
members, e.g., target nucleic acid members from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30 or more
subjects. In one embodiment, the subject is human having, or at risk of having, a cancer or
tumor.
         In certain embodiments, the method includes sequencing tumor members from tumor
samples from at least X subjects, (wherein X = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, or more
subjects). In one embodiment, the subject is human having, or at risk of having, a cancer or
tumor. The method includes sequencing at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 75 or more genes or
gene products described herein (e.g., genes or gene products from Table 1, 1A, 2, 3, or 4) from at
least X subjects.
                                                  - 105 -

         In other embodiments or in addition to the aforesaid embodiments, the method or
includes sequencing a reference subgenomic interval from a gene or gene product from the same
subject as the tumor sample, e.g., a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence of a gene or
gene product described herein (e.g., genes or gene products from Table 1, 1A, 2, 3, or 4). In one
embodiment, the reference gene or gene product is from the same subject or a different subject as
the tumor sample (e.g., is from one or more of the same or a different tumor sample; a normal
(e.g., non-cancerous) sample; a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); or a blood sample), from the same
subject having or at risk of having the tumor, or from a different subject.
         In one embodiment, the member (e.g., any of the members described herein) comprises a
subgenomic interval. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an intragenic region
or an intergenic region. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes a gene or
fragment thereof, an exon or a fragment thereof, or a preselected nucleotide position (e.g., a
base). In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an exon or an intron, or a
fragment thereof, typically an exon or a fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the subgenomic
interval includes a coding region or a non-coding region, e.g., a promoter, an enhancer, a 5'
untranslated region (5' UTR), or a 3' untranslated region (3' UTR), or a fragment thereof.
         In another embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the member (e.g., any of the members
described herein) includes an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) associated, e.g., positively
or negatively, with a cancerous phenotype (e.g., one or more of cancer risk, cancer progression,
cancer treatment or resistance to cancer treatment). In yet another embodiment, the subgenomic
interval includes an alteration, e.g., a point or a single mutation, a deletion mutation (e.g., an in
frame deletion, an intragenic deletion, a full gene deletion), an insertion mutation (e.g.,
intragenic insertion), an inversion mutation (e.g., an intra-chromosomal inversion), a linking
mutation, a linked insertion mutation, an inverted duplication mutation, a tandem duplication
(e.g., an intrachromosomal tandem duplication), a translocation (e.g., a chromosomal
translocation, a non-reciprocal translocation), a rearrangement (e.g., a genomic rearrangement
(e.g., a rearrangement of one or more introns, or a fragment thereof; a rearranged intron can
include a a 5'- and/or 3'- UTR); a change in gene copy number; a change in gene expression; a
change in RNA levels, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval of
the first or the second member includes an alteration of a gene or gene product according to
Table 1, 1A, 3, or 4.
                                                 - 106 -

        In one embodiment, the tumor member includes one or more alterations (e.g., one or
more altered or mutated subgenomic intervals from gene or gene products from a tumor sample).
In some embodiments, the bait set (e.g., any of the bait sets described herein) selects (e.g., is
complementary to) a tumor member, e.g., a nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a subgenomic interval,
such as a gene, an exon, or a fragment thereof), that includes an alteration (e.g., one or more
mutations) associated, e.g., positively or negatively, with a cancerous phenotype.
        In an embodiment, the member is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., one or
more of cancer risk, cancer progression, cancer treatment, or resistance to cancer treatment. The
association with the cancerous phenotype can include one or more of: a genetic risk factor for
cancer, a positive treatment response predictor, a negative treatment response predictor, a
positive prognostic factor, a negative prognostic factor, or a diagnostic factor. In one
embodiment, the cancerous phenotype associated with the tumor member is the same tumor type
as detected by histological analysis of the sample. In other embodiments, the cancerous
phenotype associated with the tumor member is from a different tumor type as detected by
histological analysis of the sample.
        In certain embodiments, the subgenomic interval includes a nucleotide sequence, wherein
the presence or absence of a preselected allelic variant is predictive of a positive clinical
outcome, and/or responsiveness to therapy. In other embodiments, the subgenomic interval
includes a nucleotide sequence, wherein the presence or absence of a preselected allelic variant is
predictive of a negative clinical outcome, and/or responsiveness to therapy. In certain
embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the nucleic acid sample includes a nucleotide
sequence, wherein the presence or absence of a preselected allelic variant is indicative of a
genetic (e.g., a germline risk) factor for developing cancer (e.g., the gene or gene product is
chosen from one or more of BRCA1, BRCA2, EGFR, HRAS, KIT, MPL, ALK, PTEN, RET,
APC, CDKN2A, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, NF1, NF2, RB1, TP53, VHL or WT1).
        In other embodiments, the member is not associated with the cancerous phenotype. In
certain embodiments, the subgenomic interval of the member (e.g., any of the members
described herein) includes a nucleic acid molecule (in the same or a different subgenomic
interval) not associated with the cancerous phenotype for the tumor of the type from the sample.
        In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval of the member (e.g., any of the members
described herein) includes a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence of a gene or gene
                                                - 107 -

product (e.g., an exon sequence or a fragment thereof). In one embodiment, the subgenomic
interval of the first or the second member includes a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide
sequence of a gene or gene product that when mutated is associated with a cancerous phenotype
(e.g., a wild type or a non-mutated sequence of a gene or gene product as described herein, e.g., a
gene or gene product described herein in Table 1, 1A, 3 or 4). Members containing the wild-type
or non-mutated gene or gene product sequence are also referred to herein as "reference
members." For example, the subgenomic interval is from one or more of: a wild type allele of a
heterozygous mutation; a normal (e.g., non-cancerous) reference sample (e.g., from the same
subject from whom the tumor sample was obtained); a normal adjacent tissue (NAT) or a blood
sample from the same subject having or at risk of having the tumor. In other embodiments, the
subgenomic interval is from a different subject as the tumor member (e.g., is from one or more of
the same or a different tumor sample from a different subject; a normal (e.g., non-cancerous)
reference sample; a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); or a blood sample), from one or more
different subjects (e.g., healthy subjects or other subjects having or at risk of having the tumor).
         In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects (e.g., is complementary
to) a subgenomic interval that includes a point mutation that appear at a frequency of about 5%
or less (i.e. 5% of the cells from which the sample was prepared harbor this mutation in their
genome), e.g., requires about 500X or higher sequencing depth to ensure high detection
reliability.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects (e.g., is
complementary to) a tumor or reference member chosen from one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more of: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2,
AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A, CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR,
ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MAP2K1,
MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3, PDGFRA, PIK3CA,
PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11, SUFU, or TP53 gene or
gene product. In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects (e.g., is
complementary to) one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty
five, thirty, thirty-five codons chosen from one or more of: codon 315 of the ABLI gene; codon
1114, 1338, 1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF; codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41 or 45 of
CTNNB1; codon 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR; codon 835 of FLT3; codon 12,
                                                -  108 -

13, or 61 of HRAS; codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT; codon 12, 13, or 61 of KRAS; codon
88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130, 173, 233, or 267 of PTEN; codon 918
of RET; codon 175, 245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53.
         In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects one or more
subgenomic intervals that are frequently mutated in certain types of cancer, e.g., at least 5, 10,
20, 30 or more subgenomic intervals from a Priority 1 Cancer gene or gene product according to
Table 1 or 1A.
         In other embodiments, the second bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) a tumor
member that includes an alteration (e.g., a point mutation) that appears at a frequency of 10%,
e.g., requires about 200X or higher sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability.
         In other embodiments, the second bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) a tumor
member chosen one, two, three, four, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five,
forty, forty-five, fifty, fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five, seventy, seventy-five, eighty, eighty-five,
ninety, ninety-five, one hundred, one hundred and five, one hundred and ten, one hundred and
fifteen, one hundred and twenty or more of: ABL2, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ATM, ATR,
AURKA, AURKB, BAPI, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1, BRCA2, CBL,
CARD1I, CBL, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD79A, CD79B, CDH1, CDH2, CDH20, CDH5,
CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI, CHEK2, CRKL, CRLF2, DNMT3A, DOTIL,
EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERG, ETV1,
ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA, FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1, FLT4, FOXP4,
GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124, GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1, IDHI, IDH2,
IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA, IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDM6A, KDR, LRP1B,
LRP6, LTK, MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A,
MSH2, MSH6, MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI, MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1, NTRK2, PAK3,
PAX5, PDGFRB, PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAF1, RARA, RICTOR,
RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SOX1O, SOX2, SRC,
TBX22, TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNK, TNKS2, TOPI, TSC1, TSC2, USP9X,
VHL, or WT1 gene or gene product.
         In one embodiment, the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects one or more
subgenomic intervals (e.g., exons) that are chosen from at least 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80,
90, 100 or more of the Cancer genes or gene products according to Table 1 or 1A.
                                                    - 109 -

          In certain embodiments, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
wild-type and/or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence, e.g., a reference member that has a wild
type or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence, e.g., a wild-type and/or a non-mutated nucleotide
sequence of a subgenomic interval of a gene or gene product as described herein, e.g., as
described in Table 1, 1A, 3 or 4.
          In one embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor set, selects a member,
e.g., a reference member, that has a wild-type or a non-mutated nucleotide sequence of a gene or
gene product (e.g., an exon sequence or a fragment thereof) that when mutated is associated, e.g.,
positively or negatively, with a cancerous phenotype.
          In one embodiment, the reference member is from the same subject as the tumor member
(e.g., is from one or more of the same or a different tumor sample; a wild-type heterozygous
allele of the mutated member; a normal (e.g., non-cancerous) reference sample; a normal
adjacent tissue (NAT); or a blood sample), from the same subject having or at risk of having the
tumor. In other embodiments, the reference member is from a different subject as the tumor
member (e.g., is from one or more of the same or a different tumor sample from a different
subject; a normal (e.g., non-cancerous) reference sample; a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); or a
blood sample), from one or more different subjects having or at risk of having the tumor.
          In one embodiment, the first or second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an exon
sequence that includes a single nucleotide alteration associated with a cancerous phenotype. For
example, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can include a nucleotide sequence
complementary to nucleotides 25,398,215-25,398,334 of chromosome 12, and contains a base
complementary to a C-T substitution at position 25,398,286, which represents a G12S mutation
in the KRAS gene.
          In another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by an in-frame deletion of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more codons from a reference nucleotide (e.g., chromosome) sequence.
In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, includes (or consists of) two
discontinuous nucleotide sequences of a reference chromosome sequence, in their reference 5' to
3' orientation, separated on the reference chromosome sequence by a gap of any of 3, 6, 9, 12,
15, 18, 21, 24, 27, 30, 33, 36, 39, 42, 45, 48, 51, 54, 57, 60 or more nucleotides. For example the
first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can include a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to
                                                  - 110 -

nucleotides 55,242,400 to 55,242,535 of chromosome 7, but lacks nucleotides 55,242,464 to
55,242,479, which represents an in-frame deletion of codons 746-750 of the EGFR gene.
         In yet another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by an intragenic deletion. In one embodiment, the first bait set, or
the tumor bait set, includes (or consists of) two discontinuous segments of a reference nucleotide
(e.g., chromosome) sequence, in their reference 5' to 3' orientation, separated by 1, 5, 10, 15, 20,
25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60 nucleotides from the reference chromosome sequence. For
example, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can include a nucleotide sequence that is
complementary to nucleotides 9,675,214 to 89,675,274 of chromosome 10, followed by bases
89,675,277 to 89,675,337 of chromosome 10, which represents a deletion of the dinucleotide
sequence "CA" from codon 64 of the PTEN gene.
         In yet another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by an intragenic insertion. In one embodiment, the first bait set, or
the tumor bait set, includes (or consists of) two continuous segments of a reference nucleotide
(e.g., chromosome) sequence, separated by a non-reference sequence of 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60 nucleotides. For example, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can
include a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotides 89,692,864 to 89,692,924 of
chromosome 10, followed by a nucleotide sequence "GGNATG", followed by nucleotides
89,692,925 to 89,692,980 of chromosome 10, which represents the insertion of amino acid
residues "Gly-Met" following codon 136 of the PTEN gene.
         In another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by a deletion of a full gene. In one embodiment, the first bait set,
or the tumor bait set, includes (or consists of) two discontinuous segments of a reference
nucleotide (e.g., chromosome) sequence, in their reference 5' to 3' orientation, separated by 500,
1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 4000, 5000 or more nucleotides from the reference chromosome
sequence. For example, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can include a nucleotide sequence
complementary to bases 21,961,007 to 21,961,067 of chromosome 9 adjacent to bases
22,001,175 to 22,001,235 of chromosome 9, which represents the deletion of the CDKN2A gene.
         In another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by an inversion, e.g., an intrachromosomal inversion. In one
embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, includes a nucleotide sequence
                                                -  111 -

complementary to two discontinuous segments of a reference nucleotide (e.g., chromosome)
sequence, one of which is inverted from its reference orientation, e.g., to capturing a member that
results from an inversion. For example, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can include
nucleotides 42,522,893 to 42,522,953 of chromosome 2, juxtaposed with nucleotides 29,449,993
to 29,449,933 of chromosome 2, which represents an inversion producing an EML4:ALK fusion.
         In another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by an interchromosal translocation. In one embodiment, the first
bait set, or the tumor bait set, includes a nucleotide sequence complementary to two
discontinuous segments of a reference nucleotide (e.g., genomic) sequence, originating from
different reference chromosome sequences, e.g., to capture a member that results from an
interchromosomal translocation. For example, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, can include
nucleotides 23,632,552 to 23,632,612 of chromosome 22, juxtaposed with nucleotides
133,681,793 to 133,681,853 of chromosome 9, which represents the presence of a chromosomal
translocation resulting in a BCR-ABL fusion.
         In yet another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by a tandem duplication, e.g., an intrachromosomal tandem
duplication. In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, includes a nucleotide
sequence complementary to one segment of a reference nucleotide (e.g., chromosome) sequence,
of at least 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 27, or 30 nucleotides in length, repeated at least once, e.g.,
twice, three times, four times, or five times, in its reference orientation, e.g., to capture a member
has a tandem duplication. For example, a bait can include bases 28,608,259 to 28,608,285 of
chromosome 13 repeated twice in the same orientation, which represents an internal tandem
duplication (ITD) mutation in the FLT3 gene.
         In yet another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
tumor member characterized by a nucleotide sequence of interest flanked by adjacent non
repetitive sequences. In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, includes at least
two non-contiguous nucleotide sequences. A first nucleotide sequence complementary to the 5'
flanking region of the sequence of interest, and a second nucleotide sequence complementary to
the 3' flanking region of the sequence of interest. For example, a first and second pair of baits
can include a first nucleotide sequence complementary to nucleotides 51,288,380 to 51,288,500
(bait 1) and a second nucleotide sequence complementary to nucleotides 51,288,560 to
                                                  - 112 -

51,288,680 (bait 2) of chromosome 2, which can capture members containing the microsatellite
marker sequence D2S 123.
         In another embodiment, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects (e.g.,
is complementary to) a preselected pair of subgenomic intervals (e.g., a preselected pair of
exons) corresponding to a fusion sequence (e.g., a fusion transcript or a cancer associated
alternative spliced form of non-fusion transcript).
         In other embodiments, the first or the second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
subgenomic interval adjacent to a nucleotide sequence that includes an undesirable feature, e.g.,
a nucleotide sequence of high GC content, a nucleotide sequence including one or more repeated
elements and/or inverted repeats. In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set,
selects a subgenomic interval that includes a repeated element, but does not hybridize to the
repeated element (e.g., does not hybridize to the repeated elements in a BRCA2 gene).
         In other embodiments, the first, the second, or the tumor, bait set selects a subgenomic
interval that includes an exon adjacent to a cancer associated gene fusion, to thereby facilitate the
capture of nucleic acid sequences (e.g., cDNA fragments) adjacent to the gene fusion.
         In other embodiments, the first, the second, or the tumor, bait set selects a subgenomic
interval that is from one or more genes or gene products shown in Table 1, 1A, 3 or 4, that is
associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of the cancer
types described in Tables 1, 1A, 3 or 4.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an ABL-1 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a soft-tissue malignancy chosen from one or more of CML, ALL or T-ALL. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of CML, ALL or T-ALL.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an AKT1 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of breast, colorectal, ovarian, or non-small cell lung
carcinoma (NSCLC). In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained
from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of breast, colorectal,
ovarian, or non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC).
                                                -  113 -

         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an ALK gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of ALCL, NSCLC or neuroblastoma. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of ALCL, NSCLC or neuroblastoma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an APC gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of colorectal, pancreatic, desmoid, hepatoblastoma, glioma, or
other CNS cancers or tumors. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is
obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of colorectal,
pancreatic, desmoid, hepatoblastoma, glioma, or other CNS cancers or tumors.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a BRAF gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of melanoma, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, other
epithelial malignancies, or hematological malignancies including AML or ALL. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of melanoma, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, other
epithelial malignancies, or hematological malignancies including AML or ALL.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a CDKN2A gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of melanoma, pancreatic, or other tumor types. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of melanoma, pancreatic, or other tumor types.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a CEBPA gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of AML or MDS. In one embodiment, the library, e.g.,
the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having,
one or more of AML or MDS.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a CTNNB1 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of colorectal, ovarian, hepatoblastoma, or pleomorphic
                                                -  114 -

salivary adenoma. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from
a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of colorectal, ovarian,
hepatoblastoma, or pleomorphic salivary adenoma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an EGFR gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of glioma, lung cancer, or NSCLC. In one embodiment,
the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at
risk of having, one or more of glioma, lung cancer, or NSCLC.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an ERBB2 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated, e.g., positively or negatively,
with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of breast, ovarian, NSCLC,
gastric or other solid tumors. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is
obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of breast,
ovarian, NSCLC, gastric or other solid tumor types.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an ESRi gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of breast, ovarian or endometrial tumors. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of breast, ovarian or endometrial tumors.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an FGFR1 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of MPD or NHL. In one embodiment, the library, e.g.,
the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having,
one or more of MPD or NHL.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an FGFR2 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of gastric, NSCLC or endometrial tumors. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of gastric, NSCLC or endometrial tumors.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an FGFR3 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
                                                  - 115 -

e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of bladder cancer, multiple myeloma or T-cell
lymphoma. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a
sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of bladder cancer, multiple
myeloma or T-cell lymphoma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an FLT3 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of melanoma, colorectal, papillary thyroid, ovarian, non
small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), cholangiocarcinoma, or pilocytic astrocytoma. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of melanoma, colorectal, papillary thyroid, ovarian, non
small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), cholangiocarcinoma, or pilocytic astrocytoma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an HRAS gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of rhadomyosarcoma, ganglioneuroblastoma, bladder,
sarcomas, or other cancer types. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is
obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of
rhadomyosarcoma, ganglioneuroblastoma, bladder, sarcomas, or other cancer types.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a JAK2 gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of ALL, AML, MPD or CML. In one embodiment, the library,
e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of
having, one or more of ALL, AML, MPD or CML.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a KIT gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), AML, TGCT,
mastocytosis, mucosal melanoma, or epithelioma. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the
nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or
more of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), AML, TGCT, mastocytosis, mucosal melanoma,
or epithelioma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a KRAS gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
                                                -  116 -

e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of pancreatic, colon, colorectal, lung, thyroid, or AML.
In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a
subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of pancreatic, colon, colorectal, lung, thyroid, or
AML.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a MET gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of renal or head-neck squamous cell carcinoma. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of renal or head-neck squamous cell carcinoma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an MLL gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of AML or ALL. In one embodiment, the library, e.g.,
the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having,
one or more of AML or ALL.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) an NF1 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of neurofibroma or glioma. In one embodiment, the
library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk
of having, one or more of neurofibroma or glioma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a NOTCHI gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a T-ALL cancer. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained
from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, a T-ALL cancer.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an NPM1 gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of NHL, APL or AML. In one embodiment, the library,
e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of
having, one or more of NHL, APL or AML.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an NRAS gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of melanoma, colorectal cancer, multiple myeloma,
                                                  - 117 -

AML, or thyroid cancer. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is
obtained from a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of melanoma,
colorectal cancer, multiple myeloma, AML, or thyroid cancer.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a PDGFRA gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of GIST or idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome. In
one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a
subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of GIST or idiopathic hypereosinophilic
syndrome.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a PIK3CA gene or
gene product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype,
e.g., a cancer chosen from one or more of colorectal, gastric, gliobastoma, or breast cancer. In
one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a
subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of colorectal, gastric, gliobastoma, or breast
cancer.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a PTEN gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of colorectal, glioma, prostate, or endometrial cancer. In one
embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a subject
having, or at risk of having, one or more of colorectal, glioma, prostate, or endometrial cancer.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects an RB1 gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of retinoblastoma, sarcoma, breast, or small cell lung
carcinoma. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a
sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of retinoblastoma, sarcoma,
breast, or small cell lung carcinoma.
         In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a RET gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of medullary thyroid, papillary thyroid, or pheochromocytoma.
In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from a sample from a
                                                -  118 -

subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of medullary thyroid, papillary thyroid, or
pheochromocytoma.
        In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a TP53 gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is associated with a cancerous phenotype, e.g., a
cancer chosen from one or more of breast, colorectal, lung, sarcoma, adrenocortical, glioma, or
other tumor types. In one embodiment, the library, e.g., the nucleic acid library, is obtained from
a sample from a subject having, or at risk of having, one or more of breast, colorectal, lung,
sarcoma, adrenocortical, glioma, or other tumor types.
        In one embodiment, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a gene or gene product,
or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is a positive predictor of therapeutic response. Examples
of a positive predictor of a therapeutic response include, but are not limited to, an activating
mutation in the EGFR gene that predicts responsiveness to small molecule EGFR TKIs (e.g.,
Iressa/gefitinib) in NSCLC patients; presence of an EML4/ALK fusion gene predicts
responsiveness to ALK inhibitors (e.g. PF-02341066) in NSCLC patients; presence of a BRAF
V600E mutation predicts responsiveness to BRAF inhibition (e.g. PLX-4032) in melanoma
patients.
        In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is a negative predictor of therapeutic response.
Examples of a negative predictor of a therapeutic response include, but are not limited to, an
activating mutation in the KRAS gene that predict lack of response to anti-EGFR monoclonal
antibodies (cetuximab, panitumumab) in CRC patients; and the presence of an M35 IT mutation
in the BCR/Abl fusion gene predicts resistance to Gleevec/imatinib in CML patients.
        In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is a prognostic factor. Examples of prognostic
factors include, but are not limited to, the presence of an insertion mutation in the FLT3 gene,
which is a negative prognostic for relapse in AML patients; the presence of specific RET gene
mutations, e.g. M918T, which are negative prognostic factors for survival in medullary thyroid
carcinoma patients.
        In other embodiments, the first bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a gene or gene
product, or a subgenomic interval thereof, that is a diagnostic factor. Examples of prognostic
factors include, but are not limited to, the presence of a BCR/Abl fusion gene, which is
                                                - 119 -

diagnostic for CML; and the presence of a SMARCB1 mutation, which is diagnostic of
Rhabdoid tumor of the kidney.
        In yet other embodiments, the first or second bait set, or the tumor bait set, selects a
nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a subgenomic interval) that includes an alteration that is associated
with tumor progression and/or resistance, and has a late onset in cancer progression (e.g. a
metastasis-associated mutation, a drug resistance associated mutation).
        In yet other embodiments, the tumor member includes a subgenomic interval from a gene
or gene product that is present in less than 5, 1, 0.5, 0.1%, 0.01%, 0.001% of the coding region of
the genome of the tumor cells in the tumor sample.
        In one embodiment, the tumor member includes a subgenomic interval from a gene or
gene product that is associated with a tumor or cancer (e.g., is a positive or negative treatment
response predictor, is a positive or negative prognostic factor for, or enables differential
diagnosis of a tumor or cancer, e.g., a gene or gene product chosen from one or more of: ABLI,
AKT1, ALK, AR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, CEBPA, EGFR, ERBB2, FLT3, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MET, NPM1, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, RARA, AKT2, AKT3, MAP2K4, NOTCH, and
TP53.
        In one embodiment, the tumor member includes a subgenomic interval selected from a
wild type or mutated gene or gene product according to Tables 1, 1A-4.
        In one embodiment, the tumor member includes a subgenomic interval selected from a
wild type or mutated gene or gene product according to Tables 1, 1A-4, which are embedded in a
GC-rich region.
        In another embodiment, the tumor member includes a translocation alteration of at least
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or more genes or gene products according to Table
3. In other embodiments, the tumor member includes a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10,
15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or more genes or gene products according to Table 3 in a
solid tumor sample from the cancer types specified therein.
        In one embodiment, the tumor member includes a translocation alteration of at least 5,
10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or more genes or gene products according to
Table 4. In another embodiment, the tumor member includes a translocation alteration of at least
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or more genes or gene products according
to Table 4 in a heme tumor sample from the cancer types specified therein.
                                                -  120 -

         In other embodiments, the plurality of baits further include a bait set that selects (e.g., is
complementary to) a control member, e.g., a nucleic acid used for one or more of: fingerprinting
the target nucleic acid member in the library; quantifying the abundance of a target nucleic acid
member in the library; identifying a patient's target nucleic acid member in the library,
determining the ploidy in a sample from which the library is derived; determining the loss of
heterozygosity in a sample from which the library is derived; determining gene duplication in a
sample from which the library is derived; determining gene amplification in a sample from
which the library is derived; or determining tumor/normal cellular admixture in a sample from
which the library is derived. Such baits are referred to herein as "control baits." In one
embodiment, the control bait set is a third bait set or a PGx bait set. In other embodiments, the
control bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) PGx member as described herein. In other
embodiments, the control bait selects a nucleic acid molecule that includes an SNP (e.g., an SNP
as described herein).
         In certain embodiments, the third bait set, the tumor or the non-tumor bait set, or the PGx
bait set (referred to collectively herein as "the control bait set") selects a nucleic acid molecule
(in the same of a different subgenomic interval as the tumor or reference member) that is a low
level target, for example, detection of heterozygous alleles requires 10-1OOX sequencing depth to
ensure high detection reliability. In one embodiment, the third bait set, or the tumor or the PGx
bait set, selects a subgenomic interval that is used for one or more of: fingerprinting the target
nucleic acid member in the library; quantifying the abundance of a target nucleic acid member in
the library; identifying a patient's target nucleic acid member in the library, determining the
ploidy in a sample from which the library is derived; determining the loss of heterozygosity in a
sample from which the library is derived; determining gene duplication in a sample from which
the library is derived; determining gene amplification in a sample from which the library is
derived; or determining tumor/normal cellular admixture in a sample from which the library is
derived.
         In one embodiment, the control bait set (e.g., the third bait set, the tumor or the non
tumor bait set, or the PGx bait set) selects one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g., exons) that are
chosen from: a) pharmacogenomic SNPs that may explain the ability of patient to metabolize
different drugs, b) a genomic SNPs that may be used to uniquely identify (fingerprint) a patient,
                                                 - 121 -

c) a genomic SNPs/loci that may be used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA
and loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH).
         In one embodiment, the control bait set (e.g., the third bait set, the tumor or the non
tumor bait set, or the PGx bait set) selects a nucleic acid molecule comprising a variant
associated with drug metabolism or toxicity. In one embodiment, the control bait set (e.g., the
third bait set, the tumor or the non-tumor bait set, or the PGx bait set) selects (e.g., is
complementary to) a nucleic acid molecule associated with a subject's genetic make-up (e.g.,
ethnicity, race, familial traits).
         In other embodiments, the control bait set (e.g., the third bait set, the tumor or the non
tumor bait set, or the PGx bait set) selects a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). In one
embodiment, the third bait set, the tumor or the non-tumor (e.g., a PGx) bait set, selects (e.g., is
complementary to) an SNP chosen from one, two, three, four, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty
five, or thirty of: ABCB1, ABCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorf144, CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8,
CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2, FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2,
MANIBI, MTHFR, NQO1, NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2, SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1,
TPMT, TYMS, UGT1A1, and UMPS. In one embodiment, the control bait set selects a gene or
gene product according to Table 2.
         In other embodiments, the control bait set (e.g., the third bait set, the tumor or the non
tumor bait set, or the PGx bait set) selects a subgenomic interval from a mutated or wild type
PGx gene or gene product (e.g., single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)) of a subgenomic
interval that is present in a gene or gene product associated with one or more of: (i) better
survival of a cancer patient treated with a drug (e.g., better survival of a breast cancer patient
treated with paclitaxel (e.g., an ABCB1 gene)); (ii) paclitaxel metabolism (e.g., CYP2C8 genes
at different loci and mutations shown in Table 2; CYP3A4 gene); (iii) toxicity to a drug (e.g., 6
MP toxicity as seen with ABCC4 gene (Table 2); 5-FU toxicity as seen with DPYD gene, TYMS
gene, or UMPS gene (Table 2); purine toxicity as seen with a TMPT gene (Table 2);
daunorubicin toxicity as seen with NRP2 gene; Clorfl44 gene, CYPIBI gene (Table 2); or (iv) a
side effect to a drug (e.g., ABCG2, TYMS, UGT1A1, ESRI and ESR2 genes (Table 2)).
         In other embodiments, the control bait set (e.g., the third bait set, the tumor or the non
tumor bait set, or the PGx bait set) selects a subgenomic interval (e.g., exon or UTR sequences)
preselected to provide quantitation of the abundance of a target nucleic acid member in the
                                                - 122 -

library. In one embodiment, the third bait set, the tumor or the non-tumor (e.g., a PGx) provides
quantitation of the relative abundance of a transcript in the library, e.g., a cDNA library.
         In other embodiments, the fourth bait set selects a first intron target (e.g., a member that
includes an intron sequence) for which low-medium coverage is required, e.g., to detect a
structural breakpoint, such as a genomic translocation or an indel. For example, detection of an
intronic breakpoint requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection
reliability. Said fourth bait sets can be used to detect, for example, translocation/indel-prone
cancer genes.
         In yet other embodiments, the fifth bait set selects a second intron target (e.g., an intron
member) for which sparse coverage is required to improve the ability to detect copy number
changes. For example, detection of a one-copy deletion of several terminal exons requires 0.1
lOX coverage to ensure high detection reliability. Said fifth bait sets can be used to detect, for
example, amplification/deletion-prone cancer genes.
         In yet another embodiment, any of the bait sets described herein (e.g., the first, second,
third bait, fourth bait, fifth bait set, control, tumor, non-tumor bait set, or PGx bait set) is
modified to reduce the formation of secondary structure (e.g., by replacement of a nucleotide
with a different nucleotide that results in reduced formation of a secondary structure. In one
embodiment, the modified bait set is used to capture regions of high GC content. In one
embodiment, the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) includes a replacement of one or more
nucleotides with a different natural nucleotide (e.g., A, C, G, U, or T). In another embodiment,
the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) includes a replacement of one or more nucleotides
with a non-natural nucleotide analog (e.g., inosine or deoxyinosine). In one embodiment, the
bait set is modified as shown by an exemplary sequence in Table 8.
         In other embodiments, two or more of the first, second or third bait set are in the same
subgenomic interval (e.g., the same gene or gene product). In one embodiment, the first and
second bait set are in the same subgenomic interval. In another embodiment, the first and third
bait set are in the same subgenomic interval. In another embodiment, the second and third bait
set are in the same subgenomic interval. In other embodiments, the first, second and third bait
set are in different subgenomic intervals (e.g., different genes or gene products).
                                                    - 123 -

         Any combination of aforesaid bait sets can be used in the methods described herein. In
one embodiment, a subset or all of the aforesaid of first, second and/or third baits, or plurality of
baits are used in combination.
         In one embodiment, the combination includes a first bait set and a second bait set as
described herein. For example, the first bait set selects a tumor member, e.g., a subgenomic
interval that includes an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) as described herein as Priority 1
in Table 1 or 1A); and the second bait set selects a member described herein as a Cancer gene in
Table 1 or 1A.
         In other embodiments, the combination includes a first bait and a third bait set as
described herein. For example, the first bait set selects a tumor member, e.g., a subgenomic
interval that includes an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations) as described herein as Priority 1
in Table 1 or 1A); and the third bait set selects a PGx member, e.g., a nucleic acid molecule (in
the same of a different subgenomic interval) used for one or more of fingerprinting the sample,
identifying a patient's sample, determination of ploidy, determination of loss of heterozygosity,
determination of gene duplication, determination of gene amplification, or determination of
tumor/normal cellular admixture (e.g., an SNP as described herein).
         In other embodiments, the combination includes a second bait set and third bait set as
described herein. For example, the second bait set selects a member described herein as a
Cancer gene in Table 1 or 1A; and the third bait set selects a PGx member, e.g., a nucleic acid
molecule (in the same of a different subgenomic interval) used for one or more of fingerprinting
the sample, identifying a patient's sample, determination of ploidy, determination of loss of
heterozygosity, determination of gene duplication, determination of gene amplification, or
determination of tumor/normal cellular admixture (e.g., an SNP as described herein).
         In yet other embodiments, the combination includes a first bait set, a second bait set, and
a third bait set as described herein.
         In yet other embodiments, the combination includes a first bait set that selects a mutated
tumor member, e.g., a subgenomic interval that includes an alteration (e.g., one or more
mutations as described herein) of a gene or gene product according to Table 1 or 1A. In one
embodiment, the first bait set selects one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five codons chosen from one or more of: codon 315 of
the ABLi gene; codon 1114, 1338, 1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF; codon 32, 33,
                                                 - 124 -

34,37, 41 or 45 of CTNNB1; codon 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR; codon 835 of
FLT3; codon 12, 13, or 61 of HRAS; codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT; codon 12, 13, or 61
of KRAS; codon 88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130, 173, 233, or 267 of
PTEN; codon 918 of RET; codon 175, 245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53; and a first bait set that
selects a wild type sequence (e.g., a reference member) corresponding to one or more of the
aforesaid genes or gene products.
        In yet other embodiments, the combination includes a first bait set that selects a tumor
member, e.g., a subgenomic interval that includes an alteration (e.g., one or more mutations as
described herein), wherein the tumor or cancer-associated member is chosen from one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more of:
ABLI, AKT1, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CDKN2A, CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1,
NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PTEN, RB1, RET, or TP53 gene or gene
product. In one embodiment, the first bait set selects one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five codons chosen from one or more of:
codon 315 of the ABLI gene; codon 1114, 1338, 1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF;
codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41 or 45 of CTNNB1; codon 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR;
codon 835 of FLT3; codon 12, 13, or 61 of HRAS; codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT;
codon 12, 13, or 61 of KRAS; codon 88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130,
173, 233, or 267 of PTEN; codon 918 of RET; codon 175, 245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53; and
the third bait set selects a nucleic acid molecule (in the same of a different subgenomic interval)
used for one or more of fingerprinting the sample, identifying a patient's sample, determination
of ploidy, determination of loss of heterozygosity, determination of gene duplication,
determination of gene amplification, or determination of tumor/normal cellular admixture (e.g.,
an SNP as described herein).
        In yet other embodiments, the first bait set selects a nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a
subgenomic interval) that includes an alteration that is associated with tumor progression and/or
resistance, and has a late onset in cancer progression (e.g. a metastasis-associated mutation, a
drug resistance associated mutation); and the second bait set selects (e.g., is complementary to) a
nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a subgenomic interval) that includes an alteration that is associated
                                                  -  125 -

with tumor progression and/or resistance, and has an early onset in cancer progression (e.g. an
APC or a TP53 mutation in colon cancer).
        In another embodiment the bait set comprises at least two, or all, of the following:
        a first bait set having a first pattern of coverage for a first subgenomic interval;
        a second bait set having a second pattern of coverage for a second subgenomic interval;
and
        (optionally) a third, fourth or fifth bait set having a third pattern of coverage for a third
subgenomic interval.
        In one embodiment, the first subgenomic interval is chosen from one or more of a
nucleotide sequence in a first gene, exon, intron, intergenic region, or region having a preselected
SNP as described herein.
        In one embodiment, the second subgenomic interval is chosen from one or more of a
nucleotide sequence in a first gene, exon, intron, intergenic region, or region having a preselected
SNP as described herein.
        In one embodiment, the third subgenomic interval is chosen from one or more of a
nucleotide sequence in a first gene, exon, intron, intergenic region, or region having a preselected
SNP as described herein.
        In one embodiment, the fourth subgenomic interval is chosen from one or more of a
nucleotide sequence in a first gene, exon, intron, intergenic region, or region having a preselected
SNP as described herein.
        In one embodiment, the fifth subgenomic interval is chosen from one or more of a
nucleotide sequence in a first gene, exon, intron, intergenic region, or region having a preselected
SNP as described herein.
        In one embodiment, the first, second and third subgenomic intervals are present in
different genes or gene products.
        In one embodiment, at least two of the first, second and third subgenomic intervals are
present in the same gene or gene product.
        In one embodiment, the first, second and third subgenomic intervals are present in the
same gene or gene product.
        In certain embodiments, the first, second and third patters of coverage are the same.
        In other embodiments, at least one or more of said patterns of coverage are different.
                                                  -  126 -

         In other embodiments, at least two or more of said patterns of coverage are different.
         In yet other embodiments, the first, second and third patters of coverage are different.
         In another embodiment the plurality of baits comprises at least two, or all of the
following:
         a first plurality of baits having a first level of overhang (positive or negative) with respect
to a first subgenomic interval;
         a second plurality of baits having a second level of overhang (positive or negative)with
respect to a second subgenomic interval;
         a third plurality of baits having a second level of overhang (positive or negative)with
respect to a third subgenomic interval; and
         (optionally) a fourth or fifth plurality of baits having a second level of overhang (positive
or negative)with respect to a third subgenomic interval, wherein at least a plurality of said levels
are different.
         In one embodiment, the first, second, third, fourth or fifth, subgenomic interval is chosen
from one or more of a nucleotide sequence in a first gene, exon, intron, intergenic region, or
region having a preselected SNP as described herein.
         In another aspect, the invention features a method of providing a modified bait set. The
method includes modifying a bait sequence and/or length to reduce a secondary structure.
         In one embodiment, the secondary structure is formed at the 5'end of the bait sequence.
In another embodiment, the secondary structure is formed in the middle of the bait sequence. In
yet another embodiment, the secondary structure is formed at the 3' end of the bait sequence.
         In one embodiment, the method includes the step of replacing a nucleotide with a
different nucleotide that results in reduced formation of a secondary structure. In one
embodiment, the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) is used to capture regions of high GC
content. In one embodiment, the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) includes a replacement
of one or more nucleotides with a different natural nucleotide (e.g., A, C, G, U, or T). In another
embodiment, the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) includes a replacement of one or more
nucleotides with a non-natural nucleotide analog (e.g., inosine or deoxyinosine. In one
embodiment, the bait set is modified as shown by an exemplary sequence in Table 8.
                                                    - 127 -

         In another embodiment the method comprises one or more of: adjusting the ratio (e.g.,
the molarity) of any of the baits or plurality of baits described herein (e.g., a first, second or third
bait, or plurality of baits); providing an optimized hybridization buffer.
         In another aspect, the invention features a bait set (e.g., a bait set as described herein).
         In one embodiment, the bait or collection of baits is/includes one, a subset of, or all of,
the first, second, third, fourth, fifith, tumor or control baits sets as described herein. In other
embodiments, the bait set is/includes one, a subset of, or all of, the mutation capturing, reference
or control bait set as described herein.
         In some embodiments, the bait set selects a gene or gene product, or a subgenomic
interval thereof, as described herein, and is associated, e.g., positively or negatively, with a
cancerous phenotype as described herein.
         In certain embodiments, the bait set selects a wild type or non-mutated nucleotide
sequence.
         In other embodiments, the bait set as described herein selects a nucleic acid used for one
or more of: fingerprinting the target nucleic acid member in the library; quantifying the
abundance of a target nucleic acid member in the library; identifying a patient's target nucleic
acid member in the library, determining the ploidy in a sample from which the library is derived;
determining the loss of heterozygosity in a sample from which the library is derived; determining
gene duplication in a sample from which the library is derived; determining gene amplification in
a sample from which the library is derived; or determining tumor/normal cellular admixture in a
sample from which the library is derived. Such baits are referred to herein as "control baits." In
one embodiment, the control bait (or the control plurality of baits) is complementary to a nucleic
acid molecule that includes an SNP (e.g., an SNP as described herein).
         In yet another embodiment, any of the bait sets described herein is modified to reduce
formation of a secondary structure (e.g., by replacement of a nucleotide with a different
nucleotide that results in reduced formation of a secondary structure). In one embodiment, the
modified bait (or the plurality of baits) is used to capture regions of high GC content. In one
embodiment, the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) includes a replacement of one or more
nucleotides with a different natural nucleotide (e.g., A, C, G, U, or T). In another embodiment,
the modified bait (or the plurality of baits) includes a replacement of one or more nucleotides
                                                  - 128 -

with a non-natural nucleotide analog (e.g., inosine or deoxyinosine). In one embodiment, the
bait set is modified as shown by an exemplary sequence in Table 8.
         Additional embodiments or features of the present invention are as follows:
         In another aspect, the invention features a method of making the aforesaid bait sets. The
method includes selecting one or more target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences (e.g., any of
the bait sequences corresponding to the subgenomic intervals of the gene or gene products as
described herein); obtaining a pool of target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences (e.g.,
synthesizing the pool of target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences, e.g., by microarray
synthesis); and optionally, amplifying the oligonucleotides to produce the bait sets.
         In yet another aspect, the invention features a method for determining the presence or
absence of an alteration associated, e.g., positively or negatively, with a cancerous phenotype
(e.g, at least 10, 20, 30, 50 or more of the alterations in the genes or gene products described
herein) in a nucleic acid sample. The method includes contacting the nucleic acids in the sample
to solution-based selection according to any of the methods and baits described herein to obtain a
nucleic acid catch; and sequencing (e.g., by next generation sequencing) all or a subset of the
nucleic acid catch, thereby determining the presence or absence of the alteration in the genes or
gene products described herein).
         In certain embodiments, the bait set includes an oligonucleotide (or a plurality of
oligonucleotides) between about 100 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in length. Typically, the
bait set include an oligonucleotide (or a plurality of oligonucleotides) between about 130
nucleotides and 230 nucleotides, or about 150 and 200 nucleotides, in length. In other
embodiments, the bait set includes an oligonucleotide (or a plurality of oligonucleotides)
between about 300 nucleotides and 1000 nucleotides in length.
         In some embodiments, the target member-specific sequences in the oligonucleotide is
between about 40 and 1000 nucleotides, about 70 and 300 nucleotides, about 100 and 200
nucleotides in length, typically between about 120 and 170 nucleotides in length.
         In some embodiments, the bait set include a binding entity. The binding entity can be an
affinity tag on each bait sequence. In some embodiments, the affinity tag is a biotin molecule or
a hapten. In certain embodiments, the binding entity allows for separation of the bait/member
hybrids from the hybridization mixture by binding to a partner, such as an avidin molecule, or an
antibody that binds to the hapten or an antigen-binding fragment thereof.
                                                 - 129 -

         In other embodiments, the oligonucleotides in the bait set contains forward and reverse
complemented sequences for the same target member sequence whereby the oligonucleotides
with reverse-complemented member-specific sequences also carry reverse complemented
universal tails. This can lead to RNA transcripts that are the same strand, i.e., not
complementary to each other.
         In other embodiments, the bait set includes oligonucleotides that contain degenerate or
mixed bases at one or more positions. In still other embodiments, the bait set includes multiple or
substantially all known sequence variants present in a population of a single species or
community of organisms. In one embodiment, the bait set includes multiple or substantially all
known sequence variants present in a human population.
         In other embodiments, the bait set includes cDNA sequences or are derived from cDNAs
sequences. In one embodiment, the cDNA is prepared from an RNA sequence, e.g., a tumor- or
cancer cell-derived RNA, e.g., an RNA obtained from a tumor-FFPE sample. In other
embodiments, the bait set includes amplification products (e.g., PCR products) that are amplified
from genomic DNA, cDNA or cloned DNA.
         In other embodiments, the bait set includes RNA molecules. In some embodiments, the
set includes are chemically, enzymatically modified, or in vitro transcribed RNA molecules,
including but not limited to, those that are more stable and resistant to RNase.
         In yet other embodiments, the baits are produced by methods described in US
2010/0029498 and Gnirke, A. et al. (2009) Nat Biotechnol. 27(2):182-189, incorporated herein
by reference. For example, biotinylated RNA baits can be produced by obtaining a pool of
synthetic long oligonucleotides, originally synthesized on a microarray, and amplifying the
oligonucleotides to produce the bait sequences. In some embodiments, the baits are produced by
adding an RNA polymerase promoter sequence at one end of the bait sequences, and
synthesizing RNA sequences using RNA polymerase. In one embodiment, libraries of synthetic
oligodeoxynucleotides can be obtained from commercial suppliers, such as Agilent
Technologies, Inc., and amplified using known nucleic acid amplification methods.
         Accordingly, a method of making the aforesaid bait set is provided. The method includes
selecting one or more target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences (e.g., one or more mutation
capturing, reference or control oligonucleotide sequences as described herein); obtaining a pool
of target specific bait oligonucleotide sequences (e.g., synthesizing the pool of target specific bait
                                               - 130 -

oligonucleotide sequences, e.g., by microarray synthesis); and optionally, amplifying the
oligonucleotides to produce the bait set.
         In other embodiments, the methods further include amplifying (e.g., by PCR) the
oligonucleotides using one or more biotinylated primers. In some embodiments, the
oligonucleotides include a universal sequence at the end of each oligonucleotide attached to the
microarray. The methods can further include removing the universal sequences from the
oligonucleotides. Such methods can also include removing the complementary strand of the
oligonucleotides, annealing the oligonucleotides, and extending the oligonucleotides. In some of
these embodiments, the methods for amplifying (e.g., by PCR) the oligonucleotides use one or
more biotinylated primers. In some embodiments, the method further includes size selecting the
amplified oligonucleotides.
         In one embodiment, an RNA bait set is made. The methods include producing a set of
bait sequences according to the methods described herein, adding a RNA polymerase promoter
sequence at one end of the bait sequences, and synthesizing RNA sequences using RNA
polymerase. The RNA polymerase can be chosen from a T7 RNA polymerase, an SP6 RNA
polymerase or a T3 RNA polymerase. In other embodiments, the RNA polymerase promoter
sequence is added at the ends of the bait sequences by amplifying (e.g., by PCR) the bait
sequences. In embodiments where the bait sequences are amplified by PCR with specific primer
pairs out of genomic or cDNA, adding an RNA promoter sequence to the 5' end of one of the
two specific primers in each pair will lead to a PCR product that can be transcribed into a RNA
bait using standard methods.
         In other embodiments, bait sets can be produced using human DNA or pooled human
DNA samples as the template. In such embodiments, the oligonucleotides are amplified by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In other embodiments, the amplified oligonucleotides are
reamplified by rolling circle amplification or hyperbranched rolling circle amplification. The
same methods also can be used to produce bait sequences using human DNA or pooled human
DNA samples as the template. The same methods can also be used to produce bait sequences
using subfractions of a genome obtained by other methods, including but not limited to
restriction digestion, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, flow-sorting, CsCl density gradient
centrifugation, selective kinetic reassociation, microdissection of chromosome preparations and
other fractionation methods known to those skilled in the art.
                                                - 131 -

         In certain embodiments, the number of baits in the bait set is less than 1,000, e.g., 2, 3, 4,
5, 10, 50, 100, 500 baits. In other embodiments, the number of baits in the bait set is greater than
1,000, greater than 5,000, greater than 10,000, greater than 20,000, greater than 50,000, greater
than 100,000, or greater than 500,000.
         In certain embodiments, a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library) includes a collection of
members. As described herein, the library members can include a target member (e.g., a tumor
member, a reference member and/or a control member; also referred to herein as a first, second
and/or third member, respectively). The members of the library can be from a single individual.
In embodiments a library can comprise members from more than one subject (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30 or more subjects), e.g., two or more libraries from different subjects can be
combined to from a library having members from more than one subject. In one embodiment,
the subject is human having, or at risk of having, a cancer or tumor.
         "Member" or "library member" or other similar term, as used herein, refers to a nucleic
acid molecule, e.g., DNA or RNA, that is a member of a library. Typically, a member is a DNA
molecule, e.g., genomic DNA or cDNA. A member can be sheared genomic DNA. In other
embodiments, the member can be a cDNA. In other embodiments, the member can be an RNA.
Members comprise sequence from a subject and can also comprise a sequence not derived from
the subject, e.g., primers or sequences that allow for identification, e.g., "barcode" sequences.
         In yet another embodiment, the methods featured in the invention further include
isolating a nucleic acid sample to provide a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library as described
herein). In certain embodiments, the nucleic acid sample includes whole genomic, subgenomic
fragments, or both. Protocols for isolating and preparing libraries from whole genomic or
subgenomic fragments are known in the art (e.g., Illumina's genomic DNA sample preparation
kit). In certain embodiments, the genomic or subgenomic DNA fragment is isolated from a
subject's sample (e.g., a tumor sample, a normal adjacent tissue (NAT), a blood sample or any
normal control)). In one embodiment, the sample (e.g., the tumor or NAT sample) is a
preserved. For example, the sample is embedded in a matrix, e.g., an FFPE block or a frozen
sample. In certain embodiments, the isolating step includes flow-sorting of individual
chromosomes; and/or microdissecting a subject's sample (e.g., a tumor sample, a NAT, a blood
sample). In certain embodiments, the nucleic acid sample used to generate the nucleic acid
library is less than 5, less than 1 microgram, or less than 500ng (e.g., 200 ng or less).
                                                - 132 -

         In still other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample used to generate the library includes
RNA or cDNA derived from RNA. In some embodiments, the RNA includes total cellular RNA.
In other embodiments, certain abundant RNA sequences (e.g., ribosomal RNAs) have been
depleted. In some embodiments, the poly(A)-tailed mRNA fraction in the total RNA preparation
has been enriched. In some embodiments, the cDNA is produced by random-primed cDNA
synthesis methods. In other embodiments, the cDNA synthesis is initiated at the poly(A) tail of
mature mRNAs by priming by oligo(dT)-containing oligonucleotides. Methods for depletion,
poly(A) enrichment, and cDNA synthesis are well known to those skilled in the art.
         The method can further include amplifying the nucleic acid sample by specific or
non-specific nucleic acid amplification methods that are well known to those skilled in the art.
         In some embodiments, certain embodiments, the nucleic acid sample is amplified, e.g., by
whole-genome amplification methods such as random-primed strand-displacement amplification.
         In other embodiments, the nucleic acid sample is fragmented or sheared by physical or
enzymatic methods and ligated to synthetic adapters, size-selected (e.g., by preparative gel
electrophoresis) and amplified (e.g., by PCR). In other embodiments, the fragmented and
adapter-ligated group of nucleic acids is used without explicit size selection or amplification
prior to hybrid selection.
         In other embodiments, the isolated DNA (e.g., the genomic DNA) is fragmented or
sheared. In some embodiments, the library includes less than 50% of genomic DNA, such as a
subfraction of genomic DNA that is a reduced representation or a defined portion of a genome,
e.g., that has been subfractionated by other means. In other embodiments, the library includes all
or substantially all genomic DNA.
         In certain embodiments, the members of the library include a subgenomic interval that
includes an intragenic region or an intergenic region. In another embodiment, the subgenomic
interval includes an exon or an intron, or a fragment thereof, typically an exon sequence or a
fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes a coding region or a
non-coding region, e.g., a promoter, an enhancer, a 5' untranslated region (5' UTR), or a 3'
untranslated region (3' UTR), or a fragment thereof. In other embodiments, the subgenomic
interval includes a cDNA or a fragment thereof (e.g., cDNA obtained from a tumor RNA (e.g.,
RNA extracted from a tumor sample, e.g., FFPE-tumor sample). In other embodiments, the
subgenomic interval includes an SNP, e.g., as described herein. In other embodiments, the target
                                                - 133 -

members include substantially all exons in a genome. In other embodiments, the target members
include a subgenomic interval as described herein, e.g., subgenomic intervals, e.g., exons from
selected genes or gene products of interest (e.g., genes or gene products associated with a
cancerous phenotype as described herein).
         In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes a somatic mutation, a germ line
mutation or both. In one embodiment, the subgenomic interval includes an alteration, e.g., a
point or a single mutation, a deletion mutation (e.g., an in-frame deletion, an intragenic deletion,
a full gene deletion), an insertion mutation (e.g., intragenic insertion), an inversion mutation
(e.g., an intra-chromosomal inversion), a linking mutation, a linked insertion mutation, an
inverted duplication mutation, a tandem duplication (e.g., an intrachromosomal tandem
duplication), a translocation (e.g., a chromosomal translocation, a non-reciprocal translocation), a
rearrangement (e.g., a genomic rearrangement), a change in gene copy number, or a combination
thereof. In certain embodiments, the subgenomic interval constitutes less than 5, 1, 0.5, 0.1%,
0.01%, 0.001% of the coding region of the genome of the tumor cells in a sample. In other
embodiments, the subgenomic intervals are not involved in a disease, e.g., are not associated
with a cancerous phenotype as described herein.
         The methods featured in the invention include the step of contacting the library (e.g., the
nucleic acid library) with a plurality of baits to provide a selected subgroup of nucleic acids, e.g.,
a library catch. In one embodiment, the contacting step is effected in a solid support, e.g., an
array. Suitable solid supports for hybridization are described in, e.g., Albert, T.J. et al. (2007)
Nat. Methods 4(11):903-5; Hodges, E. et al. (2007) Nat. Genet. 39(12):1522-7; Okou, D.T. et al.
(2007) Nat. Methods 4(11):907-9, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. In
other embodiments, the contacting step is effected in solution hybridization. In certain
embodiments, the method includes repeating the hybridization step by one or more additional
rounds of hybridization. In some embodiments, the methods further include subjecting the
library catch to one or more additional rounds of hybridization with the same or different
collection of baits.
         In other embodiments, the methods featured in the invention further include amplifying
the library catch (e.g., by PCR). In other embodiments, the library catch is not amplified.
         In yet other embodiments, the methods further include analyzing the library catch. In one
embodiment, the library catch is analyzed by a sequencing method, e.g., a next-generation
                                                 - 134 -

sequencing method as described herein. The methods include isolating a library catch by
solution hybridization, and subjecting the library catch by nucleic acid sequencing. In certain
embodiments, the library catch can be re-sequenced. Next generation sequencing methods are
known in the art, and are described, e.g., in Metzker, M. (2010) Nature Biotechnology Reviews
11:31-46.
        In yet other embodiments, the methods further include the step of subjecting the library
catch to genotyping, thereby identifying the genotype of the selected nucleic acids.
        In certain embodiments, the method further includes one or more of:
        i)      fingerprinting the nucleic acid sample;
        ii)     quantifying the abundance of a gene or gene product (e.g., a gene or gene product
                as described herein) in the nucleic acid sample (e.g., quantifying the relative
                abundance of a transcript in the sample);
        iii)    identifying the nucleic acid sample as belonging to a particular subject (e.g., a
                normal control or a cancer patient);
        iv)     identifying a genetic trait in the nucleic acid sample (e.g., one or more subject's
                genetic make-up (e.g., ethnicity, race, familial traits));
        v)      determining the ploidy in the nucleic acid sample; determining a loss of
                heterozygosity in the nucleic acid sample;
        vi)     determining the presence or absence of a gene duplication event in the nucleic
                acid sample;
        vii)    determining the presence or absence of a gene amplification event in the nucleic
                acid sample; or
        viii)   determining the level of tumor/normal cellular admixture in the nucleic acid
                sample.
        Any of the methods described herein can be combined with one or more of the
embodiments below.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises acquiring a nucleotide sequence read obtained
from a tumor and/or control nucleic acid sample (e.g., an FFPE-derived nucleic acid sample).
        In an embodiment, the reads are provided by a next-generation sequencing method.
        In an embodiment, the method includes providing a library of nucleic acid members and
sequencing a preselected subgenomic interval from a plurality of members of said library. In
                                                 - 135 -

embodiments, the method can include a step of selecting a subset of said library for sequencing,
e.g., a solution-based selection.
         In certain embodiments, a method comprises hybrid capture methods which are designed
to capture two or more different target categories, each with a different bait design strategies.
The hybrid capture methods and compositions are intended to capture a defined subset of target
sequences (e.g., target members) and provide homogenous coverage of the target sequence,
while minimizing coverage outside of that subset. In one embodiment, the target sequences
include the entire exome out of genomic DNA, or a selected subset thereof. The methods and
compositions disclosed herein provide different bait sets for achieving different depths and
patterns of coverage for complex target nucleic acid sequences (e.g., libraries).
         In certain embodiment, the different categories of bait sets and targets are as follows.
         A. A first bait set that selects a high-level target (e.g., one or more tumor members and/or
reference members, such as genes, exons, or bases) for which the deepest coverage is required to
enable a high level of sensitivity for mutations that appear at low frequencies. For example,
detection of point mutations that appear at a frequency of about 5% or less (i.e. 5% of the cells
from which the sample was prepared harbor this mutation in their genome). The first bait set
typically requires about 500X or higher sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. In
one embodiment, the first bait set selects one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g., exons) that are
frequently mutated in certain types of cancer, e.g., a Priority 1 Cancer gene or gene product
according to Table 1 or 1A.
         B. A second bait set that selects a mid-level target target (e.g., one or more tumor
members and/or reference members, such as genes, exons, or bases) for which high coverage is
required to enable high level of sensitivity for mutations that appear at a higher frequency than
the high level target, e.g., a frequency of about 10%. For example, detection of an alteration
(e.g., a point mutation) that appears at a frequency of 10% requires about 200X or higher
sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. In one embodiment, the second bait set
selects one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g., exons) that are chosen from the Cancer genes or
gene products according to Table 1 or 1A.
         C. A third bait set that selects a low-level target (e.g., one or more PGx members, such as
genes, exons, or bases) for which low-medium coverage is required to enable high level of
sensitivity, e.g., to detect heterozygous alleles. For example, detection of heterozygous alleles
                                                   - 136 -

requires 10-1OOX sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. In one embodiment, the
third bait set selects one or more subgenomic intervals (e.g., exons) that are chosen from: a)
pharmacogenomic SNPs that may explain the ability of patient to metabolize different drugs, b) a
genomic SNPs that may be used to uniquely identify (fingerprint) a patient, c) a genomic
SNPs/loci that may be used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and loss-of
heterozygosity (LOH).
         D. A fourth bait set that selects an intron target (e.g., an intron member) for which low
medium coverage is required to detect structural breakpoints such as genomic translocations or
indels. For example, detection of an intronic breakpoint requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning
depth to ensure high detection reliability. Said fourth bait sets can be used to detect, for
example, translocation/indel-prone cancer genes.
         E. A fifth bait set that selects an intron target (e.g., an intron member) for which sparse
coverage is required to improve the ability to detect copy number changes. For example,
detection of a 1 copy deletion of several terminal exon requires 0.1-OX coverage to ensure high
detection reliability. Said fifth bait sets can be used to detect, for example,
amplification/deletion-prone cancer genes.
         The methods and compositions featured in the invention involve tuning the relative
sequence coverage of each bait set/target category. Methods for implementing differences in
relative sequence coverage in bait design include one or more of:
         (i) Differential representation of different bait sets - The bait set design to capture a given
target (e.g., a target member) can be included in more/fewer number of copies to enhance/reduce
relative target coverage depths;
         (ii) Differential overlap of bait subsets - The bait set design to capture a given target
(e.g., a target member) can include a longer or shorter overlap between neighboring baits to
enhance/reduce relative target coverage depths;
         (iii) Differential bait parameters - The bait set design to capture a given target (e.g., a
target member) can include sequence modifications/shorter length to reduce capture efficiency
and lower the relative target coverage depths;
         (iv) Mixing of different bait sets - Bait sets that are designed to capture different target
sets can be mixed at different molar ratios to enhance/reduce relative target coverage depths;
                                                  -  137 -

         (v) Using different types of oligonucleotide bait sets -In certain embodiments, the bait set
can include:
         (a) one or more chemically (e.g., non-enzymatically) synthesized (e.g., individually
synthesized) baits,
         (b) one or more baits synthesized in an array,
         (c) one or more enzymatically prepared, e.g., in vitro transcribed, baits;
         (d) any combination of (a), (b) and/or (c),
         (e) one or more DNA oligonucleotides (e.g., a naturally or non-naturally occurring DNA
oligonucleotide),
         (f) one or more RNA oligonucleotides (e.g., a naturally or non-naturally occurring RNA
oligonucleotide),
         (g) a combination of (e) and (f), or
         (h) a combination of any of the above.
         The different oligonucleotide combinations can be mixed at different ratios, e.g., a ratio
chosen from 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:10, 1:20, 1:50; 1:100, 1:1000, or the like. In one
embodiment, the ratio of chemically-synthesized bait to array-generated bait is chosen from 1:5,
1:10, or 1:20. The DNA or RNA oligonucleotides can be naturally- or nonnaturally-occurring.
In certain embodiments, the baits include one or more non-naturally-occurring nucleotide to,
e.g., increase melting temperature. Exemplary non-naturally occurring oligonucleotides include
modified DNA or RNA nucleotides. An exemplary modified RNA nucleotide is a locked
nucleic acid (LNA), wherein the ribose moiety of an LNA nucleotide is modified with an extra
bridge connecting the 2' oxygen and 4' carbon (Kaur, H; Arora, A; Wengel, J; Maiti, S; Arora,
A.; Wengel, J.; Maiti, S. (2006). "Thermodynamic, Counterion, and Hydration Effects for the
Incorporation of Locked Nucleic Acid Nucleotides into DNA Duplexes". Biochemistry 45 (23):
7347-55). Other modified exemplary DNA and RNA nucleotides include, but are not limited to,
peptide nucleic acid (PNA) composed of repeating N-(2-aminoethyl)-glycine units linked by
peptide bonds (Egholm, M. et al. (1993) Nature 365 (6446): 566-8); a DNA or RNA
oligonucleotide modified to capture low GC regions; a bicyclic nucleic acid (BNA) or a
crosslinked oligonucleotide; a modified 5-methyl deoxycytidine; and 2,6-diaminopurine. Other
modified DNA and RNA nucleotides are known in the art.
                                                - 138 -

         In certain embodiments, a substantially uniform or homogeneous coverage of a target
sequence (e.g., a target member) is obtained. For example, within each bait set/target category,
uniformity of coverage can be optimized by modifying bait parameters, for example, by one or
more of:
         (i) Increasing/decreasing bait representation or overlap can be used to enhance/reduce
coverage of targets (e.g., target members), which are under/over-covered relative to other targets
in the same category;
         (ii) For low coverage, hard to capture target sequences (e.g., high GC content sequences),
expand the region being targeted with the bait sets to cover, e.g., adjacent sequences (e.g., less
GC-rich adjancent sequences);
         (iii) Modifying a bait sequence can be made to reduce secondary structure of the bait and
enhance its efficiency of selection;
         (iv) Modifying a bait length can be used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics of
different baits within the same category. Bait length can be modified directly (by producing
baits with varying lengths) or indirectly (by producing baits of consistent length, and replacing
the bait ends with arbitrary sequence);
         (v) Modifying baits of different orientation for the same target region (i.e. forward and
reverse strand) may have different binding efficiencies. The bait set with either orientation
providing optimal coverage for each target may be selected;
         (vi) Modifying the amount of a binding entity, e.g., a capture tag (e.g. biotin), present on
each bait may affect its binding efficiency. Increasing/decreasing the tag level of baits targeting a
specific target may be used to enhance/reduce the relative target coverage;
         (vii) Modifying the type of nucleotide used for different baits can be altered to affect
binding affinity to the target, and enhance/reduce the relative target coverage; or
         (viii) Using modified oligonucleotide baits, e.g., having more stable base pairing, can be
used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics between areas of low or normal GC content
relative to high GC content.
         For example, different types of oligonucleotide bait sets can be used.
         In one embodiment, the value for efficiency of selection is modified by using different
types of bait oligonucleotides to encompass pre-selected target regions. For example, a first bait
set (e.g., an array-based bait set comprising 10,000-50,000 RNA or DNA baits) can be used to
                                                - 139 -

cover a large target area (e.g., 1-2MB total target area). The first bait set can be spiked with a
second bait set (e.g., individually synthesized RNA or DNA bait set comprising less than 5,000
baits) to cover a pre-selected target region (e.g., selected subgenomic intervals of interest
spanning, e.g., 250kb or less, of a target area) and/or regions of higher secondary structure, e.g.,
higher GC content. Selected subgenomic intervals of interest may correspond to one or more of
the genes or gene products described herein, or a fragment thereof. The second bait set may
include about 2,000-5,000 baits depending on the bait overlap desired. In yet other
embodiments, the second bait set can include selected oligo baits (e.g., less than 400, 200, 100,
50, 40, 30, 20, 10 baits) spiked into the first bait set. The second bait set can be mixed at any
ratio of individual oligo baits. For example, the second bait set can include individual baits
present as a 1:1 equimolar ratio. Alternatively, the second bait set can include individual baits
present at different ratio (e.g., 1:5, 1:10, 1:20), for example, to optimize capture of certain targets
(e.g., certain targets can have a 5-loX of the second bait compared to other targets).
Sequencing
         The invention also includes methods of sequencing nucleic acids. In these methods,
nucleic acid library members are isolated by using the methods described herein, e.g., using
solution hybridization, thereby providing a library catch. The library catch or a subgroup thereof
can be sequenced. Accordingly, the methods featured in the invention further include analyzing
the library catch. In one embodiment, the library catch is analyzed by a sequencing method, e.g.,
a next-generation sequencing method as described herein. The methods include isolating a
library catch by solution hybridization, and subjecting the library catch by nucleic acid
sequencing. In certain embodiments, the library catch can be re-sequenced.
         Any method of sequencing known in the art can be used. Sequencing of nucleic acids
isolated by selection methods are typically carried out using next-generation sequencing (NGS).
Next-generation sequencing includes any sequencing method that determines the nucleotide
sequence of either individual nucleic acid molecules or clonally expanded proxies for individual
nucleic acid molecules in a highly parallel fashion (e.g., greater than 105 molecules are
sequenced simultaneously). In one embodiment, the relative abundance of the nucleic acid
species in the library can be estimated by counting the relative number of occurrences of their
cognate sequences in the data generated by the sequencing experiment. Next generation
                                                 -   140 -

sequencing methods are known in the art, and are described, e.g., in Metzker, M. (2010) Nature
Biotechnology Reviews 11:31-46, incorporated herein by reference.
        In one embodiment, the next-generation sequencing allows for the determination of the
nucleotide sequence of an individual nucleic acid molecule (e.g., Helicos BioSciences'
HeliScope Gene Sequencing system, and Pacific Biosciences' PacBio RS system). In other
embodiments, the sequencing method determines the nucleotide sequence of clonally expanded
proxies for individual nucleic acid molecules (e.g., the Solexa sequencer, Illumina Inc., San
Diego, Calif; 454 Life Sciences (Branford, Conn.), and Ion Torrent). e.g., massively parallel
short-read sequencing (e.g., the Solexa sequencer, Illumina Inc., San Diego, Calif.), which
generates more bases of sequence per sequencing unit than other sequencing methods that
generate fewer but longer reads. Other methods or machines for next-generation sequencing
include, but not limited to, the sequencers provided by 454 Life Sciences (Branford, Conn.),
Applied Biosystems (Foster City, Calif.; SOLiD sequencer), Helicos BioSciences Corporation
(Cambridge, Mass.), and emulsion and microfluidic sequencing technology nanodroplets (e.g.,
GnuBio droplets).
        Platforms for next-generation sequencing include, but are not limited to, Roche/454's
Genome Sequencer (GS) FLX System, Illumina/Solexa's Genome Analyzer (GA), Life/APG's
Support Oligonucleotide Ligation Detection (SOLiD) system, Polonator's G.007 system, Helicos
BioSciences' HeliScope Gene Sequencing system, and Pacific Biosciences' PacBio RS system.
        NGS technologies can include one or more of steps, e.g., template preparation,
sequencing and imaging, and data analysis.
        Template preparation. Methods for template preparation can include steps such as
randomly breaking nucleic acids (e.g., genomic DNA or cDNA) into smaller sizes and
generating sequencing templates (e.g., fragment templates or mate-pair templates). The spatially
separated templates can be attached or immobilized to a solid surface or support, allowing
massive amount of sequencing reactions to be performed simultaneously. Types of templates
that can be used for NGS reactions include, e.g., clonally amplified templates originating from
single DNA molecules, and single DNA molecule templates.
        Methods for preparing clonally amplified templates include, e.g., emulsion PCR
(emPCR) and solid-phase amplification.
                                                -141 -

         EmPCR can be used to prepare templates for NGS. Typically, a library of nucleic acid
fragments is generated, and adaptors containing universal priming sites are ligated to the ends of
the fragment. The fragments are then denatured into single strands and captured by beads. Each
bead captures a single nucleic acid molecule. After amplification and enrichment of emPCR
beads, a large amount of templates can be attached or immobilized in a polyacrylamide gel on a
standard microscope slide (e.g., Polonator), chemically crosslinked to an amino-coated glass
surface (e.g., Life/APG; Polonator), or deposited into individual PicoTiterPlate (PTP) wells (e.g.,
Roche/454), in which the NGS reaction can be performed.
         Solid-phase amplification can also be used to produce templates for NGS. Typically,
forward and reverse primers are covalently attached to a solid support. The surface density of
the amplified fragments is defined by the ratio of the primers to the templates on the support.
Solid-phase amplification can produce hundreds of millions spatially separated template clusters
(e.g., Illumina/Solexa). The ends of the template clusters can be hybridized to universal
sequencing primers for NGS reactions.
         Other methods for preparing clonally amplified templates also include, e.g., Multiple
Displacement Amplification (MDA) (Lasken R. S. Curr Opin Microbiol. 2007; 10(5):510-6).
MDA is a non-PCR based DNA amplification technique. The reaction involves annealing
random hexamer primers to the template and DNA synthesis by high fidelity enzyme, typically
CD29 at a constant temperature. MDA can generate large sized products with lower error
frequency.
         Template amplification methods such as PCR can be coupled with NGS platforms to
target or enrich specific regions of the genome (e.g., exons). Exemplary template enrichment
methods include, e.g., microdroplet PCR technology (Tewhey R. et al., Nature Biotech. 2009,
27:1025-1031), custom-designed oligonucleotide microarrays (e.g., Roche/NimbleGen
oligonucleotide microarrays), and solution-based hybridization methods (e.g., molecular
inversion probes (MIPs) (Porreca G. J. et al., Nature Methods, 2007, 4:931-936; Krishnakumar
S. et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 2008, 105:9296-9310; Turner E. H. et al., Nature Methods,
2009, 6:315-316), and biotinylated RNA capture sequences (Gnirke A. et al., Nat. Biotechnol.
2009; 27(2):182-9)
         Single-molecule templates are another type of templates that can be used for NGS
reaction. Spatially separated single molecule templates can be immobilized on solid supports by
                                               - 142 -

various methods. In one approach, individual primer molecules are covalently attached to the
solid support. Adaptors are added to the templates and templates are then hybridized to the
immobilized primers. In another approach, single-molecule templates are covalently attached to
the solid support by priming and extending single-stranded, single-molecule templates from
immobilized primers. Universal primers are then hybridized to the templates. In yet another
approach, single polymerase molecules are attached to the solid support, to which primed
templates are bound.
        Sequencing and imaging. Exemplary sequencing and imaging methods for NGS include,
but not limited to, cyclic reversible termination (CRT), sequencing by ligation (SBL), single
molecule addition (pyrosequencing), and real-time sequencing.
        CRT uses reversible terminators in a cyclic method that minimally includes the steps of
nucleotide incorporation, fluorescence imaging, and cleavage. Typically, a DNA polymerase
incorporates a single fluorescently modified nucleotide corresponding to the complementary
nucleotide of the template base to the primer. DNA synthesis is terminated after the addition of a
single nucleotide and the unincorporated nucleotides are washed away. Imaging is performed to
determine the identity of the incorporated labeled nucleotide. Then in the cleavage step, the
terminating/inhibiting group and the fluorescent dye are removed. Exemplary NGS platforms
using the CRT method include, but not limited to, Illumina/Solexa Genome Analyzer (GA),
which uses the clonally amplified template method coupled with the four-color CRT method
detected by total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF); and Helicos BioSciences/HeliScope,
which uses the single-molecule template method coupled with the one-color CRT method
detected by TIRF.
        SBL uses DNA ligase and either one-base-encoded probes or two-base-encoded probes
for sequencing. Typically, a fluorescently labeled probe is hybridized to its complementary
sequence adjacent to the primed template. DNA ligase is used to ligate the dye-labeled probe to
the primer. Fluorescence imaging is performed to determine the identity of the ligated probe
after non-ligated probes are washed away. The fluorescent dye can be removed by using
cleavable probes to regenerate a 5'-PO4 group for subsequent ligation cycles. Alternatively, a
new primer can be hybridized to the template after the old primer is removed. Exemplary SBL
                                                - 143 -

platforms include, but not limited to, Life/APG/SOLiD (support oligonucleotide ligation
detection), which uses two-base-encoded probes.
        Pyrosequencing method is based on detecting the activity of DNA polymerase with
another chemiluminescent enzyme. Typically, the method allows sequencing of a single strand
of DNA by synthesizing the complementary strand along it, one base pair at a time, and detecting
which base was actually added at each step. The template DNA is immobile, and solutions of A,
C, G, and T nucleotides are sequentially added and removed from the reaction. Light is
produced only when the nucleotide solution complements the first unpaired base of the template.
The sequence of solutions which produce chemiluminescent signals allows the determination of
the sequence of the template. Exemplary pyrosequencing platform include, but not limited to,
Roche/454, which uses DNA templates prepared by emPCR with 1-2 million beads deposited
into PTP wells.
        Real-time sequencing involves imaging the continuous incorporation of dye-labeled
nucleotides during DNA synthesis. Exemplary real-time sequencing platforms include, but not
limited to, Pacific Biosciences platform, which uses DNA polymerase molecules attached to the
surface of individual zero-mode waveguide (ZMW) detectors to obtain sequence information
when phospholinked nucleotides are being incorporated into the growing primer strand;
Life/VisiGen platform, which uses an engineered DNA polymerase with an attached fluorescent
dye to generate an enhanced signal after nucleotide incorporation by fluorescence resonance
energy transfer (FRET); and LI-COR Biosciences platform, which uses dye-quencher
nucleotides in the sequencing reaction.
        Other sequencing methods for NGS include, but not limited to, nanopore sequencing,
sequencing by hybridization, nano-transistor array based sequencing, polony sequencing,
scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) based sequencing, and nanowire-molecule sensor based
sequencing.
        Nanopore sequencing involves electrophoresis of nucleic acid molecules in solution
through a nano-scale pore which provides a highly confined space within which single-nucleic
acid polymers can be analyzed. Exemplary methods of nanopore sequencing are described, e.g.,
in Branton D. et al., Nat Biotechnol. 2008; 26(10):1146-53.
        Sequencing by hybridization is a non-enzymatic method that uses a DNA microarray.
Typically, a single pool of DNA is fluorescently labeled and hybridized to an array containing
                                              - 144 -

known sequences. Hybridization signals from a given spot on the array can identify the DNA
sequence. The binding of one strand of DNA to its complementary strand in the DNA double
helix is sensitive to even single-base mismatches when the hybrid region is short or is specialized
mismatch detection proteins are present. Exemplary methods of sequencing by hybridization are
described, e.g., in Hanna G.J. et al., J. Clin. Microbiol. 2000; 38 (7): 2715-21; and Edwards J.R.
et al., Mut. Res. 2005; 573 (1-2): 3-12.
         Polony sequencing is based on polony amplification and sequencing-by-synthesis via
multiple single-base-extensions (FISSEQ). Polony amplification is a method to amplify DNA in
situ on a polyacrylamide film. Exemplary polony sequencing methods are described, e.g., in US
Patent Application Publication No. 2007/0087362.
         Nano-transistor array based devices, such as Carbon NanoTube Field Effect Transistor
(CNTFET), can also be used for NGS. For example, DNA molecules are stretched and driven
over nanotubes by micro-fabricated electrodes. DNA molecules sequentially come into contact
with the carbon nanotube surface, and the difference in current flow from each base is produced
due to charge transfer between the DNA molecule and the nanotubes. DNA is sequenced by
recording these differences. Exemplary Nano-transistor array based sequencing methods are
described, e.g., in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006/0246497.
         Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) can also be used for NGS. STM uses a piezo
electric-controlled probe that performs a raster scan of a specimen to form images of its surface.
STM can be used to image the physical properties of single DNA molecules, e.g., generating
coherent electron tunneling imaging and spectroscopy by integrating scanning tunneling
microscope with an actuator-driven flexible gap. Exemplary sequencing methods using STM are
described, e.g., in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007/0194225.
         A molecular-analysis device which is comprised of a nanowire-molecule sensor can also
be used for NGS. Such device can detect the interactions of the nitrogenous material disposed
on the nanowires and nucleic acid molecules such as DNA. A molecule guide is configured for
guiding a molecule near the molecule sensor, allowing an interaction and subsequent detection.
Exemplary sequencing methods using nanowire-molecule sensor are described, e.g., in U.S.
Patent Application Publication No. 2006/0275779.
         Double ended sequencing methods can be used for NGS. Double ended sequencing uses
blocked and unblocked primers to sequence both the sense and antisense strands of DNA.
                                                 - 145 -

Typically, these methods include the steps of annealing an unblocked primer to a first strand of
nucleic acid; annealing a second blocked primer to a second strand of nucleic acid; elongating
the nucleic acid along the first strand with a polymerase; terminating the first sequencing primer;
deblocking the second primer; and elongating the nucleic acid along the second strand.
Exemplary double ended sequencing methods are described, e.g., in U.S. Patent Serial No.
7,244,567.
         Data analysis. After NGS reads have been generated, they can be aligned to a known
reference sequence or assembled de novo.
         For example, identifying genetic variations such as single-nucleotide polymorphism and
structural variants in a sample (e.g., a tumor sample) can be accomplished by aligning NGS reads
to a reference sequence (e.g., a wild-type sequence). Methods of sequence alignment for NGS
are described e.g., in Trapnell C. and Salzberg S.L. Nature Biotech., 2009, 27:455-457.
         Examples of de novo assemblies are described, e.g., in Warren R. et al., Bioinformatics,
2007, 23:500-501; Butler J. et al., Genome Res., 2008, 18:810-820; and Zerbino D.R. and Birney
E., Genome Res., 2008, 18:821-829.
         Sequence alignment or assembly can be performed using read data from one or more
NGS platforms, e.g., mixing Roche/454 and Illumina/Solexa read data.
Alignment
General
         Alignment is the process of matching a read with a location, e.g., a genomic location.
Misalignment (e.g., the placement of base-pairs from a short read on incorrect locations in the
genome)., e.g., misalignment due to sequence context (e.g., presence of repetitive sequence) of
reads around an actual cancer mutation can lead to reduction in sensitivity of mutation detection,
as reads of the alternate allele may be shifted off the main pile-up of alternate allele reads. If the
problematic sequence context occurs where no actual mutation is present, mis-alignment may
introduce artifactual reads of "mutated" alleles by placing actual reads of reference genome
bases onto the wrong location. Because mutation-calling algorithms for multiplied multigene
analysis should be sensitive to even low-abundance mutations, these misalignments may increase
false positive discovery rates/reduce specificity.
                                                - 146 -

         As discussed herein, reduced sensitivity for actual mutations may be addressed by
evaluating the quality of alignments (manually or in an automated fashion) around expected
mutation sites in the genes being analyzed. The sites to be evaluated can be obtained from
databases of cancer mutations (e.g. COSMIC). Regions that are identified as problematic can be
remedied with the use of an algorithm selected to give better performance in the relevant
sequence context, e.g., by alignment optimization (or re-alignment) using slower, but more
accurate alignment algorithms such as Smith-Waterman alignment. In cases where general
alignment algorithms cannot remedy the problem, customized alignment approaches may be
created by, e.g.: adjustment of maximum difference mismatch penalty parameters for genes with
a high likelihood of containing substitutions; adjusting specific mismatch penalty parameters
based on specific mutation types that are common in certain tumor types (e.g. C-*T in
melanoma); or adjusting specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific mutation types
that are common in certain sample types (e.g. substitutions that are common in FFPE).
Reduced specificity (increased false positive rate) in the evaluated gene regions due to mis
alignment can be assessed by manual or automated examination of all mutation calls in samples
sequenced. Those regions found to be prone to spurious mutation calls due to mis-alignment can
be subjected to same alignment remedies as above. In cases where no algorithmic remedy is
found possible, "mutations" from the problem regions can be classified or screened out from the
test panel.
Insertions/Deletions(indels)
         Generally, the accurate detection of indel mutations is an exercise in alignment, as the
spurious indel rate on the sequencing platforms disabled herein is relatively low (thus , even a
handful of observations of correctly aligned indels can be strong evidence of mutation). Accurate
alignment in the presence of indels can be difficult however (especially as indel length
increases). In addition to the general issues associated with alignment, e.g., of substitutions, the
indel itself can cause problems with alignment. (For instance, a deletion of 2bp of a dinucleotide
repeat cannot be readily definitively placed.) Both sensitivity and specificity can be reduced by
incorrect placement of shorter (<15bp) apparent indel-containing reads. Larger indels (getting
closer in magnitude to the length of individual reads - 36bp in our current process) can cause
                                                - 147 -

 failure to align the read at all, making detection of the indel impossible in the standard set of
 aligned reads.
          Databases of cancer mutations can be used to address these problems and improve
 performance. To reduce false positive indel discovery (improve specificity), regions around
 commonly expected indels can be examined for problematic alignments due to sequence context
 and addressed similarly to substitutions above. To improve sensitivity of indel detection, several
 different approaches of using information on the indels expected in cancercan be used. E.g.,
 short-reads contained expected indels can be simulated and alignment attempted. The alignments
 can be studied and problematic indel regions can have alignment parameters adjusted, for
 instance by reducing gap open/extend penalties or by aligning partial reads (e.g. the first or
 second half of a read).
          Alternatively, initial alignment can be attempted not just with the normal reference
genome, but also with alternate versions of the genome, containing each of the known or likely
cancer indel mutations. In this approach, reads of indels that initially failed to align or aligned
incorrectly areplaced successfully on the alternate (mutated) version of the genome.
          In this way, indel alignment (and thus calling) can be optimized for the expected cancer
 genes/sites. For example, when evaluating a breast cancer sample, alignment in the tumor
 suppressor PTEN can be optimized for the potential presence of indel mutations as exemplified
 in Table 5.
 Table 5: Exemplary Indel Mutations in PTEN for Alignment Optimization
 Gene      Tissue  AA             Nucleotide       Chr.     Genome        Genome      Nucleotide Exchange
                    Exchange      Exchange                  Start         Stop        Freq.
                                                            GRCh37        GRCh37
 PTEN      breast   K237_Y240>    710_718de19      10       89717685      89717693    0.128%
                   N
 PTEN      breast  N329fs*12      987_996del10     10       89720836      89720845    0.128%
 PTEN      breast   S338fs*1      1013_1023de11    10       89720862      89720872    0.128%
 PTEN      breast  L70fs*7        208_251del44     10       89685313      89690844    0.256%
 PTEN      breast   0?            1_1212de1212     10       89624227      89725229    0.128%
 PTEN      breast   K60fs*9       180_181ins?      10       89685285      89685286    0.128%
 PTEN      breast   K60fs*39      179_179delA      10       89685284      89685284    0.384%
 PTEN      breast   K197fs*2      590delA          10       89711972      89711972    0.128%
 PTEN      breast  N323fs*2       968_969insA      10       89720817      89720818    0.128%
                                                 - 148  -

PTEN      breast  V317fs*3     951_954delACTT     10      89720800     89720803   0.256%
PTEN      breast  T319fs*1     955_958delACTT     10      89720804     89720807   0.128%
PTEN      breast  1135del      403_405delATA      10      89692919     89692921   0.128%
PTEN      breast  S385fs*1     1154_1155delCT     10      89725171     89725172   0.128%
PTEN      breast  T277fs*13    831_834delCTTC     10      89720680     89720683   0.128%
PTEN      breast  R74fs*25     221_221delG        10      89690814     89690814   0.128%
PTEN      breast  V275fs*1     823delG            10      89720672     89720672   0.256%
PTEN      breast  F90fs*9      270delT            10      89692786     89692786   0.128%
Tuning
Tuning: Sequence Alignment Algorithms
         As used herein, a sequence alignment algorithm embodies a computational method or
approach used to identify from where in the genome a read sequence (e.g., a short-read sequence,
e.g., from next-generation sequencing) most likely originated by assessing the similarity between
the read sequence and a reference sequence. A variety of algorithms can be applied to the
sequence alignment problem. Some algorithms are relatively slow, but allow relatively high
specificity. These include, e.g., dynamic programming-based algrithms. Dynamic programming
is a method for solving complex problems by breaking them down into simpler steps. Other
approaches are relatively more efficient, but are typically not as thorough. These include, e.g.,
heuristic algorithms and probabilistic methods designed for large-scale database search.
         Typically, there can be two steps in the alignment process: candidate lookup and
sequence alignment. Candidate lookup reduces the search space for the sequence alignment
from the entire genome to a shorter list of possible alignment locations. Sequence alignment, as
the term suggests, includes aligning a sequence with a sequence provided in candidate lookup
step. It can be performed using global alignment (e.g., Needleman-Wunsch alignment) or local
alignment (e.g., Smith-Waterman alignment).
         Most of fast alignment algorithms can be characterized as one of the three types based on
the method of indexing: algorithms based on hash tables (e.g., BLAST, ELAND, SOAP), suffix
trees (e.g., Bowtie, BWA), and merge sorting (e.g., Slider).
         Short read sequences are typically used for alignment. Examples of sequence alignment
algorithms/programs for short-read sequences include, but not limited to, BFAST (Homer N. et
al., PLoS One. 2009;4(11):e7767), BLASTN (on the worldwide web at blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov),
BLAT (Kent W.J. Genome Res. 2002;12(4):656-64), Bowtie (Langmead B. et al., Genome Biol.
                                                - 149 -

2009;10(3):R25), BWA (Li H. and Durbin R. Bioinformatics,2009, 25:1754-60), BWA-SW (Li
H. and Durbin R. Bioinformatics, 2010;26(5):589-95), CloudBurst (Schatz M.C. Bioinformatics.
2009;25(11):1363-9), Corona Lite (Applied Biosystems, Carlsbad, California, USA), CASHX
(Fahlgren N. et al., RNA, 2009; 15, 992-1002), CUDA-EC (Shi H. et al., J Comput Biol.
2010;17(4):603-15), ELAND (on the worldwide web at bioit.dbi.udel.edu/howto/eland),
GNUMAP (Clement N.L. et al., Bioinformatics. 2010;26(1):38-45), GMAP (Wu T.D. and
Watanabe C.K. Bioinformatics. 2005;21(9):1859-75), GSNAP (Wu T.D. and Nacu S.,
Bioinformatics. 2010;26(7):873-81), Geneious Assembler (Biomatters Ltd., Auckland, New
Zealand), LAST, MAQ (Li H. et al., Genome Res. 2008;18(11):1851-8), Mega-BLAST (on the
worldwide web at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/megablast.shtml), MOM (Eaves H.L. and Gao Y.
Bioinformatics. 2009;25(7):969-70), MOSAIK (on the worldwide web at
bioinformatics.bc.edu/marthlab/Mosaik), Novoalign (on the worldwide web at
novocraft.com/main/index.php), PALMapper (on the worldwide web at
fml.tuebingen.mpg.de/raetsch/suppl/palmapper), PASS (Campagna D. et al., Bioinformatics.
2009; 25(7):967-8), PatMaN (Prufer K. et al., Bioinformatics.2008; 24(13):1530-1), PerM
(Chen Y. et al., Bioinformatics, 2009, 25 (19): 2514-2521), ProbeMatch (Kim Y.J. et al.,
Bioinformatics. 2009;25(11):1424-5), QPalma (de Bona F. et al., Bioinformatics, 2008, 24(16):
il74), RazerS (Weese D. et al., Genome Research, 2009, 19:1646-1654), RMAP (Smith A.D. et
al., Bioinformatics. 2009;25(21):2841-2), SeqMap (Jiang H. et al. Bioinformatics.
2008;24:2395-2396.), Shrec (Salmela L., Bioinformatics.2010;26(10):1284-90), SHRiMP
(Rumble S.M. et al., PLoS Comput. Biol., 2009, 5(5):e1000386), SLIDER (Malhis N. et al.,
Bioinformatics, 2009, 25 (1): 6-13), SLIM Search (Muller T. et al., Bioinformatics. 2001;17
Suppl 1:S182-9), SOAP (Li R. et al., Bioinformatics.2008;24(5):713-4), SOAP2 (Li R. et al.,
Bioinformatics. 2009;25(15):1966-7), SOCS (Ondov B.D. et al., Bioinformatics, 2008;
24(23):2776-7), SSAHA (Ning Z. et al., Genome Res. 2001;11(10):1725-9), SSAHA2 (Ning Z.
et al., Genome Res. 2001;11(10):1725-9), Stampy (Lunter G. and Goodson M. Genome Res.
2010, epub ahead of print), Taipan (on the worldwide web at taipan.sourceforge.net), UGENE
(on the worldwide web at ugene.unipro.ru), XpressAlign (on the worldwide web at
bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/XpressAlign), and ZOOM (Bioinformatics Solutions Inc.,
Waterloo, ON, Canada).
                                              - 150 -

         A sequence alignment algorithm can be chosen based on a number of factors including,
e.g., the sequencing technology, read length, number of reads, available compute resources, and
sensitivity/scoring requirements. Different sequence alignment algorithms can achieve different
levels of speed, alignment sensitivity, and alignment specificity. Alignment specificity typically
refers to the percentage of aligned target sequence residues, as found in the submission, which
are aligned correctly, compared with the predicted alignment. Alignment sensitivity usually
refers to the percentage of aligned target sequence residues as found in the predicted alignment,
which have also been correctly aligned in the submission.
         Alignment algorithms, such as ELAND, or SOAP can be used for the purpose of aligning
short reads (e.g., from Illumina/Solexa sequencer) to the reference genome when speed is the
first factor to consider. Alignment algorithms, such as BLAST, or Mega-BLASTcan be used for
the purpose of similarity search using short reads (e.g., from Roche FLX) when specificity is the
most important factor, although these methods are relatively slower. Alignment algorithms, such
as MAQ, or Novoalign take quality scores into account and therefore can be used for both single
or paired-end data sets when accuracy is of the essence (e.g., in high-throughput SNP surveys).
Alignment algorithms, such as Bowtie, or BWA, use Burrows-Wheeler Transform (BWT) and
therefore requires relatively small memory footprint. Alignment algorithms, such as BFAST,
PerM, SHRiMP, SOCS, orZOOM, map color space reads and therefore can be used with ABI's
SOLiD platform. In some applications, the results from two or more alignment algorithms can
be combined.
Tuning: Alignment Parameters
         Alignment parameters are used in alignment algorithms to adjust performance of an
algorithm, e.g., toproduce an optimal global or local alignment between a read sequence and a
reference sequence. Alignment parameters can give weights for match, mismatch, and indels.
For example, lower weights allow alignments with more mismatches and indels.
         Examples of alignment parameters include, but not limited to, match reward, mismatch
penalty, gap penalty (e.g., gap opening penalty, gap extension penalty), expect threshold, word
size, filter, or mask.
         For example, gap penalties are designed to reduce the alignment score when an alignment
has been broken by an insertion in the read sequence or the reference sequence. The gap
                                               - 151 -

penalties can be used to help decide whether on not to accept a gap or insertion in an alignment
when it is possible to achieve a good alignment residue-to-residue at some other neighboring
point in the sequence. In particularly, a penalty can be subtracted from the score for each gap
opened (the "gap opening" penalty) and for the total number of gap spaces multiplied by a cost
(the "gap extension" penalty). Typically, the cost of extending a gap is set to be at least about 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 times lower than the cost for opening a gap. The expect threshold is a
parameter that describes the number of hits one can "expect" to see by chance when searching a
database of a particular size.
Tuning: Sequence Context-Based Selection/Tuning ofAlgorithms and Parameters
         Sequence context, e.g., presence of repetitive sequences (e.g., tandem repeats,
interspersed repeats), low-complexity regions, indels, pseudogenes, or paralogs can affect the
alignment specificity (e.g., cause misalignment). As used herein, misalignment refers to the
placement of base-pairs from the short read on incorrect locations in the genome.
         Alignment algorithms, such as slower but more accurate alignment algorithms (e.g.,
Smith-Waterman alignment, or the multi-sequence (read) aligner CLUSTALW), can be selected
to increase the alignment specificity (e.g., to decrease the likelihood of misalignment caused by
sequence context, e.g., the presence of repetitive sequences).
         Alignment parameters, such as match reward, mismatch penalties, gap penalties (e.g., gap
opening penalties, gap extension penalties), expect threshold, word size, filter, or mask), can be
adjusted (e.g., increased or decreased), to increase the alignment specificity (e.g., decrease the
likelihood of misalignment caused by sequence context).
Tuning: Tumor Type-Based Selection/tuning ofAlgorithms and Parameters
         The sensitivity of alignment can be increased when an alignment algorithm is selected or
an alignment parameter is adjusted based on tumor type, e.g., a tumor type that tends to have a
particular mutation or mutation type.
         Alignment algorithms can be selected to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment sensitivity,
when the nucleic acid is isolated from a sample of certain tumor type.
         Alignment parameters, such as match reward, mismatch penalties, gap penalties (e.g., gap
opening penalties, gap extension penalties), expect threshold, word size, filter, or mask can be
                                                 - 152 -

adjusted (e.g., increased or decreased), to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment sensitivity, when
the nucleic acid is isolated from a sample of certain tumor type. For example, C->T substitution
is a common mutation type in melanoma. Thus, the sensitivity of alignment can be adjusted
(e.g., increased) when the mismatch penalties for nucleic acid sequences from melanoma
samples are decreased or increased.
Tuning: Gene Type-Based Selection/Tuning of Algorithms and Parameters
         The sensitivity of alignment can be increased when an alignment algorithm is selected or
an alignment parameter is adjusted based on a particular gene type (e.g., oncogene, tumor
suppressor gene). Mutations in different types of cancer-associated genes can have different
impact on cancer phenotype. For example, mutant oncogene alleles are typically dominant.
Mutant tumor suppressor alleles are typically recessive, which means that in most cases both
alleles of a tumor suppressor genes must be affected before an effect is manifested.
         Alignment algorithm can be selected to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment sensitivity,
based on gene type (e.g., oncogene, tumor suppressor gene).
         Alignment parameters, such as match reward, mismatch penalties, gap penalties (e.g., gap
opening penalties, gap extension penalties), expect threshold, word size, filter, or mask,can be
adjusted (e.g., increased or decreased), to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment
sensitivity/specificity, based on gene type (e.g., oncogene, tumor suppressor gene). For example,
an inframe indel is commonly associated with a tunor suppressor. Thus, the sensitivity and
specifity of alignment can be adjusted (e.g., increased) when the standard gap penalty appraoch
(e.g., gap open + gap extend) is modified to prefer in-frame indels for oncogenes and frame-shift
indels for tumor suppressors.
Tuning: Mutation Type-Based Selection/Tuning of Algorithms and Parameters
         The sensitivity of alignment can be adjusted (e.g., increased) when an alignment
algorithm is selected or an alignment parameter is adjusted based on mutation type (e.g., single
nucleotide polymorphism, indel (insertion or deletion), inversion, translocation, tandem repeat).
         Alignment algorithms, such asBWA (fast single short-read), Smith-Waterman (slower,
more accurate single short-read) and CLUSTALW (even slower, but considers multiple reads)
can be selected to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment sensitivity, based on mutation type (e.g.,
                                                -  153 -

single-nucleotide polymorphism, indel (insertion or deletion), inversion, translocation, tandem
repeat).
         Alignment parameters, such as match reward, mismatch penalties, gap penalties (e.g., gap
opening penalties, gap extension penalties), expect threshold, word size, filter, or mask can be
adjusted (e.g., increased or decreased), to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment
sensitivity/specificity, based on mutation type (e.g., single-nucleotide polymorphism, indel
(insertion or deletion), inversion, translocation, tandem repeat). For example, a point mutations
are commonly associated with the KRAS gene. Thus, the sensitivity of alignment can be
increased when the mismatch penalties for that position are decreased. Similarly, a deletion is
commonly associates with the EGFR gene. Thus, the sensitivity of alignment can be increased
when the gap penalties (e.g., gap open penalties, gap extension penalties) for that position(s) or
gene are decreased. The sensitivity of alignment can also be increase if partial sequences (e.g.,
the first or second half of a read) are used for alignment.
Tuning/Mutation Site-Based Selection/Tuning of Algorithms and Parameters
         The sensitivity of alignment can be adjusted (e.g., increased) when an alignment
algorithm is selected or an alignment parameter is adjusted based on mutation site (e.g., a
mutation hotspot). A mutation hotspot refers to a site in the genome where mutations occur up to
100 times more frequently than the normal mutation rate.
         Alignment algorithms, can be selected to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment sensitivity,
based on mutation site (e.g., a mutation hotspot).
         Alignment parameters, such as match reward, mismatch penalties, gap penalties (e.g., gap
opening penalties, gap extension penalties), expect threshold, word size, filter, or mask, can be
adjusted (e.g., increased or decreased), to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment sensitivity, based
on mutation site (e.g., a mutation hotspot). For example, mutations at codon 12 are commonly
associated with the KRAS gene. Thus, the sensitivity of alignment can be increased when the
mismatch penalties for that site are decreased.
                                                -  154 -

Tuning: Sample type-Based Selection/Tuning of Algorithms and Parameters
        The sensitivity/specificity of alignment can be adjusted (e.g., increased) when an
alignment algorithm is selected or an alignment parameter is adjusted based on sample type (e.g.,
an FFPE sample).
        Alignment algorithms can be selected to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment
sensitivity/specificity, based on sample type (e.g., an FFPE sample).
        Alignment parameters, such as match reward, mismatch penalties, gap penalties (e.g., gap
opening penalties, gap extension penalties), expect threshold, word size, filter, or mask, can be
adjusted (e.g., increased or decreased) to adjust (e.g., increase) the alignment
sensitivity/specificity, based on sample type (e.g., an FFPE sample). For example, a transition
mutation artifact due to DNA damage is commonly associated with FFPE samples. Thus, the
sensitivity/specificity of alignment can be increased when the mismatch penalties for sequences
obtained from FFPE samples are increased.
Alignment Module
General Methods for Alignment
        Methods disclosed herein allow the use of multiple, individually tuned, alignment methods
or algorithms to optimize performance in sequencing methods, particularly in methods that rely on
massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genetic events in a large number of
diverse genes, e.g., methods of analyzing tumor samples. In embodiments, multiple alignment
methods that are individually customized or tuned to each of a number of variants in different
genes are used to analyze reads. In embodiments, tuning can be a function of (one or more of) the
gene (or other subgenomic inerval) being sequenced, the tumor type in the sample, the variant
being sequenced, or a characteristic of the sample or the subject. The selection or use of alignment
conditions that are individually tuned to a number of subgenomic intervals to be sequenced allows
optimization of speed, sensitivity and specificity. The method is particularly effective when the
alignment of reads for a relatively large number of diverse subgenomic intervals is optimized.
        Accordingly, in one aspect, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a tumor sample, is
provided. The method comprises:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from a tumor sample;
                                                -155  -

         (b) optionally, enriching the library for preselected sequences, e.g., by contacting the
library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide selected members (sometimes referred
to herein as library catch);
         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayeisan method)
from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
         wherein:
         a read from each of X unique subgenomic intervals is aligned with a unique alignment
method, wherein unique subgenomic interval means different from the other X- 1 subgenoimc
intervals, and wherein unique alignment method means different from the other X- 1 alingment
methods, and X is at least 2.
         In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment step (b) is absent.
         In an embodment X is at least 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 500, or 1,000.
         Thus, in an embodiment, a method described herein, e.g., a method of analyzing a tumor
sample comprises an alignment method described herein. By way of example, the method (e.g.,
step (c)) can comprises selecting an alignment method for analyzing, e.g., aligning, said read,
wherein the alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, one or
more or all of:
                 (i) tumor type, e.g., the tumor type in said sample;
                 (ii) the gene, or type of gene, in which said subgenomic interval being sequenced
                 is located, e.g. wherein the gene or type of gene is associated with a preselected
                 probablitity for a variant or type of variant, e.g., a mutation;
                 (iii) the site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed;
                 (iv) the type of variant, e.g., a substitution, within the subgenomic interval being
                 evaluated;
                 (v) the type of sample, e.g., an FFPE sample; and
                                                   - 156 -

                 (vi) sequence in or near said subgenomic interval being evaluated, e.g., the
                 expected propensity for misalignment for said subgenomic interval, e.g., the
                presence of repeated sequences in or near said subgenomic interval.
         As referred to elsewhere herein, a method is particularly effective when the alignment of
reads for a relatively large number of subgenomic intervals is optimized. Thus, in an
embodiment, at least X unique alignment methods are used to analyze reads for at least X unique
subgenomic intervals, wherein unique means different from the other X- 1, and X is equal to 2, 3,
4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 200, 500 or 1,000.
         In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Table 1 are
analyzed, and X is equal to, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Table 1 having the
priority 1 annotation are analyzed, and X is equal to , 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment, a unique alignment method is applied to a subgenomic intervals in
each of at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 different genes.
         In an embodiment a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Table 1 or 1A, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment, a
unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 genes from Table
1 or 1A having the priority 1 annotation is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment, a
unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position for at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200,
300, 400, or 500 variants or codons, e.g., mutations, from Table 1, 1A, 2, or 3, is assigned a
nucleotide value. In an embodiment a unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic
intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         applying a unique alignment method to each of X genomic intervals, each of which
having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point
mutation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, e.g., wherein each
of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different gene.
                                                 -  157 -

        In an embodiment, the method comprises:
        applying a unique alignment method to each of X genomic intervals, each of which
having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a
rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or translocation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20,
40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, wherein each of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different
gene.
        In an embodiment:
        a first unique alignment, method is applied to a first subgenomic interval comprising a
preselected nucleotide position, a variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, and
        a second unique alignment method is applied to a subgenomic interval comprising a
preslected nucleotide other than said first preselected nucleotide position, e.g., a position having
no variant with a tumor phenotype.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises:
        a) applying a first unique alignment method to a first genomic interval, a variant of which
is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point mutation, e.g., a
mutation on Table 6;
        b) applying a second unique alignment method to a second genomic interval, a variant of
which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a rearrangement, e.g., a
deletion, insertion, or translocation, e.g., a mutation on Table 5; and
        c) applying a third unique alignment method to a third genomic interval, e.g., a genomic
interval in which variants are not associated with a tumor phenotype or with a tumor of the type
in said sample.
        In an embodiment, the gene or type of gene is:
        an oncogene, which can be associated with e.g., activating mutations in tyrosine kinase
domains;
        a tumor suppressor which can be with de-activating (e.g., non-sense) mutations; or
        a drug ADME-related gene, which can be with high-actvitiy or low-activitity germ-line
genetic variation.
        In an embodiment, selecting an alignment method comprises, selecting a parameter (or a
value therefor) for use in an alignment algorithm, e.g., a match reward, mismatch penalty, gap
penalty (e.g., a gap opening penalty, gap extension penalty), expected threshold, word size, filter,
                                                -  158 -

or mask. The parameter (or value therefor) can be selected from a panel of preselected
parameters, e.g., parameters defined by preselected boundries or limits.
         In an embodiment, when aligning (or, optimizing alignments) for a gene that contains a
known cancer substitution and a known germ-line indel, the gap penalties can be reduced so that
the germ-line variant is captured correctly and doesn't adversely affect the alignment around the
somatic mutation of interest.
         In an embodiment, selecting an alignment method comprises selecting a maximum
difference mismatch penalty parameter for a gene with a high likelihood of containing a
substitution.
         In an embodiment, selecting an alignment method comprises, selecting an alignment
algorithm, e.g., selecting a slower, but more accurate algorithm, e.g., a Smith-Waterman
alignment instead of a faster, e.g., BWA, or selecting alignment optimization using a multiple
alignment method such as CLUSTALW.
         In an embodiment, said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for, a characteristic of the nucleic acid sample, e.g., sample age, sample tissue source
(e.g. pancreatic), presence of carcinogen/mutagen exposure (e.g. smoking, UV), quality of
nucleic acid sample (e.g., level of nucleic acid fragmentation) in the sample.
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for (i).
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for (ii).
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for (iii).
         In an embodiment, a first alignment method is function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for (i), a second alignment method is function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for (ii), and a third alignment method is function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for (iii).
         In an embodiment, at least one alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive
to, or is optimized for, (i) and one or more of (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), or (vii).
                                               -   159 -

        In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, (ii) and one or
more of (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), or (vii).
        In an embodiment, said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for, the gene, or type of gene, e.g., wherein the gene or type of gene is associated with
a preselected probablitity or type of variant, e.g., mutation.
        In an embodiment, said alignment method provides:
        adjustment, setting or using, maximum difference mismatch penalty parameters for a
gene having a high likelihood of containing substitutions;
        adjustment, setting or using, specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific
mutation types that are common in a preselected tumor types (e.g., C->T in melanoma); or
        adjustment, setting or using, specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific
mutation types that are common in certain sample types (e.g., substitutions that are common in
FFPE).
        In an embodiment the method comprises the use of first alignment methods optimized for
a subgenomic interval not associated with a rearrangement and a second alignment method
optimized for a subgenomic interval associated with a rearrangement.
        In an embodiment the method includes application of 1, 2, 3, 4 or all of the following (in
embodiments a group of 2 or more of the following are included and the alignment methods for
each of the group are unique):
                  (i) a first alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, a
                  high level target (e.g., a gene, exon, or base) for which the deepest coverage is
                  required to enable a high level of sensitivity for mutations that appears at a
                  relatively low frequency. For example, an alignment method that is selected
                  responsive to or optimized for a variant, e.g., a point mutation, that appear at a
                  frequency of 5% or less in cells in the sample, the nucleic acids of a library, or
                  the nucleic acids of a library catch. Typically these variants require >500X
                  sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. An examplary application
                  is an exon that is frequently mutated in a preselected cancer;
                  (ii) a second alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for,
                  a mid-level target (e.g., a gene, exon, or base) for which high coverage (though
                                                  - 160 -

in embodiments less than that in (i) above) is required to enable a high level of
sensitivity for mutations that appear at a relatively high frequency e.g., at a
higher frequency than a mutation in (i) above. For example, an alignment method
that is selected responsive to or optimized for a variant, e.g., a point mutation,
that appear at a frequency of greater than 5% and up to 10, 15 or 20% in cells in
the sample, the nucliec acids of a library, or the nucleic acids of a library catch.
Typically these variants require >200X sequencing depth to ensure high
detection reliability. An examplary application is in a gene related to cancer;
(iii) a third alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, a
low-level target (e.g., a gene, exon, or base) for which the low to medium
coverage (in embodiments less than that in (i) or (ii) above) is required to enable
a high level of sensitivity for heterozygous alleles. For example, an alignment
method that is selected responsive to, or optimized for, a variant, e.g., (1) a
pharmacogenomic SNP that may be associated with the ability of patient to
respond to or metabolize a drug; (2) a genomic SNP that may be used to
uniquely identify (fingerprint) a patient; or (3) a genomic SNP/loci that may be
used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and LOH;
(iv) a fourth alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for,
a mid-level target (e.g., a structural breakpoint, e.g., in a rearrangment, e.g., a
translocation or an indel). In embodiments the coverage is less than in one of (i),
(ii) or (iii). For example, an alignment method that is selected responsive to, or
optimized for, a variant, e.g., an intronic breakpoint, which in embodiments
requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability.
An exemplary application is a translocation/indel-prone cancer gene; and
(v) a fifth alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, a
target such as an intron target for which sparse coverage can improve the ability
to detect copy number changes. In embodiments the coverage is less than in one
of (i), (ii) (iii) or (iv). For example, detection of a 1 copy deletion of several
terminal exons requires 0.1-lOX coverage to ensure high detection reliability.
An exempary application is to an amplification/deletion-prone cancer gene.
                                   - 161 -

        In an embodiment, said alignment method is applied after another alignment method is
used in an attempt, e.g., an unacceptable attempt, to align a read.
        In an embodiment, the method further comprise selecting and applying a second
alignment method in a second or subsequent attempt to align a read for a preselcted subgenomic
interval. E.g., in an embodiment a first method comprises the use of a first, relatively fast,
algorithm, and a second alignment method comprises the use of a second, slower but more
accurate, algorithm.
        In an embodiment, said alignment method comprises the Smith-Waterman alignment
algorithm or a similar algorithm, or a multiple alignment algorithm such as CLUSTALW.
        In an embodiment, in subgenomic intervals resistant to accurate alignment (e.g., by any
method), de-novo or reference-guided assembly is undertaken by using methods such
ARACHNE or Phusion.
        In an embodiment, the a-c, or b-c, are performed in the sequence indicated above.
        In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
        d) performing a comparison, e.g., an alignment comparison, of a read with said selected
alignment method (e.g., a preselected algorithm or parameter); and
        e) optionally, determining if said read meets a predetermined alignment criterion, e.g., a
predetermined criterion can be an alignment to a reference with less than a preselected number of
mismatches or gaps.
        In an embodiment, (c) comprises selecting the alignment method by:
        f) acquiring a value for an alignment selector for a subgenomic interval, e.g., a
subgenomic interval comprising a nucleotide position associate with a variant, e.g., a substitution
or a rearrangement, e.g., an indel; and
        g) responsive to said acquired value for alignment selector, selecting an alignment
method for analyzing, e.g., aligning, a read.
provided that said alignment selector is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized
for, one or more or all of:
        i) tumor type, e.g., the tumor type in said sample;
        ii) the gene, or type of gene, in which said subgenomic interval being sequenced is
        located, e.g. wherein the gene or type of gene is associated with a preselected probablitity
        or type of variant, e.g., mutation;
                                                - 162 -

         iii) the site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed;
         iv) the type of variant, e.g., a substitution, associated with the subgenomic interval being
         evaluated;
         v) the type of sample, e.g., an FFPE sample; and
         vi) sequence in or near said subgenomic interval being evaluated, e.g., the expected
propensity for misalignment for said subgenomic interval, e.g., the presence of repeated
sequences in or near said subgenomic interval.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises acquiring and applying a threshold value other
than an unique threshold value, e.g., a non-unique threshold value, to a subgenomic interval, e.g.,
one of said subgenomic intervals described herein.
Methods for aligning rearrangments
         Methods disclosed herein allow the use of multiple, individually tuned, alignment
methods or algorithms to optimize performance in the sequencing of subgenomic intervals
associated with rearrangments, e.g., indels, particularly in methods that rely on massively
parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genetic events in a large number of diverse
genes, e.g., from tumor samples. In embodiments multiple alignment methods that are
individually customized or tuned to each of a number of rearrangements in different genes are
used to analyze reads. In embodiments tuning can be a function of (one or more of) the gene (or
other subgenomic interval) being sequenced, the tumor type in the sample, the variant being
sequenced, or a characteristic of the sample or the subject. This selection or use of alignment
conditions finely tuned to a number of subgenomic intervals to be sequenced allows optimization
of speed, sensitivity and specificity. The method is particularly effective when the alignment of
reads for a relatively large number of diverse subgenomic intervals is optimized. In
embodiments the method includes the use of alignment methods optimized for rearrangements
and others optimized for subgenomic intervals not associated with rearrangements.
         Thus, in an embodiment, a method described herein, e.g., a method of analyzing a tumor
sample comprises an alignment method for rearrangements described herein.
         By way of example, where a read for a subgenomic interval comprises a nucleotide
position with a rearrangement, e.g., an indel, the method comprises using an alihgnment method
that inlcudes:
                                                   - 163 -

         c) selecting a rearrangement reference sequence for alignment with a read, wherein said
rearrangement reference sequence is preselected to align with a preselected rearrangement (in
embodiments the reference sequence is not identical to the genomic rearrangement) In an
embodiment the re-arrangement reference sequence fragment (i.e. "alternate reference") is the
same as the rearrangement expected to be seen in the read. It is also possible that this alternate
reference will also be somewhat different from the expected rearrangement (for example, it may
also contain a nearby germ-line variant);
         e) comparing, e.g., aligning, a read with said preselected rearrangement reference
sequence; and
         f) optionally, determining if said read meets a predetermined alignment criterion, e.g., a
predetermined criterion can be an alignment to said preselected rearrangement reference with
less than a preselected level of mismatch or gaps;
thereby analyzing a read,
         provided that, at least X unique preselected rearrangement alignment sequences are used
to analyze reads for at least X unique subgenomic intervals, wherein unique means different
from the other X-1, and X is equal to 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 300, 500, 1000, 2000 or
3000.
         In an embodiment, a preselected rearrangement alignment sequence comprises a
sequence selected to allow identification of said preselected rearrangement, e.g., a preselected
indel.
         In an embodiment, a preslected rearrangement alignment sequence comprises a sequence
(e.g., either the sequence or its complement) corresponding to said preselected rearrangement,
e.g., a preselected indel.
         In an embodiment, a preslected rearrangement alignment sequence comprises a simulated
sequence (e.g., one that is other than the sequence of the indel or its compliment) selected to
align with a read of said preselected sequence.
         In an embodiment, a preslected rearrangement alignment sequence comprises sequence,
e.g., simulated sequence, flanking one or both sides of the rearrangment.
         In an embodiment, a preslected rearrangement alignment sequence comprises sequence,
e.g., simulated sequence, from a junction of said rearrangment.
                                                 - 164 -

        In an embodiment, alignment is performed with a preseleced rarrangment alignment
 sequence that is preselected for a tumor type.
        In an embodiment, a partial read alignment is performed, e.g., less than all of the read is
 aligned, e.g., less than 90, 80, 70, 50, 50, 40, 30, 20 or 10 % of the read is aligned.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises the use of first alignment
methods optimized for a subgenomic interval associated with a rearrangement and
a second alignment method optimized for a subgenomic interval not associated
with a rearrangement.
        In an embodiment, the method further includes:
        (g) selecting or applying an alignment method for analyzing, e.g., aligning, said read,
        thereby analyzing said read,
provided that said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized
for, one or more or all of:
        i) tumor type, e.g., the tumor type in said sample;
        ii) the gene, or type of gene, in which said subgenomic interval being sequenced is
        located, e.g. wherein the gene or type of gene is associated with a preselected probablitity
        for a variant or type of variant, e.g., a mutation;
        iii) the site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed;
        iv) the type of variant, e.g., a substitution, associated with the subgenomic interval being
        evaluated;
        v) the type of sample, e.g., an FFPE sample; and
        vi) sequence in or near said subgenomic interval being evaluated, e.g., the expected
propensity for misalignment for said subgenomic interval, e.g., the presence of repeated
sequences in or near said subgenomic interval.
        As referred to elsewhere herein, a method is particularly effective when the alignment of
reads for a relatively large number of subgenomic intervals is optimized. Thus, in an
embodiment, at least X unique alignment methods are used to analyze reads for at least X unique
subgenomic intervals, wherein unique means different from the other X- 1, and X is equal to 2, 3,
4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
        In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Table 1 or 1A are
analyzed, and X is equal to 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
                                                  - 165 -

         In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Table 1 or 1A
having the priority 1 annotation are analyzed, and X is equal to 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment a unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each
of at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 different genes.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Table 1 or 1A, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment, a
unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 genes from Table
1 or 1A having the priority 1 annotation is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment, a
unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position for at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200,
300, 400, or 500 variants or codons, e.g., from Table 1, 2, or 3, is assigned a nucleotide value. In
an embodiment a unique alignment method is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least
10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         applying a unique alignment method to each of X genomic intervals, each of which
having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point
mutation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, e.g., wherein each
of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different gene.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         applying a unique alignment method to each of X genomic intervals, each of which
having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a
rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or translocation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20,
40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, wherein each of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different
gene.
         In an embodiment:
         a first unique alignment method is applied to a first preselected nucleotide position, a
variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, (e.g., a variant provided in Table 10, e.g.,
for indel variants in the common epithelial cancers: lung, breast, colon, prostate)
                                                  - 166 -

         a second unique alignment method is applied to a preslected nucleotide other than said
first preselected nucleotide position, e.g., a position having no variant associated with a tumor
phenotype (e.g., a sequence not present as a variable in Table 10).
         In an embodiment the method comprises:
         a) applying a first unique alignment method to a first genomic interval, a variant of which
is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point mutation, e.g., a
mutation on Table 6;
         b) applying a second unique alignment method to a second genomic interval, a variant of
which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g., wherein the variant is a rearrangement, e.g., a
deletion, insertion, or translocation, e.g., a mutation on Table 5; and
         c) acquiring and applying a third unique alignment method to a third genomic interval,
e.g., a genomic interval in which variants are not associated with a tumor phenotype or with a
tumor of the type in said sample.
         In an embodiment, the gene or type of gene is:
         an oncogene, which can be associated with, e.g., activating mutations in tyrosine kinase
domains;
         a tumor suppressor which can be with de-activating (e.g., non-sense) mutations; or
         a drug ADME-related gene, which can be with high-actvitiy or low-activitity germ-line
genetic variation.
         In an embodiment, selecting an alignment method comprises, selecting a parameter (or a
value therefor) for use in an alignment algorithm, e.g., a match reward, mismatch penalty, gap
penalty (e.g., a gap opening penalty, gap extension penalty), expected threshold, word size, filter,
or mask. The parameter (or value therefor) can be selected from a panel of preselected
parameters, e.g., parameters defined by preselected boundries or limits.
         In an embodiment, when aligning (or optimizing alignments) for a gene that contains a
known cancer substitution and a known germ-line indel, the gap penalties can be reduced so that
the germ-line variant is captured correctly and doesn't adversely affect the alignment around the
somatic mutation of interest.
         In an embodiment, selecting an alignment method comprises selecting a maximum
difference mismatch penalty parameter for a gene with a high likelihood of containing a
substitution.
                                                -  167 -

         In an embodiment, selecting an alignment method comprises, selecting an alignment
algorithm, e.g., selecting a slower, but more accurate algorithm, e.g., a Smith-Waterman
alignment instead of the faster algorithm, e.g., BWA, or selecting alignment optimization using a
multiple alignment method such as CLUSTALW.
         In an embodiment, said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for, a characteristic of the nucleic acid sample, e.g., sample age, sample tissue source
(e.g. pancreatic), presence of carcinogen/mutagen exposure (e.g. smoking, UV), quality of
nucleic acid sample (e.g., level of nucleic acid fragmentation) in the sample.
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for (i).
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for (ii).
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for (iii).
         In an embodiment, a first alignment method is function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for (i), a second alignment method is function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for (ii), and a third alignment method is function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for (iii).
         In an embodiment, at least one alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive
to, or is optimized for, (i) and one or more of (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), or (vii).
         In an embodiment, at least X (wherein X is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50)
alignment method(s) is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, (ii) and one or
more of (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), or (vii).
         In an embodiment, said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is
optimized for, the gene, or type of gene, e.g., wherein the gene or type of gene is associated with
a preselected probablitity or type of variant, e.g., mutation.
         In an embodiment, said alignment method provides:
         adjustment, setting, or using, maximum difference mismatch penalty parameters for a
gene having a high likelihood of containing substitutions;
         adjustment, setting, or using, gap penalty parameters for a gene having a high likelihood
of containing indels (e.g. EGFR in NSCLC);
                                                -  168 -

         adjustment, setting, or using, specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific
mutation types that are common in a preselected tumor types (e.g. C->T in melanoma); or
         adjustment, setting, or using, specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific
mutation types that are common in certain sample types (e.g. substitutions that are common in
FFPE).
         In an embodiment the method comprises the use of a first alignment methods optimized
for a subgenomic interval not associated with a rearrangement and a second alignment method
optimized for a subgenomic interval associated with a rearrangement.
         In an embodiment an alignment parameter, e.g., gap open/extend penalty, is adjusted,
 e.g., reduced.
         In an embodiment the method includes application of 1, 2, 3, 4 or all of the following (in
embodiments a group of 2 or more of the following are included and the alignment methods for
each of the group are unique):
                 (i) a first alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, a
                 high level target (e.g., a gene, exon, or base) for which the deepest coverage is
                 required to enable a high level of sensitivity for mutations that appear at a
                 relatively low frequency. For example, an alignment method that is selected
                 responsive to or optimized for a variant, e.g., a point mutation, that appear at a
                 frequency of 5% or less in cells in the sample, the nucleic acids of a library, or
                 the nucleic acids of a library catch. Typically these variants require >500X
                 sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. An examplary application
                 is an exon that is frequently mutated in a preselected cancer;
                 (ii) a second alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for,
                 a mid-level target (e.g., a gene, exon, or base) for which high coverage (though
                 in embodiments less than that in (i) above) is required to enable a high level of
                 sensitivity for mutations that appear at a relatively high frequency e.g., at a
                 higher frequency than a mutation in (i) above. For example, an alignment method
                 that is selected responsive to or optimized for a variant, e.g., a point mutation,
                 that appear at a frequency of greater than 5% and up to 10, 15 or 20% in cells in
                 the sample, the nucliec acids of a library, or the nucleic acids of a library catch.
                                                 - 169 -

                 Typically these variants require >200X sequencing depth to ensure high
                 detection reliability. An examplary application is in a gene related to cancer;
                 (iii) a third alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, a
                 low-level target (e.g., a gene, exon, or base) for which the low to medium
                 coverage (in embodiments less than that in (i) or (ii) above) is required to enable
                 a high level of sensitivity for heterozygous alleles. For example, an alignment
                 method that is selected responsive to, or optimized for, a variant, e.g., (1) a
                 pharmacogenomic SNP that may be associated with the ability of patient to
                 respond to or metabolize a drug; (2) a genomic SNP that may be used to
                 uniquely identify (fingerprint) a patient; or (3) a genomic SNP/loci that may be
                 used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and LOH;
                 (iv) a fourth alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for,
                 a mid-level target (e.g., a structural breakpoint, e.g., in a rearrangment, e.g., a
                 translocation or an indel). In embodiments the coverage is less than in one of (i),
                 (ii) or (iii). For example, an alignment method that is selected responsive to, or
                 optimized for, a variant, e.g., an intronic breakpoint, which in embodiments
                 requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability.
                 An exemplary application is a translocation/indel-prone cancer gene; and
                 (v) a fifth alignment method that is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, a
                 target such as an intron target for which sparse coverage can improve the ability
                 to detect copy number changes. In embodiments the coverage is less than in one
                 of (i), (ii) (iii) or (iv). For example, detection of a 1 copy deletion of several
                 terminal exons requires 0.1-lOX coverage to ensure high detection reliability.
                 An exempary application is to an amplification/deletion-prone cancer gene.
        In an embodiment, said alignment method is applied after another alignment method is
used in an attempt, e.g., an unacceptable attempt, to align a read.
        In an embodiment, the method further comprise selecting and applying a second
alignment method in a second or subsequent attempt to align a read for a preselcted subgenomic
interval. E.g., in an embodiment a first method comprises the use of a first, relatively fast,
algorithm, and a second alignment method comprises the use of a second, slower but more
accurate, algorithm.
                                                    - 170 -

         In an embodiment, said alignment method comprises the Smith-Waterman or similar
alignment algorithm, or a multiple alignment algorithm such as CLUSTALW.
         In an embodiment, in subgenomic intervals resistant to accurate alignment (e.g., by any
method), de-novo or reference-guided assembly is undertaken by using methods such
ARACHNE or Phusion
         In an embodiment, the a-c, or b-c, are performed in the sequence indicated above.
         In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
         d) performing a comparison, e.g., an alignment comparison, of a read with said selected
alignment method (e.g., a preselected algorithm or parameter); and
         e) optionally, determining if said read meets a predetermined alignment criterion, e.g., a
predetermined criterion can be an alignment to a reference with less than a preselected number of
mismatches or gaps.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises acquiring a nucleotide sequence read obtained
from a tumor and/or control nucleic acid sample (e.g., an FFPE-derived nucleic acid sample).
         In an embodiment, the reads are provided by an NGS sequencing method.
         In an embodiment, the method includes providing a library of nucleic acid members and
sequencing a preselected subgenomic intervals from a pluality of members of said library. IN
embodiments the method can include a step of selecting a subset of said library for sequencing,
e.g., a solution-based selection.
         In an embodiment, (c) comprises selecting the alignment method by:
         f) acquiring a value for an alignment selector for a subgenomic interval, e.g., a
subgenomic interval comprising a nucleotide position associated with a variant, e.g., a
substitution or a rearrangement, e.g., an indel; and
         g) responsive to said acquired value for alignment selector, selecting an alignment
method for analyzing, e.g., aligning, a read.
provided that said alignment selector is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized
for, one or more or all of:
         i) tumor type, e.g., the tumor type in said sample;
         ii) the gene, or type of gene, in which said subgenomic interval being sequenced is
         located, e.g. wherein the gene or type of gene is associated with a preselected probablitity
         or type of variant, e.g., mutation;
                                                 - 171 -

         iii) the site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed;
         iv) the type of variant, e.g., a substitution, associated with the subgenomic interval being
         evaluated;
         v) the type of sample, e.g., an FFPE sample; and
         vi) sequence in or near said subgenomic interval being evaluated, e.g., the expected
propensity for misalignment for said subgenomic interval, e.g., the presence of repeated
sequences in or near said subgenomic interval.
         In an embodiment, said acquired value is a function of a characteristics of the nucleic
acid sample, e.g., sample age, sample tissue source (e.g. pancreatic), presence of
carcinogen/mutagen exposure (e.g. smoking, UV), quality of nucleic acid sample (e.g., level of
nucleic acid fragmentation) in the sample.
         In an embodiment, e.g., after the failure of a first (or more than one) alignment method,
the method comprises assembly (with, e.g., ARACHNE method) of the unaligned reads, e.g., to
recover a novel complex rearrangement
Alignment of more difficult reads
         Methods disclosed herein allow for the rapid and efficient alignment of troublesome
reads. The method is particularly effective when the alignment of reads for a relatively large
number of diverse subgenomic intervals is optimized. By way of example, a method of
analyzing a tumor sample can comprise:
         optionally, sequencing a nucleic acid to acquire a read;
         optionally, aquiring a read (e.g., acquiring nucleotide sequence reads obtained from a
tumor and/or control nucleic acid sample (e.g., an FFPE-derived nucleic acid sample));
         performing a comparison, e.g., an alignment comparison, of a read under a first set of
parameters (e.g., a first mapping algorithm or with a first reference sequence), and determining if
said read meets a first predetermined alignment criterion (e.g., the read can be aligned with said
first reference sequence, e.g., with less than a preselected number of mismatches);
         if said read fails to meet the first predetermined alignment criterion, performing a second
alignment comparison under a second set of parameters, (e.g., a second mapping algorithm or
with a second reference sequence); and,
                                                   - 172 -

        optionally, determining if said read meets said second predetermined criterion (e.g., the
read can be aligned with said second reference sequence with less than a preselected number of
mismatches),
wherein said second set of parameters comprises use of a set of parameters, e.g., said second
reference sequence, which, compared with said first set of parameters, is more likely to result in
an alignment with a read for a preselected variant, e.g., a rearrangement, e.g., an insertion,
deletion, or translocation.
thereby analyzing a read.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises sequences flanking a
preselected variant, e.g., a chromosomal rearrangement, e.g., an insertion, deletion, or
translocation.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises a sequence designed to
align with a read from a preselected variant, e.g., a chromosomal rearrangement, e.g., an
insertion, deletion, or translocation.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises a sequence selected to
allow identification of said preselected rearrangement, e.g., a preselected indel.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises a sequence (e.g., either the
sequence or its complement) corresponding to said preselected rearrangement, e.g., a preselected
indel.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises a simulated sequence (e.g.,
one that is other than the sequence of the indel or its compliment) selected to align with a read of
said preselected sequence.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises sequence, e.g., simulated
sequence, flanking one or both sides of the rearrangment.
        In an embodiment, said second reference sequence comprises sequence, e.g., simulated
sequence, from a junction of said rearrangment.
Mutation Calling
        Base calling refers to the raw output of a sequencing device. Mutation calling refers to
the process of selecting a nucleotide value, e.g., A, G, T, or C, for a nucleotide position being
sequenced. Typically, the sequencing reads (or base calling) for a position will provide more
                                               -  173 -

than one value, e.g., some reads will give a T and some will give a G. Mutation calling is the
process of assigning a nucleotide value, e.g., one of those values to the sequence. Although it is
referred to as "mutation" calling it can be applied to assign a nucleotide value to any nucleotide
position, e.g., positions corresponding to mutant alleles, wildtype alleles, alleles that have not
been characterized as either mutant or wildtype, or to positions not characterized by variability.
Methods for mutation calling can include one or more of the following: making independent
calls based on the information at each position in the reference sequence (e.g., examining the
sequence reads; examining the base calls and quality scores; calculating the probability of
observed bases and quality scores given a potential genotype; and assigning genotypes (e.g.,
using Bayes rule)); removing false positives (e.g., using depth thresholds to reject SNPs with
read depth much lower or higher than expected; local realignment to remove false positives due
to small indels); and performing linkage disequilibrium (LD)/imputation based analysis to refine
the calls.
         Equations to calculate the genotype likelihood associated with a specific genotype and
position are described, e.g., in Li H. and Durbin R. Bioinformatics, 2010; 26(5): 589-95. The
prior expectation for a particular mutation in certain cancer type can be used when evaluating
samples from that cancer type. Such likelihood can be derived from public databases of cancer
mutations, e.g., Catalogue of Somatic Mutation in Cancer (COSMIC), HGMD (Human Gene
Mutation Database), The SNP Consortium, Breast Cancer Mutation Data Base (BIC), and Breast
Cancer Gene Database (BCGD).
         Examples of LD/imputation based analysis are described, e.g., in Browning B.L. and Yu
Z. Am. J. Hum. Genet. 2009, 85(6):847-61. Examples of low-coverage SNP calling methods are
described, e.g., in Li Y. et al., Annu. Rev. Genomics Hum. Genet. 2009, 10:387-406.
Mutation Calling: Substitutions
         After alignment, detection of substitutions can be performed using a calling method, e.g.,
Bayesian mutation calling method; which is applied to each base in each of the subgenomic
intervals, e.g., exons of the gene to be evaluated, where presence of alternate alleles is observed.
This method will compare the probability of observing the read data in the presence of a
mutation with the probability of observing the read data in the presence of base-calling error
                                                - 174 -

alone. Mutations can be called if this comparison is sufficiently strongly supportive of the
presence of a mutation.
         Methods have been developed that address limited deviations from frequencies of 50% or
100% for the analysis of cancer DNA. (e.g., SNVMix -Bioinformatics. 2010 March 15; 26(6):
730-736.) Method disclosed herein however allow consideration of the possibility of the
presence of a mutant allele at anywhere between 1% and 100% of sample DNA, and especially
at levels lower than 50% This approach is particularly important for the detection of mutations in
low-purity FFPE samples of natural (multi-clonal) tumor DNA.
         An advantage of a Bayesian mutation-detection approach is that the comparison of the
probability of the presence of a mutation with the probability of base-calling error alone can be
weighted by a prior expectation of the presence of a mutation at the site. If some reads of an
alternate allele are observed at a frequently mutated site for the given cancer type, then presence
of a mutation may be confidently called even if the amount of evidence of mutation does not
meet the usual thresholds. This flexibility can then be used to increase detection sensitivity for
even rarer mutations/lower purity samples, or to make the test more robust to decreases in read
coverage. The likelihood of a random base-pair in the genome being mutated in cancer is -le-6.
The likelihood of specific mutations at many sites in a typical multigenic cancer genome panel
can be orders of magnitude higher. These likelihoods can be derived from public databases of
cancer mutations (e.g., COSMIC). For example, for one of the genes in to be analyzed, KRAS,
the following prior expectations of mutations provided in Table 6 may be used when evaluating
colon cancer samples:
Table 6: Exemplary Prior Expectations for KRAS Gene in Colon Cancer
Gene       Cancer type        Nucleotide             Chr        Genome      Probability of
                              substitution                      Position    the
                              (coding sequence                              substitution in
                              position and                                  the cancer
                              nucleotides)                                  type
KRAS       Colon              35G>A                  12         25398284    11.924%
KRAS       Colon              35G>T                  12         25398284    7.542%
                                               - 175 -

KRAS        Colon               38G>A                  12        25398281    6.888%
KRAS        Colon               34G>T                  12        25398285    2.711%
KRAS        Colon               35G>C                  12        25398284    2.492%
KRAS        Colon               34G>A                  12        25398285    1.895%
KRAS        Colon               34G>C                  12        25398285    0.415%
KRAS        Colon               37G>T                  12        25398282    0.162%
KRAS        Colon               183A>C                 12        25380275    0.138%
KRAS        Colon               37G>C                  12        25398282    0.081%
KRAS        Colon               182A>T                 12        25380276    0.053%
KRAS        Colon               183A>T                 12        25380275    0.048%
KRAS        Colon               38G>T                  12        25398281    0.043%
KRAS        Colon               38G>C                  12        25398281    0.033%
KRAS        Colon               182A>G                 12        25380276    0.029%
KRAS        Colon               37G>A                  12        25398282    0.029%
KRAS        Colon               181C>A                 12        25380277    0.019%
Such a table can then be created and used in the mutation calling algorithm for any gene in the
multigene test where sufficient information in the public databases is available.
Mutation calling: Indels
         Indel calling is a process of finding bases in the sequencing data that differ from the
reference sequence by insertion or deletion, typically including an associated confidence score or
statistical evidence metric.
         Methods of indel calling can include the steps of identifying candidate indel, calculating
genotype likelihood through local re-alignment, and performing LD-based genotype inference
and calling. Typically, a Bayesian approach is used to obtain potential indel candidates, and then
these candidates are tested together with the reference sequence in a Bayesian framework.
         Algorithms to generate candidate indels are described, e.g., in McKenna A. et al.,
Genome Res. 2010; 20(9):1297-303; Ye K. et al., Bioinformatics, 2009; 25(21):2865-71; Lunter
                                                 - 176 -

G. and Goodson M. Genome Res. 2010, epub ahead of print; Li H. et al., Bioinformatics 2009,
Bioinformatics 25(16):2078-9.
        Methods for generate indel calls and individual-level genotype likelihoods include, e.g.,
the Dindel algorithm (Albers C.A. et al., Genome Res. 2010 Oct 27. [Epub ahead of print]). For
example, the Bayesian EM algorithm can be used to analyze the reads, make initial indel calls,
and generate genotype likelihoods for each candidate indel, followed by imputation of genotypes
using, e.g., QCALL (Le S.Q. and Durbin R. Genome Res. 2010 Oct 27. [Epub ahead of print]).
Parameters, such as prior expectations of observing the indel can be adjusted (e.g., increased or
decreased), based on the size or location of the indels.
Table 9: Genome Locations Frequently Mutated in Four Common Epithelial Cancers
(Ordered by frequency)
                                  Nucleotide      hr     genome position     Mutati
 Gene              Tissu           Exchange        m         (hg19)          on rate
                                                  0
                                                                             11.924
  KRAS        large-intestine       35G>A        12         25398284             %
                    lung           2155G>T        7         55241707         11.94
  EGFR
                   breast          3140A>G        3        178952085         11.165
PIK3CA
  KRAS        large intestine       35G>T        12         25398284         7.542%
  KRAS        large-intestine       38G>A        12         25398281         6.888%
  KRAS              lung            34G>T        12         25398285         6.709%
 BRAF         large intestine      1799T>A        7        140453136         5.924%
 BRAF         large-intestine      1799T>A        7        140453136         4.492%
 EGFR               lung           2573T>G        7         55259515         4.478%
PIK3CA             breast          1633G>A        3        178936091         4.410%
PIK3CA             breast          1624G>A        3        178936082         3.508%
  KRAS              lung            35G>T        12         25398284         3.498%
PIK3CA        large-intestine      1633G>A        3        178936091         3.429%
  KRAS              lung            35G>A        12         25398284         2.899%
  KRAS        large-intestine       34G>T        12         25398285         2.711%
PIK3CA             breast          1624G>A        3        178936082         2.586%
PIK3CA        large intestine      3140A>G        3        178952085         2.540%
  KRAS        large intestine       35G>C        12         25398284         2.492%
PIK3CA        large intestine      1624G>A        3        178936082         1.947%
  KRAS        large intestine       34G>A        12         25398285         1.895%
PIK3CA        large-intestine      1634A>C        3        178936092         1.291%
                                               - 177 -

CTNNB1 large-intestine   134C>T     3     41266137 1.243%
PIK3CA     breast       3140A>T     3    178952085 1.183%
 KRAS       lung          35G>C    12     25398284 1.094%
CTNNB1 large-intestine   121A>G     3     41266124 1.001%
CTNNB1      lung         110C>G     3     41266113 0.817%
 KRAS       lung          34G>A    12     25398285 0.668%
CTNNB1 large-intestine    98C>A     3     41266101 0.656%
 BRAF       lung        1799T>A     7    140453136 0.651%
 KRAS       lung          37G>T    12     25398282 0.529%
PIK3CA      lung        1633G>A     3    178936091 0.527%
PIK3CA large-intestine  1636C>A     3    178936094 0.508%
CTNNB1      lung         110C>T     3    41266113  0.490%
PIK3CA largeintestine   3140A>T     3    178952085 0.466%
PIK3CA      lung        1633G>A     3    178936091 0.461%
 KRAS  large-intestine    34G>C    12     25398285 0.415%
CTNNB1      lung          98C>G     3    41266101  0.408%
 KRAS       lung          34G>C    12     25398285 0.382%
PIK3CA     breast       1634A>C     3    178936092 0.381%
 KRAS       lung         38G>A     12     25398281 0.356%
CTNNB1 large-intestine    98C>G     3    41266101  0.345%
PIK3CA      lung        1624G>A     3    178936082 0.329%
PIK3CA      lung        3140A>G     3    178952085 0.329%
 EGFR       lung        2369C>T     7     55249071 0.321%
CTNNB1      lung         121A>G     3    41266124  0.245%
CTNNB1 large-intestine   133T>C     3    41266136  0.242%
 NRAS       lung         181C>A     1    115256530 0.232%
PIK3CA     breast       1634A>G     3    178936092 0.220%
PIK3CA large-intestine  1634A>G     3    178936092 0.212%
PIK3CA      lung        1636C>A     3    178936094 0.198%
 NRAS       lung         182A>T     1    115256529 0.193%
PIK3CA large-intestine  3139C>T     3    178952084 0.190%
 EGFR  large-intestine  2155G>A     7     55241707 0.170%
 KRAS  large-intestine    37G>T    12     25398282 0.162%
PIK3CA     breast       3145G>C     3    178952090 0.160%
 NRAS       lung         182A>G     1    115256529 0.155%
PIK3CA large-intestine  1634A>C     3    178936092 0.148%
 KRAS       lung       34_35GG>T   12     25398284 0.148%
                            T
PIK3CA     breast       1637A>G     3    178936095 0.140%
 KRAS  large-intestine   183A>C    12     25380275 0.138%
CTNNB1 large-intestine   122C>T     3    41266125  0.138%
PIK3CA large-intestine   263G>A     3    178916876 0.127%
                                 - 178 -

 NRAS       lung         34G>T    1    115258748 0.116%
 EGFR       lung       2582T>A    7     55259524 0.110%
CTNNB1 large-intestine  101G>T    3     41266104 0.104%
PIK3CA     breast      3139C>T    3    178952084 0.100%
 KRAS       lung        183A>T   12     25380275 0.095%
PIK3CA large-intestine 1637A>G    3    178936095 0.085%
CTNNB1      lung         94G>T    3    41266097  0.082%
CTNNB1      lung         98C>T    3     41266101 0.082%
CTNNB1      lung        101G>A    3     41266104 0.082%
CTNNB1      lung        101G>T    3     41266104 0.082%
CTNNB1      lung        134C>T    3     41266137 0.082%
 KRAS  large-intestine   37G>C   12     25398282 0.081%
PIK3CA     breast      1636C>A    3    178936094 0.080%
 KRAS       lung        182A>G   12     25380276 0.078%
 EGFR       lung       2155G>A    7     55241707 0.077%
 EGFR       lung       2156G>C    7     55241708 0.077%
 EGFR       lung       2303G>T    7     55249005 0.072%
CTNNB1 large-intestine  101G>A    3    41266104  0.069%
CTNNB1 large-intestine  110C>G    3    41266113  0.069%
PIK3CA      lung       1624G>C    3    178936082 0.066%
PIK3CA      lung       1634A>C    3    178936092 0.066%
PIK3CA      lung       3140A>T    3    178952085 0.066%
PIK3CA large-intestine 1636C>G    3    178936094 0.063%
PIK3CA large-intestine 1637A>T    3    178936095 0.063%
 KRAS       lung        182A>T   12     25380276 0.061%
PIK3CA     breast      1636C>G    3    178936094 0.060%
 KRAS  large-intestine  182A>T   12     25380276 0.053%
 KRAS       lung        183A>C   12     25380275 0.052%
 KRAS  large-intestine  183A>T   12     25380275 0.048%
 KRAS       lung        181C>A   12     25380277 0.043%
 KRAS  large-intestine   38G>T   12     25398281 0.043%
PIK3CA large-intestine 1624G>C    3    178936082 0.042%
PIK3CA large-intestine 1634A>T    3    178936092 0.042%
PIK3CA large-intestine 1637A>C    3    178936095 0.042%
PIK3CA     breast      1625A>T    3    178936083 0.040%
PIK3CA     breast      1633G>C    3    178936091 0.040%
PIK3CA     breast      1637A>C    3    178936095 0.040%
 NRAS       lung        183A>T    1    115256528 0.039%
 NRAS       lung        181C>G    1    115256530 0.039%
 NRAS       lung         35G>C    1    115258747 0.039%
 NRAS       lung        35G>A     1    115258747 0.039%
 KRAS       lung        181C>G   12     25380277 0.035%
                               - 179 -

CTNNB1 large-intestine    94G>A      3        41266097 0.035%
CTNNB1 large intestine     94G>T     3        41266097 0.035%
CTNNB1 large-intestine     97T>C     3        41266100 0.035%
CTNNB1 large-intestine    100G>A     3        41266103 0.035%
CTNNB1 large-intestine    110C>T     3        41266113 0.035%
CTNNB1 large-intestine    133T>G     3        41266136 0.035%
CTNNB1 large-intestine    134C>G     3        41266137 0.035%
 KRAS  large-intestine     38G>C    12        25398281 0.033%
 KRAS  large-intestine    182A>G    12        25380276 0.029%
 KRAS  large-intestine     37G>A    12        25398282 0.029%
PIK3CA large intestine   1625A>G     3       178936083 0.021%
PIK3CA large-intestine   1633G>C     3       178936091 0.021%
PIK3CA large-intestine   3145G>C     3       178952090 0.021%
PIK3CA large-intestine   3146G>C     3       178952091 0.021%
PIK3CA      breast        263G>A     3       178916876 0.020%
PIK3CA      breast       1624G>C     3       178936082 0.020%
PIK3CA      breast       3146G>C     3       178952091 0.020%
 EGFR        lung        2582T>G     7        55259524 0.019%
 KRAS  large-intestine    181C>A    12        25380277 0.019%
                       34_35GG>T
 KRAS  large-intestine       T      12        25398284 0.019%
 KRAS        lung         182A>C    12        25380276 0.017%
 KRAS        lung          37G>C    12        25398282 0.017%
 KRAS        lung         37G>A     12        25398282 0.017%
 KRAS        lung      34_35GG>C    12        25398284 0.017%
                             T
 EGFR        lung       2154_2155    7        55241706 0.010%
                          GG>TT
 EGFR        lung      25732574T     7        55259515 0.010%
 KRAS  large-intestine 34_35GG>A    12        25398284 0.010%
                             T
 KRAS        lung          38G>C    12        25398281 0.009%
 KRAS        lung          38G>T    12        25398281 0.009%
 EGFR        lung        2156G>A     7        55241708 0.005%
 EGFR        lung        2303G>A     7        55249005 0.005%
 EGFR        lung        2572C>A     7        55259514 0.005%
 EGFR        lung      2572_2573C    7        55259514 0.005%
                           T>AA
 EGFR        lung      2572_2573C    755259514         0.005%
                           T>AG
 EGFR        lung        2581C>G     7        55259523 0.005%
 KRAS  large-intestine    181C>G    12        25380277 0.005%
                                  - 180 -

 KRAS       large-intestine   35_36GT>A      12        25398283         0.005%
                                   G
 KRAS       large-intestine   34_36GGT>      12        25398283         0.005%
                                  TGG
 KRAS       large-intestine   34_35GG>C      12        25398284         0.005%
                                   T
 KRAS       large intestine   34_35GG>T      12        25398284         0.005%
                                   A
 BRAF       large-intestine     1798G>A       7       140453137         0.003%
Table 10: Positions of Common Indels in Four Common   Epithelial Cancers
   Gene      Cancer tissue of    Nucleotide     Chrom   Genome      Genome
                   origin       Exchange            o    Start       Stop
                                                some    GRCh37 GRCh37
    CBL             lung      1379_1381delA        11 119149371 119149373
                                    TG
  CTNNB1          prostate     70_141del72          3  41266073    41266145
  CTNNB1      large-intestine  14_241del228         3  41265359    41266276
  CTNNB1      large-intestine 133_135deITCT         3  41266136    41266138
  CTNNB1      large-intestine  14_241del228         3  41266017    41266244
  CTNNB1          prostate    133_135deITCT         3  41266136    41266138
  CTNNB1      large-intestine   73_96del24          3  41266076    41266099
  CTNNB1      large-intestine  70_114del45          3  41266073    41266117
  CTNNB1      large-intestine  14_126del113         3  41265736    41266129
   EGFR             lung      2235_2249de1          7  55242465    55242479
                                     5
   EGFR             lung      2236_2250de1          7  55242466 55242480
                                     5
   EGFR            breast     2319_2320ins8         7  55249021 55249022
   EGFR             lung      2236_2250de1          7  55242466 55242480
                                     5
   EGFR             lung      2240_2257de1          7  55242470 55242487
                                     8
   EGFR             lung      2240_2254de1          7  55242470 55242484
                                     5
   EGFR           prostate    2240_2257de1          7  55242470 55242487
                                     8
   EGFR             lung      2239_2248TTA          7  55242469 55242478
                               AGAGAAG>C
   EGFR             lung      2239_2247de19         7  55242469 55242477
   EGFR             lung      2240_2254de1          7  55242470 55242484
                                     5
                                           - 181 -

  EGFR       lung       2237_2255>T          7 55242467 55242485
 ERBB2       lung      2322_2323ins1        17 37880993 37880994
                                2
 ERBB2      breast      2263_2278>G         17 37880219 37880234
 ERBB2       lung      2325_2326ins1        17 37880996 37880997
                                2
 ERBB2       lung      2324_2325ins1        17 37880995 37880996
                                2
FBXW7      prostate      45_46insCCT         4 153332910 153332911
FBXW7      prostate         540delT          4 153271238 153271238
FBXW7       breast     1644_1645ins4         4 153247156 153247156
                               16
FBXW7  large-intestine 1417_1418insA         4 153249360 153249361
FBXW7  large-intestine 1205_1206insT         4 153250854 153250855
FBXW7  large-intestine 388_389insCTG         4 153332563 153332564
                               AT
FBXW7  large-intestine     2001delG          4 153244156 153244156
FBXW7  large-intestine 1736_1741delG         4 153245450 153245455
                             GCACC
 FGFR3 large-intestine      850delC          4   1803672   1803672
  JAK2       lung      2749_2750insT         9  5089851   5089852
MAP2K4       lung       814_891del78        17  12028611  12028688
MAP2K4       lung           882delG         17  12028679  12028679
 MEN1        lung          1116delC         11 64573176  64573176
  MET        lung      2942_3082de1          7 116411903 116412043
                               41
  MET        lung       3083-52insCT         7 116414883 116414884
 MLH1  large-intestine  738_750de13          3 37055983 37055995
 MLH1  large-intestine 2033_2046de1          3 37090438 37090451
                               4
 MLH1  large-intestine      769delA          3 37056014 37056014
 MLH1  large-intestine      129delA          3 37038122 37038122
 MLH1  large-intestine 1852_1854delA         3 37089130 37089132
                              AG
 MLH1  large-intestine 1988_1989delA         3 37090099 37090100
                               G
 MLH1  large-intestine    1559-9insG         3 37081668 37081669
 MLH1  large-intestine     1497delG          3 37070362 37070362
 MLH1  large-intestine 1897_1904delG         3 37090005 37090015
                          AAGGGAA
 MLH1  large-intestine      872delT          3 37059078 37059078
NOTCH1 large-intestine     7023delC          9 139391175 139391175
NOTCH1       lung      7330_7330G>T          9 139390864 139390865
                                    - 182 -

                              GT
NOTCH1       lung      6824_6825insT        9 139391369 139391370
 PTEN  large-intestine     800delA         10 89717775  89717775
 PTEN  large-intestine     968delA         10 89720817  89720817
 PTEN  large-intestine 955_958delACT       10 89720804  89720807
                              T
 PTEN       breast      179_179delA        10 89685284  89685284
 PTEN      prostate      672_673insA       10 89717647  89717648
 PTEN      prostate      16_17delAA        10 89624242  89624243
 PTEN      prostate      17_18delAA        10 89624243  89624244
 PTEN       breast      208_251del44       10 89685313  89690844
 PTEN       breast     951_954delACT       10 89720800  89720803
                              T
 PTEN       breast         823delG         10 89720672  89720672
 PTEN        lung      1_1212del1212       10 89624227  89725229
 PTEN  large-intestine   800_801insA       10 89717775  89717776
 PTEN  large-intestine   21_22delGA        10 89624247  89624248
 PTEN  large-intestine     170delT         10 89685275  89685275
 PTEN  large-intestine   170_171insT       10 89685275  89685276
 PTEN  large-intestine     270delT         10 89692786  89692786
 PTEN  large-intestine 954_957delTAC       10 89720803  89720806
                              T
 PTEN      prostate        491delA         10 89693007  89693007
 PTEN      prostate        730delC         10 89717705  89717705
 PTEN      prostate        107delG         10 89653809  89653809
 PTEN      prostate      473_474insT       10 89692989  89692990
 PTEN      prostate       493-12delT       10 89711863  89711863
 PTEN      prostate     226_227delTA       10 89690819  89690820
 PTEN      prostate    950_953delTAC       10 89720799  89720802
                              T
 PTEN      prostate    131_139GCGTA        10 89653833 89653841
                       TACA>ACAGAA
                            AGACA
 PTEN       breast      710_718de19        10 89717685 89717693
 PTEN       breast      987_996del10       10 89720836 89720845
 PTEN       breast     1013_1023de1        10 89720862 89720872
                               1
 PTEN       breast     1_1212del1212       10 89624227  89725229
 PTEN       breast         590delA         10 89711972  89711972
 PTEN       breast       968_969insA       10 89720817  89720818
 PTEN       breast     955_958delACT       10 89720804  89720807
                              T
 PTEN       breast     403_405delATA       10 89692919 89692921
                                    - 183 -

    PTEN          breast     1154_1155delC        10  89725171 89725172
                                     T
    PTEN          breast     831_834delCTT        10  89720680 89720683
                                     C
    PTEN          breast       221_221deIG        10  89690814   89690814
    PTEN          breast          270delT         10  89692786   89692786
    PTEN           lung       244_285del42        10  89690837   89692801
    PTEN           lung          968delA          10  89720817   89720817
    PTEN           lung       944_945insCT        10  89720793   89720794
    PTEN           lung          711delG          10  89717686   89717686
    PTEN           lung      246_253delTTG        10  89690839   89690846
                                  CAGAG
Table 11: Genes Ordered by Calling Threshold Value (Low to High)
in Four Common Epithelial Cancers
   Gene        Tissue
   APC     large intestine
 CDKN2A         lung
  STK11       prostate
   CDH1        breast
 CDKN2A        breast
  STK11         lung
  CEBPA       prostate
  MSH2        prostate
  SMAD4    large intestine
 CDKN2A large intestine
 CDKN2A       prostate
   VHL     large intestine
  MSH6     large intestine
    RB1         lung
   APC         breast
   APC        prostate
    RB1        breast
   APC          lung
    RB1       prostate
  MSH2     large intestine
  CEBPA         lung
    NF1       prostate
  STK11    large intestine
    NF1    large intestine
  SMAD4        breast
  SMAD4         lung
                                          - 184 -

    NF2            breast
    NF2       large intestine
   STK11           breast
    ATM       large intestine
    ATM             lung
   MSH2            breast
 Mutation Calling Module
        Methods disclosed herein provide for the use of customized or tuned mutation calling
parameters to optimize performance in sequencing methods, particularly in methods that rely on
massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genetic events in a large number of
diverse genes, e.g., from tumor samples. In embodiments of the method mutation calling for each
of a number of preselected subgenomic intervals is, individually, customized or fine tuned. The
customization or tuning can be based on one or more of the factors described herein, e.g., the type
of cancer in a sample, the gene in which subgenomic interval to be sequenced is located, or the
variant to be sequenced.
        This selection or use of alignment conditions finely tuned to a number of subgenomic
intervals to be sequenced allows optimization of speed, sensitivity and specificity. The method is
particularly effective when the alignment of reads for a relatively large number of diverse
subgenomic intervals is optimized.
        Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a
tumor sample. The method comprises:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a sample, e.g., a plurality of
tumor members from a tumor sample;
        (b) optionally, enriching the library for preselected sequences, e.g., by contacting the
library with a bait set (or plurality of bait sets) to provide selected members (sometimes referred
to herein as library catch);
        (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a member, e.g., a tumor member from
said library or library catch, e.g., by a method comprising sequencing, e.g., with a next
generation sequencing method;
        (d) aligning said read by an alignment method, e.g., an alignment method described herein;
and
                                                  -  185 -

         (e) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation, e.g., with a Bayesian method or
a calling method described herein) from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample.
         wherein a nucleotide value is assigned for a nucleotide position in each of X unique
subgenomic intervals is assigned by a unique calling method, wherein unique subgenomic interval
means different from the other X- 1 subgenoimc intervals, and wherein unique calling method
means different from the other X-1 calling methods, and X is at least 2. The calling methods can
differ, and thereby be unique, e.g., by relying on different Bayesian prior values.
         In an embodiment, step (b) is present. In an embodiment, step (b) is absent.
         In an embodiment, assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a value which is or
represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing a preselected variant,
e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide position in a tumor of type.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) for at least 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions,
wherein each assignment is a function of a unque (as opposed to the value for the other
assignements) value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a
read showing a preselected variant, e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide position in a
tumor of type.
         In an embodiment, assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a set of values which
represent the probabilities of observing a read showing said preselected variant at said preselected
nucleotide position if the variant is present in the sample at a frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.)
and/or if the variant is absent (e.g., observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone);
         Thus, a method of analyzing a tumor sample can comprise a mutation calling method.
The mutation calling methods described herein can include the following:
         (b) acquiring, for a preselected nucleotide position in each of said X subgenomic
intervals:
         (i) a first value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing
         a read showing a preselected variant, e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide
         position in a tumor of type X; and
         (ii) a second set of values which represent the probabilities of observing a read showing
         said preselected variant at said preselected nucleotide position if the variant is present in
                                                  - 186 -

         the sample at a frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.) and/or if the variant is absent (e.g.,
         observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone);
         (c) responsive to said values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) from
said reads for each of said preselected nucleotide positions by weighing, e.g., by a Bayesian
method described herein, the comparison among the values in the second set using the first value
(e.g., computing the posterior probability of the presence of a mutation), thereby analyzing said
sample,
         In an embodiment, the method comprises one or more or all of:
         (i) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least 10, 20, 40, 50, 60,
70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions, wherein each assignment is based on a
unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second values;
         (ii) the assignment of method of (i), wherein at least 10, 20, 30 or 40 of the assignments
are made with first values which are a function of a probability of a preselected variant being
present of less than 5, 10, or 20%, e.g.,of the cells in a preselected tumor type;
         (iii) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least X preselected
nucleotide positions, each of which of which being associated with a preselected variant having a
unique (as opposed to the other X-1 assignments) probability of being present in a tumor of
preselected type, e.g., the tumor type of said sample, wherein, optionally, each said of X
assignments is based on a unique (as opposed to the other X-1 assignments) first and/or second
value (wherein X= 2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100);
         (iv) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) at a first and a second
nucleotide position, wherein the likelihood of a first preselected variant at said first nucleotide
position being present in a tumor of preselected type (e.g., the tumor type of said sample) is at
least 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 times greater than the likelihood of a second preselected variant at
said second nucleotide position being present, wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a
unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second value;
         (v) assigning a nucleotide value to a plurality of preselected nucleotide positions (e.g.,
calling mutations), wherein said plurality comprises an assignment for variants falling into one or
more, e.g., at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or all, of the following probability ranges:
                  less than .01; .01-.02;
                  greater than 0.02 and less than or equal to 0.03;
                                                    -  187 -

                  greater than 0.03 and less than or equal to 0.04;
                  greater than 0.04 and less than or equal to 0.05;
                  greater than 0.05 and less than or equal to 0.1;
                  greater than 0.1 and less than or equal to 0.2;
                  greater than 0.2 and less than or equal to 0.5;
                  greater than 0.5 and less than or equal to 1.0;
                  greater than 1.0 and less than or equal to 2.0;
                  greater than 2.0 and less than or equal to 5.0;
                  greater than 5.0 and less than or equal to 10.0;
                  greater than 10.0 and less than or equal to 20.0;
                  greater than 20.0 and less than or equal to 50.0; and
                  greater than 50 and less than or equal to 100.0 %;
         wherein, a probability range is the range of probabilities that a preselected variant at a
preselected nucleotide position will be present in a tumor of preselected type (e.g., the tumor
type of said sample) or the probability that a preselected variant at a preselected nucleotide
position will be present in the recited % of the cells in a tumor sample, library from the tumor
sample, or library catch from that library, for a preselected type (e.g., the tumor type of said
sample), and
         wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a unique first and/or second value (e.g.,
unique as opposed to the other assignments in a recited probability range or unique as opposed to
the first and/or second values for one or more or all of the other listed probability ranges).
         (vi) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least 1, 2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40,
50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions each, independently, having a
preselected variant present in less than 50, 40, 25, 20, 15, 10, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0.5, 0.4, 0.3, 0.2, or 0.1
% of the DNA in said sample, wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a unique (as
opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second value;
         (vii) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) at a first and a second
nucleotide position, wherein the likelihood of a preselected variant at the first position in the
DNA of said sample is at least 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 times greater than a the likelihood of a
preselected variant at said second nucleotide position in the DNA of said sample, wherein,
                                                 -  188 -

optionally, each assignment is based on a unique (as opposed to the other assignments) first
and/or second value;
       (viii) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) in one or more or all of the
following:
                (1) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in less than 1.0 % of the cells in said sample, of the nucleic acid in
                a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from that library;
                (2) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in 1.0- 2.0 % of the cells in said sample, of the nucleic acid in a
                library from said sample, or the nucleic acid in a library catch from that library;
                (3) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in greater than 2.0 % and less than or equal to 3 % of the cells in
                said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                in a library catch from that library
                (4) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in greater than 3.0 % and less than or equal to 4 % of the cells in
                said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                in a library catch from that library;
                (5) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in greater than 4.0 % and less than or equal to 5 % of the cells in
                said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                in a library catch from that library;
                (6) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in greater than 5.0 % and less than or equal to 10 % of the cells in
                said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                in a library catch from that library;
                (7) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                variant present in greater than 10.0 % and less than or equal to 20 % of the cells in
                said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                in a library catch from that library;
                                                  - 189 -

                 (8) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                 variant present in greater than 20.0 % and less than or equal to 40 % of the cells in
                 said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                 in a library catch from that library;
                 (9) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                 variant present at greater than 40.0 % and less than or equal to 50 % of the cells in
                 said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic acid
                 in a library catch from that library; or
                 (10) at least 1, 2 3, 4 or 5 preselected nucleotide positions having a preselected
                 variant present in greater than 50.0 % and less than or equal to 100 % of the cells
                 in said sample, of the nucleic acid in a library from said sample, or the nucleic
                 acid in a library catch from that library;
wherein, optionally, each assignment is based on a unique first and/or second value (e.g,, unique
as opposed to the other assignments in the recited range (e.g., the range in (i) of less than 1%) or
unque as opposed to a first and/or second values for a determination in one or more or all of the
other listed ranges); or
         (ix) assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) at each of X nucleotide
positions, each nucleotide position, independently, having a likelihood (of a preselected variant
being present in the DNA of said sample) that is unique as compared with the likelihood for a
preselected variant at the other X-1 nucleotide positions, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1,
2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, and wherein each assignment is based on a unique
(as opposed to the other assignments) first and/or second value.
         In an embodiment, the method includes assigning a nucleotide value at at least 2, 3, 5, 10,
20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 preselected nucleotide positions, each having, independently, a
first value that is a function of a probability that is less than 0.5, 0.4, 0.25, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05, 0.04,
0.03, 0.02, or 0.01.
         In an embodiment, the method includes assigning a nucleotide value at at each of at least
X nucleotide positions, each independently having a first value that is unique as compared with
the other X-1 first values, and wherein each of said X first values is a function of a probability
that is less than 0.5, 0.4, 0.25, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05, 0.04, 0.03, 0.02, or 0.01,
wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
                                                   - 190 -

         In an embodiment, said first and/ or second value is weighted by a prior expectation of
the presence of a preselected variant at said preselected nucleotide position, e.g., as a function of
tumor type.
         In an embodiment, the number of reads needed to assign a nucleotide value for a
preselected nucleotide position (e.g., calling a mutation) is inversely related to the magnitude of
said first value.
         In an embodiment, the number of reads needed to assign a nucleotide value for a
preselected nucleotide position (e.g., calling a mutation) is positively correlated with the
magnitude of the expected probability of a preselected variant.
         As referred to elsewhere herein, a method is particularly effective when the calling of
mutations for a relatively large number of subgenomic intervals is optimized. Thus, in an
embodiment, at least X unique first and/or second values are used to analyze reads for at least X
unique subgenomic intervals, wherein unique means different from the other X-1, and X is equal
to 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Table 1 are
analyzed, and X is equal to 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment, subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from Table 1 having the
priority 1 annotation are analyzed, and X is equal to 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment, unique first and/or second values are applied to subgenomic intervals
in each of at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 different genes.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Table 1 or 1A, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment
unique first and/or second values are applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20,
30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 genes from Table
1 or 1A having the priority 1 annotation is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment
unique first and/or second values are applied to subgenomic intervals in each of at least 10, 20,
30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position for at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200,
300, 400, or 500 variants or codons, e.g., mutations, from Table 1, 1A, 2, or 3, is assigned a
                                                 -  191 -

nucleotide value. In an embodiment unique first and/or second values are applied to subgenomic
intervals in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         applying unique first and/or second values to each of X genomic intervals, each of which
having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point
mutation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, e.g., wherein each
of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different gene.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         applying unique first and/or second values to each of X genomic intervals, each of which
having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a
rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or translocation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20,
40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, wherein each of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different
gene.
         In an embodiment, the method includes 1, 2, 3, 4 or all of the following (in embodiments
a group of 2 or more of the following are included and the first and/or second values for each of
the group are unique):
         (i) responsive to first and/or second values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) from reads for a first preselected nucleotide position for which, e.g., the deepest
coverage is required to enable a high level of sensitivity for mutations that appear at a relatively
low frequency. Examples include a variant, e.g., a point mutation, that appears at a frequency of
5% or less in cells in the sample, the nucleic acids of a library, or the nucleic acids of a library
catch. Typically, these variants require >500X sequencing depth to ensure high detection
reliability. An exemplary application is an exon that is frequently mutated in a preselected
cancer;
         (ii) responsive to first and/or second values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) from reads for a second preselected nucleotide positions for which, e.g., high coverage
(though in embodiments less than that in (i) above) is required to enable a high level of
sensitivity for mutations that appear at a relatively high frequency, e.g., at a higher frequency
than a mutation in (i) above. Examples include a variant, e.g., a point mutation, that appears at a
frequency of greater than 5% and up to 10, 15 or 20% in cells in the sample, the nucleicc acids of
a library, or the nucleic acids of a library catch. Typically, these variants require >200X
                                                 - 192 -

sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. An examplary application is in a gene
related to cancer;
         (iii) responsive to first and/or second values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) from reads for a third preselected nucleotide position for which, e.g., low to medium
coverage (in embodiments less than that in (i) or (ii) above) is required to enable a high level of
sensitivity for heterozygous alleles. Examples include a variant, e.g., (1) a pharmacogenomic
SNP that may be associated with the ability of patient to respond to or metabolize a drug; (2) a
genomic SNP that may be used to uniquely identify (fingerprint) a patient; or (3) a genomic
SNP/loci that may be used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and LOH;
         (iv) responsive to first and/or second values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) from reads for a fourth preselected nucleotide position, e.g., a structural breakpoint,
e.g., in a rearrangment, e.g., a translocation or an indel. In embodiments the coverage is less
than in one of (i), (ii) or (iii). Examples inlcude an intronic breakpoint, which in embodiments
requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high detection reliability. An exemplary
application is a translocation/indel-prone cancer gene; and
         (v) responsive to first and/or second values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a
mutation) from reads for a fifth preselected nucleotide position for which, e.g., sparse coverage
can improve the ability to detect copy number changes. In embodiments the coverage is less than
in one of (i), (ii) (iii) or (iv). For example, a 1 copy deletion of several terminal exons, e.g. which
requires 0.1-loX coverage to ensure high detection reliability. An exempary application is to an
amplification/deletion-prone cancer gene.
         Methods disclosed herein provide for the use of customized or tuned mutation calling
parameters to optimize performance in sequencing methods, particularly in methods that rely on
massively parallel sequencing of a large number of diverse genetic events in a large number of
diverse genes. In embodiments of the method, a "threshold value" is used to evaluate reads, and
select from the reads a value for a nucleotide position, e.g., calling a mutation at a specific
position in a gene. In embodiments of the method, a threshold value for each of a number of
preselected subgenomic intervals is customized or fine tuned. The customization or tuning can
be based on one or more of the factors described herein, e.g., the type of cancer in a sample, the
gene in which subgenomic interval to be sequenced is located, or the variant to be sequenced.
This provides for calling that is finely tuned to each of a number of subgenomic intervals to be
                                                   - 193 -

sequenced. The method is particularly effective when a relatively large number of diverse
subgenomic intervals are analyzed.
         Accordingly, in another aspect, a method of analyzing a sample, e.g., a tumor sample,
from a subject is featured. The method comprises:
         (a) acquiring one or a plurality of reads for each of X subgenomic intervals from nucleic
acid from said sample;
         (b) acquiring, for each of said X subgenomic intervals, a threshold value, wherein each of
said acquired X threshold values is unique as compared with the other X-1 threshold values,
thereby providing X unique threshold values;
         (c) for each of said X subgenomic intervals, comparing an observed value which is a
function of the number of reads having a preselected nucleotide value at a preselected nucleotide
position with its unique threshold value, thereby applying to each of said X subgenomic
intervals, its unique threshold value: and
         (d) optionally, responsive to the result of said comparison, assigning a nucleotide value to
a preselected nucleotide position,
         wherein X is equal to or greater than 2,
         thereby analyzing said sample.
         Embodiments of the method can be applied where threshold values for a relatively large
number of subgenomic intervals are optimized, as is seen, e.g., from the following embodiments.
         In an embodiment, X is at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
         In an embodiment, a unique threshold value is applied to subgenomic intervals in each of
at least 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 different genes.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140, 160 or
180 genes, e.g., genes from Table 1 or 1A, is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment a
unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position in at least 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 genes from Table
1 or 1A having the priority 1 annotation is assigned a nucleotide value. In an embodiment a
unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or
50% of said genes analyzed.
                                                  - 194 -

         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position for at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200,
300, 400, or 500 variants or codons, e.g., mutations, from Table 1, 1A, 2, or 3, is assigned a
nucleotide value. In an embodiment, a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic
interval in each of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position for at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, or 200
variants, e.g., mutations, from the bottom half or bottom third of Table 9 is assigned a nucleotide
value. In an embodiment a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of
at least 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of said genes analyzed.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         acquiring and applying unique threshold values to each of X genomic intervals, each of
which having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a
point mutation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, e.g., wherein
each of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different gene.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         acquiring and applying unique threshold values to each of X genomic intervals, each of
which having a variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a
rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or translocation, and X is greater than 2, 3, 5, 10, 20,
40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, wherein each of said subgenomic intervals is located in a different
gene.
         Embodiments of the method can allow the tuning of threshold values relative to other
threshold values used in an application, as is seen, e.g., from the following embodiments.
         In an embodiment:
         unique threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals to assign a nucleotide value
to preselected nucleotide positions corresponding to at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 150, or
200 variants, e.g., mutations, in Table 4, and
         X of said unique threshold values applied has a threshold value that is higher, e.g., 50%
higher, than another threshold value used in the test, e.g., the lowest threshold value used, the
average or median threshold value used, or the threshold value for common clinically relevant
mutation such as those listed in Table 9 wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15,
20, or 30.
                                                 - 195 -

         In an embodiment, a nucleotide position for at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, or 200
variants, e.g., mutations, from from the top half or top third of Table 9 is assigned a nucleotide
value, and optionally, the assignment transmitted to a third party. In embodiments:
         unique threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals to assign a nucleotide value
to preselected nucleotide positions corresponding to at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 150, or
200 variants, and
         X of said unique threshold values applied has a threshold value that is lower, e.g., 50%
lower, than another threshold value used in the test, e.g., the highest threshold value used, the
average or median threshold value used, or the threshold value for genome locations not
previously observed to be mutated in cancer, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
10, 15, 20, or 30.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 2, 3, 5, 7,
or 8 of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for cancer of the large intestine, and
         for X combinations of two (i.e., a pairwise combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the pairwise combination have the same relative rank order to one
another as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 10, or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of a cancer of the large
intestine, unique threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in APC, SMAD4, and
CDNK2a (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, in each of the three pair-wise
combinations of APC/SMAD4, APC/CDNK2a, and SMAD4/CDNK2a, both members of each of
the pairwise combinations have the same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one
another in Table 11 (e.g., APC is lower than SMAD4 in both the embodiment and in Table 11).
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 3, 5, 7, or
8 of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for cancer of the large intestine, and
         for X combinations of three (i.e., a 3-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, or
5, 10 or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of a cancer of the large
intestine, unique threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in APC, SMAD4,
                                                - 196 -

CDNK2a and VHL (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 3-way
combination of APC/SMAD4/CDNK2a, all three members of the 3-way combination have the
same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11. Similarly, in the
3-way combination of APC/CDNK2a/VHL, all three members of the 3-way combination have
the same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 4, 5, 7, or
8 of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for cancer of the large intestine, and
         for X combinations of four (i.e., a 4-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 4-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 10
or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of a cancer of the large intestine,
unique threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in APC, SMAD4, CDNK2a, VHL,
MSH6, and MSH2 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 4-way
combination of APC/SMAD4/CDNK2a/MSH2, all four members of the 4-way combination have
the same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 2, 3, 5, or
7, of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for lung cancer, and
         for X combinations of two (i.e., a pairwise combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the pairwise combination have the same relative rank order to one
another as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 10, or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of a lung cancer, unique
threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CDNK2a, STK1 1, RB 1, APC, and
SMAD4 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, in each of the three pair-wise
combinations of CDNK2a/ STK1 1, STK1 1/APC, and RB 1/SMAD4, both members of each of
the pairwise combinations have the same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one
another in Table 11 (e.g., STK1 is lower than SMAD4 in both the embodiment and in Table 11).
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 3, 5, or 7,
of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for lung cancer, and
                                                - 197 -

         for X combinations of three (i.e., a 3-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, or
5, 10 or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of lung cancer, unique
threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CDNK2a, STK1 1, RB 1, APC, and
SMAD4 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 3-way combination of
CDNK2/APC/SMAD4, all three members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank
to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 4, 5, or 7
of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for lung cancer, and
         for X combinations of four (i.e., a 4-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 4-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 10
or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of lung cancer, unique threshold
values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CDNK2a, STK1 1, RB 1, APC, and SMAD4 (in
order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 4-way combination of
CDNK2a/STK1 1/APC/SMAD4, all four members of the 4-way combination have the same
relative rank to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 2, 3, 4, 5,
6 or 7, of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for prostate cancer, and
         for X combinations of two (i.e., a pairwise combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the pairwise combination have the same relative rank order to one
another as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 10, or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of a prostate cancer,
unique threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CEBPA, MSH2, CDKN2A, APC,
RB1, NF1, (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, in each of the three pair-wise
combinations of STK1 1/CEBPA, RB 1/NFl, and CEBPA/CDKN2A, both members of each of
the pairwise combinations have the same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one
another in Table 11 (e.g., STK1lis lower than CEBPA in both the embodiment and in Table 11).
                                                - 198 -

         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 3, 4, 5, 6
or 7of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for prostate cancer, and
         for X combinations of three (i.e., a 3-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, or
5, 10 or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of prostate cancer, unique
threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in STK1 1, CEBPA, MSH2, CDKN2A,
APC, and RB1 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 3-way combination of
CDNK2/APC/RB 1, all three members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank to
one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 4, 5, 6 or
7, of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for prostate cancer, and
         for X combinations of four (i.e., a 4-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 4-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 10
or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of prostate cancer, unique
threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in STK1 1, CEBPA, MSH2, CDKN2A,
APC, RB1, and NF1, (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 4-way
combination ofSTK11/APC/RB 1/NFl, all four members of the 4-way combination have the
same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 2, 3, 5, 7,
or 8 of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for breast cancer, and
         for X combinations of two (i.e., a pairwise combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the pairwise combination have the same relative rank order to one
another as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 10, or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of breast cancer, unique
threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CDHl, CDKN2A, APC, RBl, SMAD4,
NF2, STKl 1, MSH2 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, in each of the three pair
                                                - 199 -

wise combinations of APC/SMAD4, APC/NF2, and SMAD4/MSH2, both members of each of
the pairwise combinations have the same relative rank to one another as their genes have to one
another in Table 11 (e.g., APC is lower than SMAD4 in both the embodiment and in Table 11).
        In an embodiment:
        a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 3, 5, 7, or
8 of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for breast cancer, and
        for X combinations of three (i.e., a 3-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, or
5, 10 or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of breast cancer, unique
threshold values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CDH1, CDKN2A, RB1, SMAD4, NF2,
STK1 1, MSH2 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 3-way combination
of CDH1/RB1/STK1 1, all three members of the 3-way combination have the same relative rank
to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
        In an embodiment:
        a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 4, 5, 7, or
8 of the genes listed in genes in Table 11 for breast cancer, and
        for X combinations of four (i.e., a 4-way combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the 4-way combination have the same relative rank order to one another
as their genes have to one another in Table 11, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 10
or 20. By way of example, in an embodiment, in the analysis of breast cancer, unique threshold
values are applied to subgenomic intervals in CDH1, CDKN2A, APC, RB1, SMAD4, NF2,
STK1 1, MSH2 (in order of low to high threshold value). Thus, e.g., in the 4-way combination of
CDH1/SMAD4/STK1 1/MSH2, all four members of the 4-way combination have the same
relative rank to one another as their genes have to one another in Table 11.
        In an embodiment:
        a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of at least 2, or 3 of
the genes APC, SMAD4, and ATM, and
        for X combinations of two (i.e., a pairwise combination) of the unique threshold values
applied, the members of the pairwise combination are in relative rank order of APC, SMAD4,
and ATM, wherein X is equal to or greater than 1, 2, or 3. By way of example, in an
                                               - 200 -

embodiment, in the analysis of a cancer of the large intestine, unique threshold values are applied
to subgenomic intervals in APC, SMAD4, and ATM (in order of low to high threshold value).
Thus, in each of the pair-wise combination of APC/SMAD4 and APC/ATM, both members of
each of the pairwise combinations have the same relative rank as in APC, SMAD4, and ATM).
         In an embodiment:
         a unique threshold value is applied to a subgenomic interval in each of the genes APC,
SMAD4, and ATM, and the order for the threshold values, from low to high is APC, SMAD4,
and ATM.
(Table 11 lists an ordering of genes in order of increasing threshold value for some or all coding
base pairs in those genes, e.g., base pairs that are not otherwise specified by another superseding
lis of bases specifically known to be mutated at a higher rate such as that in Table 9)
         In an embodiment:
         wherein a first unique threshold value is applied to a first preselected nucleotide position,
a variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, and
         a second unique threshold value is applied to a preslected nucleotide other than said first
preselected nucleotide position, e.g., a position having no variant associated with a tumor
phenotype, and said first threshold value is higher than the second.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises:
         a) acquiring and applying a first unique threshold value to a first genomic interval, a
variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point
mutation, e.g., a mutation on Table 6;
         b) acquiring and applying a second unique threshold value to a second genomic interval,
a variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a
rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or translocation, e.g., a mutation on Table 5; and
         c) acquiring and applying a third unique threshold value to a third genomic interval, e.g.,
a genomic interval in which variants are not associated with a tumor phenotype or with a tumor
of the type in said sample.
         In an embodiment the method includes 1, 2, 3, 4 or all of the following (in embodiments
a group of 2 or more of the following are included and the threshold values for each of the group
are unique):
                                                -  201 -

         (i) applying a first threshold value toreads for a first preselected nucleotide position for
which, e.g., the deepest coverage is required to enable a high level of sensitivity for mutations
that appear at a relatively low frequency. Examples include a variant, e.g., a point mutation, that
appears at a frequency of 5% or less in cells in the sample, the nucleic acids of a library, or the
nucleic acids of a library catch. Typically these variants require >500X sequencing depth to
ensure high detection reliability. An exemplary application is an exon that is frequently mutated
in a preselected cancer;
         (ii) applying a second threshold value to reads for a second preselected nucleotide
positions for which, e.g., high coverage (though in embodiments less than that in (i) above) is
required to enable a high level of sensitivity for mutations that appear at a relatively high
frequency e.g., at a higher frequency than a mutation in (i) above. Examples include a variant,
e.g., a point mutation, that appears at a frequency of greater than 5% and up to 10, 15 or 20% in
cells in the sample, the nucleic acids of a library, or the nucleic acids of a library catch.
Typically these variants require >200X sequencing depth to ensure high detection reliability. An
exemplary application is in a gene related to cancer;
         (iii) applying a third threshold value to reads for a third preselected nucleotide position
for which, e.g., low to medium coverage (in embodiments less than that in (i) or (ii) above) is
required to enable a high level of sensitivity for heterozygous alleles. Examples include a
variant, e.g., (1) a pharmacogenomic SNP that may be associated with the ability of patient to
respond to or metabolize a drug; (2) a genomic SNP that may be used to uniquely identify
(fingerprint) a patient; or (3) a genomic SNP/loci that may be used to assess copy number
gains/losses of genomic DNA and LOH;
         (iv) applying a fourth threshold value to reads for a fourth preselected nucleotide position
e.g., a structural breakpoint, e.g., in a rearrangment, e.g., a translocation or an indel. In
embodiments the coverage is less than in one of (i), (ii) or (iii). Examples inlcude an intronic
breakpoint, which in embodiments requires 5-50X sequence-pair spanning depth to ensure high
detection reliability. An exemplary application is a translocation/indel-prone cancer gene; and
         (v) applying a fifth threshold value to reads for a fifth preselected nucleotide position for
which, e.g., sparse coverage can improve the ability to detect copy number changes. In
embodiments the coverage is less than in one of (i), (ii) (iii) or (iv). For example, a 1 copy
                                                 -  202 -

deletion of several terminal exons, e.g. which requires 0.1-loX coverage to ensure high
detection reliability. An exempary application is to an amplification/deletion-prone cancer gene.
         In an embodiment:
                  the first threshold value is greater than the second;
                  the second threshold value is greater than the third;
                  the third threshold value is greater than the fourth; and
                  the fourth threshold value is greater than the fifth.
         In an embodiment, X threshold values, e.g., unique or non-unique threshold values, are a
function of, or are selected on the basis of, 1, 2, 3, 4, or more, or all of the following
characteristics:
         a) a mutation expectation;
         b) a mutation probability value;
         c) a Bayesian prior;
         d) mutation frequency;
         e) the type of variant associated with a preselected nucleotide position, e.g., a variant
which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. a point mutation or a rearrangement, e.g., a
deletion, insertion, or translocation;
         f) copy number;
         g) tumor type of a subgenomic interval; or
         h) the subgenomic interval;
wherein X is at least 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
         In an embodiment, X threshold values, e.g., a unique or non-unique threshold values,
are a function of, or are selected on the basis of factors that include, or are: a and e; a and g; e
and g; wherein X is at least 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
         In an embodiment, one or more or all of characteristics a-f are a function of one or more
of or all of a preselected nucleotide position, a preselected tumor type, or a preselected gene.
         In an embodiment, X threshold values, e.g., unique or non-unique threshold values, are a
function of, or are selected on the basis of background genomic mutation frequency, wherein X
is at least 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
                                                   - 203 -

        In an embodiment, X threshold values, e.g., unique or non-unique threshold values, are
a function of, or are selected on the basis of, 1, 2, 3, 4, or more, or all of the following patient
characteristics:
        Age; gender; prior environmental exposure, e.g., to mutagens or carcinogens; prior
exposure to a medication or treatment, e.g., prior treatment with an anti-tumor agent, whether the
patent is a current or past smoker; tumor type, or germ-line variation in the subgenomic interval,
wherein X is at least 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
        In an embodiment, X threshold values, e.g., unique or non-unique threshold values, are a
function of, or are selected on the basis of, 1, 2, 3, 4, or more, or all of the following sample
characteristics:
tumor type; site-specific tumor ploidy (e.g., based on SNP analysis); tumor zygosity; sample
purity; tumor sample cellularity (e.g., proportion of tumor cells in the sample); whether tumor
and control SNP genotypes for a subject match;or level of expected or observed DNA damage
wherein X is at least 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises applying an unique threshold value to a
plurality of subgenomic intervals.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises applying an unique threshold value to a
preselected set of positions in a first subgenomic interval, e.g., a gene. E.g., in an embodiment,
said preselected set comprises, or is limited to:
        all of the nucleotide positions in a first gene, or preselected portion thereof;
        all of the nucleotide positions in an intron of afirst gene, or preselected portion thereof;
        all of the nucleotide positions in an exon of a first gene, or preselected portion thereof;
        all of the nucleotide positions within a preselected range, which includes a nucleotide
position in a first gene, e.g., one in which a variant is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g.
wherein the variant is a point mutation or a rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or
translocation.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises applying a unique threshold value to a
preselected set of positions in a first subgenomic interval, e.g., a gene, and further applying an
unique threshold value to a preselected set of positions in a subsequent, e.g., a second, third,
fourth, fifth or sixth subgenomic interval, e.g., a gene. In an embodiment, the preselected set for
said subsequent gene omprises, or is limited to:
                                                 -  204 -

         all of the nucleotide positions in said subsequent gene, or preselected portion thereof;
         all of the nucleotide positions in an intron of said subsequent gene, or preselected portion
thereof;
         all of the nucleotide positions in an exon of said subsequent gene, or preselected portion
thereof;
         all of the nucleotide positions within a preselected range which includes a nucleotide
position in said subsequent gene, a variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g.
wherein the variant is a point mutation or a rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or
translocation.
         In embodiments, more than one threshold value is applied to a gene, or other subgenomic
interval. Thus, in an embodiment the method comprises:
         applying a first unique threshold value, e.g., which is a function of a background
mutation rate, to a first preselected position or set of positions in a subgenomic interval, e.g., a
gene; and
         applying a subsequent, e.g., a second, third, forth, fifth, or sixth, unique threshold value,
e.g., which is selected responsive to a factor disclosed herein, e.g., the expected frequency of a
variant which is associated with a tumor phenotype, to a subsequent, e.g., a second, third, forth,
fifth, or sixth, preselected position or set of positions in said subgenomic interval.
         In such embodiment, the first preselected set can comprises, or be limited to:
                  a nucleotide position, other than a nucleotide position, a variant of which is
                  associated with a tumor phenotype; or
                  the majority of the nucleotide positions in a gene.
         In an embodiment the second preselected set comprises, or is limited to:
                  a nucleotide position, a variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype;
                  a nucleotide position in a first preselected portion of an intron of said gene;
                  a nucleotide position in a first preselected portion of an exon of said gene;
                  all of the nucleotide positions within a preselected range which includes a
         nucleotide position, a variant of which is associated with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein
         the variant is a point mutation or a rearrangement, e.g., a deletion, insertion, or
         translocation;
                  a minority of the nucleotide positions in a gene; or
                                                   - 205 -

                  no more than 1, 2, 3, 3, 5, 10, or 20 nucleotide positions in a gene.
                  In such embodiment the first preselected set can comprise, or be limited to:
                  a nucleotide position, other than said nucleotide position, a variant of which is
         associated with a tumor phenotype;
                  a nucleotide position, other than said nucleotide position in a first preselected
         portion of an intron of said gene;
                  a nucleotide position, other than said nucleotide position in a first preselected
         portion of an exon of said gene;
                  a nucleotide position, other than said said nucleotide positions within a
         preselected range which includes a nucleotide position, a variant of which is associated
         with a tumor phenotype, e.g. wherein the variant is a point mutation or a rearrangement,
         e.g., a deletion, insertion, or translocation.
         In such embodiment, the first unique threshold value can be lower than said subsequent
unique threshold value.
A Bayesian Approach for Sensitive Detection of Somatic Genomic Alterations from
Next-generation Sequencing of Clinical Cancer Specimens
         As discussed elsewhere herein, the invention features a method of analyzing a sample,
e.g., a tumor sample. Methods described herein can include the following:
         (aaa) acquiring one or a plurality of reads for each of X subgenomic intervals from
nucleic acid from said sample;
         (bbb) acquiring, for a preselected nucleotide position in each of said X subgenomic
intervals:
                          (i) a first value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation
                  of observing a read showing a preselected variant, e.g., a mutation, at said
                  preselected nucleotide position in a tumor of type X; and
                          (ii) a second set of values which represent the probabilities of observing a
                  read showing said preselected variant at said preselected nucleotide position if the
                  variant is present in the sample at a frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.) and/or if
                  the variant is absent (e.g., observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone);
                                                   - 206 -

         (ccc) responsive to said values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation)
from said reads for each of said preselected nucleotide positions by weighing the comparison
among the values in the second set using the first value (e.g., computing the posterior probability
of the presence of a mutation), thereby analyzing said sample.
         This method, e.g., in the weighing the comparison of among the variables, provides
analytical components for an NGS-based approach to tumor genome assessment which
incorporates knowledge of somatic mutation frequency and diversity to optimize detection.
Although mutations are relatively infrequent in cancer genomes (e.g., base substitutions are
expected at a rate of -1-10 per 1Mb genome-wide), specific driver mutations are known to occur
often in certain tumor types. For instance, the KRAS mutation c.35G>A (p.G12D) can be
expected in -10% of colon cancers. An efficient mutation-detection approach can leverage this
prior information to optimize the trade-off between sensitivity and specificity and to maximize
detection power in "difficult" samples. E.g., the method can comprise analysis using the
following relationship:
P (Mutation present I Read data "R") = P(Frequency of mutation "F" > 0|R) = 1 - P(F = 0|R)
                               P(F 01 R)           P(R IF =0)P(F=0)
                                                  "OP(RIF = n )P(F= n )
          Z nP(R IF =        )P(F =   ) is an discrete approximation to Equation A, which can
alternatively be evaluated in the relationship in place of the discretized approximation:
         Equation A: J P(R I F = x)P(F = x)dx
         P(F= 0) = 1 - prior expectation "p" of the mutation in cancer type. The value in (i)
above corresponds to p.
          P(F =    | i > 0) = p/n (e.g., n = 100), which assume a uniform distribution of the prior
                 n
over frequencies and thus specifies the prior expectation of the mutation frequencies referred to
in (ii). This term can be varied from the uniform distribution to adjust for any prior knowledge
regarding the expected mutation frequency, such as measured purity or aneuploidy in the specific
sample, or expected mutation frequencies given the specific tumor type, extraction method, etc.
                                                  -  207 -

         P(R IF =) is evaluated according to the mutation type, for instance, using the allele
                    n
count observations, calibrated quality scores and the multinomial distribution for substitution
mutations.
         The detection approaches provided herein can include the following steps: sequencing
and alignment, quality score recalibration, Bayesian mutation calling, and mutation calling
filtering. For example, sequencing and alignment can include hybrid selection for exons of 182
cancer-related genes, deep sequencing on the Illumina HiSeq platform, alignment with Burrows
Wheeler Aligner (BWA) (Li H. and Durbin R. (2009) Bioinformatics, 25:1754-60), and
alignment optimization with The Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) (McKenna A.H. et al.,
Genome Res. 2010 20(9):1297-303). Quality score recalibration maps reported quality scores to
empirical error rates. Bayesian mutation calling allows for possibility of mutation being present
at any frequency (not limited to diploid). Incorporate tissue-specific prior probability of
mutation from COSMIC to boost sensitivity. Mutation calling filtering filters artifacts using
indicators like strand bias, low mapping quality, and read location bias; and removes most germ
like variation (dbSNP).
         This approach can be extended to additional mutation types (indels/translocations/CNV)
by deriving relevant P(Read data R|Frequencyof mutation = f).
Duplicate Reads
         During the sequencing process, errors can be introduced into the reads at different stages
of the process, e.g., by the sequencing chemistry, or by the image analysis software. Duplicate
reads are typically sequenced as separate reads. Mutation calling algorithms need to distinguish
between sequencing errors and real sequence variations to correctly call the latter. Methods
described herein can analyze duplicate reads so as to reduce the sequencing error and thereby
improve the sensitivity of the mutation calling algorithm.
         This is typically done by comparing independent reads covering the same genomic
position. Read duplicates are created during various steps of the library preparation (e.g., PCR
amplification) and are sequenced as separate reads. Since these are not independent reads (i.e.,
                                              - 208 -

they originate from the same original DNA molecule) only one of any number of duplicates is
typically used for the mutation detection process, while the rest are discarded.
         The use of duplicate reads to reduce sequencing errors and thereby improve the
sensitivity of the mutation calling algorithm is described herein. Duplicate reads can be
identified by possession of the same starting and ending position. Since duplicate reads are
essentially replicate reads of the same original DNA molecule, any difference between duplicates
must be a sequencing error and can therefore be ignored. For example, if highly duplicate data is
available, the consensus of 3 or more duplicates can be used. Alternatively, the quality score of a
base may be redefined to reflect the agreement between 2 or more duplicates of the read, and
utilized by any downstream process. For example, a mutation calling algorithm could place less
weight on a sequence difference that is not supported by all duplicates.
         The suggested method was tested on some sequencing data by generating a consensus
sequence for duplicates. The error rate of the consensus read sequences was shown to be
significantly lower than for the original reads.
         This method can be used, e.g., when 1) some failure modes of the sequencer result in
useable sequence data with higher error rates, which negatively impacts the ability to call
mutations in this data. Reducing error by using duplicates should be especially effective in the
scenario, and make the mutation calling pipeline more robust to machine failure, 2) when
sequencing DNA from cancer cells that are especially rare in the sample (e.g., circulating tumor
cells may be <1% of cells in the sample) any improvement in the base error rate may
significantly increase the ability to correctly identify mutations in these tumor cells.
         In one exemplary embodiment, a dataset with a high duplication rate (69%) was scanned
for duplicates. When duplicates were removed by a commonly-used software removal tool
(Picard MarkDuplicates) which arbitrarily selects one read of the duplicates, the resulting error
rate was 0.40%. In parallel, all reads with at least 3 duplicates were processed separately, and a
consensus sequence for each set of duplicates was derived by selecting the most common
sequence of the duplicates. The error rate of the consensus sequences was 0.20%, demonstrating
a lower error rate can be achieved for duplicate reads by comparing their sequences.
                                                 - 209 -

Example of deriving a consensus read:
Read:             CCAAAACTAAACTGCTCTTTAAATATCTTAGACACT                              (SEQ ID NO:2)
Read2:            CCAAAACTAAACTGCTCTTTAAATATCTTAGACACT                              (SEQ ID NO:3)
Read3:            CCAA(ACTAAACTGCTCTTTAAATATCTTAGACACT(SEQ ID NO:4)
Consensus:        CCAAAACTAAACTGCTCTTTAAATATCTTAGACACT(SEQ                                ID NO:5)
         Accordingly, in another aspect, the invention includes a method of analyzing the
sequence of a nucleic acid, e.g., from a tumor sample comprising:
         (a) optionally, acquiring a plurality of duplicates of a subgenomic interval (formed, e.g.,
by amplification of an original copy of said subgenomic interval);
         (b) acquiring a read for each of said plurality of duplicates to provide a plurality of
duplicate reads;
         (c) comparing the nucleotide values at a first nucleotide position in each of said plurality
of duplicate reads (typically, the nucleotide position in one duplicate read is compared with the
corresponding nucleotide position in a second read);
         (d) optionally, comparing the nucleotide values at second nucleotide position in each of
said plurality of duplicate reads,
         wherein, for one of the nucleotide positions, each of said plurality of reads does not have
the same nucleotide value, and, optionally, for the other of said nucleotide positions, each of said
plurality of reads has the same nucleotide value;
         (e) assigning a first classifier, e.g., a quality score or a duplicate-adjusted nucleotide
value, to the nucleotide value at the position not having the same nucleotide value in all of said
plurality of reads,
         (f) optionally assigning a second classifier, e.g., a quality score or a duplicate-adjusted
nucleotide value, to the nucleotide value at the position having the same nucleotide value for
each plurality of the reads,
         wherein said first classifier indicates a first level of quality or confidence that the
nucleotide value to which it is assigned is correct and said second classifier indicates a second
level of quality or confidence that the nucleotide value to which it is assigned is correct and said
first level is equal to or lower than a preselected criterion.
                                                    - 210 -

        In one embodiment, said first level is lower than what would be assigned if each of said
plurality of reads had the same nucleotide value.
        In another embodiment, said first level is lower than said second level.
        In another embodiment, the classification is a function of the proportion of nucleotide
values that differ for that nucleotide position in the plurality.
        In another embodiment, the classification is a function of the number of duplicate reads
in the plurality.
        In yet another embodiment, a method for calling mutations at a nucleotide position is a
function of the classification for that nucleotide value at that nucleotide position.
        In another embodiment, the duplicate reads are not identified or removed. Not removing
duplicate reads can be particularly useful for identifying copy number aberrations in tumor DNA
and in evaluation of allele-balance, when the fraction of duplicate reads is significantly different
between a control and a test sample. For example, a genomic region with high coverage depth in
a sample with a high-duplication rate can lose more reads than the same region with a
comparable depth in a sample with low duplication rate, while low-coverage regions are likely to
be less prone to this effect. Therefore, when the fraction of duplicate reads differs significantly
between a control and a test sample, a comparison between the two can be noisier, thus lowering
the sensitivity and/or specificity of callings copy-number alterations.
        Sequence analysis of a DNA test sample, e.g., a DNA sample extracted from a tumor,
requires comparison of a test sample with a control sample, e.g., a DNA sample from a non
cancerous tissue.
        In sequencing a genomic DNA sample, duplicate reads will be generated. Read
duplicates are created during various steps of library preparation (e.g., PCR amplification) and
are sequenced as separate reads. Since these are not independent reads (i.e., they originate from
the same original DNA molecule) only one of any number of duplicates is typically used for the
mutation detection process, while the rest are discarded. Typically, duplicate reads from both the
control and the test sample are removed prior to performing comparative analysis between the
test and the control DNA sequence.
        In one embodiment, Applicants have discovered that in situations where the number of
duplicate reads is significantly different between the test and the control samples, the removal of
duplicate reads (from either or both of the control and test samples) negatively impacts the
                                                - 211 -

ability to call alterations , such as copy-number alterations, since it distorts the coverage depth
patterns of different samples differently . Thus, in situations where the fraction of duplicate
reads is significantly different between the test and control samples (e.g., differing by more than
20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60% or more), it is preferred that duplicate reads are not removed prior to
comparative analysis, in order to maximize the ability to correctly identify mutations in the test
sample. For example, in situations where the number of duplicate reads in the control sample
and the test sample are 20% and 80% (or 70% or 60% or 50%), respectively , then duplicate
reads are preferably not removed prior to comparative analysis.
Other Embodiments
         In embodiments of a method described herein a step or parameter in the method is used to
modify a downstream step or parameter in the method.
         In an embodiment, a characteristic of the tumor sample is used to modify a downstream
step or parameter in one or more or all of: isolation of nucleic acid from said sample; library
construction; bait design or selection; hybridization conditions; sequencing; read mapping;
selection of a mutation calling method; mutation calling, or mutation annotation.
         In an embodiment, a characteristic of an isolated tumor, or control, nucleic acid is used to
modify a downstream step or parameter in one or more or all of: isolation of nucleic acid from
said sample; library construction; bait design or selection; hybridization conditions; sequencing;
read mapping; selection of a mutation calling method; mutation calling, or mutation annotation.
         In an embodiment, a characteristic of a library is used to modify a downstream step or
parameter in one or more or all of: re-isolation of nucleic acid from said sample; subsequent
library construction; bait design or selection; hybridization conditions; sequencing; read
mapping; selection of a mutation calling method; mutation calling, or mutation annotation.
         In an embodiment, a characteristic of a library-catch is used to modify a downstream step
or parameter in one or more or all of: re-isolation of nucleic acid from said sample; subsequent
library construction; bait design or selection; hybridization conditions; sequencing; read
mapping; selection of a mutation calling method; mutation calling, or mutation annotation.
         In an embodiment, a characteristic of the sequencing method is used to modify a
downstream step or parameter in one or more or all of: re-isolation of nucleic acid from said
sample; subsequent library construction; bait design or selection; subsequent determination of
                                                - 212 -

hybridization conditions subsequent sequencing; read mapping; selection of a mutation calling
method; mutation calling, or mutation annotation.
         In an embodiment, characteristic of the collection of mapped reads is used to modify a
downstream step or parameter in one or more or all of: re-isolation of nucleic acid from said
sample; subsequent library construction; bait design or selection; subsequent determination of
hybridization conditions subsequent sequencing; subsequent read mapping; selection of a
mutation calling method; mutation calling, or mutation annotation.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises acquiring a value for a tumor sample
characteristic, e.g., acquiring a value: for the proportion of tumor cells in said sample, for the
cellularity of said tumor sample; or from an image of the tumor sample.
         In embodiments, the method includes, responsive to said acquired value for a tumor
sample characteristic, selecting a parameter for: isolation of nucleic acid from a tumor sample,
library construction; bait design or selection; bait/library member hybridization; sequencing; or
mutation calling.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprising acquiring a value for the amount of
tumor tissue present in said tumor sample, comparing said acquired value with a reference
criterion, and if said reference criterion is met, accepting said tumor sample, e.g, accepting said
tumor sample if said tumor sample contains greater than 30, 40 or 50% tumor cells.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises acquiring a sub-sample enriched for
tumor cells, e.g., by macrodissecting tumor tissue from said tumor sample, from a tumor sample
that fails to meet the reference criterion.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises determining if a primary control, e.g., a
 blood sample, is available and if so isolating a control nucleic acid (e.g., DNA) from said
 primary control.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises determining if NAT is present in said
tumor sample (e.g., where no primary control sample is available).
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises acquiring a sub-sample enriched for non
tumor cells, e.g., by macrodissecting non-tumor tissue from said NAT in a tumor sample not
accompanied by a primary control.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises determining that no primary control and
no NAT is available and marking said tumor sample for analysis without matched control.
                                                 - 213 -

        In an embodiment, a method further comprises isolating nucleic acid from said tumor
sample to provide an isolated tumor nucleic acid sample.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises isolating a nucleic acid from a control to
provide an isolated control nucleic acid sample.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises rejecting a sample with no detectable
nucleic acid.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises acquiring a value for nucleic acid yield in
said isolated nucleic acid sample and comparing the acquired value to a reference criterion, e.g.,
wherein if said acquired value is less than said reference criterion, then amplifying said isolated
nucleic acid sample prior to library construction.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises acquiring a value for the size of nucleic
acid fragments in said isolated nucleic acid sample and comparing the acquired value to a
reference criterion, e.g., a size, e.g., average size, of at least 300, 600, or 900 bp. A parameter
described hrein can be adjusted or selected in response to this determination.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises acquiring a library wherein the size of
said nucleic acid fragments are less than or equal to a reference value said library is made
without a fragmentation step between DNA isolation and making the library.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises acquiring nucleic acid fragments and if
the size of said nucleic acid fragments are equal to or greater than a reference value and are
fragmented and then made into a library.
        In an embodiment a method further comprises labeling each of a plurality of library
members, e.g., by addition of an identifiable distinct nucleic acid sequence (a barcode), to each
of a plurality of members.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises attaching a primer to each of a plurality of
library members.
        In an embodiment a method further comprises providing a plurality of bait and
selecting a plurality of baits, said selection being responsive responsive to: 1) a patient
characteristic, e.g., age, stage of tumor, prior treatment, or resistance; 2) tumor type; 3) a
characteristic of the tumor sample; 4) a characteristic of a control sample; 5) presence or type of
control; 6) a characteristic of the isolated tumor (or control) nucleic acid sample; 7) a library
characteristic; 8) a mutation known to be associated with the type of tumor in the tumor sample;
                                                 -  214 -

9) a mutation not known to be associated with the type of tumor in the tumor sample; 10) the
ability to sequence (or hybridized to or recover) a preselected sequence or identify a preselected
mutation, e.g., the difficulty associated with sequence a high gc region or a rearrangement; or 11)
the genes being sequenced.
         In an embodiment a method further comprises responsive, e.g., to a determination of low
number of tumor cells in said tumor sample, selecting a bait, or plurality of baits, giving
relatively highly efficient capture of members from a first gene as compared with members of a
second gene, e.g., wherein a mutation in the first gene is associated the tumor phenotype for the
tumor type of the tumor sample.
         In an embodiment a method further comprises acquiring a value for library-catch
characteristic, e.g., the nucleic acid concentration or representation, and comparing the acquired
value with a reference criterion for nucleic acid concentration, or for representation.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises selecting a library with a value for a
library characteristic that does not meet the reference criterion for reworking.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises selecting a library with a value for a
library characteristic that meets the reference criterion for library quantitation.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises providing an association of a tumor type,
a gene, and a genetic alteration (a TGA) for a subject.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises providing a preselected database having a
plurality of elements, wherein each element comprises a TGA.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises characterizing a TGA of a subject
comprising:
         determining if said TGA is present in a preselected database, e.g., a database of validated
TGAs;
         associating information for the TGA from the predetermined database with said TGA
(annotating) from said subject; and
         optionally, determining if a second or subsequent TGA for said subject is present in said
preselected database and if so associating information for the second or subsequent TGA from
the predetermined database with said second TGA present in said patient.
         In an embodiment, a method further comprises memorializing the presence or absence of
a TGA, and optionally an associated annotation, of a subject to form a report.
                                                -  215 -

        In an embodiment, a method further comprises transmitting said report to a recipient
party.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises characterizing a TGA of a subject
comprising:
        determining if said TGA is present in a preselected database, e.g., a database of validated
TGAs;
        determining if a TGA not in said preselected database has a known clinically relevant G
or A and if so providing an entry for said TGA in said preselected database.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises memorializing the presence or absence of
a mutation found in the DNA of the tumor sample from a subject to form a report.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises memorializing the presence or absence of
a TGA, and optionally an associated annotation, of a subject to form a report.
        In an embodiment, a method further comprises transmitting said report to a recipient
party.
        A flowchart depiction of an embodiment of a method for multigene analysis of a tumor
sample is provided in Fig 1.
                                       EXEMPLIFICATION
        This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be
construed as limiting. The contents of all references, figures, sequence listing, patents and
published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by
reference.
EXAMPLE 1: Nucleic Acid Isolation from a Tumor Sample
        3 x 20 pm sections cut from a paraffin block were mixed with 400 PL Buffer FTL by
vortexing and incubated at 90'C for 15 minutes in a 1.5 mL centrifuge tube. A range of 88-920 C
was acceptable for the incubation. Then, the sample was incubated with 20 PL proteinase K at
550 C for 6 hours and 10 pL RNase (1 mg/mL) at room temperature for 5 minutes. Next, 460 PL
Buffer BL and 500 pL absolute ethanol were added to the sample. The resulting sample solution
was kept at room temperature until further use.
                                                -  216 -

        To prepare the column for DNA binding, 100 p L Equilibration buffer was added to a
MicroElute column and the column was centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 30 seconds. 700 pL of the
sample solution described above was transferred to the MicroElute column and the column was
centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 1 minute. The centrifugation step was repeated if fluid did not
completely pass through MicroElute column. The remaining sample solution was applied to the
MicroElute column in the same way as described above. Then, the MicroElute column was
treated with 500 pL Buffer HB and centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 1 minute. Next, 700 PL DNA
Wash Buffer diluted with ethanol was added into the MicroElute column and the column was
centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 1 minute. The MicroElute column was washed again using 700 PL
DNA Wash Buffer diluted with ethanol, centrifuged at 10,000 x g for 1 minute, and centrifuged
at > 13,000 x g for 3 minutes to dry the column. The MicroElute column was placed into a
standard 1.5 mL centrifuge tube with the top removed. 50-75 PL Elution Buffer preheated to
70'C was added into the column and incubated at room temperature for 3 minutes. The column
was centrifuged in collection tube at > 13,000 x g for 1 minute. Another 50-75 PL Elution
Buffer preheated to 70'C was added into the MicroElute column and incubated at room
temperature for 3 minutes. The column was centrifuged again in collection tube at > 13,000 x g
for 1 minute. The entire solution was transferred to a fresh 1.5 mL centrifuge tube and stored at
20 0 C.
        FTL buffer, proteinase K, BL Buffer, Equilibration Buffer, MicroElute column, Buffer
HB, DNA Wash Buffer, and Elution Buffer were provided in E.Z.N.A. TM FFPE DNA Kit
(OMEGA bio-tek, Norcross, GA; Cat. Nos. D3399-00, D3399-01, and D3399-02).
        Additional methods to isolate nucleic acids (e.g., DNA) from formaldehyde- or
paraformaldehyde-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are disclosed, e.g., in Cronin M. et
al., (2004) Am J Pathol. 164(1):35-42; Masuda N. et al., (1999) Nucleic Acids Res.
27(22):4436-4443; Specht K. et al., (2001) Am J Pathol. 158(2):419-429, Ambion
RecoverAllTM Total Nucleic Acid Isolation Protocol (Ambion, Cat. No. AM1975, September
2008), Maxwell@ 16 FFPE Plus LEV DNA Purification Kit Technical Manual (Promega
Literature #TM349, February 2011), and QIAamp@ DNA FFPE Tissue Handbook (Qiagen, Cat.
No. 37625, October 2007). RecoverAll TM Total Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit uses xylene at
elevated temperatures to solubilize paraffin-embedded samples and a glass-fiber filter to capture
nucleic acids. Maxwell@ 16 FFPE Plus LEV DNA Purification Kit is used with the Maxwell@
                                              - 217 -

16 Instrument for purification of genomic DNA from 1 to 10 pm sections of FFPE tissue. DNA
is purified using silica-clad paramagnetic particles (PMPs), and eluted in low elution volume.
QIAamp@ DNA FFPE Tissue Kit uses QIAamp@ DNA Micro technology for purification of
genomic and mitochondrial DNA.
EXAMPLE 2A: Shearing of DNA
         CovarisTm E210 instrument with circulating chiller was set to 4' C. The instrument water
tank was filled with distilled/deionized water to level "6" on the fill-line. SonoLab'm software
was launched and the system was allowed to execute homing sequence when prompted. The
water in instrument tank was degassed for at least 45 minutes before shearing samples.
         To prepare the genomic DNA samples for shearing, samples were first quantified using a
PicoGreen@ assay (Invitrogen) on a microplate reader (Spectramax M2, Molecular Devices)
Based on the concentration, 120 tl desired input DNA (2 ng/tl) with low TE (10 mM Tris, 0.2
mM EDTA, pH 8.0) was used for the experiment. The 100 tl individual samples were pipetted
slowly into the Covaris MicroTUBEs (Covaris Cat. # 520045) through the septa in the lid of the
tube. The Covaris MicroTUBEs were then placed in the Covaris E-series tube rack. For 200bp
shearing, the settings were as follows: 10% duty cycle, 5 Intensity, 200 cycles/burst, time 180
sec, and Frequency Sweeping mode. After shearing, the Covaris MicroTUBEs were briefly spun
down using an appropriate adapter in a mini-centrifuge, and the sheared samples were transferred
to clean 1.5ml microcentrifuge tubes. Each sheared DNA sample was purified using a QIAGEN
MinElute@ column. Briefly, 5x QIAGEN PBI buffer was added to the sample in a 1.5 ml
microcentrifuge tube (e.g., 500 l of PBI buffer was added to 100 l of sample). Each sample
was vortexed, briefly spun down, and transferred to a MinElute spin column. MinElute spin
column was centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and the flow-through was discarded. 750 1I
of QIAGEN PE buffer was added to the column, centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and the
flow-through was discarded. The spin column was centrifuged again at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute
and transferred to a clean 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube. The column was air dried for 2-3
minutes. For the first elution, 18 l of QIAGEN Elution Buffer was added to each column,
incubated for 2-3 minutes, and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute. For the second
elution, 15 1I of QIAGEN Elution Buffer was added, incubated for 1 min, and then centrifuged
at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute. The eluent was collected and the spin column was discarded.
                                              -  218 -

         Typically, 200 ng is used for DNA shearing, but the amount of DNA can range from 20
to 200 ng or higher.
EXAMPLE 2B: Alternative to DNA Shearing
         This example describes an alternative method for DNA shearing from Example 2A.
         A double stranded genomic DNA is first denatured to single stranded DNA, and then
mixed with primers, DNA polymerase (e.g., Exo- DNA polymerase), dNTPs, and a small
amount of ddNTPs. The primer sequence can be a random hexamer, or a random hexamer
tagged with an adaptor sequence at the 5' end. Methods to use tagged random hexamer
amplification to clone and sequence minute quantities of DNA are described, e.g., in Wong K.K.
et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 1996; 24(19):3778-83. The reaction is incubated under the conditions
that allow primer-template annealing and DNA synthesis. The DNA synthesis will terminate
when a ddNTP is incorporated into the newly synthesized first strand. The length of the
synthesized first strand DNA can be controlled by the ratio of dNTPs to ddNTPs. For example,
the molar ratio of dNTPs to ddNTP is at least about 1000:1, about 5000:1, or about 10000:1.
 After first strand synthesis, short fragments (such as primers and synthesized first strand DNA
with short length and ddNTPs can be removed by size selection (e.g., using a size selection spin
column). The resulting first strand DNA is mixed with primers (e.g., random hexamers or
random hesamers tagged with an adaptor sequence), DNA polymerase (e.g., Exo+ DNA
polymerase), and dNTPs. An Exo+ DNA polymerase can be used to remove the terminal 3'
ddNTP from the first strand DNA or even to generate blunt ends over the second priming site.
 The reaction is then incubated under the conditions that allow primer-template annealing and
DNA synthesis. After synthesis of the second strand, the resulting double stranded DNA
fragments can be purified and used directly in library construction. Alternatively, the double
stranded DNA fragments can be PCR amplified using primers containing adaptor sequences if
these adaptor sequences have been included in the primers for first- and second- strand synthesis.
 The primers for PCR amplification can also include the entire sequences and/or bar code
sequences.
                                                - 219 -

EXAMPLE 3: Library Preparation
End Repair reaction
         End-repair reagents (NEB #E6050L) were thawed and an end-repair mastermix was
prepared on ice. To prepare 70 l of mastermix per sample, 55     l nuclease free water was mixed
with 10 l lOx End Repair reaction buffer and 5 l End Repair enzyme mix. Then 70 I of
mastermix was added to 30 I of each sheared DNA sample in a 96 well PCR plate on ice. The
reaction was incubated in a thermocycler at 20 'C for 30 minutes. Each sample was purified
using a QIAGEN MinElute@ column. Briefly, 5x QIAGEN PBI buffer was added to sample
(e.g., 500 l of PBI buffer was added to 100 l of sample) in a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube.
Each sample was vortexed, briefly spun down, and transferred to a MinElute spin column.
MinElute spin column was centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and the flow-through was
discarded. 750 1I of QIAGEN PE buffer was added to the column, centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for
1 minute, and the flow-through was discarded. The spin column was centrifuged again at 13,000
rpm for 1 minute and transferred to a clean 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube. The column was air
dried for 2-3 minutes. For the first elution, 22 p1 of QIAGEN Elution Buffer (10 mM Tris,
pH8.5) was added to each column, incubated for 2-3 min, and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for
1 minute. For the second elution, 22 1I of QIAGEN Elution Buffer was added, incubated for 1
min, and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute. The eluent was collected and the spin
column was discarded.
3' A-base addition
         A-base addition reagents (NEB #E6053L) were thawed on ice and an A-base addition
mastermix was prepared on ice. To prepare 10 I of mastermix per sample, 2 l nuclease-free
water was mixed with 5 l lOx dA-Tailing reaction buffer and 3 1IKlenow Fragment (3'->5'
exo-). 10 l of mastermix was added to 40 l of each purified end-repaired DNA sample in a 96
well PCR plate on ice. The reaction was incubated in a thermocycler at 37 'C      for 30 min.
Each sample was purified using a QIAGEN MinElute@ column. Briefly, 5x QIAGEN PBI
buffer was added to sample (e.g., 250 l of PBI buffer was added to 50 l of sample) in a 1.5 ml
microcentrifuge tube. Each sample was vortexed, briefly spun down, and transferred to a
MinElute spin column. MinElute spin column was centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and
the flow-through was discarded. 750 1I of QIAGEN PE buffer was added to the column,
                                               -  220 -

centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and the flow-through was discarded. The spin column
was centrifuged again at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute and transferred to a clean 1.5 ml
microcentrifuge tube. The column was air dried for 2-3 min. For the first elution, 13 1I of
QIAGEN Elution Buffer (10 mM Tris, pH8.5) was added to each column, incubated for 2-3 min,
and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute. For the second elution, 13 l of QIAGEN
Elution Buffer was added, incubated for 1 min, and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute.
The eluent was collected and the spin column was discarded.
Ligation of Multiplex Adaptors
         Ligation reagents (NEB #E6056L) were thawed and a ligation mastermix was prepared
on ice. To prepare 36 l of mastermix per sample, 12 l 5x Quick Ligation reaction buffer was
added to 3.3 l Illumina Multiplex Adaptor (15uM, included in Illumina Cat. #PE-400-1001)
(3.3   l adaptor/i pg starting input DNA was used). For example, for one sample of 500 ng input
DNA, the adaptors were first diluted in water (2 pl adaptors plus 2 1I H 20), then 3.3 1I of this
diluted adaptor mix, 15.7 1I of nuclease free water, and 5 1I of Quick T4 DNA ligase were
added to the ligation reaction. For >1 pg starting material, >3.3 pl of adaptors were used. Thus,
less water was added to keep the total volume of diluted adaptor mix and nuclease free water at
19 l.
         36 l of mastermix and 24 l of each dA-tailed DNA sample were added to the wells of a
96 well PCR plate on ice. The reaction was incubated in a thermocycler at 25 'C for 30 min.
Each sample was purified using a QIAGEN MinElute@ column. Briefly, 5x QIAGEN PBI
buffer was added to sample (e.g., 300 l of PBI buffer was added to 60 l of sample) in a 1.5 ml
microcentrifuge tube. Each sample was vortexed, briefly spun down, and transferred to a
MinElute spin column. MinElute spin column was centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and
the flow-through was discarded. 750 1I of QIAGEN PE buffer was added to the column,
centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute, and the flow-through was discarded. The spin column
was centrifuged again at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute and transferred to a clean 1.5 ml
microcentrifuge tube. The column was air dried for 2-3 minutes. For the first elution, 20 1I of
QIAGEN Elution Buffer (10 mM Tris, pH8.5) was added to each column, incubated for 2-3
minutes, and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm for 1 minute. For the second elution, 20 1I of
                                              -  221 -

QIAGEN Elution Buffer was added, incubated for 1 minute, and then centrifuged at 13,000 rpm
for 1 minute. The eluent was collected and the spin column was discarded.
PCR Enrichment
        PCR reagents were thawed and a PCR mastermix was prepared on ice. For 62 1I of
mastermix per sample, 50 1I of 2X Phusion High Fidelity mastermix with HF Buffer (Finnzyme,
NEB Cat. # F-531S), 8 l nuclease-free water, 2 l Illumina Primer 1.0 (25 pM), and 2 l
Illumina Primer 2.0 (0.5 pM) were used. Then 62 1I of mastemix was mixed with 2       Iillumina
Index Primer (25 pM, included in Illumina Cat. # PE-400-1001) with appropriate bar code and
36 l of ligated DNA sample in a 96-well PCR plate. The reaction was incubated in a
thermocycler as follows:
        1 Cycle        98 'C 30 sec
        18 Cycles      98 'C 10 sec
                       65 'C 30 sec
                       72 'C 30 sec
        1 Cycle        72 'C 5 min
                       4 'C    hold
        Each PCR reaction was size selected with 1.8x volume of AMPureXP beads (Agencourt;
Beckman Coulter Genomics Cat. # A6388). Briefly, 1.8x AMPureXP beads were added to
sample (e.g., 180 l of beads were added to 100 pl of sample) in a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube,
vortexed, and incubated for 5 minutes with end-over-end rotation mixing. Tubes were placed on
a magnet stand until the solution cleared (2 minutes). The supernatant was discarded without
disturbing the beads captured on the magnet. 600 1I of freshly-made 70% ethanol was added to
the beards, incubated for 1 min followed by removal of the ethanol. A second aliquot of 600 P1I
freshly-made 70% ethanol was added to the beads, incubated for 1 minute, and the ethanol was
removed. The tubes were put back on the magnet stand for 1-2 minutes to re-capture the beads.
Any remaining ethanol was removed and the beads were air dried at room temperature for 5-10
minutes. 30 1I of QIAGEN Elution Buffer was added to the beads, vortexed, and incubated for 2
minutes. Tubes were placed back on the magnet stand until the solution cleared (2 minutes).
The supernatant was transferred to a fresh 1.5 mL tube and the beads were discarded. The eluted
DNA samples were quantified using a Q-PCR assay. These quantifications will allow for
                                              - 222 -

equimolar pooling to ensure equal representation of each library within a pooled hybrid capture
selection.
EXAMPLE 4: Hybrid Selection
Pool indexed sample libraries
         Pools (up to 12-plex) of libraries that had been indexed, purified, and quantified by
Q-PCR were made on ice. Equimolar pools were prepared in 1.5ml microcentrifuge tubes to
ensure that each sample was represented in the hybrid selection process equally. The total input
of DNA for each of these pools can range from 2000 ng to 500 ng. Typically, the total input
DNA is 2000ng. Thus, if twelve samples are pooled, 166.67 ng of each can be pooled to achieve
a total of 2000 ng. The final volume of a 2000 ng library pool should be 4 1I. Due to varying
concentrations of the indexed libraries a pool can be made with any larger volume but then the
pool should be dried down by speedvac (using low heat) and reconstituted in 4 1I of nuclease
free water.
         The greater the yield in a library construction, the greater the complexity of the library.
Hybridize the pooled DNA librariesto biotinylated-RNA baits
         Agilent SureSelect Target Enrichment Paired End kit (#G3360A-J) was used in this
experiment. Hybridization Buffer #3, SureSelect Block #1, SureSelect Block #2, Paired End
Primer 1.0 block, Index Primer 1-12 block, RNAse block, and biotinylated-RNA bait were
thawed on ice. The following mastermixes were prepared.
         a.     Hybridization Buffer Mix (13         1I per reaction):
                i.      Hybridization Buffer #1 (Agilent) - 25 1I
                ii.     Hybridization Buffer #2 (Agilent) - 1 1I
                iii.    Hybridization Buffer #3 (Agilent) - 10 l
                iv.     Hybridization Buffer #4 (Agilent) - 13 1I
         b.     Blocking Mix (8      1I per reaction):
                i.      SureSelect Block #1 (Agilent) - 2.5          l
                ii.     SureSelect Block #2 (Agilent) - 2.5          l
                iii.    Paired End primer 1.0 block (IDT, resuspended to 200 uM with H 2 0)
1.5   l
                                                   -   223 -

                iv.     Index Primer 1-12 block (IDT, resuspended to 200 uM with H 2 0)    - 1.5 1I
        c.      Dilution of RNase Block
                i.      For custom biotinylated RNA-baits with territory <3Mb: 1 1I of RNase
Block (Agilent) was diluted in 9 l of water.
                ii.     For custom baits with a bait territory >3Mb: 1 1I of RNase block was
diluted in 3 l of water (still 0.5    l of RNase block per 7 uL capture reaction)
        d.      Bait Mix: (7    1I per reaction)
                i.      RNA Baits - 2 l (for baits which have a bait territory >3Mb, 5 l bait
was used)
                ii.     Diluted RNase Block - 5 p1 (for baits which have a bait territory >3 Mb, 2
  1RNase block diluted as indicated above was used)
        Once the Hybridization Buffer Mix, Blocking Mix, and Bait Mix(es) were prepared, the
hybridization buffer mix was vortexed, spun down, and heated to 65 'C in the heat block. 4 P1 of
each pooled sample library to be hybrid selected was mixed with 8 P1 of the blocking mix in a 96
well PCR plate. The reaction was incubated in a thermocycler at 95 'C for 5 minutes and then
held at 65 'C. When the pooled sample libraries/blocking mix had been incubating at 95 'C for
5 min and then at 65 'C for 2.5 minutes, the bait mix (=bait/RNAse block mix) were put in the
heat block at 65 'C for 2.5 minutes. The hybridization buffer containing tubes were quickly
spun down, and then immediately returned to 65 'C heat block. 13 p1 of the heated hybridization
buffer mix was pipetted into each sample library/block mix while the 96 well plate remained in
the thermocycler at 65 'C. Once the bait mix had been incubated for 2.5 minutes at 65 'C, 7 P1
of the bait mix was added to each sample library/block/hybridization buffer mix while the 96
well plate remained in the thermocycler at 65 'C. The reaction (total volume was 32 P1) was
incubated at 65 'C for 24 hours in a thermocycler.
Preparationof the Magnetic Beads
        SureSelect Wash Buffer #2 was prewarmed at 65 'C in the heat block. Dynal MyOne
Streptavidin TI beads (Invitrogen) were vortexed and resuspended. The beads were washed by
adding 200 p1 of SureSelect Binding Buffer per 50 p1 Dynal beads (e.g., 1200 P1 of SureSelect
Binding Buffer was used to prepare 300 p1 of Dynal beads). The beads were vortexed for 5
seconds and spun down briefly. The beads were placed on a magnet stand for about 15 seconds
                                                 - 224 -

or until all the beads were captured. The supernatant was removed and discarded. Wash was
repeated with SureSelect Binding Buffer two more times for a total of three washes. After
washing, the beads were resuspended in 200 l of SureSelect Binding Buffer per 50 l Dynal
beads (e.g., 1200 l of SureSelect Binding Buffer was used to prepare 300 1Iof Dynal beads).
The resuspended beads were vortexed and spun down briefly. 200 1I of resuspended beads were
aliquoted into individual 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tubes.
Selection of the Hybrid CapturedDNA
        After 24 hours of incubation, each hybridized sample from the PCR plate in the
thermocycler at 65 'C was quickly pipetted into a tube containing 200 1I of prepared beads at
room temperature. The mixtures of sample and beads were vortexed for 5 seconds and incubated
on a rotator at room temperature for 30 minutes, to ensure proper mixing. Then the tubes were
quickly spun down. The beads were captured on a magnet (for 2 minutes) and the supernatant
was removed and discarded. The beads were resuspended in 500 1I of SureSelect Wash Buffer
#1, for a low stringency wash. The samples were vortexed for 5 seconds and incubated for 15
min at room temperature off the magnet. Samples were vortexed for 5 seconds every 3-5
minutes. The tubes were quickly spun down. The beads were then captured on a magnet stand
for 2 minutes and the supernatant was removed and discarded. For a high stringency wash to
remove off-target material, the beads were washed with SureSelect Wash Buffer #2 preheated to
65 'C. Briefly, the beads were resuspended in 500 1I of prewarmed SureSelect Wash Buffer #2
and mixed on a vortexer for 5 seconds to resuspend the beads. The beads were briefly spun
down in a centrifuge and incubated at 65 'C for 10 min in a heat block with occasional vortex
mixing for 5 seconds at room temperature. Then the beads were briefly spun down in a
centrifuge and captured on a magnet for 2 minutes. Wash was repeated 2 more times with
prewarmed SureSelect Wash Buffer #2 at 65 'C for a total of three washes. Then the wash
buffer was completely removed and 50 1I of SureSelect Elution Buffer was added to the beads
following by vortexing for 5 seconds to mix the beads. The samples were incubated for 10
minutes at room temperature with occasional vortex mixing for 5 seconds. The beads were
briefly spun down in a centrifuge and captured on a magnet stand. The supernatant containing
the captured DNA was pipetted to a new 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube. 50 1Iof SureSelect
Neutralization Buffer was added to the captured DNA. Samples were vortex for 5 seconds,
                                              - 225 -

briefly spun down in a centrifuge, and purified using 1.8x volume of AMPureXP beads. DNA
was eluted in 40 1I nuclease-free water.
PCR Enrichment of the CapturedDNA
        PCR reagents were thawed and a PCR mastermix was prepared on ice. For 60 l of
mastermix per sample, 50 l 2X Phusion High Fidelity mastermix with HF buffer (NEB #F
531S) was mixed with 8 l nuclease-free water, 1 l QPCR Primerl.1 (100 pM in H 2 0), and 1
  l QPCR Primer2.1 (100 pM in H 2 0). The primer sequences for Q-PCR are:
        QPCR Primerl.1 (HPLC-purified from IDT):
        5'AATGATACGGCGACCACCGAGAT3' (SEQ ID NO:48)
        QPCR Primer2.1 (HPLC-purified from IDT):
        5'CAAGCAGAAGACGGCATACGA3' (SEQ ID NO:49)
        60 l of mastermix was added to 40 l of each purified captured DNA sample in a 96
well PCR plate. The reaction was incubated in a thermocycler as follows:
        1 Cycle          98 'C 30 sec
        12 Cycles        98 'C 10 sec
                         65 'C 30 sec
                         72 'C 30 sec
        1 Cycle          72 'C 5 min
                         4 'C   Hold
        Each 100 l of PCR reaction was purified with 1.8x volume of AMPureXP beads and
eluted in 35   l of elution buffer (10 mM Tris, pH 8.5). The hybrid selected/captured DNA
samples were quantified using a Q-PCR assay. The Q-PCR assay detected the end adaptors and
the reads indicated how much of each sample should be loaded on a sequencing flow cell to get
the appropriate cluster density.
Example 5: Methods
        The following exemplifies certain embodiments of the methods and experimental
conditions used to identify the alterations according to the Examples. Additional translocation
screening can be done using, e.g., either qRT-PCR analysis of cDNA prepared from a pre
selected tumor sample.
                                               - 226 -

         Massively parallel DNA sequencing was done on hybridization captured, adaptor
ligation-based libraries using DNA isolated from archived fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. A
combination of analysis tools were used to analyze the data and assign DNA alteration calls.
Additional translocation screening was done using either qRT-PCR analysis of cDNA prepared
from frozen tumors or IHC assessment of archived FFPE specimens. Massively parallel cDNA
sequencing was performed to confirm expression of both novel translocations using RNA
isolated from FFPE tissue. Matched normal reference genomic DNA from blood was sequenced
for the index NSCLC patient to confirm the somatic origin of the rearrangement.
Genomic DNA sequencing
         Sequencing of 2574 exons of 145 cancer genes was done using DNA from archived
formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor specimens; 24 from NSCLC patients.
Sequencing libraries were constructed by the adapter ligation method using genomic DNA
followed by hybridization selection with optimized RNA hybridization capture probes (Agilent
SureSelect custom kit). Sequencing on the HiSeq2000 instrument (Illumina) was done using 36
x 36 paired reads to an average depth of 253X. Data processing and mutation assignments for
base substitutions, indels, copy number alterations and genomic rearrangements were done using
a combination of tools optimized for mutation calling from tumor tissue.
cDNA sequencing
         cDNA was generated from total RNA extracted from a single 5-10 um FFPE tissue
section using the Roche High Pure kit and reverse transcribed to cDNA with random hexamer
primers by the SuperScript@ III First-Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen). Double stranded
cDNA was made with the NEBNext@ mRNA Second Strand Synthesis Module (New England
Biolabs) and used as input to library construction, hybrid capture and sequencing as for FFPE
DNA samples. Analysis of expression levels was done with a combination of analysis tools.
EXAMPLE 6: Exemplary selected genes and variants for multiplex analysis
         This example provides four exemplary tables summarizing a selection of genes, variants
and cancer types for multiplex analysis.
                                              -  227 -

Table 1: List of exemplary selected genes and variants, associated cancer types, and priority
codons for multiplex analysis.
Hugo Gene      Caegory                 Cancer Types                   Priority Codons
                           Leukemia (e.g., chronic myeloid
ABLI        Priority 1     leukemia (CML), acute myeloid        315
                           leukemia (AML), acute
                           lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL))
AKT1        Priority 1     breast cancer, colorectal cancer,
                           ovarian cancer
                           Lymphoma (e.g., non-Hodgkin
ALK         Priority 1     lymphoma, anaplastic large-cell
                           lymphoma (ALCL)), inflammatory
                           myofibroblastic tumor
APC         Priority 1     Colorectal cancer, medulloblastoma,  1114, 1338, 1450, 1556
                           mismatch repair cancer syndrome
AR          Priority 1     Prostate cancer
                           Lung cancer, non-Hodgkin
BRAF        Priority 1     lymphoma, colorectal cancer, thyroid 600
                           cancer, melanoma
                           melanoma, pancreatic cancer, Li
                           Fraumeni syndrome, lung cancer
CDKN2A      Priority 1     (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer
                           (NSCLC)), squamous cell carcinoma,
                           retinoblastoma, astrocytoma
                           Leukemia (e.g., acute myeloid
CEBPA       Priority 1     leukemia (AML), acute myeloid
                           leukemia (AML), monoblastic
                           leukemia), retinoblastoma
                           Colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer,
                           prostate cancer, liver cancer (e.g.,
CTNNB1      Priority 1     hepatoblastoma (HB), hepatocellular  32, 33, 34, 37, 41, 45
                           carcinoma (HCC)), pilomatrixoma,
                           medulloblastoma, salivary gland
                           pleiomorphic adenomas
                           Lung cancer, squamous cell           719, 746-750, 768, 790,
EGFR        Priority 1     carcinoma, glioblastoma, glioma,     858, 861
                           colorectal cancer
ERBB2       Priority 1     Gastric cancer, glioma, ovarian
                           cancer, lung cancer
                           Breast cancer, endometrial cancer,
ESR1        Priority 1     endometrial adenocarcinoma,
                           leiomyoma, mammary ductal
                           carcinoma
FGFRI       Priority 1     Leukemia, lymphoma
FGFR2       Priority 1     Breast cancer, prostate cancer
FGFR3       Priority 1     Bladder cancer, cervical cancer,
                           multiple myeloma,
                           Leukemia (e.g., acute myeloid
FLT3        Priority 1     leukemia (AML), acute                835
                           promyelocytic leukemia, acute
                           lymphoblastic leukemia)
                                                  - 228 -

                  Hurthle cell thyroid carcinoma,
HRAS   Priority 1 bladder cancer, melanoma, colorectal   12, 13, 61
                  cancer
                  Leukemia (e.g., chronic
                  lymphoblastic leukemia (CLL), acute
JAK2   Priority 1 lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL),          617
                  chronic myelogenous leukemia
                  (CML), acute myelogenous leukemia
                  (AML))
                  Gastrointestinal stromal tumor
                  (GIST), testicular tumor, leukemia
                  (e.g., acute myeloid leukemia
KIT    Priority 1 (AML)), mast cell tumor,               816
                  mesenchymal tumor, adenoid cystic
                  carcinoma, lung cancer (e.g., small
                  cell lung cancer), lymphoma (e.g.,
                  Burkitt lymphoma)
                  Leukemia (e.g., acute myelogenous
KRAS   Priority 1 leukemia (AML), juvenile               12,13,61
                  myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML)),
                  colorectal cancer, lung cancer
                  Gastric cancer, hepatocellular
                  carcinoma (HCC), hereditary
                  papillary renal carcinoma (HPRC),
                  lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung
MET    Priority 1 cancer), papillary thyroid carcinoma,
                  glioma, esophageal adenocarcinoma,
                  osteosarcoma, endometrial cancer,
                  squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma,
                  breast cancer
                  Leukemia (e.g., acute lymphoblastic
MLL    Priority 1 leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid
                  leukemia (AML)
                  chronic lymphocytic leukemia
MYC    Priority 1 (CLL), Burkitt lymphoma,
                  plasmacytoma,
                  Leukemia (e.g., juvenile
NF1    Priority 1 myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML)),
                  neurofibroma,
                  Squamous cell carcinoma, leukemia
                  (e.g., acute lymphoblastic leukemia
NOTCHI Priority 1 (ALL)), medullary thyroid              1575, 1601
                  carcinoma, lymphoma (e.g., thymic
                  lymphoma, T-cell lymphoma)
                  Lymphoma (e.g., non-Hodgkin
                  lymphoma, anaplastic large cell
NPM1   Priority 1 lymphoma, anaplastic lymphoma),
                  leukemia (e.g., acute promyelocytic
                  leukemia, acute myelogenous
                  leukemia (AML))
                  Leukemia (e.g., juvenile
                  myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML),
NRAS   Priority 1 acute myeloid leukemia (AML),          12, 13, 61
                  acute lymphoblastic leukemia),
                  melanoma,
                                        -  229 -

                   Gastrointestinal stromal tumor
                   (GIST), leukemia (e.g., chronic
PDGFRA Priority 1  eosinophilic leukemia (CEL), acute
                   lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)),
                   mesenchymal tumor
                   Colorectal cancer, breast cancer,
                   ovarian cancer, hepatocellular
                   carcinoma, head and neck squamous      88, 542, 545, 546, 1047,
PIK3CA Priority 1  cell carcinoma (HNSCC), anaplastic     1049
                   thyroid carcinoma, endometrial
                   cancer, gallbladder adenocarcinoma,
                   glioblastoma
                   Head and neck squamous cell
PTEN   Priority 1  carcinomas (HNSCC), endometrial        130, 173, 233, 267
                   cancer, glioma, prostate cancer,
                   glioblastoma
                   Retinoblastoma, bladder cancer,
                   osteosarcoma, lung cancer (e.g.,
RB1    Priority 1  small cell lung cancer, non-small cell
                   lung cancer), leukemia (e.g., acute
                   lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL))
                   Colorectal cancer, medullary thyroid
                   carcinoma, multiple neoplasia type
RET    Priority 1  2B, pheochromocytoma, multiple         918
                   neoplasia type 2A, thyroid papillary
                   carcinoma, thryoid cancer,
                   retinoblastoma
                   TP53 is frequently mutated or
                   inactivated in about 60% of cancers,
                   e.g., esophageal squamous cell
                   carcinoma, Li-Fraumeni syndrome,
TP53   Priority 1  head and neck squamous cell            175, 245, 248, 273, 306
                   carcinomas (HNSCC), lung cancer,
                   hereditary adrenocortical carcinoma,
                   astrocytoma, squamous cell
                   carcinoma, bladder cancer, colorectal
                   cancer, glioblastoma, retinoblastoma
ABL2   Cancer Gene Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
AKT2   Cancer Gene Ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer
                   Melanoma, glioma, uternine cancer,
AKT3   Cancer Gene prostate cancer, oral cancer, ovarian
                   cancer
                   Angioimmunoblastic T-cell
                   lymphoma, ehrlich ascites tumor
ARFRP1 Cancer Gene Breast cancer
                   Neuroblastoma, acute lymphoblastic
ARID1A Cancer Gene leukemia (ALL), neuroendocrine
                   tumor
                   Leukemia (e.g., T-cell
ATM    Cancer Gene prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL)),
                   lymphoma, medulloblastoma, glioma
ATR    Cancer Gene Pyothorax-associated lymphoma, T
                   cell lymphoma
                   Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma,
AURKA  Cancer Gene ovarian cancer, bladder cancer, head
                                         -  230 -

                   and neck squamous cell carcinoma
                   (HNSCC), laryngeal carcinoma,
                   esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
                   (ESCC), pancreatic cancer
                   Colorectal cancer, astrocytoma,
                   ependymal tumor, glioma,
AURKB  Cancer Gene esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
                   (ESCC), acute myeloid leukemia
                   (AML)
                   Lymphoma, colorectal
BCL2   Cancer Gene adenocarcinoma, esophageal
                   squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC),
                   synovial sarcoma, leukemia
                   Pulmonary granuloma, gastric
BCL2A1 Cancer Gene adenoma, burkitt lymphoma, parotid
                   adenoma, kaposi sarcoma, gastric
                   cancer, colon cancer
                   Head and neck squamous cell
BCL2L1 Cancer Gene carcinoma, glioblastoma,
                   mesothelioma, pancreatic cancer,
                   adenocarcinoma lung
                   Brain cancer, leukemia, lymphoma,
BCL2L2 Cancer Gene colorectal adenocarcinoma,
                   colorectal cancer, adenoma, cervical
                   squamous cell carcinoma
BCL6   Cancer Gene Lymphoma, leukemia
BRCA1  Cancer Gene Breast cancer, ovarian cancer
                   Breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
BRCA2  Cancer Gene pancreatic cancer
CARD11 Cancer Gene Lymphoma
CBL    Cancer Gene Lymphoma, leukemia
                   Chronic lymphoblastic leukemia
CCND1  Cancer Gene (CLL), B-cell acute lymphoblastic
                   leukemia (B-ALL), breast cancer
                   Retinoblastoma, mantle cell
                   lymphoma, T-cell acute
CCND2  Cancer Gene lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL),
                   Burkitt lymphoma, testicular germ
                   cell tumor, ovarian granulosa cell
                   tumor, multiple myeloma
                   Retinoblastoma, mantle cell
                   lymphoma, anaplastic large cell
                   lymphoma, lymphoma (non
CCND3  Cancer Gene hodgkins), B-cell lymphoma,
                   laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma,
                   indolent lymphoma, null cell
                   adenoma
                   Breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
CCNE1  Cancer Gene bladder cancer, retinoblastoma
                   Gastric cancer, lobular carcinoma,
CDH1   Cancer Gene squamous cell carcinoma, invasive
                   ductal carcinoma, invasive lobular
                   carcinoma
CDH2   Cancer Gene Melanoma, malignant mesothelioma,
                   pleural mesothelioma, desmoplastic
                                         -  231 -

                   melanoma, lung adenocarcinoma,
                   endometrioid tumor, mesothelioma,
                   bladder cancer, esophageal squamous
                   cell carcinoma (ESCC)
CDH20  Cancer Gene Breast cancer
CDH5   Cancer Gene Granuloma, epithelioid sarcoma
CDK4   Cancer Gene Melanoma
CDK6   Cancer Gene Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
                   Colon cancer, lung cancer, rectal
CDK8   Cancer Gene cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia
                   (ALL)
CDKN2B Cancer Gene Leukemia, retinoblastoma, laryngeal
                   squamous cell carcinoma
                   Thyroid carcinoma, pituitary
                   adenoma, oligodendroglioma,
                   pancreatic endocrine tumor, multiple
CDKN2C Cancer Gene myeloma, hepatoblastoma, lymphoid
                   tumor, multiple endocrine neoplasia
                   type 1, anaplastic oligodendroglioma
CHEKI  Cancer Gene Leukemia, colon cancer
CHEK2  Cancer Gene Breast cancer
CRKL   Cancer Gene Leukemia, lymphoma
CRLF2  Cancer Gene Leukemia
                   Testicular germ cell tumor,
DNMT3A Cancer Gene lymphosarcoma, hepatocellular
                   carcinoma, salivary gland tumor
DOTIL  Cancer Gene Leukemia
                   Rhabdomyosarcoma, lymphoma,
EPHA3  Cancer Gene prostate cancer, hepatocellular
                   carcinoma, leukemia, melanoma
EPHA5  Cancer Gene Glioblastoma, breast cancer,
                   astrocytoma, Wilms' tumor, glioma
EPHA6  Cancer Gene Breast cancer
                   Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM),
EPHA7  Cancer Gene colon cancer, duodenal cancer,
                   parathyroid tumor, prostate cancer
                   Colorectal cancer, embryonal
EPHB1  Cancer Gene carcinoma, gastric cancer,
                   teratocarcinoma, mucinous
                   carcinoma
                   Head and neck squamous cell
EPHB4  Cancer Gene carcinoma (HNSCC), brain cancer,
                   endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer
EPHB6  Cancer Gene Neuroblastoma, melanoma, non
                   small cell lung cancer (NSCLL)
                   Breast cancer, non-small cell lung
                   cancer (NSCLC), pancreatic cancer,
ERBB3  Cancer Gene invasive ductal carcinoma, lung
                   adenocarcinoma, endometrioid
                   carcinoma, pilocytic astrocytoma
                   Breast cancer, medulloblastoma,
ERBB4  Cancer Gene cervical squamous cell carcinoma,
                   prostate cancer, leukemia
ERG    Cancer Gene Prostate cancer, Ewing's sarcoma,
                                          - 232 -

                     leukemia, prostate cancer
                     Prostate cancer, breast cancer,
ETV1     Cancer Gene Ewing's sarcoma, desmoplastic small
                     round cell tumor, myxoid
                     liposarcoma, clear cell sarcoma
                     Breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
ETV4     Cancer Gene squamous cell carcinoma tongue,
                     Ewing's sarcoma
ETV5     Cancer Gene Ganglioglioma, brain tumor
                     Leukemia, congenital fibrosarcoma,
ETV6     Cancer Gene secretory carcinoma, myelodysplastic
                     syndrome
                     Ewing's sarcoma, clear cell sarcoma,
                     desmoplastic small round cell tumor,
                     extraskeletal myxoid
                     chondrosarcoma, myxoid
                     liposarcoma, angiomatoid fibrous
                     histiocytoma
                     Prostate cancer, gallbladder
EZH2     Cancer Gene adenocarcinoma, breast cancer,
                     bladder cancer, gastric cancer,
                     Ewing's sarcoma
FANCA    Cancer Gene Leukemia
                     Colorectal cancer, endometrial
FBXW7    Cancer Gene cancer, T-cell acute lymphoblastic
                     leukemia (T-ALL)
                     Pituitary tumor, prostate cancer, lung
FGFR4    Cancer Gene cancer, astrocytoma,
                     rhabdomyosarcoma, pituitary
                     adenoma, fibroadenoma
FLTI     Cancer Gene Breast cancer, prostate cancer
                     Lung cancer, Kaposi's sarcoma,
FLT4     Cancer Gene gastric cancer, lymphangioma,
                     squamous cell carcinoma
FOXP4    Cancer Gene Lymphoma, brain tumor
                     Megakaryoblastic leukemia of
GATA1    Cancer Gene Downs Syndrome
GNA11    Cancer Gene Breast cancer
GNAQ     Cancer Gene Uveal melanoma
GNAS     Cancer Gene Pituitary adenoma
GPR124   Cancer Gene Colon cancer
GUCY1A2  Cancer Gene Breast cancer
HOXA3    Cancer Gene Breast cancer
HSP90AA1 Cancer Gene Lymphoma, myeloma
IDHI     Cancer Gene Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)
IDH2     Cancer Gene Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)
                     Ewing's sarcoma, breast cancer,
IGF1R    Cancer Gene uveal melanoma, adrenocortical
                     carcinoma, pancreatic cancer
IGF2R    Cancer Gene Gastrointestinal tumor, liver cancer
IKBKE    Cancer Gene Breast cancer
IKZF1    Cancer Gene Lymphoma, leukemia
                     Erythroleukemia, barrett metaplasia,
JNHBA    Cancer Gene esophageal adenocarcinoma,
                                           -  233 -

                   granulosa cell tumor, sex cord
                   stromal tumor, lung adenocarcinoma,
                   pheochromocytoma, krukenberg
                   tumor, ovarian cancer
                   Hyperinsulinemia, uterine
1R52   Cancer Gene leiomyosarcoma
JAK1   Cancer Gene Leukemia, ovarian cancer, breast
                   cancer
JAK3   Cancer Gene Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
JUN    Cancer Gene Skin cancer, leukemia
                   Non-small cell lung cancer
KDR    Cancer Gene (NSCLC), angiosarcoma
LRP1B  Cancer Gene Lung cancer, gastric cancer,
                   esophageal cancer
LTK    Cancer Gene Lymphoma, breast cancer
MAP2K1 Cancer Gene Prostate cancer, gastric cancer
MAP2K2 Cancer Gene Pancreatic cancer, intestinal tumor
MAP2K4 Cancer Gene Pancreatic cancer, breast cancer,
                   colorectal cancer
                   Multiple myeloma, leukemia,
MCL1   Cancer Gene       p
                   lymphoma
MDM2   Cancer Gene Sarcoma, glioma, colorectal cancer
                   Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM),
MDM4   Cancer Gene bladder cancer, retinoblastoma
MENI   Cancer Gene Parathyroid tumor
MITF   Cancer Gene Melanoma
MLH1   Cancer Gene Colorectal cancer, endometrial
                   cancer, ovarian cancer, CNS cancer
MPL    Cancer Gene Myeloproliferative disorder (MPD)
MRE11A Cancer Gene Breast cancer, lymphoma
MSH2   Cancer Gene Colorectal cancer, endometrial
                   cancer, ovarian cancer
MSH6   Cancer Gene Colorectal cancer
                   Lymphoma lung cancer, renal cancer,
MTOR   Cancer Gene clear cell carcinoma, glioma
MUTYH  Cancer Gene Colorectal cancer
MYCLI  Cancer Gene Small cell lung cancer (SCLC)
MYCN   Cancer Gene Neuroblastoma
                   Meningioma, acoustic neuroma,
NF2    Cancer Gene renal cancer
                   Lung cancer, thyroid cancer,
NKX2-1 Cancer Gene adenocarcinoma
NTRK1  Cancer Gene Papillary thyroid cancer
NTRK3  Cancer Gene Congenital fibrosarcoma, secretory
                   breast cancer
PAK3   Cancer Gene Lung cancer
                   Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL),
PAX5   Cancer Gene acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL,
                   e.g., B-cell ALL)
                   Myeloproliferative disorder (MPD),
                   acute myeloid leukemia (AML),
PDGFRB Cancer Gene chronic myeloid leukemia (CML),
                   chronic myelomonocytic leukemia
                   (CMML)
                                         -  234 -

                    Glioblastoma, ovarian cancer,
PJK3R1  Cancer Gene colorectal cancer
PKHD1   Cancer Gene Pancreatic cancer
PLCG1   Cancer Gene Head and neck cancer, leukemia
PRKDC   Cancer Gene Glioma, glioblastoma, gastric cancer,
                    ovarian cancer
PTCH1   Cancer Gene Skin basal cell, medulloblastoma
                    Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia
                    (JMML), acute myeloid leukemia
                    (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes
                    (MDS)
                    Lung cancer, cutaneous squamous
PTPRD   Cancer Gene cell carcinoma, glioblastoma,
                    neuroblastoma
RAFI    Cancer Gene Pilocytic astrocytoma
RARA    Cancer Gene Leukemia
RICTOR  Cancer Gene Colon cancer, lymphoma, glioma,
                    breast cancer
RPTOR   Cancer Gene Breast cancer, prostate cancer
                    Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), pre
RUNX1   Cancer Gene B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia
                    (preB-ALL), T-cell acute
                    lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)
SMAD2   Cancer Gene esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
                    (ESCC)
SMAD3   Cancer Gene Skin cancer, choriocarcinoma
SMAD4   Cancer Gene Pancreatic cancer, colon cancer
                    Non-small cell lung cancer
SMARCA4 Cancer Gene (NSCLC)
SMARCB1 Cancer Gene Malignant rhabdoid
SMO     Cancer Gene Skin basal cell cancer
SOX1O   Cancer Gene Oligodendroglioma
SOX2    Cancer Gene Embryonal carcinoma, germ cell
                    tumor
SRC     Cancer Gene Sarcoma, colon cancer, breast cancer
                    Non-small cell lung cancer
STK1 1  Cancer Gene (NSCLC), pancreatic cancer
TBX22   Cancer Gene Breast cancer
TET2    Cancer Gene Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)
TGFBR2  Cancer Gene Lung cancer, gastric cancer, colon
                    cancer
TMPRSS2 Cancer Gene Prostate cancer
TOPI    Cancer Gene Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
TSC1    Cancer Gene Hamartoma, renal cell cancer
TSC2    Cancer Gene Hamartoma, renal cell cancer
USP9X   Cancer Gene Leukemia
                    Renal cancer, hemangioma,
VHL     Cancer Gene pheochromocytoma
                    Wilms' tumor, desmoplastic small
WT1     Cancer Gene round cell tumor
ABCB1   PGx Gene
ABCC2   PGx Gene
ABCC4   PGx Gene
ABCG2   PGx Gene
                                          -  235 -

Clorfl44     PGx  Gene
CYPIBI       PGx  Gene
CYP2C19      PGx  Gene
CYP2C8       PGx  Gene
CYP2D6       PGx  Gene
CYP3A4       PGx  Gene
CYP3A5       PGx  Gene
DPYD         PGx  Gene
ERCC2        PGx  Gene
ESR2         PGx  Gene
FCGR3A       PGx  Gene
GSTP1        PGx  Gene
ITPA         PGx  Gene
LRP2         PGx  Gene
MANIBI       PGx  Gene
MTHFR        PGx  Gene
NQO1         PGx  Gene
NRP2         PGx  Gene
SLC19A1      PGx  Gene
SLC22A2      PGx  Gene
SLCO1B3      PGx  Gene
SOD2         PGx  Gene
SULTIA1      PGx  Gene
TPMT         PGx  Gene
TYMS         PGx  Gene
UGT1A1       PGx  Gene
UMPS         PGx  Gene
"Priority 1" refers to the highest priority of selected genes or gene products.
"Cancer Genes" refer to cancer-associated genes or gene products of less priority relative to
Priority 1.
"PGx Genes" refers to genes that are important for pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics
(PGx).
                                                 - 236 -

Table 1A: Additional exemplary selected genes and variants, associated cancer types, priority
codons, actionability category, and potential therapies.
    Hugo        Gene                                            Priority Actionability
    Gene      Category      Cancer Types                        Codons    Category     Reason
                                                                                       Prognostic (neg
   ASXL1      Priority 1    Mutiple myeloma (MM)                              D        MDS)
   BACHI      Priority 1    Breast                                            C        PARP Inhibitors
    BAPI      Priority 1    Uveal melanoma, breast, NSCLC                     C        PARP Inhibitors
   BARDI      Priority 1    Breast                                            C        PARP Inhibitors
                            Leukemia, lymphoma, skin
     BLM      Priority 1    squamous cell , other cancers                     C
                            Acute myeloid leukemia (AML),
    BRIPI     Priority 1    leukemia, breast                                  C        PARP Inhibitors
  CDKN1B      Priority 1    Breast                                            D
                            Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL),
                            AML, DLBCL, B-cell non-Hodgkin's
  CREBBP      Priority 1    lymphoma (B-NHL)                                  D
    DDR2      Priority 1    NSCLC                                             C        Dasatinib
    EMSY      Priority 1    Breast                                            C        PARP Inhibitors
   FANCC      Priority 1    AML, leukemia                                     C        PARP inhibitor
  FANCD2      Priority 1    AML, leukemia                                     C        PARP inhibitor
   FANCE      Priority 1    AML, leukemia                                     C        PARP inhibitor
   FANCF      Priority 1    AML, leukemia                                     C        PARP inhibitor
   FANCG      Priority 1    AML, leukemia                                     C        PARP inhibitor
   FANCL      Priority 1    AML, leukemia                                     C        PARP inhibitor
     HGF      Priority 1    MM                                                C        Resistance
                                                                                       Possible POOR
   NFKB1      Priority 1    Breast                                            D        PROGNOSIS
  NOTCH2      Priority 1    Marginal zone lymphoma, DLBCL                     D
                            Wilms tumor, medulloblastoma,
   PALB2      Priority 1    AML,breast                                        C        PARP Inhibitors
                                                                                       HDAC
   PBRM1      Priority 1    Clear cell renal carcinoma, breast                E        inhibitors?
    PDK1      Priority 1    NSCLC                                             C        PDKl inhibitors
                                                                                       P13K-PATHWAY
   PIK3R2     Priority 1    NSCLC                                             C        INHIBITORS
   RAD50      Priority 1    Breast                                            C        PARP Inhibitors
   RAD51      Priority 1    Breast                                            C        PARP Inhibitors
                                                -  237 -

   ROSI   Priority 1  Glioblastoma, NSCLC                  C
  SF3B1   Priority 1  MDS, CML, ALL, pancreatic, breast    E
   SPOP   Priority 1  Malignant melanoma                   E
 ACVR1B  Cancer Gene  Pancreas, breast                     E
ALOX12B  Cancer Gene  Mutiple myeloma (MM)                 E
   ATRX  Cancer Gene  Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors     E
                      Non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
    AXL  Cancer  Gene MM                                   E
  BCOR   Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
 BCORL1  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
C17orf39 Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  CASP8  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
   CBFB  Cancer  Gene AML                                  E
   CD22  Cancer  Gene NSCLC, breast                        E
                      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
  CD79A  Cancer  Gene (DLBCL)                              E
  CD79B  Cancer  Gene DLBCL                                E
  CDC73  Cancer  Gene Parathyroid                          E
  CDK12  Cancer  Gene Ovarian                              E
  CHUK   Cancer  Gene Colorectal                           E
  CRBN   Cancer  Gene Upper aerodigestive tract            E
  CSF1R  Cancer  Gene NSCLC                                E
   CTCF  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
CTNNA1   Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  CUL4A  Cancer  Gene Leukemia                             E
  CUL4B  Cancer  Gene Leukemia                             E
CYP17A1  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
   DAXX  Cancer  Gene Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors     E
   DIS3  Cancer  Gene MM                                   E
                      Colorectal, breast, pancreatic, AML,
  EP300  Cancer Gene  ALL, DLBCL                           E
                      Skin basal cell, skin squamous cell,
  ERCC2  Cancer  Gene melanoma                             E
 FAM46C  Cancer  Gene MM                                   E
   FGF1  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  FGF1O  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  FGF12  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  FGF14  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  FGF19  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
  FGF23  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
   FGF3  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
   FGF4  Cancer  Gene Breast                               E
                                           - 238 -

   FGF6 Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
   FGF7 Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
  FOXL2 Cancer Gene Granulosa-cell tumour of the ovary  134 E
                    AML,Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
 GATA2  Cancer Gene (CML, blast transformation)             E
 GATA3  Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
                    AML, myelodysplastic syndrome
  GRAF  Cancer Gene (MDS)                                   E
GRIN2A  Cancer Gene Malignant melanoma                      E
 GSK3B  Cancer Gene NSCLC                                   E
  HLA-A Cancer Gene MM                                      E
   IGF1 Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
   IGF2 Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
                    T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia
   IL7R Cancer Gene (T-ALL)                                 E
   INSR Cancer Gene NSCLC, glioblastoma, gastric            E
   IRF4 Cancer Gene Multiple myeloma (MM)                   E
 KDM4C  Cancer Gene Ovarian, breast                         E
 KDM5A  Cancer Gene AML                                     E
                    Renal, oesophageal squamous cell
 KDM6A  Cancer Gene carcinoma (SCC), MM                     E
  KEAPI Cancer Gene NSCLC                                   E
                    Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
  KLHL6 Cancer Gene (CLL)                                   E
                    T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia
  LMO1  Cancer Gene (T-ALL), neuroblastoma                  E
   LRP6 Cancer Gene NSCLC, malignant melanoma               E
  LRRK2 Cancer Gene Ovarian, NSCLC                          E
MAGEDI  Cancer Gene MM                                      E
MAP3K1  Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
MAP3K13 Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
  MLL2  Cancer Gene Medulloblastoma, renal                  E
 MLST8  Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
                    Activated B cell-like-DLBCL (ABC
 MYD88  Cancer Gene DLBCL)                                  E
 MYST3  Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
 NCOR1  Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
                    NSCLC, head and neck squamous
 NFE2L2 Cancer Gene cell carcinoma (HNSCC)                  E
 NFKBIA Cancer Gene Breast                                  E
NOTCH3  Cancer Gene NSCLC, breast                           E
NOTCH4  Cancer Gene NSCLC, breast                           E
                                         - 239 -

   NSD1    Cancer Gene AML                             E
  NTRK2    Cancer Gene Renal, NSCLC                    E
  NUP93    Cancer Gene Breast                          E
   PAK7    Cancer Gene NSCLC, malignant melanoma       E
  PHLPP2   Cancer Gene Ovarian, glioblastoma, NSCLC    E
 PHOX2B    Cancer Gene Neuroblastoma                   E
 PIK3C2G   Cancer Gene NSCLC                           E
  PIK3C3   Cancer Gene NSCLC                           E
  PIK3CG   Cancer Gene NSCLC                           E
  PNRC1    Cancer Gene MM                              E
  PRDM1    Cancer Gene DLBCL                           E
 PRKAR1A   Cancer Gene Adrenal gland, thyroid          E
   PRSS8   Cancer Gene Breast                          E
   PTCH2   Cancer Gene Malignant melanoma              E
    PTK2   Cancer Gene NSCLC, glioblastoma             E
   PTK2B   Cancer Gene NSCLC, breast                   E
     REL   Cancer Gene Hodgkin Lymphoma                E
   RHEB    Cancer Gene NSCLC, colorectal               E
  ROCKI    Cancer Gene Breast                          E
 RUNXT1    Cancer Gene NSCLC, colorectal               E
   SETD2   Cancer Gene Clear cell renal carcinoma      E
  SH2B3    Cancer Gene Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)  E
  SOCS1    Cancer Gene DLBCL                           E
   SPEN    Cancer Gene Adenoid cystic carcinoma        E
  STAG2    Cancer Gene Glioblastoma                    E
   STAT3   Cancer Gene Breast                          E
   STAT4   Cancer Gene Breast                          E
   STK12   Cancer Gene PNET, NSCLC                     E
   SUFU    Cancer Gene Medulloblastoma                 E
  TBX23    Cancer Gene Breast                          E
   TBX3    Cancer Gene Breast                          E
                       Marginal zone B-cell lymphomas,
                       Hodgkin's lymphoma, primary
 TN FAI P3 Cancer Gene mediastinal B cell lymphoma     E
TNFRSF14   Cancer Gene Follicular lymphoma             E
TNFRSF17   Cancer Gene Intestinal T-cell lymphoma      E
   TNKS    Cancer Gene NSCLC                           E
  TNKS2    Cancer Gene Melanoma, breast                E
  TRRAP    Cancer Gene Colorectal, glioblastoma        E
   TYK2    Cancer Gene NSCLC, breast                   E
   XBP1    Cancer Gene MM                              E
                                            - 240 -

                              Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
    XPO1       Cancer Gene    (CLL)                                                  E
   ZNF217      Cancer Gene    Breast                                                 E
   ZNF703      Cancer Gene    Breast                                                 E
The actionability categories are classified as described below. Table 1B provides a summary of
the application of the different categories to exemplary alterations in different cancer types.
Category A: Approved / standard alterations that predict sensitivity or resistance to approved /
standard therapies
        KRAS G13D in metastatic colon cancer
        ERBB2 amplification in breast cancer
        EGFR L858R in non small cell lung cancer
Category B: Alterations that are inclusion or exclusion criteria for specific experimental
therapies
        KRAS G13D in colon cancer, lung cancer, or breast cancer
        BRAF V600E in melanoma, colon cancer, or lung cancer
        NRAS Q61K in melanoma
        PIK3CA H1047R in breast cancer
        FGFR1 amplification in breast cancer
        PTEN biallelic inactivation in breast cancer
        BR CA1 biallelic inactivation in breast cancer or pancreatic cancer
Category C: Alterations with limited evidence (early clinical data, conflicting clinical data, pre
clinical data, theoretical) that predict sensitivity or resistance to standard or experimental
therapies
        KRAS Q61H in colon cancer (early clinical)
        PIK3CA H1047R in breast cancer (conflicting clinical)
        BRAF V600E in colon cancer (conflicting clinical)
        ERBB2 mutation or amplification in lung cancer (case reports)
        BRAF D594G in lung cancer (pre-clinical)
        FGFR1 amplification in breast cancer (pre-clinical)
        ATM biallelic inactivation in breast cancer (pre-clinical)
        TSC1 biallelic inactivation in colon cancer (pre-clinical)
        ATR biallelic inativation in breast cancer (theoretical)
        BRAF V600E mutation in sarcoma (theoretical)
Category D: Alterations with prognostic or diagnostic utility in a particular subtype of cancer
        MSH2 biallelic inactivation in colon cancer (strong clinical evidence)
        BRAF V600E in colon cancer (strong clinical evidence)
        KRAS G13D in lung cancer (strong clinical evidence)
        BR CA1 inactivation in breast cancer (strong clinical evidence)
Category E: Alterations with clear biological significance in cancer (i.e. driver mutations)
without clear clinical implications
                                                 -  241 -

       APC biallelic inactivation in colon cancer
       TP53 biallelic inactivation in breast cancer
       MITF amplification in melanoma
       ARIDlA in ovarian cancer
Category F: Alterations without known biological significance in cancer
       Novel alterations in known cancer genes
       Targets of therapy
       Orthologues of known cancer genes
Table 1B: Exemplary Classification of Alterations in Different Cancer Types
                                                                A       B   C D E
 KRAS G13D                            Colon Cancer              x       x     x x
 KRAS  G13D                            Lung Cancer                      x     x x
 KRAS  G13D                            Breast Cancer                    x       x
 NRAS  Q61K                            Melanoma                         x   K   x
 KRAS  Q61H                            Colon Cancer                     x   x   X
 BRAF V600E                            Melanoma                         x       x
 GRAF V6OQE                            Colon Cancer                     x   x x x
 BRAF V600E                            Lung Cancer                      x       x
 BRAF D594G                            Lung Cancer                          x   x
 PIK3CA H1047R                         Breast Cancer                    x   x   x
 PIK3CA H1047R                        Colon Cancer                      x   x   x
 EGFR L858R                            Lung Cancer              x               x
 EGFR T790M                            Lung Cancer              x       x       x
 ERBB2 Amplification                   Breast Cancer            x               x
 BRCA1 biafllelc inactivation          Breast Cancer                    x   x x x
 BRCA2 biallic inactivaton             Pancreatc Cancer                 x   x x x
 ATM bialeIic inactivation             Breast Cancer                        x   x
 TSC biallelec activation              Colon Cancer                         x   x
 PTEN biallelic nactivaton            Colon Cancer                          x   x
 PTEN biallelic inactivation           Breast Cancer                    x   x   x
 VHL bialleic inactivation             Kidney Cancer                          x x
 MSH2 bialleetic inactivation         Colon Cancer                            x x
ATR bialleic inactiaton                Breast Cancer                          x
 NIYC amplification                    Breast Cancer                        X   x
                                              - 242 -

Table 2: Exemplary selected genes associated with pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics
(PGx).
    Gene          Locus           Mutation                            Effect
 ABCB1      chr7:86976581     3853C>T           Better survival in Asian AML treated with
                                                Ida/AraC; Survival in breast cancer patients
                                                treated with paclitaxel
 ABCB1      chr7:86998554     2677G>T/A         Response to taxanes, platinums and GI toxicity;
                                                Better survival in Asian AML treated with
                                                Ida/AraC
 ABCC2      chr0:101610761                      Doxcetaxel induced leukopenia
 ABCC4      chrl3:94613416                      6MP Toxicity
 ABCG2      chr4:89252551                       MTX
 ABCG2      chr4:89271347     q141K             Diarrhea after gefitinib
 ABCG2      chr4:89274403                       MTX
 Clorfl44   chrl:16578662                       Toxicity from daunorubicin
 CYPIBI     chr2:38151707     CYP1B1*3          Toxicity from daunorubicin; Survival in breast
                                                cancer patients treated with paclitaxel
 CYP2C19    chrl0:96509051    CYP2C19*17        Improved benefit from tamoxifen
 CYP2C19    chrl0:96511647    CYP2C19*17        Improved benefit from tamoxifen
 CYP2C8     chrl0:96786964    461delV           Paclitexel metabolism
 CYP2C8     chrl0:96788739    K399R             Paclitexel metabolism
 CYP2C8     chrl0:96808096                      Paclitexel metabolism
 CYP2C8     chr0:96808109                       Paclitexel metabolism
 CYP2C8     chrl0:96817020                      Paclitexel metabolism
 CYP2D6     chr22:40853554    CYP2D6: 3183      CYP2D6*29, present in Tanzanians
                              G>A
 CYP2D6     chr22:40853749    CYP2D6: 2988      CYP2D6*41 (IM)
                              G>A
 CYP2D6     chr22:40853887    CYP2D6: 2850      CYP2D6*2 (EM)
                              C>T
 CYP2D6     chr22:40854122    CYP2D6: 2613-     CYP2D6*9 (unclear function?)
                              2615 del AGA
 CYP2D6     chr22:40854188    CYP2D6: 2549      CYP2D6*3
                              del A
 CYP2D6     chr22:40854891    CYP2D6: 1846      CYP2D6*4
                              G>A
 CYP2D6     chr22:40855030    CYP2D6: 1707      CYP2D6*6
                              del T
 CYP2D6     chr22:40855078    CYP2D6:           CYP2D6*29, present in Tanzanians
                               1659G>A
 CYP2D6     chr22:40855716    CYP2D6: 1023      Present in CYP2D6*17
                              C>T
 CYP2D6     chr22:40856638    CYP2D6:           Present in CYP2D6*10 (casuative) and *4
                               100C>T           (associated)
 CYP3A4     chr7:99196395
 CYP3A4     chr7:99196460
 CYP3A4     chr7:99197606
 CYP3A4     chr7:99204017
                                           - 243 -

CYP3A4  chr7:99204029  CYP3A4*16B        Paclitaxel metabolism in Japanse
CYP3A4  chr7:99205328
CYP3A4  chr7:99205363
CYP3A4  chr7:99219597
CYP3A4  chr7:99220032  CYP3A4*1B         Greater clearance of docetaxel
CYP3A5  chr7:99088330
CYP3A5  chr7:99100771
CYP3A5  chr7:99108475
DPYD    chrl:97688202  DPYD*2A           Toxicity to 5FU
DPYD    chrl:97753983  DPYD*5            Toxicity to 5FU
DPYD    chr1:97937679  496A>G            5FU, Xeloda toxicity
DPYD    chrl:98121473  DPYD*9A           Toxicity to 5FU
ERCC2   chrl9:50546759 225 1A>C          Relapse after 5FU in Asians
ESR1    chr6:152205074                   Tamoxifen induced hypercholesterolemia
ESR2    chrl4:63769569                   Tamoxifen induced hypercholesterolemia
FCGR3A  chrl:159781166 V158F             Response to cetuximab
FGFR4   chr5:176452849 GLY388ARG
GSTP1   chrl1:67109265 1105V             Resistance to multiple chemotherapies
GSTP1   chrl1:67110155 A114V             Unclear, linkage disequlibrium with 1105V
ITPA    chr20:3141842                    6MP Toxicity
LRP2    chr2:169719231                   Associated with ototoxicity from cisplatin
MANIBI  chr9:139102689                   Toxicity from daunorubicin
MTHFR   chrl:11777044                    MTX
MTHFR   chrl:11777063                    MTX
MTHFR   chrl:11778965  677C>T            MTX
NQO1    chrl6:68302646 NQO1*2            Rapid degradation (cisplatin, doxorubicin);
                                         poor survival in breast cancer treated with
                                         anthracyclines
NRP2    chr2:206360545                   Toxicity from daunorubicin
SLC19A1 chr2l:45782222                   MTX
SLC22A2 chr6:160590272 Ala270Ser         Reduced cisplatin nephrotoxicity
SLCO1B3 chr12:20936961                   Doxcetaxel induced leukopenia
SOD2    chr6:160033862 V16A              Inferior survival in breast cancer treated with
                                         cyclophosphamide
SULTIAl chrl6:28524986
SULTIAl chrl6:28525015
SULTIAl chrl6:28528073
SULTIAl chrl6:28528301
TMPT    chr6:18247207  TPMT*3B           Purine toxicity
TPMT    chr6:18238897                    6MP Toxicity
TPMT    chr6:18238991                    6MP Toxicity
TPMT    chr6:18251934                    6MP Toxicity
TYMS    chrl8:647646   28bp tandem       Toxicity to 5FU
                       repeat
TYMS    chrl8:663451   6bp deletion      Toxicity to 5FU
UGT1A1  chr2:234255266                   Anemia from irinotecan
UGT1A1  chr2:234255709                   thrombocytopenia from irinotecan
UGT1A1  chr2:234330398                   UGT1A1*60
UGT1A1  chr2:234330521                   UGT1A1*93
                                    - 244 -

 UGT1A1     chr2:234333620                        UGT1A1*28
 UGT1A1     chr2:234333883                        UGT1A1*6
 UGT1A1     chr2:234334358                        UGT1A1*27
 UMPS       chr3:125939432      Gly213Ala         Toxicity to 5FU
Table 3: Exemplary selected genes associated with translocation mutations in solid tumors
  Hugo Gene     Gene            Translocation Partner                      Cancer Types
              Category
ACSL3        Priority 1  ETV1                                  prostate
ALK          Priority 1  NPM1, TPM3, TFG, TPM4, ATIC,          ALCL, NSCLC, Neuroblastoma
                          CLTC, MSN, AL017, CARS, EML4
BRAF         Priority 1   AKAP9, KIAA1549                      melanoma, colorectal, papillary
                                                               thyroid, borderline ov, Non small
                                                               cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
                                                               cholangiocarcinoma, pilocytic
                                                               astrocytoma
C15orf21     Priority 1  ETV1                                  prostate
CANTI        Priority 1  ETV4                                  prostate
CCND1        Priority 1   IGH, FSTL3                           CLL, B-ALL, breast
DDX5         Priority 1  ETV4                                  prostate
ELK4         Priority 1   SLC45A3                              prostate
EML4         Priority 1   ALK                                  NSCLC
EP300        Priority 1  MLL, RUNXBP2                          colorectal, breast, pancreatic, AML
ERG          Priority 1  EWSR1, TMPRSS2, ELF4, FUS,            Ewing sarcoma, prostate, AML
                          HERPUDI
ETV1         Priority 1  EWSR1, TMPRSS2, SLC45A3,              Ewing sarcoma, prostate
                         C15orf2l, HNRNPA2B1. ACSL3
ETV4         Priority 1  EWSR1, TMPRSS2, DDX5, KLK2,           Ewing sarcoma, Prostate carcinoma
                         CANTI
ETV5         Priority 1   TMPRSS2, SCL45A3                     Prostate
FGFR3        Priority 1   IGH @, ETV6                          bladder, MM, T-cell lymphoma
HERPUDI      Priority 1  ERG                                   prostate
HNRNPA2B 1   Priority 1  ETV1                                  prostate
KLK2         Priority 1  ETV4                                  prostate
RET          Priority 1   H4, PRKAR1A, NCOA4, PCM1,            medullary thyroid, papillary thyroid,
                          GOLGA5, TRIM33, KTN1,                pheochromocytoma
                          TRIM27, HOOK3
ROSI         Priority 1   GOPC, ROSI                           glioblastoma, NSCLC
SLC45A3      Priority 1  ETV1, ETV5, ELK4, ERG                 prostate
TMPRSS2      Priority 1  ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5                 prostate
AKAP9                     BRAF                                 papillary thyroid
ASPSCR1                   TFE3                                 alveolar soft part sarcoma
ATFI                     EWSR1, FUS                            malignant melanoma of soft parts,
                                                               angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma
BRD3                     NUT                                   lethal midline carcinoma of young
                                                               people
BRD4                     NUT                                   lethal midline carcinoma of young
                                                               people
C12orf9                  LPP                                   lipoma
CD74                      ROSI                                 NSCLC
CDH1 1                    USP6                                 aneurysmal bone cysts
CHCHD7                    PLAGI                                salivary adenoma
                                             - 245 -

CHN1    TAF15                          extraskeletal myxoid
                                       chondrosarcoma
CIC     DUX4                           soft tissue sarcoma
CMKOR1  HMGA2                          lipoma
COL1A1  PDGFB, USP6                    dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans,
                                       aneurysmal bone cyst
COX6C   HMGA2                          uterine leiomyoma
CREBI   EWSR1                          clear cell sarcoma, angiomatoid
                                       fibrous histiocytoma
CREB3L2 FUS                            fibromyxoid sarcoma
CRTC3   MAML2                          salivary gland mucoepidermoid
CTNNB1  PLAGI                          colorectal, cvarian, hepatoblastoma,
                                       others, pleomorphic salivary
                                       adenoma
D1OS170 RET, PDGFRB                    papillary thyroid, CML
DDIT3   FUS                            liposarcoma
DUX4    CIC                            soft tissue sarcoma
ELKS    RET                            papillary thyroid
ETV6    NTRK3, RUNX1, PDGFRB, ABLI,    congenital fibrosarcoma, multiple
        MN1, ABL2, FACL6, CHIC2,       leukemia and lymphoma, secretory
        ARNT, JAK2, EVIl, CDX2, STL,   breast, MDS, ALL
        HLXB9, MDS2, PERI, SYK, TTL,
        FGFR3, PAX5
EWSR1   FLI1, ERG, ZNF278, NR4A3, FEV, Ewing sarcoma, desmoplastic small
        ATFI, ETV1, ETV4, WT1, ZNF384, round cell tumor, ALL, clear cell
        CREBI, POU5F1, PBX1            sarcoma, sarcoma, myoepithelioma
FEV     EWSR1, FUS                     Ewing sarcoma
FLI1    EWSR1                          Ewing sarcoma
FOXO1A  PAX3                           alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas
FUS     DDIT3, ERG, FEV, ATFI,         liposarcoma, AML, Ewing sarcoma,
        CREB3L2                        angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma,
                                       fibromyxoid sarcoma
GOLGA5  RET                            papillary thyroid
HEI1O   HMGA2                          uterine leiomyoma
HMGA1   ?                              microfollicular thyroid adenoma,
                                       various benign mesenchymal tumors
HMGA2    LHFP, RAD51L1, LPP, HEI10,    lipoma
        COX6C, CMKOR1, NFIB
HOOK3   RET                            papillary thyroid
JAZF1   SUZ12                          endometrial stromal tumours
KTN1    RET                            papillary thyroid
LHFP    HMGA2                          lipoma
LIFR    PLAGI                          salivary adenoma
LPP     HMGA2, MLL, C12orf9            lipoma, leukemia
MAML2   MECTI, CRTC3                   salivary gland mucoepidermoid
MECTI   MAML2                          salivary gland mucoepidermoid
MN1     ETV6                           AML, meningioma
MYB     NFIB                           adenoid cystic carcinoma
MYC     IGK, BCL5, BCL7A, BTG1, TRA,   Burkitt lymphoma, amplified in
        IGH                            other cancers, B-CLL
NCOA1   PAX3                           alveolar rhadomyosarcoma
NCOA4   RET                            papillary thyroid
NFIB    MYB, HGMA2                     adenoid cystic carcinoma, lipoma
NONO    TFE3                           papillary renal cancer
                          - 246 -

NR4A3   EWSR1                       extraskeletal myxoid
                                    chondrosarcoma
NTRK1   TPM3, TPR, TFG              papillary thyroid
NTRK3   ETV6                        congenital fibrosarcoma, Secretory
                                    breast
NUT     BRD4, BRD3                  lethal midline carcinoma of young
                                    people
OMD     USP6                        aneurysmal bone cysts
PAX3    FOXO1A, NCOA1               alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma
PAX7    FOXO1A                      alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma
PAX8    PPARG                       follicular thyroid
PBX1    TCF3, EWSR1                 pre B-ALL, myoepithelioma
PCM1    RET, JAK2                   papillary thyroid, CML, MPD
PDGFB   COL1Al                      DFSP
PDGFRA  FIPIL1                      GIST, idiopathic hypereosinophilic
                                    syndrome
PLAGI   TCEA1, LIFR, CTNNB1, CHCHD7 salivary adenoma
POU5F1  EWSR1                       sarcoma
PPARG   PAX8                        follicular thyroid
PRCC    TFE3                        papillary renal
PRKAR1A RET                         papillary thyroid
PRO1073 TFEB                        renal cell carcinoma (childhood
                                    epithelioid)
RAD51Ll HMGA2                       lipoma, uterine leiomyoma
RAFI    SRGAP3                      pilocytic astrocytoma
SFPQ    TFE3                        papillary renal cell
SRGAP3  RAF1                        pilocytic astrocytoma
SS18    SSX1, SSX2                  synovial sarcoma
SS18L1  SSX1                        synovial sarcoma
SSX1    SS18                        synovial sarcoma
SSX2    SS18                        synovial sarcoma
SSX4    SS18                        synovial sarcoma
SUZ12   JAZF1                       endometrial stromal tumours
TAF15   TEC, CHN1, ZNF384           extraskeletal myxoid
                                    chondrosarcomas, ALL
TCEA1   PLAGI                       salivary adenoma
TCF12   TEC                         extraskeletal myxoid
                                    chondrosarcoma
TFE3    SFPQ, ASPSCR1, PRCC, NONO,  papillary renal, alveolar soft part
        CLTC                        sarcoma, renal
TFEB    ALPHA                       renal (childhood epithelioid)
TFG     NTRK1, ALK                  papillary thyroid, ALCL, NSCLC
THRAP3  USP6                        aneurysmal bone cysts
TPM3    NTRK1, ALK                  papillary thyroid, ALCL
TPR     NTRK1                       papillary thyroid
TRIM27  RET                         papillary thyroid
TRIM33  RET                         papillary thyroid
USP6    COL1A1, CDH11, ZNF9, OMD    aneurysmal bone cysts
ZNF278  EWSR1                       Ewing sarcoma
ZNF331  ?                           follicular thyroid adenoma
ZNF9    USP6                        aneurysmal bone cysts
                         - 247 -

Table 4: Exemplary selected genes associated with translocation mutations in hematologic
malignancies.
  Hugo Gene      Gene           Translocation Partner                 Cancer Types
              Category
ABLI          Priority 1 BCR, ETV6, NUP214                 CML, ALL, T-ALL
ALK           Priority 1 NPM1, TPM3, TFG, TPM4, ATIC,      ALCL, NSCLC, Neuroblastoma
                         CLTC, MSN, AL017, CARS, EML4
BCL2          Priority 1 IGH                               NHL, CLL
BCL6          Priority 1 IG loci, ZNFN1A1, LCP1, PIM1,     NHL, CLL
                         TFRC, MHC2TA, NACA, HSPCB,
                         HSPCA, HIST1H4J, JL21R,
                         POU2AF1, ARHH, EIF4A2, SFRS3
CCND1         Priority 1 IGH, FSTL3                        CLL, B-ALL, breast
CREBBP        Priority 1 MLL, MORF, RUNXBP2                AL, AML
FGFR1         Priority 1 BCR, FOP, ZNF198, CEPI            MPD, NHL
FGFR3         Priority 1 IGH, ETV6                         bladder, MM, T-cell lymphoma
JAK2          Priority 1 ETV6, PCM1, BCR                   ALL, AML, MPD, CML
MLL           Priority 1 MLL, MLLT1, MLLT2, MLLT3,         AML, ALL
                         MLLT4, MLLT7, MLLT 10,
                         MLLT6, ELL, EPS15, AF1Q,
                         CREBBP, SH3GL1, FNBP1,
                         PNUTL1, MSF, GPHN, GMPS,
                         SSH3BP1, ARHGEF12, GAS7,
                         FOXO3A, LAF4, LCX, SEPT6,
                         LPP, CBFA2T1, GRAF, EP300,
                         PICALM, HEAB
PDGFRA        Priority 1 FIPIL1                            GIST, idiopathic hypereosinophilic
                                                           syndrome
RARA          Priority 1 PML, ZNF145, TIFI, NUMA1,         APL
                         NPM1
SEPT6                    MLL                               AML
ABL2                     ETV6                              AML
AF15Q14                  MLL                               AML
AF1Q                     MLL                               ALL
AF3p21                   MLL                               ALL
AF5q31                   MLL                               ALL
ALO17                    ALK                               ALCL
ARHGEF12                 MLL                               AML
ARHH                     BCL6                              NHL
ARNT                     ETV6                              AML
ATIC                     ALK                               ALCL
BCL1O                    IGH                               MALT
BCL11A                   IGH                               B-CLL
BCL11B                   TLX3                              T-ALL
BCL3                     IGH                               CLL
BCL5                     MYC                               CLL
BCL7A                    MYC                               BNHL
BCL9                     IGH, IGL                          B-ALL
BCR                      ABLI, FGFR1, JAK2                 CML, ALL, AML
BIRC3                    MALTI                             MALT
BTG1                     MYC                               BCLL
CARS                     ALK                               ALCL
                                             - 248 -

CBFA2T1  MLL, RUNX1                     AML
CBFA2T3  RUNX1                          AML
CBFB     MYHI1                          AML
CBL      MLL                            AML, JMML, MDS
CCND2    IGL                            NHL,CLL
CCND3    IGH                            MM
CDK6     MLLT1O                         ALL
CDX2     ETV6                           AML
CEPI     FGFR1                          MPD, NHL
CHIC2    ETV6                           AML
CLTC     ALK, TFE3                      ALCL, renal
CLTCL1   ?                              ALCL
DDX1O    NUP98                          AML*
DDX6     IGH                            B-NHL
DEK      NUP214                         AML
EIF4A2   BCL6                           NHL
ELF4     ERG                            AML
ELL      MLL                            AL
ELN      PAX5                           B-ALL
EP300    MLL, RUNXBP2                   colorectal, breast, pancreatic, AML
EPS15    MLL                            ALL
ERG      EWSR1, TMPRSS2, ELF4, FUS,     Ewing sarcoma, prostate, AML
         HERPUDI
ETV6     NTRK3, RUNX1, PDGFRB, ABLI,    congenital fibrosarcoma, multiple
         MN1, ABL2, FACL6, CHIC2,       leukemia and lymphoma, secretory
         ARNT, JAK2, EVIl, CDX2, STL,   breast, MDS, ALL
         HLXB9, MDS2, PERI, SYK, TTL,
         FGFR3, PAX5
EVI1     RUNX1, ETV6, PRDM16, RPN1      AML, CML
EWSR1    FLI1, ERG, ZNF278, NR4A3, FEV, Ewing sarcoma, desmoplastic small
         ATFI, ETV1, ETV4, WT1, ZNF384, round cell tumor, ALL, clear cell
         CREBI, POU5F1, PBX1            sarcoma, sarcoma, myoepithelioma
FACL6    ETV6                           AML, AEL
FCGR2B   ?                              ALL
FGFR1OP  FGFR1                          MPD, NHL
FIPILl   PDGFRA                         idiopathic hypereosinophilic
                                        syndrome
FNBP1    MLL                            AML
FOXO3A   MLL                            AL
FOXPI    PAX5                           ALL
FSTL3    CCND1                          B-CLL
FUS      DDIT3, ERG, FEV, ATFI,         liposarcoma, AML, Ewing sarcoma,
         CREB3L2                        angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma,
                                        fibromyxoid sarcoma
FVT1     IGK                            B-NHL
GAS7     MLL                            AML*
GMPS     MLL                            AML
GPHN     MLL                            AL
GRAF     MLL                            AML, MDS
HCMOGT-1 PDGFRB                         JMML
HEAB     MLL                            AML
HIPI     PDGFRB                         CMML
HIST1H4I BCL6                           NHL
                           - 249 -

HLF     TCF3                          ALL
HLXB9   ETV6                          AML
HOXAl1  NUP98                         CML
HOXA13  NUP98                         AML
HOXA9   NUP98, MSI2                   AML*
HOXC 11 NUP98                         AML
HOXC13  NUP98                         AML
HOXD1 1 NUP98                         AML
HOXD13  NUP98                         AML*
HSPCA   BCL6                          NHL
HSPCB   BCL6                          NHL
IGH     MYC, FGFR3,PAX5, IRTA1, IRF4, MM, Burkitt lymphoma, NHL, CLL,
        CCND1, BCL9, BCL8, BCL6,      B-ALL, MALT, MLCLS
        BCL2, BCL3, BCL10, BCL11A.
        LHX4, DDX6, NFKB2, PAFAH1B2,
        PCSK7
IGK     MYC, FVT1                     Burkitt lymphoma, B-NHL
IGL     BCL9, MYC, CCND2              Burkitt lymphoma
IL2     TNFRSF17                      intestinal T-cell lymphoma
IL21R   BCL6                          NHL
IRF4    IGH                           MM
IRTA1   IGH                           B-NHL
ITK     SYK                           peripheral T-cell lymphoma
KDM5A   NUP98                         AML
LAF4    MLL, RUNX1                    ALL, T-ALL
LASPI   MLL                           AML
LCK     TRB                           T-ALL
LCP1    BCL6                          NHL
LCX     MLL                           AML
LMO1    TRD                           T-ALL
LMO2    TRD                           T-ALL
LPP     HMGA2, MLL, C12orf9           lipoma, leukemia
LYL1    TRB                           T-ALL
MAF     IGH                           MM
MAFB    IGH                           MM
MALTI   BIRC3                         MALT
MDS1    RUNX1                         MDS, AML
MDS2    ETV6                          MDS
MHC2TA  BCL6                          NHL
MKL1    RBM15                         acute megakaryocytic leukemia
MLF1    NPM1                          AML
MLLT1   MLL                           AL
MLLT10  MLL, PICALM, CDK6             AL
MLLT2   MLL                           AL
MLLT3   MLL                           ALL
MLLT4   MLL                           AL
MLLT6   MLL                           AL
MLLT7   MLL                           AL
MN1     ETV6                          AML, meningioma
MSF     MLL                           AML*
MSI2    HOXA9                         CML
MSN     ALK                           ALCL
MTCP1   TRA                           T cell prolymphocytic leukemia
                         - 250 -

MUCi     IGH                             B-NHL
MYC      IGK, BCL5, BCL7A, BTG1, TRA,    Burkitt lymphoma, amplified in
         IGH                             other cancers, B-CLL
MYHI     CBFB                            AML
MYH9     ALK                             ALCL
MYST4    CREBBP                          AML
NACA     BCL6                            NHL
NCOA2    RUNXBP2                         AML
NFKB2    IGH                             B-NHL
NIN      PDGFRB                          MPD
NOTCH    TRB                             T-ALL
NPM1     ALK, RARA, MLF1                 NHL, APL, AML
NSD1     NUP98                           AML
NUMA1    RARA                            APL
NUP214   DEK, SET, ABLI                  AML, T-ALL
NUP98    HOXA9, NSD1, WHSC1L1,           AML
         DDX1O, TOPI, HOXD13, PMX1,
         HOXA13, HOXD11, HOXA11,
         RAP1GDS1, HOXCI1
OLIG2    TRA                             T-ALL
PAFAH1B2 IGH                             MLCLS
PAX5     IGH, ETV6, PML, FOXPI, ZNF521,  NHL, ALL, B-ALL
         ELN
PBX1     TCF3, EWSR1                     pre B-ALL, myoepithelioma
PCM1     RET, JAK2                       papillary thyroid, CML, MPD
PCSK7    IGH                             MLCLS
PDE4DIP  PDGFRB                          MPD
PDGFRB   ETV6, TRIP11, HIP1, RAB5EP, H4, MPD, AML, CMML, CML
         NIN, HCMOGT-1, PDE4DIP
PERI     ETV6                            AML, CMML
PICALM   MLLT1O, MLL                     TALL, AML,
PIMI     BCL6                            NHL
PML      RARA,PAX5                       APL,ALL
PMX1     NUP98                           AML
PNUTL1   MLL                             AML
POU2AF1  BCL6                            NHL
PRDM16   EVI1                            MDS, AML
PSIP2    NUP98                           AML
RAB5EP   PDGFRB                          CMML
RANBP17  TRD                             ALL
RAP1GDS1 NUP98                           T-ALL
RBM15    MKL1                            acute megakaryocytic leukemia
RPL22    RUNX1                           AML, CML
RPN1     EVI1                            AML
RUNX1    RPL22, MDS1, EVIl, CBFA2T3,     AML, preB- ALL, T-ALL
         CBFA2T1, ETV6, LAF4
RUNXBP2  CREBBP, NCOA2, EP300            AML
SET      NUP214                          AML
SFRS3    BCL6                            follicular lymphoma
SH3GL1   MLL                             AL
SIL      TALl                            T-ALL
SSH3BP1  MLL                             AML
STL      ETV6                            B-ALL
                           - 251 -

SYK      ETV6, ITK                    MDS, peripheral T-cell lymphoma
TAF15    TEC, CHN1, ZNF384            extraskeletal myxoid
                                      chondrosarcomas, ALL
TAL1     TRD, SIL                     lymphoblastic leukemia/biphasic
TAL2     TRB                          T-ALL
TCF3     PBX1, HLF, TFPT              pre B-ALL
TCL1A    TRA                          T-CLL
TCL6     TRA                          T-ALL
TFG      NTRK1, ALK                   papillary thyroid, ALCL, NSCLC
TFPT     TCF3                         pre-B ALL
TFRC     BCL6                         NHL
TIFI     RARA                         APL
TLX1     TRB,TRD                      T-ALL
TLX3     BCL11B                       T-ALL
TNFRSF17 1L2                          intestinal T-cell lymphoma
TOPI     NUP98                        AML*
TPM3     NTRK1, ALK                   papillary thyroid, ALCL
TPM4     ALK                          ALCL
TRA      ATL,0LIG2, MYC, TCL1A, TCL6, T-ALL
         MTCP1, TCL6
TRB      HOXI1, LCK, NOTCH, TAL2,     T-ALL
         LYL1
TRD      TALl, HOXI1, TLX1, LMO1,     T-cell leukemia
         LMO2, RANBP17
TRIP 11  PDGFRB                       AML
TTL      ETV6                         ALL
WHSC1    IGH                          MM
WHSC1L1  NUP98                        AML
ZNF145   RARA                         APL
ZNF198   FGFRI                        MPD, NHL
ZNF384   EWSR1, TAF15                 ALL
ZNF521   PAX5                         ALL
ZNFN1A1  BCL6                         ALL, DLBL
                          - 252 -

EXAMPLE 7: Exemplary Bait Sequences for Hybrid Capture
        Table 7 provides exemplary baits for three targets: SMAD3_target_10,
SMAD3_target_11, SMAD3_target_12.
Table 7: Exemplary Baits
1. Gene                Target                Bait genomic location
SMAD3                  SMAD3_target_10       chr15:67477013-67477132
CCATTGTGTGTGAGCAAAGGCACCCTGTCCAGTCTAACCTGAATCTCTGTAGGAAGA
GGCGTGCGGCTCTACTACATCGGAGGGGAGGTCTTCGCAGAGTGCCTCAGTGACAG
CGCTATT (SEQ ID NO:6)
(Bait ID:        SMAD3_target_10.2)
2. Gene                Target                Bait genomic location
SMAD3                  SMAD3_target_10       chr15:67477037-67477156
CTGTCCAGTCTAACCTGAATCTCTGTAGGAAGAGGCGTGCGGCTCTACTACATCGGA
GGGGAGGTCTTCGCAGAGTGCCTCAGTGACAGCGCTATTTTTGTCCAGTCTCCCAAC
TGTAAC (SEQ ID NO:7)
(Bait ID:        SMAD3_target_10.4)
3. Gene                Target                Bait genomic location
SMAD3                  SMAD3_target_10       chr15:67477061-67477180
GTAGGAAGAGGCGTGCGGCTCTACTACATCGGAGGGGAGGTCTTCGCAGAGTGCCT
CAGTGACAGCGCTATTTTTGTCCAGTCTCCCAACTGTAACCAGCGCTATGGCTGGCA
CCCGGCC (SEQ ID NO:8)
(Bait ID:        SMAD3_target_10.6)
4. Gene                Target                Bait genomic location
SMAD3                  SMAD3_target_10       chr15:67477085-67477204
TACATCGGAGGGGAGGTCTTCGCAGAGTGCCTCAGTGACAGCGCTATTTTTGTCCAG
TCTCCCAACTGTAACCAGCGCTATGGCTGGCACCCGGCCACCGTCTGCAAGATCCCA
CCAGGT (SEQ ID NO:9)
(Bait ID:        SMAD3_target_10.1)
5. Gene                Target                Bait genomic location
SMAD3                  SMAD3_target_10       chr15:67477109-67477228
GAGTGCCTCAGTGACAGCGCTATTTTTGTCCAGTCTCCCAACTGTAACCAGCGCTAT
GGCTGGCACCCGGCCACCGTCTGCAAGATCCCACCAGGTAAACGAGCCGCACAGGC
ACCCCTG (SEQ ID NO:10)
                                             -  253 -

(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_10.5)
6. Gene          Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_10 chr15:67477133-67477252
TTTGTCCAGTCTCCCAACTGTAACCAGCGCTATGGCTGGCACCCGGCCACCGTCTGC
AAGATCCCACCAGGTAAACGAGCCGCACAGGCACCCCTGCCTTGAGGTCCCTCTCC
GAGTGCA (SEQ ID NO:11)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_10.3)
7. Gene          Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_11 chr15:67479655-67479774
GACCTGGCCACTTCCATCCCCACAGCCCTGTTTCTGTGTTTTTGGCAGGATGCAACCT
GAAGATCTTCAACAACCAGGAGTTCGCTGCCCTCCTGGCCCAGTCGGTCAACCAGG
GCTTTG (SEQ ID NO:12)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_11.1)
8. Gene          Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_11 chr15:67479679-67479798
GCCCTGTTTCTGTGTTTTTGGCAGGATGCAACCTGAAGATCTTCAACAACCAGGAGT
TCGCTGCCCTCCTGGCCCAGTCGGTCAACCAGGGCTTTGAGGCTGTCTACCAGTTGA
CCCGAA (SEQ ID NO:13)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_11.5)
9. Gene          Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_11 chr15:67479703-67479822
GATGCAACCTGAAGATCTTCAACAACCAGGAGTTCGCTGCCCTCCTGGCCCAGTCGG
TCAACCAGGGCTTTGAGGCTGTCTACCAGTTGACCCGAATGTGCACCATCCGCATGA
GCTTCG (SEQ ID NO: 14)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_11.3)
10. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_11 chr15:67479727-67479846
ACCAGGAGTTCGCTGCCCTCCTGGCCCAGTCGGTCAACCAGGGCTTTGAGGCTGTCT
ACCAGTTGACCCGAATGTGCACCATCCGCATGAGCTTCGTCAAAGGCTGGGGAGCG
GAGTACA (SEQ ID NO:15)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_11.4)
11. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_11 chr15:67479751-67479870
                                 - 254 -

CCCAGTCGGTCAACCAGGGCTTTGAGGCTGTCTACCAGTTGACCCGAATGTGCACCA
TCCGCATGAGCTTCGTCAAAGGCTGGGGAGCGGAGTACAGGTCAGTTATGGGTGCT
GCCTACA (SEQ ID NO:16)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_11.2)
12. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_11 chr15:67479775-67479894
AGGCTGTCTACCAGTTGACCCGAATGTGCACCATCCGCATGAGCTTCGTCAAAGGCT
GGGGAGCGGAGTACAGGTCAGTTATGGGTGCTGCCTACATCAGGGGACCCAACTCC
AGGTGAC (SEQ ID NO:17)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_11.6)
13. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_12 chr15:67482692-67482811
TGTAACCCCCTGGAGATTTTTTAAGTCCCCCACCCCACCCCTTTCCCTATTTCTTACA
GGAGACAGACTGTGACCAGTACCCCCTGCTGGATTGAGCTGCACCTGAATGGGCCTT
TGCAG (SEQ ID NO:18)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_12.5)
14. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_12 chr15:67482716-67482835
GTCCCCCACCCCACCCCTTTCCCTATTTCTTACAGGAGACAGACTGTGACCAGTACC
CCCTGCTGGATTGAGCTGCACCTGAATGGGCCTTTGCAGTGGCTTGACAAGGTCCTC
ACCCAG (SEQ ID NO:19)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_12.3)
15. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_12 chr15:67482740-67482859
ATTTCTTACAGGAGACAGACTGTGACCAGTACCCCCTGCTGGATTGAGCTGCACCTG
AATGGGCCTTTGCAGTGGCTTGACAAGGTCCTCACCCAGATGGGCTCCCCAAGCATC
CGCTGT (SEQ ID NO:20)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_12.2)
16. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
SMAD3            SMAD3_target_12 chr15:67482764-67482883
ACCAGTACCCCCTGCTGGATTGAGCTGCACCTGAATGGGCCTTTGCAGTGGCTTGAC
AAGGTCCTCACCCAGATGGGCTCCCCAAGCATCCGCTGTTCCAGTGTGTCTTAGAGA
CATCAA (SEQ ID NO:21)
(Bait ID:   SMAD3_target_12.4)
17. Gene         Target          Bait genomic location
                                 - 255 -

SMAD3                   SMAD3_target_12         chr1 5:67482788-67482907
CTGCACCTGAATGGGCCTTTGCAGTGGCTTGACAAGGTCCTCACCCAGATGGGCTCC
CCAAGCATCCGCTGTTCCAGTGTGTCTTAGAGACATCAAGTATGGTAGGGGAGGGC
AGGCTTG (SEQ ID NO:22)
(Bait ID:        SMAD3_target_12.6)
18. Gene                Target                  Bait genomic location
SMAD3                   SMAD3_target_12         chr15:67482812-67482931
TGGCTTGACAAGGTCCTCACCCAGATGGGCTCCCCAAGCATCCGCTGTTCCAGTGTG
TCTTAGAGACATCAAGTATGGTAGGGGAGGGCAGGCTTGGGGAAAATGGCCATGCA
GGAGGTG (SEQ ID NO:23)
(Bait ID:        SMAD3_target_12.1)
        Table 8 provides baits with sequences for two targets: FLT3_target_24 modified to
reduce the secondary structure. FLT4_target_31 has some arbitrary sequence on both ends of the
baits which is effectively similar to a shorter bait. Both improve coverage by about 4X (-4x
improvement in coverage).
Table 8: Exemplary Baits
1. Gene                 Target                  Bait genomic location
FLT3                    FLT3_target_24          chr13:28674626-28674745
Original sequence
CGTCGCGCGCCAACGCCGGCATGGCCTCCGGAGCCCGGGGTCCCCAGGCCGCGCCG
GCCCAGCCCTGCGATGCCGCCTGGAGCGGCGCGCCTCGCGCTGCAGGTGGCTCTCTT
AAGGATG (SEQ ID NO:24)
Modified sequence
CGTCTCACGCCAACGCAAGCATGTCCTCCGGAGCCCGGGGTCCCCAGGCCGCGCCG
GCCCAGCCCTGCGATGCCGCCTGGAGCGGCGCGCCTCGCACTGCAGATGGCTCTCTT
AAGGATG(SEQ ID NO:25)
(Bait ID:        FLT3_target_24.1)
2. Gene                 Target                  Bait genomic location
FLT3                    FLT3_target_24          chr13:28674602-28674721
Original sequence
TACCGAGCAGCGGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGCGCCAACGCCGGCATGGCCTCCGGA
GCCCGGGGTCCCCAGGCCGCGCCGGCCCAGCCCTGCGATGCCGCCTGGAGCGGCGC
GCCTCGCG(SEQ ID NO:26)
                                                - 256 -

Modified sequence
TACCGAGCAGCGGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGCGCCAACGCCGGCATGGCCTCCGGA
GCCCGGGGTCCCCAGGCCGCGCATGCCCAGCCCTGCGATGCCGCCTTGAGCAACGC
GCCTCACG (SEQ ID NO:27)
(Bait ID:      FLT3_target_24.2)
3. Gene             Target         Bait genomic location
FLT3                FLT3_target_24 chr13:28674578-28674697
Original sequence
GCTGCGAGCGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAGCAGCGGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGC
GCCAACGCCGGCATGGCCTCCGGAGCCCGGGGTCCCCAGGCCGCGCCGGCCCAGCC
CTGCGATG(SEQ ID NO:28)
Modified sequence
GCTTCGAGAGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAGCAGCAGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGC
GCCAACGCCGGCATGGCCTCCGGAGCCCGGGGTCCCCAGGCCGCGCCAGCCCAGCC
CTGAGATG (SEQ ID NO:29)
(Bait ID:      FLT3_target_24.3)
4. Gene             Target         Bait genomic location
FLT3                FLT3_target_24 chr13:28674554-28674673
Original sequence
GTGGGGGCTGAGGGACCGCGAGGGGCTGCGAGCGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAG
CAGCGGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGCGCCAACGCCGGCATGGCCTCCGGAGCCCGGG
GTCCCCAGG(SEQ ID NO:30)
Modified sequence
GAGGTGGCTGAGAGACCGCGAGGAGCTGCGAGCGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAG
CAGCGGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGCGCCAACGCAGGCATGGCCTCCGGAGCCCAGG
GTCCCCAGG (SEQ ID NO:31)
(Bait ID:      FLT3_target_24.4)
5. Gene             Target         Bait genomic location
FLT3                FLT3_target_24 chr13:28674506-28674625
Original sequence
CGAGGCGGCTGGGCCGGAGGAGGCGCGCGCCCGGGTCCACACTGCGGGGTGGGGG
CTGAGGGACCGCGAGGGGCTGCGAGCGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAGCAGCGGC
AGCTGGCCGC (SEQ ID NO:32)
Modified sequence
                                   - 257 -

CGAGGCGGCTGGGCCGGAGGAGGCGCGCGCCCGGATCCACACTGCGGGGTGGGGG
CTGAGGGACCGCGAGGGGCTGCGAGCGAGCGAGCGGGGACTTACCGAGCAGCGGC
AACTGGACGC (SEQ ID NO:33)
(Bait ID:      FLT3_target_24.5)
6. Gene             Target              Bait genomic location
FLT3                FLT3_target_24      chr13:28674530-28674649
Original sequence
GCGCGCCCGGGTCCACACTGCGGGGTGGGGGCTGAGGGACCGCGAGGGGCTGCGA
GCGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAGCAGCGGCAGCTGGCCGCCGTCGCGCGCCAACG
CCGGCATGG(SEQ ID NO:34)
Modified sequence
GCACGCACGGATCCACACTGCGGGGTGGGGGCTGAGGGACCGCGAGGAGCTGCGA
GCGAGCGAGCGGGGCCTTACCGAGCAGCGGCAGCTGGCAGCCGTCGCGCGCCAACG
CCGGCATGG (SEQ ID NO:35)
(Bait ID:           FLT3_target_24.6)
7. Gene             Target              Bait genomic location
FLT4          FLT4_target_31     chr5:180076516-180076635
Original sequence
TCGCAGGCACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCTCCGGCCGCTGCGCGTGGGTCCGAC
CCGAGCGGCCGCGGCTCGGGGCTGAAAGTGTCCGCGCGGGCGCCGGCTGGCCTGGG
GCGGGGCG (SEQ ID NO:36)
Modified sequence
CACACACACAAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCTCCGGCCGCTGCGCGTGGGTCCGAC
CCGAGCGGCCGCGGCTCGGGGCTGAAAGTGTCCGCGCGGGCGCCGGCTGGCCTGCA
CACACACA (SEQ ID NO:37)
(Bait ID:      FLT4_target_31.1)
8. Gene             Target              Bait genomic location
FLT4                FLT4_target_31      chr5:180076396-180076515
Original sequence
GGCGGAGCGGTCTCAGCGCCCGCCCCAGGTGCGCGGTACCCCCTCCCCGGCCAGCC
CCACGCTCGGGCGGGTGGCCCGTTCGCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTCCCAGGCAG
AGCCACAG(SEQ ID NO:38)
Modified sequence
CACACACACATCTCAGCGCCCGCCCCAGGTGCGCGGTACCCCCTCCCCGGCCAGCCC
CACGCTCGGGCGGGTGGCCCGTTCGCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTCCCAGGCCAC
ACACACA (SEQ ID NO:39)
(Bait ID:      FLT4_target_31.2)
                                        - 258 -

9. Gene             Target         Bait genomic location
FLT4                FLT4_target_31 chr5:180076420-180076539
Original sequence
CCAGGTGCGCGGTACCCCCTCCCCGGCCAGCCCCACGCTCGGGCGGGTGGCCCGTTC
GCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTCCCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGCACAGCGCGG
CGCCCCG (SEQ ID NO:40)
Modified sequence
CACACACACAGGTACCCCCTCCCCGGCCAGCCCCACGCTCGGGCGGGTGGCCCGTTC
GCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTCCCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGCACAGCGCAC
ACACACA (SEQ ID NO:41)
(Bait ID:      FLT4_target_31.3)
10. Gene            Target         Bait genomic location
FLT4                FLT4_target_31 chr5:180076468-180076587
Original sequence
GGCCCGTTCGCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTCCCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGC
ACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCTCCGGCCGCTGCGCGTGGGTCCGACCCGAGCGG
CCGCGGCT(SEQ ID NO:42)
Modified sequence
CACACACACACCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTCCCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGC
ACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCTCCGGCCGCTGCGCGTGGGTCCGACCCGAGCCA
CACACACA (SEQ ID NO:43)
(Bait ID:      FLT4_target_31.4)
11. Gene            Target         Bait genomic location
FLT4                FLT4_target_31 chr5:180076444-180076563
Original sequence
GGCCAGCCCCACGCTCGGGCGGGTGGCCCGTTCGCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTC
CCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGCACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCTCCGGCCGC
TGCGCGTG(SEQ ID NO:44)
Modified sequence
CACACACACAACGCTCGGGCGGGTGGCCCGTTCGCCGCGCTCACCGTCCAGGAGTC
CCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGCACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCTCCGGCCCA
CACACACA (SEQ ID NO:45)
(Bait ID:      FLT4_target_31.5)
12. Gene            Target         Bait genomic location
FLT4                FLT4_target_31 chr5:180076492-180076611
                                   - 259 -

Original sequence
CAGGAGTCCCAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGCACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCT
CCGGCCGCTGCGCGTGGGTCCGACCCGAGCGGCCGCGGCTCGGGGCTGAAAGTGTC
CGCGCGGG(SEQ ID NO:46)
Modified sequence
CACACACACAAGGCAGAGCCACAGTCGCAGGCACAGCGCGGCGCCCCGCTGCATCT
CCGGCCGCTGCGCGTGGGTCCGACCCGAGCGGCCGCGGCTCGGGGCTGAAAGTGCA
CACACACA (SEQ ID NO:47)
(Bait ID:          FLT4_target_31.6)
EXAMPLE 8: A Bayesian Approach for Sensitive Detection of Somatic Genomic
Alterations from Next-Generation Sequencing of Clinical Cancer Specimens
         The Bayesian approach described herein was implemented in the following examples.
         The utility of this approach is illustrated by power calculations describing the impact of
data-driven priors on substitution detection in the lower range of mutation frequencies relevant in
the clinical setting. As shown in FIG. 2, the values of prior expectation (e.g., le-6 or 10% prior)
and mutation frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, or 15% mutation) correspond to the values described in
(i) and (ii) of "A Bayesian Approach for Sensitive Detection of Somatic Genomic Alterations
from Next-generation Sequencing of Clinical Cancer Specimens," respectively. FIG. 2 shows
that incorporating prior expectations can improve detection power for rarer mutations, e.g., by
reducing the required coverage depth at mutated sites, or increasing the estimated power
(sensitivity) to detect mutations.
EXAMPLE 9: A Bayesian Approach: Application to a Constructed Low Purity Multi
clonal Sample
         To further demonstrate these benefits of the Bayesian approach disclosed herein, an
artificial low-purity, multi-clonal "tumor" sample was constructed by equal admixture of DNA
from 10 participants in the 1000 Genomes project, thereby creating a DNA pool containing a
large number of sequence variants present at -5% or 10% of the total DNA (arising from private
heterozygous SNPs.) The mix was subjected to hybrid selection for exons of 182 cancer-related
genes and sequenced on the Illumina HiSeq2000 platform, yielding an average coverage of
approximately350X across the gene panel. Each constituent sample was likewise processed
individually to determine genotype at all SNP sites. Of the approximately 260 -5% "mutations"
                                                    - 260 -

present in the pool, 89% were detected with high-confidence using a prior of le-6, whereas 94%
and 95% were detectable using a prior of 1% and 10% (average coverage of missed sites -125x),
respectively, supporting the theoretical conclusions above. Of the 102 10% "mutations" present
in the pool, 98% were detected with high-confidence using a prior of le-6, whereas 99% and
99% were detectable using a prior of 1% and 10% (coverage of missed site 13x).
EXAMPLE 10: A Bayesian Approach: Application to Lung and Colon Tumor Samples.
        Prior expectations of the frequency of relevant mutations in several cancer types from the
COSMIC database (on the worldwide web at sanger.ac.uk/genetics/CGP/cosmic) were derived
and analyzed more than 80 lung and colon cancer samples extracted from routine clinical
specimens. Known mutations in more than 20 different genes were observed, including a 1%
PIK3CA mutation p.H1047R in a colon cancer that could only be detected by incorporation of
the 3% prior for this mutation in this cancer type. These results show that judicious
incorporation of prior expectations around tumor type specific mutation spectra can be beneficial
in translation of NGS-based tumor genome analysis to the clinical setting.
EXAMPLE 11: A Bayesian Approach: Application to Breast Cancer Samples
        Substitution mutation calling in exons of 182 cancer-related genes sequenced to -260x
for an FFPE breast cancer samples was performed. The number of sites with >2 copies of an
alternate allele is 1,793. The number of sites with >99% posterior belief in presence of mutation
is 402. The number of sites remaining after filters is 188, which is approximately the expected
number of variant sites. The number of sites that are not in dbSNP is 14, which is approximately
the expected number of sites not in dbSNP as dbSNP captures >90% of variation. The number
of non-synonymous sites is 5. The number of sites in COSMIC is 2 (PIK3CA p.H1047R and
P53 p.F113S).
EXAMPLE 12: A Bayesian Approach: Detection of Infrequent Mutations
        Many routine clinical specimens contain relevant rare mutations. FIG. 3 shows mutation
frequencies in more than 100 clinical cancer samples. Samples were FFPE biopsies, surgical
resections, or fine-needle aspirates of predominantly colon and lung cancers. The frequency
spectrum of known mutations found in a series of clinical sample is show in Table 12.
                                               - 261 -

Table 12: Frequency spectrum of known mutations found in a series of clinical samples
       Frequency spectrum of known mutations found in a series of clinical samples
   Fraction of        Fraction of         Fraction of      Fraction of         Fraction of
 mutation <5%       mutation <10%       mutation <25%    mutation <50%          mutation
                                                                                 <100%
      7%*                 17%                50%               85%                100%
*likely underestimated
Example 13A. High Performance Solution-Based Target Selection Using Individually
Synthesized Oligonucleotide Capture Probes
        The availability of solution-based genomic target selection techniques has enabled rapid
development of targeted sequencing applications, some of which have led to the introduction of
clinical sequencing tests. Commercialized hybridization capture reagents are based on
array-synthesized oligonucleotides, which are converted to biotinylated DNA or RNA probes
("baits"). However, methods of generating these complex pools of probes face performance
challenges, for example capturing high-GC content targets.
        An alternative approach using individually synthesized, 5'-biotinylated oligonucleotides
("oligo-baits") for capturing a target region of -130kb representing 57 clinically relevant and
actionable cancer-related genes is described herein. Indexed sequencing libraries selected using
these oligo-baits with a 24-hour hybridization procedure yielded 5,000-fold target enrichment.
50M 49x49 paired-end reads generated an average target coverage of 2100x with a standard
deviation of 568x (27%). All targets were covered successfully, with 99.95% of the targeted
bases covered at >500x. Furthermore, the target coverage had virtually no GC-bias. Targets with
GC content >70% averaged 1,975x coverage, and targets with GC content <35% averaged
1,996x coverage.
        High performance was retained using even shorter hybridization times: 99.3% of
targeted bases were covered at >500x after a 2.5 hour hybridization.
        Use of SSPE (Salmon Sperm, PE)/Denhardt's outperformed hyb/wash buffers containing
TEACl, TMACl, and/or dextran sulfate.
        Oligo-baits can be spiked into array-derived bait pools to increase the coverage of
otherwise difficult to capture (e.g., high % GC) regions, or to rapidly add new gene content. This
                                                - 262 -

approach offers a highly effective and scalable method for developing high performance targeted
clinical sequencing tests.
Example 13B: Method of Optimizing Capture Baits
         Three bait sets were tested. The results are summarized in FIG. 5. The bait sets were as
follows:
         Bait set #1 consists of 5'-biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide
baits only.
         Bait set #2 includes biotinylated, array-derived RNA baits spiked with 5'-biotinylated,
individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide baits.
         Bait set #3 consists of biotinylated, array-derived RNA baits only.
         All 5'-biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide were 120 bases with a
5' biotin.
         FIG. 5 is a coverage histogram comparing the uniformity in coverage detected with Bait
set #1 and Bait set #2, compared to Bait set #3. The bait sets are shown as #1, 2, and 3 in FIG. 5.
Several gaps in coverage were present using Bait set #3 corresponding to high %GC, whereas the
corresponding regions were deeply covered using Bait sets #1 and #2, as depicted in FIG. 5. In
FIG. 5, the left-hand panel labeled "GCdensity-target..." indicates the local GC content within
the target, The line represents 65% GC content, where any values above the line represent a
higher GC content. As shown in the histogram, the coverage is the lowest for Bait set #3 in areas
of high GC content. The bottom panel in FIG. 5 labeled "IDTbaits..." indicates the placement
of the oligos covering the target shown.
         A graphic representation of the changes in the number of targets and coverage using
array-derived bait sets alone or spiked with individually-synthesied baits is depicted in FIG. 4.
More specifically, FIG. 4 is a linear representation of a coverage histogram. The number of
targets (y-axis) are depicted as a function of coverage (x-axis). Line #1 represents the coverage
using a bait set that includes 5'-biotinylated, array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits spiked
with 5'-biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide baits (referred to in FIG. 4 as
"Bait set #1"). Line #2 represents the coverage obtained using a bait set that includes
biotinylated, array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits only (referred to in FIG. 4 as "Bait set
#2"). The overall average coverage using Bait set #2 was 924, whereas the coverage in areas of
                                                 -  263 -

high GC content (about 68%) using Bait set #2 was 73. In contrast, when Bait set #1 was used,
the overall coverage was similar to Bait Set #1, about 918, but the coverage was improved to 183
in areas of high GC content.
Example 13C: Exemplary Experimental Conditions for Evaluating Bait Sets
         Bait set A consists of 5'-biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligonucleotide baits
only. The original set was 1000 oligos, covering 133 kb of target territory (referred to herein as
"the large set," "Bait set A" or "DNA oligo baits").
         For the "spike-in" experiments, the original 1000 DNA oligo set ("the large set") was
added to a bait set consisting of biotinylated, array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits (referred
to in this example as "Bait set B" or "RNA baits"). Different ratios of DNA oligo baits from Bait
set A were mixed with RNA baits from Bait set B. In particular, a DNA oligo bait:RNA bait
ratio of 1:10 was used (10 ng total DNA oligo baits to 100 ng total RNA baits). Hybridization
and washing conditions were matched to those that are most ideal for the RNA baits (the main
difference being that the optimal wash temperature for RNA baits is -70C, whereas it is -50C
for DNA oligo baits).
         With low tiling densities, strong periodicities in coverage were detected when using DNA
oligo baits that corresponded to bait placement. In addition, low tiling densities may make
capturing of alleles with in/dels more difficult. Therefore, bait sets were designed for MAP3K1
with the different tiling densities depicted in Table 13. In the below mixes, Mix 1 containing 5'
biotinylated, individually synthesized DNA oligo baits designed to capture the exons of six
cancer-relevant genes (DAXX, TRRAP, CREBBP, GRIN2A, SPOP, GNA1 1) were spiked into
the array-derived RNA oligonucleotide baits only (Bait set B). DAXX, TRRAP, CREBBP,
GRIN2A, and SPOP were not present in the RNA bait set. Mixes 2-4 were spiked into Bait Set
A (the large set of DNA oligo baits) to test different tiling densities (with Mix 2 being the
densest) of capture baits for the exons of MAP3K1. The RNA bait set alone covered about 1MB
of sequence.
                                                 - 264 -

Table 13. Mixes for methods using capture probes
  Cate2ory                           Number
     Mix 1               369 oligos to melanoma genes
     Mix 2         91 oligos tiling density of 60 to MAP3K1
     Mix 3        57 oligos tiling density of 100 to MAP3K1
     Mix 4        40 oligos tiling density of 150 toMAP3K1
     Mix 5                 3 oligos to STK11 exon 3
        Input into capture was 2 jtg of pooled cell-line DNA libraries. 2 Pg library was mixed
with blocking mix (Table 14), dried down, and resuspended in 9 1I water. This mixture was then
put in a plate, transferred to a cycler, and run at 98'C for 5 minutes, followed by 68'C for 2
minutes. The plate was then unsealed, and 11 pL DNA bait/hyb buffer mixture @ 68'C was
added. The DNA bait/hyb mixture at 68'C = 10 pL hyb buffer + 1 pL bait (containing 10 ng,
50ng, or 100 ng bait).
        For captures with DNA baits alone (e.g. Bait set A), hybridization was performed at
68'C, and washes were performed at 50'C. Baits were tested at 5 ng, 10 ng, 100 ng, 1000 ng,
and 2000 ng (per 2 ug input library). For 24 hr. hybs, the 5-10 ng conditions were ideal, and the
100ng conditions were also acceptable. For 2.5 hour hybridizations, 100ng worked best.
        For captures with the large DNA bait set (100kb) spiked into the RNA-array bait set (B)
to rescue poor performing/ high GC regions, hybridization was performed at 68'C, and washes
were performed at 70'C. Bait sets were tested at 1:10 DNA oligo: RNA baits (i.e., 10 ng total
mass of oligo baits, and 100 ng total mass of RNA baits).
        For captures with the small, gene focused DNA bait set spiked into the RNA bait set,
hybridization was performed at 68'C, and a range of wash temperatures were tested (62'C, 64'C,
66'C, 68'C, 70'C, and 72'C).
        Mix 1 (adding 6 new genes) was tested at the following ratios: 1:5, 1:10 and 1:20 total
oligo DNA bait mass: RNA bait mass (i.e., 20ng:1OOng, 1Ong:1OOng, and 5ng:1OOng).
        Mix 5 (3 oligos representing exon 3 of STK1 1 to path low coverage) was tested at 1:500,
1:1000, and 1:2000 DNA oligo:RNA oligo. 100 ng of total RNA baits were used. STK11 was
tested as it represents an important cancer target with poor detection performance when captured
with the RNA baits alone. DNA oligo spiking of exon 3 of STK1 1 boosts coverage from an
average of 70X to 300X.
                                                 -  265 -

Table 14. Buffers for methods using capture probes
   Baits (pooled IDT oli2os)          39600         100 nmol      0.0039600 grams
                                     (g/mol)                      396000 nanograms
    Resuspended in low TE             25 mL         250 uL Tris
                                                    5uLEDTA
         Blocking Mix                [Stock]         [Working]         14.5ul/rxn
              Cot1                    lug/ul           lug/ul               10
         SalmonSperm                 lOug/ul         10.0 ug/ul              1
             PE 1.0                  800uM            800uM                1.75
        Universal Index              800uM            800uM                1.75
        2X Hyb Buffer                [Stock]          [Final]     in 10 ml (lOul/rxn)
             SSPE                      20X               lox               5ml
           Denhardt's                   50X              lox               2ml
             EDTA                      0.5M           0.01M               200ul
              SDS                       10%           0.20%               200ul
             Water                                                        2.6ml
          Bead Wash                  [Stock]          [Final]    in 50ml (200ul/wash)
             NaCl                       5M                IM              lOml
              Tris                      IM            10mM                500ul
             EDTA                      0.5M             1mM               10Oul
             Water                                                       39.4ml
         Wash Buffer1                [Stock]          [Final]   in 50ml (150 ul/wash)
              SSC                      20X                IX              2.5ml
              SDS                       10%           0.10%               500ul
             Water                                                        47ml
         Wash Buffer2                [Stock]          [Final]    in 50ml (150ul/wash)
              SSC                      20X              0.1X              250ul
              SDS                       10%           0.10%               500ul
             Water                                                      49.25ml
                                            - 266 -

Example 14. Routine, Ultra-Deep Sequencing For Sensitive Tumor Profiling Using Low
Inputs of DNA Derived From Formalin Fixed Tissue
         The wide adoption of high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies has facilitated rapid
advances in cancer genomics. However, the standard of care in genomic cancer diagnostics still
involves testing focused on individual genes and specific mutations. As the number of clinically
actionable mutations grows, this single mutation per test paradigm becomes unfeasible,
particularly when tissue specimens are limiting as is generally the case with biopsies. To address
the clinical need for comprehensive genomic profiling of tumor samples, we have developed a
clinical test that delivers massively parallel sequence data for 200+ cancer-related genes.
Furthermore, this test was shown to be clinically relevant, producing ultra-deep sequencing data
from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue samples with DNA inputs as low as 50ng,
and from samples as old as eleven years.
         To evaluate this test's performance on a wide variety of samples, DNA was isolated from
96 FFPE specimens from an aged-block set, which included 12 tumor/normal pairs from each of
breast, colon, lung, and renal tissues evenly distributed for each tissue over the following ages:
1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11-years old. 200ng and/or 50ng of input DNA was used to construct indexed
sequencing libraries, which were then enriched for 200+ cancer-related genes using a solution
based hybrid capture method and sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq Tm 2000 platform.
         For the 76 samples yielding at least 200 ng of DNA for library construction, sequencing
coverage averaged 1,000x after removal of PCR duplicates, with >95% of the samples yielding a
median coverage of >350x. For samples where 50ng was used for library construction, the
coverage averaged 450x. Sequencing performance was consistent across all sample tissue types
and ages. Such ultra-deep sequencing enables high confidence detection of mutations present at
frequencies as low as 5-10%.
Example 15. Profiling the Tumor Genome using Circulating Tumor Cells
         Circulating tumor cells (CTC) provide a unique opportunity to sample human
malignancies in a minimally invasive, serial fashion. Use of CTC for molecular characterization
of cancer genomes presents two key challenges. First, CTC must be efficiently isolated from
blood, where they may be outnumbered 107-fold by non-tumor cells. Second, the limited
                                                 - 267 -

number of tumor genomes present in a CTC sample must be captured in accessible form while
minimizing loss of material and introduction of bias.
         Previous CTC genetic analyses have used allele-specific PCR; these methods permit
detection of very low copy numbers of specific mutations in >10 4 -fold background of wildtype
sequences. While addressing the dual challenges of CTC abundance and capture efficiency, this
approach is intrinsically limited to narrow characterizations of select, prespecified variants. To
bring molecular CTC analysis into the genomic era, we have coupled a microfluidic rare-cell
capture system that allows recovery of CTC with a background of only hundreds, rather than tens
of thousands, of white blood cells, with a next-generation platform enabling deep resequencing
of more than 200 cancer-associated genes from a single CTC sample.
         Using complex mixtures of up to ten cancer cell lines, sensitive mutation detection
(-94% for alleles >10% abundance) from as few as 100 total cells, while largely preserving
allele frequencies (R 2 ~0.90). By recapturing cultured cells spiked into whole blood, multi-gene
mutation profiles from specimens containing as few as ten cancer cells were obtained. This level
of sensitivity places the majority of clinical CTC samples within reach of NGS analysis. In a
series of blood samples from breast cancer patients, potential CTC heterogeneity was
investigated by comparing frequency of Her2Neu positive cells with the relative abundance of
somatic mutation positive DNA.
Example 16. Detection of Cancer-associated Mutations, Translocations and Changes in
Gene Expression through Integration of Targeted DNA and RNA Deep Sequencing of
FFPE tumor samples
         Broad application of personalized therapy to cancer requires comprehensive, sensitive
and timely characterization of the diverse aberrations present in the genome and transcriptome of
a tumor. The RNA and DNA from most clinical cancer samples, commonly stored as formalin
fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) blocks, are of poor quality and have been difficult to use for
molecular profiling. Emerging next-generation DNA sequencing assays work well with
damaged DNA and are sufficiently sensitive to detect many types of genomic aberrations.
Currently, there is no comparableRNA sequencing protocol for comprehensive analysis of the
transcriptome from FFPE tumor samples.
Results:
                                                - 268 -

        An FFPE-compatible targeted RNA sequencing and analysis method for sensitive
detection of mutations, rearrangements and expression changes in over 200 cancer-associated
genes was developed. Protocols were validated on cell line RNA and used to study over 50
FFPE non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumors. Known mutations and gene fusions (e.g.
BCR-ABL1) were detected in cell lines. Technical reproducibility in digital expression profiling
exceeded R2=0.99 and >0.9 for cell lines and FFPE RNA, respectively. As expected in cancer
genomes, RNA-seq provided evidence of aberrations in the genome including point mutations
and novel rearrangements involving known oncogenes. Highly significant differential
expression of oncogenes including EGFR, FGFR3, CDH5, KIT and RET was revealed, ranging
from 2.5- to 70-fold across different tumors. Combination of RNA and DNA sequencing data on
identical FFPE samples corroborated functional consequences of genomic alterations; examples
included expression of mutated TP53 alleles and reduced STK1 1 expression in a tumor which
exhibited loss-of-heterozygosity at the DNA level. Application of next generation sequencing
technologies to FFPE RNA and integration with extant DNA sequencing methods is anticipated
to expand understanding of clinically relevant cancer biology and improve patient care.
Methods:
        RNA is extracted from FFPE tissue sections, typically 1 or 2 10am curls, using the Roche
High Pure Paraffin Kit according to the manufacturer's instructions. Extracted RNA is stored @
- 80'C. RNA yield and quality is assessed by RiboGreen (Invitrogen) and a Bioanalyzer RNA
Pico Chip (Agilent), respectively, according to the manufacturer's instructions. Typical yields
are between 500 ng and 2 pg with a RIN score of less than 4.
        The first strand of complimentary DNA (cDNA) is produced from between 100 and 600
ng of FFPE RNA in a 20 pL reaction using SuperScript III (Invitrogen) according to the
manufactuter's protocol, with 550 pmols of random hexamer as primer. Second strand synthesis,
to generate a fully double-stranded cDNA, is performed immediately after first strand synthesis
by addition of 60 pL of a NEBNext Second Strand Synthesis Module (New England Biolabs)
master-mix and incubation for 150 minutes at 16'C according to the manufacturer's protocol.
The quality and yield of double-stranded cDNA can be assessed using PicoGreen (Invitrogen)
and a Bioanalyzer High Sensitivity Chip (Agilent), respectively. Generally, the entire cDNA
synthesis yield is used as input to the standard FMI library construction protocol.
                                                - 269 -

         Construction of a paired-end compatible sequencing library and subsequent hybrid
selection and sequencing of cDNA generated from FFPE RNA is performed using similar
protocols as for FFPE DNA described herein, but starting directly at the End Repair step since
the highly fragmented nature of FFPE RNA obviates the need for shearing.
         Analysis of sequencing data from FFPE RNA can be performed using methods known in
the art. For example, analysis of sequencing data from FFPE RNA can be performed by
mapping all of the read pairs to a reference genome sequence (hg19) and/or a reference
transcriptome (all of the sequences of known transcripts, e.g. RefSeq). Mapped reads are then
used to identify gene fusion, mutations in gene sequences, alternative splicing, and to quantify
gene expression as described in the literature, e.g., by Berger et al. (2010) Genome Res.
20(4):413-27 (PMID 20179022) and Garber et al. (2011) Nat Methods. 8(6):469-77 (PMID
21623353). As demonstrated by Levin et al. (2009) Genome Biol. 10(10):R115 (PMID
19835606), targeted RNA-seq can be employed to improve mutation detection and fusion
discovery in a selected set of genes, and preserves quantitative information for expression
profiling.
Example 17. Sensitive and Accurate Mutation Calling by Ultra-Deep Sequencing of
Clinical Tumor Samples
         Rapid advancement in the understanding of cancer genomics and the growing number of
available targeted therapies provide expanding opportunities for effective cancer treatment based
on comprehensive tumor profiling. Although significant progress has been made in experimental
and computational approaches for analyzing tumor genomes by next-generation sequencing in
the research setting, extending these techniques to the clinic poses significant additional
challenges. Key among these is the limited purity and heterogeneity of clinical specimens,
coupled with the requirement to provide high sensitivity and accuracy for a wide range of
potentially clinically-actionable mutations.
         To address this challenge we have developed a clinical test that is capable of generating
ultra-deep sequence data (>700x) for 200+ cancer-related genes from routine FFPE tumor
samples, and computational tools that are capable of exploiting this depth to provide high levels
of sensitivity and accuracy for different types of mutations present at low fractions. Our
analytical pipeline detects short variants in mapped sequence data accounting for known
                                               -  270 -

 mutation frequencies, and combines breakpoint detection and local assembly to identify larger
 insertions and deletions, which are often missed by alternative methods. In addition, copy
 number alterations and rearrangements involving key cancer genes are identified.
          To validate the analytical performance of our newly-developed methods we designed and
 implemented an extensive study of sample mixturesas a model for rare events in heterogeneous
 DNA, including 20 normal HapMap cell-lines and 28 individually characterized cancer cell
 lines. We report 100% sensitivity for substitutions and >90% sensitivity for indels of length 1
 50bp present in >10% of a mixture, both with PPV>99%. Application of our test to a cohort of
 227 melanoma, prostate, breast, colon, and lung tumor samples revealed 427 known and likely
 somatic driver mutations, 40% of which were present at sample fractions below 20% and 18%
 below 10%, underlining the importance of sensitive mutation calling.
Example 18. Detection of Cancer Mutations at Surgical Margins
          It has been discovered that even when the tissue at the margins of a tumor is
 histologically normal, cancer-associated mutations can be detected. Tissue samples associated
 with a hyperplastic colonic polyp were purchased as triads from BioServe (Beltsville, MD). The
 Triads included genomic DNA from peripheral blood leukocytes, normal tissue FFPE
 (Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded), and tumor tissue FFPE.
          For example, in 6 sections tested incrementally from
          a normal colon sample isolated from the margins of a hyperplastic colonic polyp, no kras
 mutation was observed in the most distal section from the polyp (section 1). A KRAS p.G13D
 mutation was observed in 1% of cells from the second most distal section (section 2), in 2% of
 the cells in the third most distal section (section 3), in 3% of the cells in the fourth most distal
 section (section 4), in 4% of the cells in the fifth most distal section (section 5), and in 5% of the
 cells in the section closest to the polyp (section 6). The mutation was observed in 6% of cells
 isolated from a section from the edge of the polyp.
          H&E staining of tissue samples from sections 1, 3 and 5 confirmed no histological
 evidence of cancer tissue. H&E staining of tissue from section 6 confirmed the presence of the
 polyp.
          Tumor heterogeneity was detected in sections from invasive moderately-differentiated
 adenocarcinoma from distal rectum. In particular, the sections 1-6 tested incrementally included
                                                  -  271 -

the following mutations: BRAF p.V600E, TP53 p.R213X, BRCA1 c.2105delG, APC c.5541insG
and APC c.6463delA, respectively.
         The results of these experiments indicated that genetic testing of tissue at the surgical
margins is more sensitive to detection of cancerous or pre-cancerous tissues. Thus, by
performing genetic testing of tissues at the surgical margins, such as by the sequencing methods
described herein, medical personnel can make more informed recommendations regarding the
course of further therapy. For example, depending on the results of the genetic testing, a
recommendation for further therapy or no further therapy can be made. Further therapy can
include, for example, chemotherapy or radiation, or both, or in the case of chemotherapy, a
particular drug or combination of drugs, or a particular dosing regimen, based on mutations
identified by the genetic testing.
Incorporation by Reference
         All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned herein are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each individual publication, patent or patent
application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In case
of conflict, the present application, including any definitions herein, will control.
         Also incorporated by reference in their entirety are any polynucleotide and polypeptide
sequences which reference an accession number correlating to an entry in a public database, such
as those maintained by The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) on the world wide web at
tigr.org and/or the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) on the world wide
web at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
Equivalents
         Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described
herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.
                                                 - 272 -

What is claimed is:
        1. A method of analyzing a tumor sample, comprising:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality of tumor members from a tumor sample;
        (b) contacting the library with a plurality of bait sets to provide selected members,
thereby providing a library catch;
        (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library or
library catch;
        (d) aligning said read; and
        (e) assigning a nucleotide value from said read for a preselected nucleotide position for a
preselected nucleotide position in each of a plurality of subgenomic intervals,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein
        each of X nucleotide positions is analyzed under a unique set of conditions for one or a
combination of steps (b), (c), (d), or (e) and wherein X is at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 200, 300
or 500, wherein unique means different from the other X-1 sets of conditions.
        2. The method of claim 1, wherein:
        a first nucleotide position is analyzed with a first set of bait conditions, a first alignment
method, and a first mutation calling method;
        a second nucleotide position is analyzed with said first set of bait conditions, a second
alignment method, and said first mutation calling method; and
        a third nucleotide position is analyzed with said first set of bait conditions, said first
alignment method, and a second mutation calling method,
        to provide three nucleotide positions each analyzed under unique, as compared to the other
two, conditions.
        3. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditions comprise one or more of those wherein:
        a first bait set is used for the first subgenomic interval and a second bait set is used for the
second subgenomic interval;
                                                   - 273 -

         a first alignment method is applied to a read for the first subgenomic interval and a second
alignment method is applied to a read for second subgenomic interval; or
         a first mutation calling method is applied to a nucleotide position of the first subgenomic
interval and a second mutation calling method is applied to a nucleotide position of the second
subgenomic interval.
         4. The method of claim 1, further comprising one or more of:
         nucleotide positions in at least two subgenomic intervals are analyzed with different bait
sets,
         nucleotide positions in at least two subgenomic intervals are analyzed with different
alignment methods; or
         nucleotide positions in at least two subgenomic intervals are analyzed with different
mutation calling methods.
         5. The method of claim 1, wherein:
         for each of X nucleotide positions, responsive to a characteristic of a preselected alteration,
that occurs at the nucleotide position, the nucleotide position is analyzed under a unique set of
conditions (wherein unique means different from the other X- 1 sets of conditions and wherein X is
at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 200, 300 or 500).
         6. The method of claim 5, wherein said characteristic is selected from one or more of:
         (i) the type of alteration present in the subgenomic interval;
         (ii) sequence in or near said the nucleotide position of the nucleotide position being
evaluated comprises a sequence which can affect the expected propensity for misalignment for
the subgenomic interval;
         (iii) a prior expectation of observing a read showing the alteration in a tumor of
preslected type;
         (iv) the probability of observing a read showing the alteration due to base-calling error
alone;
         (v) a preselected depth of sequencing desired for detecting the alteration; or
                                                  - 274 -

        (vi) the gene, or type of gene, in which the alteration is located, wherein the gene or type
of gene can be chosen from one or more of: (a) an oncogene or tumor suppressor, or (b) a gene
or type of gene characterized by a preselected alteration.
        7. The method of claim 1, wherein said method is performed on a preserved tumor
sample under conditions that allow for 95, 98, or 99% sensitivity or specificity for nucleotide
positions in at least 10, 20, 50 or 100 subgenomic intervals.
        8. A method of analyzing a tumor sample, comprising:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a tumor sample;
        (b) enriching the library for preselected sequences by contacting the library with a
plurality of bait sets to provide selected members, thereby producing a libray catch;
        (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library or
library catch by a next generation sequencing method;
        (d) aligning said read by an alignment method; and
        (e) assigning a nucleotide value from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
        wherein
        a read from each of X unique subgenomic intervals is aligned with a unique alignment
method and X is at least 2,
        wherein unique subgenomic interval means different from the other X-1 subgenomic
intervals, and wherein unique alignment method means different from the other X- 1 alignment
methods.
        9. The method of claim 8, wherein X is at least 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 500, or 1,000.
         10. The method of claim 8, wherein subgenomic intervals from at least X genes from
Table 1 or 1A having the priority 1 annotation, are aligned with unique alignment methods, and
X is equal to 10, 15, 20, or 30.
                                                - 275 -

         11. The method of claim 8, comprising:
        a) applying a first unique alignment method to a first genomic interval, a variant of which
is associated with a tumor phenotype, wherein the variant is a point mutation from Table 6;
        b) applying a second unique alignment method to a second genomic interval, a variant of
which is associated with a tumor phenotype, wherein the variant is a rearrangement chosen from
a deletion, insertion, or translocation on Table 5; and
        c) applying a third unique alignment method to a third genomic interval comprising a
genomic interval in which variants are not associated with a tumor phenotype or with a tumor of
the type in said sample.
         12. The method of claim 8, wherein a subgenomic interval being analyzed comprises a
nucleotide position with a rearrangement, and the method comprises using an alignment method
that includes:
        selecting a rearrangement reference sequence for alignment with a read, wherein said
rearrangement reference sequence is preselected to align with a preselected rearrangement,
wherein the reference sequence is not identical to the genomic rearrangement;
        comparing a read with said preselected rearrangement reference sequence; and
        determining if said read meets a predetermined alignment criterion, wherein the
predetermined criterion is an alignment to said preselected rearrangement reference with less
than a preselected level of mismatch or gaps;
thereby analyzing a read.
         13. The method of claim 8, wherein a first alignment method differs from a second
alignment method by a value for a match reward, mismatch penalty, gap penalty, expected
threshold, word size, filter, or mask.
         14. A method of analyzing a tumor sample, comprising:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality members from a tumor sample;
        (b) enriching the library for preselected sequences by contacting the library with a
plurality of bait sets to provide selected members, thereby providing a library catch;
                                                - 276 -

         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library or
library catch;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method; and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample.
         wherein a nucleotide value assigned for a nucleotide position in each of X unique
subgenomic intervals is assigned by a unique calling method and X is at least 2,
         wherein unique subgenomic interval means different from the other X-1 subgenoimc
intervals, and wherein unique calling method means different from the other X- 1 calling methods.
         15. The method of claim 14, wherein the calling methods can differ by relying on different
Bayesian prior values chosen from a first calling method applied to a first nucleotide position is a
function of a first Bayesian prior and a second calling method applied to a second nucleotide
position is a function of a second Bayesian prior.
         16. The method of claim 14, wherein assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a
value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing a
preselected variant, e.g., a mutation, at said preselected nucleotide position in a tumor of type.
         17. The method of claim 14, wherein the method comprises assigning a nucleotide value
for at least X, where X is 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100, preselected nucleotide positions,
wherein each assignment is a function of a unique (as opposed to the value for the other X-1
assignements) value which is or represents the prior expectation of observing a read showing a
preselected variant at said preselected nucleotide position in a tumor of type.
         18. The method of claim 14, wherein assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a set
of values which represent the probabilities of observing a read showing said preselected variant at
said preselected nucleotide position if the variant is present in the sample at a frequency of less
than 10% and/or if the variant is absent.
         19. A method of analyzing the sequence of a tumor sample comprising:
                                                 - 277 -

         (a) acquiring a plurality of duplicates of a subgenomic interval;
         (b) acquiring a read for each of said plurality of duplicates to provide a plurality of
duplicate reads;
         (c) comparing the nucleotide values at a first nucleotide position in each of said plurality
of duplicate reads;
         (d) comparing the nucleotide values at second nucleotide position in each of said plurality
of duplicate reads,
         wherein, for one of the nucleotide positions, each of said plurality of reads does not have
the same nucleotide value, and, for the other of said nucleotide positions, each of said plurality of
reads has the same nucleotide value;
         (e) assigning a first classifier, said first classifier having a quality score or a duplicate
adjusted nucleotide value, to the nucleotide value at the position not having the same nucleotide
value in all of said plurality of reads,
         (f) assigning a second classifier, said second classified having a quality score or a
duplicate-adjusted nucleotide value, to the nucleotide value at the position having the same
nucleotide value for each plurality of the reads,
         wherein said first classifier indicates a first level of quality or confidence that the
nucleotide value to which it is assigned is correct and said second classifier indicates a second
level of quality or confidence that the nucleotide value to which it is assigned is correct and said
first level is equal to or lower than a preselected criterion.
         20. A method of analyzing a tumor sample, comprising:
         acquiring a library comprising a plurality of tumor members from a tumor sample;
selected members, thereby providing a library catch;
         acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library or
library catch by a next generation sequencing method;
         aligning said read; and
         assigning a nucleotide value from said read for a preselected nucleotide position in each
of a plurality of subgenomic intervals,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein
                                                    - 278 -

        wherein the method comprises one or 2, 3, 4 or 5 of:
        a) sequencing a first subgenomic interval to provide for about 500X or higher sequencing
depth, thereby detecting a mutation present in no more than 5% of the cells from the sample;
        b) sequencing a second subgenomic interval to provide for about 200X-about 500X
sequencing depth, thereby detecting a mutation present in no more than 10% of the cells from the
sample;
        c) sequencing a third subgenomic interval to provide for about 10-1OX sequencing
depth, wherein the subgenomic interval is chosen from one or more of: a) a pharmacogenomic
(PGx) single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that distinguishes the ability of a patient to
metabolize different drugs, or b) a genomic SNPs that uniquely identifies a patient;
        d) sequencing a fourth subgenomic interval to provide for about 5-50X sequencing depth
to detect a structural breakpoint; or
        e) sequencing a fifth subgenomic interval to provide for about 100-300X sequencing
depth, to detect copy number changes, e.g., to detect a genomic SNPs/loci that is used to assess
copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA or loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH).
        21. A method of analyzing a tumor sample, comprising:
        (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality of tumor members from a tumor sample;
        (b) contacting the library with a bait set to provide selected members, thereby providing
a library catch;
        (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library or
library catch by a next generation sequencing method;
        (d) aligning said read by an alignment method; and
        (e) assigning a nucleotide value from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein the method comprises contacting the library with at least two, three, four, or five, of bait
sets, wherein each bait set of said plurality has a unique (as opposed to the other bait sets in the
plurality), preselected efficiency for selection for its target.
        22. The method of claim 21, wherein the efficiency of selection of a first bait set in the
plurality differs from the efficiency of a second bait set in the plurality by at least 2 fold.
                                                - 279 -

         23. In an embodiment, the first and second bait sets provide for a depth of sequencing
that differs by at least 2 fold.
         24. The method of claim 21, wherein the method comprises contacting one or a plurality
of the following bait sets with the library:
         a) a first bait set that selects a high-level target chosen from one or more tumor members
that comprise a subgenomic interval having an alteration that appears at a frequency of about 5%
or less of the cells from the sample harbor the alteration in their genome;
         b) a second bait set that selects a mid-level target chosen from one or more tumor
members that comprise a subgenomic interval having an alteration that appears at a higher
frequency of about 10% of the cells from the sample harbor the alteration in their genome;
         c) a third bait set that selects a low-level target chosen from one or more PGx members
that comprise a subgenomic interval chosen from one or more of: a) a pharmacogenomic (PGx)
single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that distinguishes the ability of a patient to metabolize
different drugs, b) a genomic SNPs that uniquely identifies a patient, c) a genomic SNPs/loci that
is used to assess copy number gains/losses of genomic DNA and loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH);
         d) a fourth bait set that selects a member that includes an intron sequence that detects a
structural breakpoint; or
         e) a fifth bait set that selects a one-copy deletion of several terminal exons.
         25. The method of claim 21, wherein the value for efficiency of selection is modified by
one or more of:
         (i) differential representation of different bait sets;
         (ii) differential overlap of bait subsets;
         (iii) differential bait parameters;
         (iv) mixing of different bait sets at different molar ratios to enhance or reduce relative
target coverage depths;
         (v) using different types of oligonucleotide baits.
                                                    - 280 -

         26. The method of claim 25, wherein different types of oligonucleotide baits can be
chosen from one or more of:
         (a) one or more chemically (non-enzymatically) individually synthesized baits,
         (b) one or more baits synthesized in an array,
         (c) one or more in vitro transcribed baits;
         (d) any combination of (a), (b) and/or (c),
         (e) one or more naturally or non-naturally occurring DNA oligonucleotide,
         (f) one or more naturally or non-naturally occurring RNA oligonucleotide,
         (g) a combination of (e) and (f), or
         (h) a combination of any of the above.
         27. The method of claim 26, wherein the different types of oligonucleotide baits is mixed
at a ratio chosen from 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:10, 1:20, 1:50; 1:100, or 1:1000.
         28. The method of claim 27, wherein the ratio of chemically-synthesized bait to array
generated bait is chosen from 1:5, 1:10, or 1:20.
         29. The method of claim 26, wherein the non-naturally occurring DNA or RNA
oligonucleotides are chosen from one or more of: a locked nucleic acid (LNA); a peptide nucleic
acid (PNA); a DNA or RNA oligonucleotide modified to capture low GC regions; a bicyclic
nucleic acid (BNA); a crosslinked oligonucleotide; a modified 5-methyl deoxycytidine; or 2,6
diaminopurine.
         30. The method of claim 21, wherein one or more of the following bait parameters is
modified:
         (i) Increasing/decreasing bait representation or overlap can be used to enhance/reduce
coverage of tumor members, which are under/over-covered relative to other targets in the same
category;
         (ii) For low coverage, hard to capture target sequences (including high GC content
sequences), targeting with the bait sets covering adjacent sequences;
                                                -  281 -

         (iii) Modifying a bait sequence can be made to reduce secondary structure of the bait and
enhance its efficiency of selection;
         (iv) Modifying a bait length can be used to equalize melting hybridization kinetics of
different baits within the same category;
         (v) Modifying baits of different orientation for the same target region (forward and
reverse strand) may have different binding efficiencies;
         (vi) Modifying the amount of a binding entity present on each bait may affect its binding
efficiency. Increasing/decreasing the tag level of baits targeting a specific target may be used to
enhance/reduce the relative target coverage;
         (vii) Modifying the type of nucleotide used for different baits can be altered to affect
binding affinity to the target, and enhance/reduce the relative target coverage; or
         (viii) Using modified oligonucleotide baits having more stable base pairing, can be used
to equalize melting hybridization kinetics between areas of low or normal GC content relative to
high GC content.
         31. The method of claim 21, wherein the bait set is chosen from one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve or all A-M of the following:
         A. A bait set that selects an exon sequence that includes a single nucleotide alteration
associated with a cancerous phenotype;
         B. A bait set that selects an in-frame deletion of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more codons from a reference nucleotide sequence;
         C. A bait set that selects an intragenic deletion;
         D. A bait set that selects an intragenic insertion;
         E. A bait set that selects a deletion of a full gene;
         F. A bait set that selects an inversion;
         G. A bait set that selects an interchromosal translocation;
         H. A bait set that selects a tandem duplication;
         I. A bait set that selects a nucleotide sequence of interest flanked by adjacent non
repetitive sequences;
         J. A bait set that selects one or more subgenomic intervals corresponding to a fusion
sequence;
                                                  -  282 -

         K. A bait set that selects a subgenomic interval adjacent to a nucleotide sequence that
includes an undesirable feature chosen from a nucleotide sequence of high GC content, or a
nucleotide sequence including one or more repeated elements and/or inverted repeats;
         L. A bait set that selects a genomic rearrangement that includes an intron sequence from a
5' or 3'-UTR; or
         M. A bait set that selects a subgenomic interval that includes an exon adjacent to a cancer
associated gene fusion.
         32. The method of claim 31, wherein the bait set includes a plurality of oligonucleotides
between about 100 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in length.
         33. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the subgenomic interval comprises or
consists of one or more of: a single nucleotide position; an intragenic region or an intergenic
region; an exon or an intron, or a fragment thereof, typically an exon sequence or a fragment
thereof; a coding region or a non-coding region, e.g., a promoter, an enhancer, a 5' untranslated
region (5' UTR), or a 3' untranslated region (3' UTR), or a fragment thereof; a cDNA or a
fragment thereof; an SNP; a somatic mutation, a germ line mutation or both; an alteration, e.g., a
point or a single mutation; a deletion mutation; an in-frame deletion, an intragenic deletion, a full
gene deletion; an insertion mutation; an intragenic insertion; an inversion mutation; an intra
chromosomal inversion; a linking mutation; a linked insertion mutation; an inverted duplication
mutation; a tandem duplication; an intrachromosomal tandem duplication; a translocation; a
chromosomal translocation, a non-reciprocal translocation; a rearrangement; a genomic
rearrangement; a rearrangement of one or more introns, or a fragment thereof; a rearranged intron
including a 5'- or a 3'- UTR), or a combination thereof.
         34. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the tumor member includes one or more
alterations which are associated with cancer, or predictive of responsiveness to anti-cancer
therapeutics.
         35. The method of claim 34, wherein the alteration comprises an altered nucleotide
sequence, an altered amino acid sequence, a chromosomal translocation, an intra-chromosomal
                                                -  283 -

inversion, a change in copy number, a change in expression level, a change in protein level, a
change in protein activity, or a change in methylation status, in a cancer tissue or cancer cell, as
compared to a normal, healthy tissue or cell.
        36. The method of claim 34, wherein the alteration is associated (or not associated) with
one or more of cancer risk, cancer progression, cancer treatment or resistance to cancer
treatment; a genetic risk factor for cancer; a positive treatment response predictor; a negative
treatment response predictor; a positive prognostic factor; a negative prognostic factor, or a
diagnostic factor.
        37. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the tumor sample comprises one or more
premalignant or malignant cells; cells from a solid tumor, a soft tissue tumor or a metastatic
lesion; tissue or cells from a surgical margin; a histologically normal tissue; one or more
circulating tumor cells (CTC); a normal adjacent tissue (NAT); a blood sample from the same
subject having or at risk of having the tumor.
        38. The method of claim 37, wherein the tumor sample is an FFPE-sample.
        39. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the methods comprises sequencing of a
cDNA derived from an RNA acquired from a tumor sample.
        40. The method of claim 39, further comprising performing a DNA sequencing step and
an RNA sequencing step.
        41. The method of claim 40, further comprising a step chosen from one or more of:
detecting a change in the level of a gene or gene product comprising the alteration, enriching a
sample for a target RNA, or depleting the sample of certain high abundance RNAs.
        42. The method of any of claims 20-32, further comprising one or more of:
        (i)     fingerprinting the nucleic acid sample;
        (ii)    quantifying the abundance of a gene or gene product;
                                                - 284 -

        (iii)   quantifying the relative abundance of a transcript in the sample;
        (iv)    identifying the nucleic acid sample as belonging to a particular subject;
        (v)     identifying a genetic trait in the nucleic acid sample comprising one or more of a
                subject's genetic make-up, ethnicity, race, or familial traits;
        (vi)    determining the ploidy in the nucleic acid sample;
        (vii)   determining a loss of heterozygosity in the nucleic acid sample;
        (viii)  determining the presence or absence of a gene duplication event in the nucleic
                acid sample;
        (ix)    determining the presence or absence of a gene amplification event in the nucleic
                acid sample; or
        (x)     determining the level of tumor/normal cellular admixture in the nucleic acid
                sample.
        43. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the method comprises sequencing a
subgenomic interval from at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five,
thirty or more genes or gene products from the sample, wherein the genes or gene products are
chosen from: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53.
        44. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the method comprises sequencing a
subgenomic interval chosen from at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or all of the
following:
        A) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty or more
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild-type gene or gene product chosen from at least five
or more of: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
                                                 -  285 -

PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53;
         B) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five,
forty, forty-five, fifty, fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five, seventy, seventy-five, eighty, eighty-five,
ninety, ninety-five, one hundred, one hundred and five, one hundred and ten, one hundred and
fifteen, one hundred and twenty or more of subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type
gene or gene product chosen from at least five or more of: ABL2, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A,
ATM, ATR, AURKA, AURKB, BAPI, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BRCA1,
BRCA2, CBL, CARD1I, CBL, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD79A, CD79B, CDH1, CDH2,
CDH20, CDH5, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CHEKI, CHEK2, CRKL, CRLF2,
DNMT3A, DOTIL, EPHA3, EPHA5, EPHA6, EPHA7, EPHB1, EPHB4, EPHB6, ERBB3,
ERBB4, ERG, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, FANCA, FBXW7, FGFR4, FLT1,
FLT4, FOXP4, GATA1, GNA11, GNAQ, GNAS, GPR124, GUCY1A2, HOXA3, HSP90AA1,
IDHI, IDH2, IGF1R, IGF2R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INHBA, IRS2, JAKI, JAK3, JUN, KDM6A,
KDR, LRP1B, LRP6, LTK, MAP2K4, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MENI, MITF, MLH1, MPL,
MRE11A, MSH2, MSH6, MTOR, MUTYH, MYCLI, MYCN, NF2, NKX2-1, NTRK1,
NTRK2, PAK3, PAX5, PDGFRB, PKHD1, PLCG1, PRKDC, PTPN11, PTPRD, RAFI, RARA,
RICTOR, RPTOR, RUNX1, SMAD2, SMAD3, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SOX1O,
SOX2, SRC, TBX22, TET2, TGFBR2, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNK, TNKS2, TOPI, TSC1,
TSC2, USP9X, VHL, or WT1;
         C) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, or more subgenomic intervals
from a gene or gene product according to Table 1, 1A, 2, 3 or 4;
         D) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, or more subgenomic intervals
from a gene or gene product chosen from one or more of: ABLI, AKT1, ALK, AR, BRAF,
BRCA1, BRCA2, CEBPA, EGFR, ERBB2, FLT3, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MET, NPM1, PDGFRA,
PIK3CA, RARA, AKT2, AKT3, MAP2K4, NOTCH, and TP53;
         E) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or more subgenomic intervals including a
mutated or a wild type codon chosen from one or more of: codon 315 of the ABLI gene; codon
1114, 1338, 1450 or 1556 of APC; codon 600 of BRAF; codon 32, 33, 34, 37, 41 or 45 of
CTNNB1; codon 719, 746-750, 768, 790, 858 or 861 of EGFR; codon 835 of FLT3; codon 12,
13, or 61 of HRAS; codon 617 of JAK2; codon 816 of KIT; codon 12, 13, or 61 of KRAS; codon
                                                    - 286 -

88, 542, 545, 546, 1047, or 1049 of PIK3CA; codon 130, 173, 233, or 267 of PTEN; codon 918
of RET; codon 175, 245, 248, 273, or 306 of TP53;
         F) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, or more of
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type gene or gene product chosen from: ABCB1,
BCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2, Clorfl44, CYPIBI, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4,
CYP3A5, DPYD, ERCC2, ESR2, FCGR3A, GSTP1, ITPA, LRP2, MANIBI, MTHFR, NQO1,
NRP2, SLC19A1, SLC22A2, SLCO1B3, SOD2, SULTIA1, TPMT, TYMS, UGT1A1, or
UMPS;
         G) at least five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, or more of
subgenomic intervals from a mutated or wild type PGx gene or gene product associated with one
or more of: (i) better survival of a cancer patient treated with a drug; (ii) paclitaxel metabolism;
(iii) toxicity to a drug; or (iv) a side effect to a drug;
         H) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or
more genes or gene products according to Table 3;
         J) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 110 or
more genes or gene products according to Table 3 in a solid tumor sample from the cancer types
specified therein;
         K) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150,
200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4;
         L) a translocation alteration of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150,
200 or more genes or gene products according to Table 4 in a heme tumor sample from the
cancer types specified therein;
         M) at least five genes or gene products selected from Table 1, 1A-4, wherein an allelic
variation is associated with a preselected type of tumor and wherein said allelic variation is
present in less than 5% of the cells in said tumor type;
         N) at least five genes or gene products selected from Table 1, 1A-4, which are embedded
in a GC-rich region; or
         0) at least five genes or gene products indicative of a genetic factor for developing
cancer chosen from one or more of BRCA1, BRCA2, EGFR, HRAS, KIT, MPL, ALK, PTEN,
RET, APC, CDKN2A, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, NF1, NF2, RB1, TP53, VHL or WT1.
                                                   -  287 -

         45. A plurality of bait sets chosen from from one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, ten, eleven, twelve, or all A-M of the following:
         A. A bait set that selects an exon sequence that includes a single nucleotide alteration
associated with a cancerous phenotype;
         B. A bait set that selects an in-frame deletion of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more codons from a reference nucleotide sequence;
         C. A bait set that selects an intragenic deletion;
         D. A bait set that selects an intragenic insertion;
         E. A bait set that selects a deletion of a full gene;
         F. A bait set that selects an inversion;
         G. A bait set that selects an interchromosal translocation;
         H. A bait set that selects a tandem duplication;
         I. A bait set that selects a nucleotide sequence of interest flanked by adjacent non
repetitive sequences;
         J. A bait set that selects one or more subgenomic intervals corresponding to a fusion
sequence;
         K. A bait set that selects a subgenomic interval adjacent to a nucleotide sequence that
includes an undesirable feature chosen from a nucleotide sequence of high GC content, or a
nucleotide sequence including one or more repeated elements and/or inverted repeats;
         L. A bait set that selects a genomic rearrangement that includes an intron sequence from a
5' or 3'-UTR; or
         M. A bait set that selects a subgenomic interval that includes an exon adjacent to a cancer
associated gene fusion.
         46. A method of making the bait sets of claim 45, comprising:
         selecting one or more tumor bait oligonucleotide sequences corresponding to the
subgenomic intervals;
         obtaining a pool of tumor bait oligonucleotide sequences.
         47. A method for determining the presence or absence of an alteration associated
positively or negatively, with a cancerous phenotype, comprising:
                                                  -  288 -

         (a) acquiring a library comprising a a plurality of tumor members from a tumor sample;
         (b) enriching the library for preselected sequences by contacting the library with a
plurality of bait sets to provide selected members;
         (c) acquiring a read for a subgenomic interval from a tumor member from said library by
a next generation sequencing method;
         (d) aligning said read by an alignment method; and
         (e) assigning a nucleotide value from said read for the preselected nucleotide position,
thereby analyzing said tumor sample,
wherein the method comprises sequencing a subgenomic interval from at least twenty, twenty-five,
thirty or more genes or gene products from the sample, wherein the genes or gene products are
chosen from: ABLI, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, APC, AR, BRAF, CCND1, CDK4, CDKN2A,
CEBPA, CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, ESRI, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FLT3, HRAS, JAK2, KIT,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MET, MLL, MYC, NF1, NOTCH, NPM1, NRAS, NTRK3,
PDGFRA, PIK3CA, PIK3CG, PIK3R1, PTCH1, PTCH2, PTEN, RB1, RET, SMO, STK11,
SUFU, or TP53.
         48. The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the method further comprises providing a
report in electronic, web-based, or paper form, to the patient or to another person or entity, a
caregiver, a physician, an oncologist, a hospital, clinic, third-party payor, insurance company or
government office.
         49. The method of claim 48, wherein said report comprises output from the method,
comprising the identification of nucleotide values, the indication of presence or absence of an
alteration, mutation, or wildtype sequence for sugenomic intervals associated with a tumor of the
type of the sample.
         50. The method of claim 48, wherein said report comprises information on the role of a
sequence, an alteration, mutation, or wildtype sequence, in a disease, wherein said information
comprises information on prognosis, resistance, or potential or suggested therapeutic options.
                                                 - 289 -

         51. The method of claim 48, wherein said report comprises information on the likely
effectiveness of a therapeutic option, the acceptability of a therapeutic option, or the advisability of
applying the therapeutic option to a patient having a sequence, alteration or mutation identified in
the test, and in embodiments, identified in the report.
         52. The method of claim 48, wherein said report can include information, or a
recommendation on, the administration of a drug, the administration at a preselected dosage or in a
preselected treatment regimen, in combination with other drugs, to the patient.
         53. The method of claim 48, wherein not all mutations identified in the method are
identified in the report, the report can be limited to mutations in genes having a preselected level of
correlation with the occurrence, prognosis, stage, or suseptability of the cancer to treatment, with a
preselected therapeutic option.
         54. The method of claim 48, wherein said report is provided to the patient or to another
person or entity within 7, 14, or 21 from receipt of the sample by the entity practicing the method.
                                                -  290 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
