                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention provides DNA vaccines for the treatment of allergies. The vaccines
comprise the coding sequence for one or more allergenic epitopes, and preferably the full
protein sequence, of the allergenic protein from which the epitope(s) is derived, fused inframe
with the lumenal domain of the lysosomal associated membrane protein (LAMP) and the
targeting sequence of LAMP. The vaccines allow for presentation of properly configured three
dimensional epitopes for production of an immune response. The vaccines can be multivalent
molecules, and/or can be provided as part of a multivalent vaccine containing two or more DNA
constructs.

                  NUCLEIC ACIDS FOR TREATMENT OF ALLERGIES
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [000]       The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2012382406, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 [001]       This application relies on the disclosure of, and claims the benefit of the filing date of
 U.S. provisional patent application number 61/496,866, filed 14 June 2011, the entire disclosure
 of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
 [002]       The present invention relates to the fields of molecular biology and medicine. More
specifically, the invention relates to nucleic acids for use as DNA vaccines, and methods of
using them to treat subjects suffering from or susceptible to allergic reactions.
Discussion of Related Art
 [003]         Allergy is a hypersensitivity disease characterized by the production ofigE
antibodies against an allergen, or allergy-causing molecule. Allergies affect more than 25% of
the population. Allergens can enter the body through many routes, including the respiratory
tract, skin contact, ingestion, insect bite, or injection of a drug.
 [004] Allergy disease management comprises diagnosis and treatment. Allergists diagnose an
 allergy using a variety of techniques, such as a skin prick test, radioallergosorbent-based
 techniques, ELISA, or provocation test to demonstrate allergen specific IgE and to identify the
 allergen source. Treatment of allergy most often falls into two categories: avoidance and dosing
 with anti-histamines. A third alternative, allergy immunotherapy, requires that the patient
 receive weekly injections consisting of small amounts of the offending allergens in order to help
 the immune system reeducate its response to the allergen.
 [005] The use and generation of allergen fusion proteins are well known in the art. For
 example, U.S. Patent No. 7,566,456 teaches a fusion protein with IgE and IgG binding domains
 as well as encoding an allergen. Further, WO 97/07218 teaches allergen-anti-CD32 fusion
proteins for use in allergy immunotherapy. Neither of these documents, however, teaches how
                                                     1

their respective fusion protein interacts with T cells through antigen presentation to induce or
modify a Thi response. Furthermore, there is no theoretical connection between directing the
anti-CD32 containing vaccine to dendritic cells to effect a positive induction of Th I cells. Both
of these documents teach a composition that introduces an allergen therapeutically, such that the
allergen can be found in the serum as an allergen-fusion protein.
[006]        It has been established by Toda et al., 2002 that a T cell epitope of an allergen, in this
case a Cry J2 epitope located at amino acid 247-258, can be attached to a fusion protein and be
used to conduct allergy-specific immunotherapy. The specific composition described by Toda et
al., 2002 is the use of a DNA vaccine encoding the major CD4 T cell epitope of Cry J2, located
at amino acids 247-258, attached to class Il-associated invariant chain peptide (CLIP). CLIP
contains a lysosomal/endosomal trafficking sequence and contains a domain that binds to the
peptide binding groove of MHC II. Toda et al., 2002 shows that immunization with the Cry J2
peptide/CLIP DNA vaccine results in priming a mouse to a predominantly Th 1 response,
characterized by higher lFN-gamma and IgG2a production. However, Toda et al. does not teach
the intracellular targeting of the entire protein coding sequence of an allergen useful for
conducting allergy-specific immunotherapy.
[0071        U.S. Patent No. 6,982,326 and U.S. Patent No. 6,090,386 describe nucleic acid
sequences coding for the Cryptoneriajaponica major pollen allergens Cry J1, Cry J2, Jun s I,
and Jun v I, and fragments or peptides thereof. The invention also provides purified Cry J1, Cry
J2, Jun s I, and Jun v I, and at least one fragment thereof produced in a host cell transformed with
a nucleic acid sequence coding for Cry J1, Cry J2, Jun s I, and Jun v I, or at least one fragment
thereof, and fragments of Cry J1, Cry J2, Jun s I, or Jun v I, or at least one fragment thereof, and
fragments of Cry J1, Cry J2, Jun s I, or Jun v I prepared synthetically. Cry JI, Cry J2, Jun sI,
and Jun v I, and fragments thereof are disclosed as useful for diagnosing, treating, and preventing
Japanese cedar pollinosis. The invention also provides isolated peptides of Cry 11 and Cry 12.
Peptides within the scope of the invention comprise at least one T cell epitope, or preferably at
least two T cell epitopes of Cry J1 or Cry 12. The invention also pertains to modified peptides
having similar or enhanced therapeutic properties as the corresponding naturally-occurring

allergen or portion thereof but having reduced side effects. Methods of treatment or of diagnosis
of sensitivity to Japanese cedar pollens in an individual and therapeutic compositions, and multi
peptide formulations comprising one or more peptides of the invention are also provided. The
invention does not teach how to combine the epitopes or allergens into a DNA vaccine with
immunostimulatory properties.
[008]        U.S. Patent No. 7,547,440 and US. Patent No. 7,112,329 identify the T-cell epitope
site on a Japanese cypress (hinoki) pollen allergen molecule by stimulating a T-cell line
established from a patient suffering from Japanese cypress pollen allergy with an overlap peptide
covering the primary structure of the Japanese cypress pollen allergen. The peptide is useful in
peptide-based immunotherapy for patients with spring tree pollinosis including patients with
Japanese cypress pollinosis having cross reactivity with Japanese cypress pollen. The peptide is
also useful for diagnosing spring tree pollinosis. The invention is limited to diagnostics and
polypeptide delivery of epitopes.
[009]        DNA vaccines have been developed as an alternative to traditional whole cell or
whole virus vaccines. Generally speaking, DNA vaccines are engineered nucleic acids that
include sequences encoding one or more epitopes. The nucleic acids are delivered to cells,
typically antigen presenting cells (APCs), the nucleic acids are expressed, and the epitopes
present on the expressed proteins are processed in the endosomal/lysosomal compartment, and
ultimately presented on the surface of the cell. U.S. Patent No. 5,633,234 to August et al.
discloses and characterizes the endosomal/lysosomal targeting sequence of the lysosomal
associated membrane protein (LAMP). This patent identifies critical residues in the C-terminal
region of the protein, which are necessary for targeting of the protein to the
endosomal/lysosomal compartment. The patent discloses that fusion of antigenic peptides to the
C-terminal LAMP targeting sequence can provide enhanced processing and presentation of
epitopes for generation of an immune response.
[0101        In addition, U.S. patent application publication number 2004/0157307 to Harris et al.
discloses the use of the LAMP lumenal domain as a "trafficking domain" to direct chimeric
proteins expressed from DNA vaccines through one or more cellular compartments/organelles,

such as through the lysosomal vesicular pathway. The chimeric proteins include the lumenal
domain of a LAMP polypeptide, an antigenic domain comprising a peptide epitope sequence
previously identified and selected from an antigen protein, a transmembrane domain, and an
endosomal/lysosomal targeting sequence.
[011]        DNA vaccines have been proposed as a treatment of allergic disease (Raz et al., 1996;
Harti et al., 2004; Hsu et al., 1996; Crameri 2007; Weiss et al., 2006). The underlying rationale
is that allergen protein encoded by a DNA vaccine will preferentially activate the allergen
specific Th 1 cellular response with the production of interferons by APCs, natural killer (NK),
and T cells, rather than the characteristic Th2-type response, such as secretion of IL-4, IL-5, and
IL-13, and the formation of IgE by B lymphocytes and the maturation and recruitment of
eosinophils in late-phase reactions. However, the mechanisms underlying the differential
induction of the Thl and Th2 T-cell phenotypes appear to involve a large number of factors,
such as unique properties of the bacterial DNA of vaccine preparations, e.g., unmethylated and
CpG DNA residues, the cytokine milieu elicited by innate immunity, and the cellular trafficking
properties of the allergens (Chen et al., 2001; Kaech et aL, 2002). No invention or method has
successfully addressed the uncertainty of allergy treatment as conducted by delivery of nucleic
acids encoding an allergen. Thus, to date such a method of allergy treatment has not been
enabled. In addition, administration of DNA vaccines for the treatment of allergic disease has
resulted in the secretion of the allergen peptide into the extracellular environment, potentially
leading to accidental induction of an allergic response through activation of IgE.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[012]        The present invention provides nucleic acids (also referred to herein as "constructs")
that encode allergenic proteins, allergenic polypeptides, and allergenic peptides. The nucleic
acids are designed for delivery to immune cells and production of allergenic proteins,
polypeptides, and peptides within those cells. The encoded proteins, polypeptides, and peptides
have targeting sequences for targeting of the proteins to the MHC-Il compartment for processing
and display of one or more epitopes, resulting in an immune response to the epitope(s). In

general, the nucleic acids comprise the following domains, which correlate to the respective
domains of the encoded protein: a signal sequence domain; an intra-organelle stabilizing
domain; an allergen domain; a transmembrane domain; and a cytoplasmic lysosome/endosome
targeting domain.
[013]        Within the context of the encoded protein, the signal sequence is provided to direct
the encoded protein to the endoplasmic reticulum or a lysosome. The intra-organelle stabilizing
domain is a sequence that is designed to be proteolytically resistant and to protect the remaining
portions of the protein, and in particular the allergen domain, from degradation prior to
processing for epitope presentation by the cell. In exemplary embodiments, the intra-organelle
stabilizing domain is the lumenal domain of LAMP-1. The allergen domain comprises the
sequence of one or more allergenic epitopes that can serve to raise an immune response in an
animal in which the epitopes are presented. Typically, the allergen domain comprises one or
more allergen proteins, although in embodiments, immunogenic polypeptide or peptide
fragments of allergenic proteins can be used. In exemplary embodiments discussed below, the
epitope is an epitope of a plant allergen. In the encoded proteins of the invention, the allergen
domain does not include a signal peptide, such as the signal peptide(s) naturally occurring as part
of the allergen protein(s). The allergen domain can comprise a single allergenic protein,
polypeptide, or peptide, or can comprise two or more allergenic proteins, polypeptides, or
peptides. Where two or more allergens are present, each allergen can be from the same
species/source or one or more can be from one or more different sources. Where two or more
allergens are present, they are coordinately expressed to provide an equal number of copies of
each coding region in the expressed protein. The transmembrane domain can be any sequence
that is suitable for directing insertion and transfer of a protein through a membrane. Many such
sequences are known in the art or can be easily designed. The lysosome/endosome targeting
domain can be any sequence that is capable of directing the peptide to a lysosome or endosome.
Such sequences are known in the art and are exemplified herein by the cytoplasmic tail sequence
of LAMP-1.

[0141       As mentioned above, in preferred embodiments, the nucleic acids comprise an
allergen domain that includes the entire allergenic coding sequence for an allergenic protein, but
lacks the coding sequence for the allergen's signal sequence. In some embodiments, the nucleic
acids of the invention do not comprise the entire allergenic coding sequence, but instead
comprise only a sufficient amount of the coding sequence such that the encoded polypeptide,
when expressed, is able to fold to achieve the natural three dimensional structure of at least one
epitope present on the polypeptide. As in constructs comprising an entire allergen coding
sequence, where less than the entire coding sequence is present, the nucleic acids construct also
lacks the coding sequence for a naturally-occurring signal peptide for the allergenic polypeptide
or peptide.
[0151       In preferred embodiments, the nucleic acid construct comprises the coding sequences
for multiple allergenic proteins, polypeptides, and/or peptides in the allergen domain. Each
allergen present can be from the same source, each from a different source, or any combination
thereof
[016]       The nucleic acids, and thus the encoded proteins, polypeptides, and peptides of the
invention can be used in methods of treating subjects, and in particular animal subjects suffering
from or potentially developing allergies. In general, a method of treating according to the
present invention comprises administering a nucleic acid of the invention to a subject in an
amount sufficient to deliver the nucleic acid to one or more immune cells, and preferably to one
or more antigen presenting cells (APC) of the immune system. Once delivered, the nucleic acid
is expressed, the encoded protein processed inside the cell, and the epitope(s) displayed on the
surface of the cell. The method of treating can be considered a method of using the nucleic acids
and proteins to provide a therapeutic or prophylactic immune response.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0171       Figure 1 is a schematic representation of a nucleic acid according to one embodiment
of the invention in which a single antigen comprising a single epitope is provided in the allergen
domain.

[0181       Figure 2 shows a vector map of a nucleic acid according to the invention, in which
the allergen domain comprises the CryJ2 allergen (an allergen from C.japonica), but without a
signal sequence, inserted between human LAMP N-terminal sequences (SS and ISOD) and
human LAMP C-terminal sequences (TM and TG).
[019]       Figure 3 is a schematic representation of a nucleic acid according to an alternative
embodiment of the invention, in which multiple epitope sequences of a single allergen are
provided in the allergen domain.
[0201       Figure 4 is a schematic representation of a nucleic acid according to an alternative
embodiment of the invention, in which multiple different allergen sequences are provided in the
allergen domain.
[021]       Figure 5 shows a vector map of a nucleic acid according to the invention in which the
allergen domain comprises the allergen sequences (without signal peptides) for the allergens
CryJ1 (an allergen from C japonica)and CryJ2 (an allergen from Cjaponica).
[022]       Figure 6A shows a vector map of a nucleic acid that includes three peanut allergens
(AraH1, AraH2, and AraH3, all lacking signal sequences) in the allergen domain.
[023]       Figure 6B shows a schematic of the protein encoded by the nucleic acid of Figure 6A.
[0241       Figure 7 shows a vector map of a nucleic acid according to the present invention,
depicting the absence of the naturally-occurring signal sequence for the CryJl allergen sequence.
This particular construct is used in experiments detailed below to show the importance of
removal of the natural signal sequence of allergen sequences.
[025]       Figure 8 shows a vector map of a nucleic acid construct not encompassed by the
present invention, in which the CryJ2 allergen is encoded on a plasmid backbone, but in the
absence of the SS, IOS, TM, and TG domains. This construct is used as a comparative control in
experiments detailed below.
[0261       Figure 9 shows Western blots depicting expression of constructs according to the
invention in 293 cells. Panel A shows expression of the CryJ I-CryJ2 combined allergens (see
Figure 5) and the CryJ2 allergen alone (see Figure 2) in constructs according to the invention,
when assayed with anti-CryJ2 antibodies. Panel B shows expression of the CryJ1-CryJ2

combined allergens and the CryJI allergen (lacking its native signal sequence; see Figure 7),
when assayed with anti-CryJl antibodies. Panel B further shows that expression of the CryJl
allergen is not detectable in a construct in which the natural signal sequence for the CryJ 1
allergen is not removed (vector map not shown).
[027]        Figure 10 shows line graphs depicting the effectiveness of nucleic acid constructs
according to the present invention as compared to other constructs comprising allergen
sequences. Panel A shows that a significant increase in IgG I production and detection is seen as
a result of administration of the CryJ2-LAMP construct of the invention (see Figure 2) as
compared to a construct comprising a plasmid backbone fused to the CryJ2 coding sequence (see
Figure 8). Panel B shows that a significant increase in IgG2a production and detection is seen as
a result of administration of the CryJ2-LAMP construct of the invention (as per Panel A) as
compared to a construct comprising a plasmid backbone fused to the CryJ2 coding sequence (as
per Panel A).
[028]        Figure 11 depicts bar graphs showing dosing effects of the CryJ2-LAMP construct in
mice. Panel A depicts IgG2a detection at 21 days and 28 days post injection of the DNA vaccine
at various amounts ranging from 10 ug to 100 ug, as compared to injection of vector DNA alone.
Panel B depicts IgG1 detection at 21 days and 28 days post injection of the DNA vaccine at
various amounts ranging from 10 ug to 100 ug, as compared to injection of vector DNA alone.
[0291        Figure 12 depicts bar graphs showing the effect on induction of IL-4 and IFN-gamma
in mouse spleen cultures treated with the CryJ2-LAMP construct of the invention as compared to
vector alone. Panel A shows the effect of IL-4. Panel B shows the effect of IFN-gamma.
[0301        Figure 13 depicts line graphs showing the effectiveness of immunization of
previously sensitized mice with the CryJ2-LAMP DNA vaccine. Panel A shows IgG1 titers over
time. Panel B shows IgG2a titers over time.
[0311        Figure 14 depicts bar graphs showing induction of IFN-g (Panel A) and IL-4 (Panel
B) in mouse spleen cell cultures.
[032]        Figure 15 depicts a bar graph showing quantitation of circulating CryJ2 protein in
immunized mice.

[0331       Figure 16 depicts bar graphs of guinea pig data, showing IgG I detection (Panel A)
and IgG2 detection (Panel B) for guinea pigs immunized with the CryJ2-LAMP construct and
challenged with recombinant CryJ2.
[0341       Figure 17 depicts a bar graph showing the Anti-CryJ2 response in New Zealand white
rabbits immunized with CryJ2-LAMP DNA vaccine during an 85 day toxicology GLP safety
study.
[0351       Figure 18 depicts a Western blot showing co-expression of peanut allergens HI, H2,
and H3 from a construct according to the present invention.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0361       Reference will now be made in detail to various exemplary embodiments of the
invention. It is to be understood that the following discussion of exemplary embodiments is not
intended as a limitation on the invention, as broadly disclosed herein. Rather, the following
discussion is provided to give the reader a more detailed understanding of certain aspects and
features of the invention. The practice of the present invention employs, unless otherwise
indicated, conventional molecular biology, microbiology, and recombinant DNA techniques
within the skill of those in the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature known to
the ordinary artisan in these fields, and thus need not be detailed herein. Likewise, practice of
the invention for medical treatment follows standard protocols known in the art, and those
protocols need not be detailed herein.
[037]       Before embodiments of the present invention are described in detail, it is to be
understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting. Further, where a range of values is
provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit,
unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between the upper and lower limits of that range is
also specifically disclosed. Each smaller range between any stated value or intervening value in
a stated range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed
within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be

included or excluded in the range, and each range where either, neither, or both limits are
included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the invention, subject to any
specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of
the limits, ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the
invention. It is thus to be understood that, where a range of values is presented, each value
within that range, and each range falling within that range, is inherently recited as well, and that
the avoidance of a specific recitation of each and every value and each and every possible range
of values is not an omission of those values and ranges, but instead is a convenience for the
reader and for brevity of this disclosure.
[038]        Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the term belongs.
Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used
in the practice or testing of the present invention, the preferred methods and materials are now
described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose
and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the publications are cited.
The present disclosure is controlling to the extent it conflicts with any incorporated publication.
[0391        As used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an", and "the"
include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example,
reference to "an allergen" includes a plurality of such allergens and reference to "the sample"
includes reference to one or more samples and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the
art, and so forth. Furthermore, the use of terms that can be described using equivalent terms
include the use of those equivalent terms. Thus, for example, the use of the term "subject" is to
be understood to include the terms "animal", "human", and other terms used in the art to indicate
one who is subject to a medical treatment.
[0401        As used herein, the term "comprising" is intended to mean that the constructs,
compositions, and methods include the recited elements and/or steps, but do not exclude other
elements and/or steps. "Consisting essentially of', when used to define constructs, compositions,
and methods, means excluding other elements and steps of any essential significance to the

recited constructs, compositions, and methods. Thus, a composition consisting essentially of the
elements as defined herein would not exclude trace contaminants from the isolation and
purification method and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as phosphate buffered saline,
preservatives, and the like. "Consisting of' means excluding more than trace elements of other
ingredients and substantial method steps for administering the compositions of this invention.
Embodiments defined by each of these transition terms are within the scope of this invention.
[0411        A "chimeric DNA" is an identifiable segment of DNA within a larger DNA molecule
that is not found in association with the larger molecule in nature. Thus, when the chimeric
DNA encodes a protein segment, the segment coding sequence will be flanked by DNA that does
not flank the coding sequence in any naturally occurring genome. In the case where the flanking
DNA encodes a polypeptide sequence, the encoded protein is referred to as a "chimeric protein"
(i.e., one having non-naturally occurring amino acid sequences fused together). Allelic
variations or naturally occurring mutational events do not give rise to a chimeric DNA or
chimeric protein as defined herein.
[042]        As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide" and "nucleic acid molecule" are used
interchangeably to refer to polymeric forms of nucleotides of any length. The polynucleotides
may contain deoxyribonucleotides, ribonucleotides, and/or their analogs. Nucleotides may have
any three-dimensional structure, and may perform any function, known or unknown. The term
"polynucleotide" includes, for example, single-, double-stranded and triple helical molecules, a
gene or gene fragment, exons, introns, mRNA, tRNA, rRNA, ribozymes, antisense molecules,
cDNA, recombinant polynucleotides, branched polynucleotides, aptamers, plasmids, vectors,
isolated DNA of any sequence, isolated RNA of any sequence, nucleic acid probes, and primers.
A nucleic acid molecule may also comprise modified nucleic acid molecules (e.g., comprising
modified bases, sugars, and/or internucleotide linkers).
[0431        As used herein, the term "peptide" refers to a compound of two or more subunit
amino acids, amino acid analogs, or peptidomimetics. The subunits may be linked by peptide
bonds or by other bonds (e.g., as esters, ethers, and the like). The term "peptide" is used herein
generically to refer to peptides (i.e., polyamino acids of from 2 to about 20 residues),

polypeptides (i.e., peptides of from about 20 residues to about 100 residues), and proteins (Le.,
peptides having about 100 or more residues).
[044]        As used herein, the term "amino acid" refers to either natural and/or unnatural or
synthetic amino acids, including glycine and both D or L optical isomers, and amino acid
analogs and peptidomimetics. A peptide of three or more amino acids is commonly called an
oligopeptide if the peptide chain is short. While the term "protein" encompasses the term
"polypeptide", a "polypeptide" may be a less than a full-length protein.
[0451        The term "allergen" refers to any naturally occurring protein or mixtures of proteins
that have been reported to induce allergic, i.e., IgE mediated reactions upon their repeated
exposure to an individual. An allergen is any compound, substance, or material that is capable of
evoking an allergic reaction. Allergens are usually understood as a subcategory of antigens,
which are compounds, substances, or materials capable of evoking an immune response. For
carrying out the invention, the allergen may be selected, among other things, from natural or
native allergens, modified natural allergens, synthetic allergens, recombinant allergens,
allergoids, and mixtures or combinations thereof. Of particular interest are allergens that are
capable of causing an IgE-mediated immediate type hypersensitivity.
[0461        Examples of naturally occurring allergens include pollen allergens (e.g., tree, weed,
herb and grass pollen allergens), mite allergens (from e.g. house dust mites and storage mites),
insect allergens (e.g., inhalant, saliva- and venom origin allergens), animal allergens from e.g.
saliva, hair and dander from animals (e.g. dog, cat, horse, rat, mouse, etc.), fungi allergens and
food allergens. The allergen may be in the form of an allergen extract, a purified allergen, a
modified allergen or a recombinant allergen or a recombinant mutant allergen, an allergen
fragment above 30 amino acids or any combination thereof.
[047]        In terms of their chemical or biochemical nature, allergens can represent native or
recombinant proteins or peptides, fragments or truncated versions of native or recombinant
proteins or peptides, fusion proteins, synthetic compounds (chemical allergens), synthetic
compounds that mimic an allergen, or chemically or physically altered allergens, such as
allergens modified by heat denaturation.

[0481       The classification of an allergen as a major allergen can be subject to several tests.
An allergen is commonly classified as a major allergen if at least 25% of patients show strong
IgE binding (score 3) and at least moderate binding (score 2) from 50% of the patients, the
binding being determined by an CRIE (Crossed Radio Immune Electrophoresis) (CRIE Strong
binding, i.e., visible IgE-binding on an X-ray film after one day; CRIE Moderate binding, i.e.,
binding after 3 days; CRIE Weak binding, i.e., binding after 10 days). Strong IgE binding from
at least 10% of the patients classifies the allergen as an Intermediate allergen and clearly specific
binding from less than 10% of the patients classifies it as a Minor allergen. Other methods may
also be used in determining the IgE binding of for instance IgE-blots.
[049]       An "epitope" is a structure, usually made up of a short peptide sequence or
oligosaccharide, that is specifically recognized or specifically bound by a component of the
immune system. T-cell epitopes have generally been shown to be linear oligopeptides. Two
epitopes correspond to each other if they can be specifically bound by the same antibody. Two
epitopes correspond to each other if both are capable of binding to the same B cell receptor or to
the same T cell receptor, and binding of one antibody to its epitope substantially prevents
binding by the other epitope (e.g., less than about 30%, preferably, less than about 20%, and
more preferably, less than about 10%, 5%, 1%, or about 0.1% of the other epitope binds).
[050]       As used herein, two nucleic acid coding sequences "correspond" to each other if the
sequences or their complementary sequences encode the same amino acid sequences.
[051]       As used herein, a polynucleotide or polynucleotide region (or a polypeptide or
polypeptide region) which has a certain percentage (for example, at least about 50%, at least
about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
least about 95%, at least about 99%) of "sequence identity" to another sequence means that,
when maximally aligned, manually or using software programs routine in the art, that percentage
of bases (or amino acids) are the same in comparing the two sequences.
[0521       Two nucleotide sequences are "substantially homologous" or "substantially similar"
when at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, and
preferably at least about 80%, and most preferably at least about 90 or 95% of the nucleotides

match over the defined length of the DNA sequences. Similarly, two polypeptide sequences are
"substantially homologous" or "substantially similar" when at least about 40%, at least about
50%, at least about 60%, at least about 66%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, and
preferably at least about 80%, and most preferably at least about 90 or 95% or 98% of the amino
acid residues of the polypeptide match over a defined length of the polypeptide sequence.
Sequences that are substantially homologous can be identified by comparing the sequences using
standard software available in sequence data banks. Substantially homologous nucleic acid
sequences also can be identified in a Southern hybridization experiment under, for example,
stringent conditions as defined for that particular system. Defining appropriate hybridization
conditions is within the skill of the art. For example, stringent conditions can be: hybridization
at 5xSSC and 50% formamide at 42 0 C, and washing at 0.lxSSC and 0.1% sodium dodecyl
sulfate at 60 0 C.
[0531       "Conservatively modified variants" of domain sequences also can be provided. With
respect to particular nucleic acid sequences, the term conservatively modified variants refers to
those nucleic acids that encode identical or essentially identical amino acid sequences, or where
the nucleic acid does not encode an amino acid sequence, to essentially identical sequences.
Specifically, degenerate codon substitutions can be achieved by generating sequences in which
the third position of one or more selected (or all) codons is substituted with mixed-base and/or
deoxyinosine residues (Batzer, et al., 1991, Nucleic Acid Res. 19: 5081; Ohtsuka, et al., 1985, J.
Biol. Chem. 260: 2605-2608; Rossolini et al., 1994, Mol. Cell. Probes 8: 91-98).
[0541       The term "biologically active fragment", "biologically active form", "biologically
active equivalent", and "functional derivative" of a wild-type protein, means a substance that
possesses a biological activity that is at least substantially equal (e.g., not significantly different
from) the biological activity of the wild type protein as measured using an assay suitable for
detecting the activity. For example, a biologically active fragment comprising a trafficking
domain is one which can co-localize to the same compartment as a full length polypeptide
comprising the trafficking domain.

[0551        A cell has been "transformed", "transduced", or "transfected" by exogenous or
heterologous nucleic acids when such nucleic acids have been introduced inside the cell.
Transforming DNA may or may not be integrated (covalently linked) with chromosomal DNA
making up the genome of the cell. In prokaryotes, yeast, and mammalian cells for example, the
transforming DNA may be maintained on an episomal element, such as a plasmid. In a
eukaryotic cell, a stably transformed cell is one in which the transforming DNA has become
integrated into a chromosome so that it is inherited by daughter cells through chromosome
replication. This stability is demonstrated by the ability of the eukaryotic cell to establish cell
lines or clones comprised of a population of daughter cells containing the transforming DNA. A
"clone" is a population of cells derived from a single cell or common ancestor by mitosis. A
"cell line" is a clone of a primary cell that is capable of stable growth in vitro for many
generations (e.g., at least about 10).
[056]        A "replicon" is any genetic element (e.g., plasmid, chromosome, virus) that functions
as an autonomous unit of DNA replication in vivo.
[057]        As used herein, a "viral vector" refers to a virus or viral particle that comprises a
polynucleotide to be delivered into a host cell, either in vivo, e vivo, or in vitro. Examples of
viral vectors include, but are not limited to, adenovirus vectors, adeno-associated virus vectors,
retroviral vectors, and the like. In aspects where gene transfer is mediated by an adenoviral
vector, a vector construct refers to the polynucleotide comprising the adenovirus genome or part
thereof, and a selected, non-adenoviral gene, in association with adenoviral capsid proteins.
[058]        As used herein, a "nucleic acid delivery vector" is a nucleic acid molecule that can
transport a polynucleotide of interest into a cell. Preferably, such a vector comprises a coding
sequence operably linked to an expression control sequence. However, a polynucleotide
sequence of interest does not necessarily comprise a coding sequence. For example, in one
aspect, a polynucleotidc sequence of interest is an aptamer which binds to a target molecule. In
another aspect, the sequence of interest is a complementary sequence of a regulatory sequence
that binds to a regulatory sequence to inhibit regulation of the regulatory sequence. In still

another aspect, the sequence of interest is itself a regulatory sequence (e.g., for titrating out
regulatory factors in a cell).
[059]        As used herein, a "nucleic acid delivery vehicle" is defined as any molecule or group
of molecules or macromolecules that can carry inserted polynucleotides into a host cell (e.g.,
such as genes or gene fragments, antisense molecules, ribozymes, aptamers, and the like) and
that occurs in association with a nucleic acid delivery vector as described above.
[0601        As used herein, "nucleic acid delivery" or "nucleic acid transfer" refers to the
introduction of an exogenous polynucleotide (e.g., such as a transgene) into a host cell,
irrespective of the method used for the introduction. The introduced polynucleotide may be
stably or transiently maintained in the host cell. Stable maintenance typically requires that the
introduced polynucleotide either contains an origin of replication compatible with the host cell or
integrates into a replicon of the host cell such as an extrachromosomal replicon (e.g., a plasmid)
or a nuclear or mitochondrial chromosome.
[0611        As used herein, "expression" refers to the process by which polynucleotides are
transcribed into mRNA and/or translated into peptides, polypeptides, or proteins. If the
polynucleotide is derived from genomic DNA, expression may include splicing of the mRNA
transcribed from the genomic DNA.
[062]        As used herein, "under transcriptional control" or "operably linked" refers to
expression (e.g., transcription or translation) of a polynucleotide sequence which is controlled by
an appropriate juxtaposition of an expression control element and a coding sequence. In one
aspect, a DNA sequence is "operatively linked" to an expression control sequence when the
expression control sequence controls and regulates the transcription of that DNA sequence.
[063]       As used herein, "coding sequence" is a sequence which is transcribed and translated
into a polypeptide when placed under the control of appropriate expression control sequences.
The boundaries of a coding sequence are determined by a start codon at the S' (amino) terminus
and a translation stop codon at the 3' carboxyll) terminus. A coding sequence can include, but is
not limited to, a prokaryotic sequence, cDNA from eukaryotic mRNA, a genomic DNA sequence
from eukaryotic (e.g., mammalian) DNA, and even synthetic DNA sequences. A

polyadenylation signal and transcription termination sequence will usually be located 3' to the
coding sequence.
[064]         As used herein, a "genetic modification" refers to any addition to or deletion or
disruption of a cell's normal nucleotide sequence. Any method that can achieve the genetic
modification of APCs are within the spirit and scope of this invention. Art recognized methods
include viral mediated gene transfer, liposome mediated transfer, transformation, transfection
and transduction, e.g., viral-mediated gene transfer such as the use of vectors based on DNA
viruses such as adenovirus, adeno-associated virus and herpes virus, as well as retroviral based
vectors.
[065]         As used herein, "the lysosomal/endosomal compartment" refers to membrane-bound
acidic vacuoles containing LAMP molecules in the membrane, hydrolytic enzymes that function
in antigen processing, and MHC class II molecules for antigen recognition and presentation.
This compartment functions as a site for degradation of foreign materials internalized from the
cell surface by any of a variety of mechanisms including endocytosis, phagocytosis, and
pinocytosis, and of intracellular material delivered to this compartment by specialized autolytic
phenomena (see, for example, de Duve, Eur. . Biochem. 137: 391, 1983). The term "endosome"
as used herein encompasses a lysosome.
[066]         As used herein, a "lysosome-related organelle" refers to any organelle that comprises
lysozymes and includes, but is not limited to, MIIC, CIIV, melanosomes, secretary granules,
lytic granules, platelet-dense granules, basophil granules, Birbeck granules, phagolysosomes,
secretory lysosomes, and the like. Preferably, such an organelle lacks mannose 6-phosphate
receptors and comprises LAMP, but might or might not comprise an MHC class II molecule.
For reviews, see, e.g., Blott and Griffiths, Nature Reviews, Molecular Cell Biology, 2002;
Dell'Angelica, et al., The FASEB Journal 14: 1265-1278,2000.
[067]         As used herein a "LAMP polypeptide" refers to LAMP-1, LAMP-2, CD63/LAMP-3,
DC-LAMP, or any lysosomal associated membrane protein, or homologs, orthologs, variants
(e.g., allelic variants) and modified forms (e.g., comprising one or more mutations, either
naturally occurring or engineered). In one aspect, a LAMP polypeptide is a mammalian

lysosomal associated membrane protein, e.g., such as a human or mouse lysosomal associated
membrane protein. More generally, a "lysosomal membrane protein" refers to any protein
comprising a domain found in the membrane of an endosomal/lysosomal compartment or
lysosome-related organelle and which further comprises a lumenal domain.
[068]       As used herein, "targeting"denotes the polypeptide sequence that directs a chimeric
protein of the invention to a preferred site, such as a cellular organelle or compartment where
antigen processing and binding to MHC II occurs. As such, a "targeting domain" refers to a
series of amino acids that are required for delivery to a cellular compartment/organelle.
Preferably, a targeting domain is a sequence that binds to an adaptor or AP protein (e.g., such as
an AP 1, AP2, or AP3 protein). Exemplary targeting domain sequences are described in
Dell'Angelica, 2000, for example.
[0691       As used herein, in vivo nucleic acid delivery, nucleic acid transfer, nucleic acid
therapy, and the like, refer to the introduction of a vector comprising an exogenous
polynucleotide directly into the body of an organism, such as a human or non-human mammal,
whereby the exogenous polynucleotide is introduced into a cell of such organism in vivo.
[070]       As used herein, the term in situ refers to a type of in vivo nucleic acid delivery in
which the nucleic acid is brought into proximity with a target cell (e.g., the nucleic acid is not
administered systemically). For example, in situ delivery methods include, but are not limited to,
injecting a nucleic acid directly at a site (e.g., into a tissue, such as a tumor or heart muscle),
contacting the nucleic acid with cell(s) or tissue through an open surgical field, or delivering the
nucleic acid to a site using a medical access device such as a catheter.
[0711       As used herein, the terms "isolated" and "purified" are used at times interchangeably
to mean separated from constituents, cellular and otherwise, in which the polynucleotide,
peptide, polypeptide, protein, antibody, or fragments thereof, are normally associated with in
nature. For example, with respect to a polynucleotide, an isolated polynucleotide is one that is
separated from the 5' and 3' sequences with which it is normally associated in the chromosome.
As is apparent to those of skill in the art, a non-naturally occurring polynucleotide, peptide,
polypeptide, protein, antibody, or fragments thereof, does not require "isolation" to distinguish it

from its naturally occurring counterpart. Furthermore, the terms "isolated" and "purified" do not
imply total isolation and total purity. These terms are used to denote both partial and total purity
from some or all other substances naturally found in association with the polynucleotide, etc.
Thus, these terms can mean isolation or purification from one naturally associated substance
(e.g., isolation or purification of DNA from RNA), isolation or purification from other
substances of the same general class of molecule (e.g., a particular protein showing 20% purity
as compared to all proteins in a sample), or any combination. Isolation and purification can
mean any level from about 1%to about 100%, including 100%. As such, an "isolated" or
"purified" population of cells is substantially free of cells and materials with which it is
associated in nature. By substantially free or substantially purified APCs is meant at least 50%
of the population of cells are APCs, preferably at least 70%, more preferably at least 80%, and
even more preferably at least 90% free of non-APCs cells with which they are associated in
nature. Of course, those of skill in the art will recognize that all specific values, including
fractions of values, are encompassed within these ranges without the need for each particular
value to be listed herein. Each value is not specifically disclosed for the sake of brevity;
however, the reader is to understand that each and every specific value is inherently disclosed
and encompassed by the invention.
[072]        As used herein, a "target cell" or "recipient cell" refers to an individual cell or cell
which is desired to be, or has been, a recipient of exogenous nucleic acid molecules,
polynucleotides, and/or proteins. The term is also intended to include progeny of a single cell,
and the progeny may not necessarily be completely identical (in morphology or in genomic or
total DNA complement) to the original parent cell due to natural, accidental, or deliberate
mutation. A target cell may be in contact with other cells (e.g., as in a tissue) or may be found
circulating within the body of an organism.
[0731        The term "antigen presenting cell" or "APC" as used herein intends any cell that
presents on its surface an antigen in association with a major histocompatibility complex
molecule, or portion thereof, or, alternatively, one or more non-classical MHC molecules, or a
portion thereof Examples of suitable APCs are discussed in detail below and include, but are

not limited to, whole cells such as macrophages, dendritic cells, B cells, hybrid APCs, and foster
antigen presenting cells.
[074]        As used herein an "engineered antigen-presenting cell" refers to an antigen-presenting
cell that has a non-natural molecular moiety on its surface. For example, such a cell may not
naturally have a co-stimulator on its surface or may have additional artificial co-stimulator in
addition to natural co-stimulator on its surface, or may express a non-natural class II molecule on
its surface.
[0751        As used herein, the term "immune effector cells" refers to cells that are capable of
binding an antigen and that mediate an immune response. These cells include, but are not
limited to, T cells, B cells, monocytes, macrophages, NK cells, and cytotoxic T lymphocytes
(CTLs), for example CTL lines, CTL clones, and CTLs from tumor, inflammatory, or other
infiltrates.
[076]        As used herein, the terms "subject" and "patient" are used interchangeably to indicate
an animal for which the present invention is directed. The term animal is to be understood to
include humans and non-human animals; where a distinction between the two is desired, the
terms human and/or non-human animal are used. In embodiments, the subject or patient is a
vertebrate, preferably a mammal, more preferably a human. Mammals include, but are not
limited to, murines, simians, humans, farm animals (e.g., bovines, ovines, porcines), sport
animals (e.g. equines), and pets (e.g., canines and felines).
[0771        Clinical allergy symptoms are known to those of skill in the art, and an exhaustive
listing herein is not required. Non-limiting examples include rhinitis, conjunctivitis, asthma,
urticaria, eczema, which includes reactions in the skin, eyes, nose, upper and lower airways with
common symptoms such as redness and itching of eyes and nose, itching and runny nose,
coaching, wheezing, shortness of breath, itching, and swelling of tissue.
[0781        Examples of "immunological in vivo tests" are Skin Prick Test (SPT), Conjunctival
Provocation Test (CPT), Bronchial Challenge with Allergen (BCA), and various clinical tests in
which one or more allergy symptoms is monitored. See, for example, Haugaard et al., 3 Allergy
Clin Immunol, Vol. 91, No. 3, pp 709-722, March 1993.

[0791        As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" encompasses any of
the standard pharmaceutical carriers known in the art, such as a phosphate buffered saline
solution, water, and emulsions, such as an oil/water or water/oil emulsion, and various types of
wetting agents. The compositions also can include stabilizers and preservatives. For examples
of carriers, stabilizers and adjuvants, see Martin Remington's Pharm. Sci., 15th Ed. (Mack Pub.
Co., Easton (1975)).
[0801        As used herein, a "therapeutically effective amount" is used herein to mean an
amount sufficient to prevent, correct, and/or normalize an abnormal physiological response. In
one aspect, a "therapeutically effective amount" is an amount sufficient to reduce by at least
about 30 percent, more preferably by at least 50 percent, most preferably by at least 90 percent, a
clinically significant feature of pathology, such as for example, size of a tumor mass, antibody
production, cytokine production, fever or white cell count, or level of histamine.
[081]        An "antibody" is any immunoglobulin, including antibodies and fragments thereof,
that binds a specific epitope. The term encompasses polyclonal, monoclonal, and chimeric
antibodies (e.g., bispecific antibodies). An "antibody combining site" is that structural portion of
an antibody molecule comprised of heavy and light chain variable and hypervariable regions that
specifically binds antigen. Exemplary antibody molecules are intact immunoglobulin molecules,
substantially intact immunoglobulin molecules, and those portions of an immunoglobulin
molecule that contains the paratope, including Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , and F(v) portions, which
portions are preferred for use in the therapeutic methods described herein.
[082]        The term "oromucosal administration" refers to a route of administration where the
dosage form is placed under the tongue or anywhere else in the oral cavity to allow the active
ingredient to come in contact with the mucosa of the oral cavity or the pharynx of the patient in
order to obtain a local or systemic effect of the active ingredient. An example of an oromucosal
administration route is sublingual administration. The term "sublingual administration" refers to
a route of administration where a dosage form is placed underneath the tongue in order to obtain
a local or systemic effect of the active ingredient. As used herein, the term "intradermal
delivery" means delivery of the vaccine to the dermis in the skin. However, the vaccine will not

necessarily be located exclusively in the dermis. The dermis is the layer in the skin located
between about 1.0 and about 2.0 mm from the surface in human skin, but there is a certain
amount of variation between individuals and in different parts of the body. In general, it can be
expected to reach the dermis by going 1.5 mm below the surface of the skin. The dermis is
located between the stratum comeum and the epidermis at the surface and the subcutaneous layer
below. Depending on the mode of delivery, the vaccine may ultimately be located solely or
primarily within the dermis, or it may ultimately be distributed within the epidermis and the
dermis.
[0831       As used herein, the term "prevent" in the context of allergy immunotherapy, allergy
treatment, or other terms that describe an intervention designed for an allergy patient, means the
prevention of an IgE response in at least 20% of all patients. The term "prevent" does not mean
total prevention from developing an IgE mediated disease in all patients, and such a definition is
outside the scope of the present invention for treating allergy through a mechanism that reduces
allergy symptoms, and is inconsistent with the use of the term in the art. It is well known to
those skilled in the art of allergy immunotherapy that allergy treatments are not 100% effective
in 100% of patients, and as such an absolute definition of "prevent" does not apply within the
context of the present invention. The art-recognized concept of prevention is contemplated by
the present invention.
[0841       The present invention provides polynucleic acids, polyaminoacids, and methods of
treating subjects in need of the polynucleic acids and polyaminoacids. Broadly speaking, the
polynucleic acids can be thought of as nucleic acid (e.g., DNA, RNA) vaccines for the
intracellular production of allergenic sequences (polyaminoacids) that elicit a protective immune
response within the body of the subject to whom the polynucleic acid is administered. The
polynucleic acids, when administered, preferentially evoke a cell-mediated immune response via
the MHC-II pathway and production of IgG antibodies by activating an allergen-specific T
helper type I (Th 1) cellular response with the production of interferons by APCs, NK cells, and
T cells rather than a Th2-type response, which involves production of IgE antibodies,
granulocytes (e.g., eosinophils), and other substances. To an extent, both an MHC-Il and an

MHC-I response can be generated; however, the invention provides a response that is primarily
or substantially an MHC-I1 response. Preferably, the nucleic acids do not encode an antibiotic
resistance gene.
[0851       The invention is based, at least in part, on the recognition that a combination of
certain structural, and thus functional, elements provides advantageous properties to the nucleic
acid vaccines and the encoded allergens, and allows for allergy treatment methods that satisfy
uumet needs in the art. In the various embodiments of the invention, which are intended to be
understood as standing alone as independent embodiments and as embodiments that combine
two or more features of the independent embodiments, the combinations include the use of a
lysosomal trafficking domain to direct allergen amino acid sequences to lysosomes with MHC Il
proteins. Doing so allows for predominantly an IgG response as opposed to an IgE response to
the allergen sequences. Yet further, independent embodiments or combinations of embodiments
provide constructs containing a sufficient length of a nucleic acid sequence to encode an amino
acid sequence that provides a naturally-occurring three-dimensional structure of an epitope. In
preferred embodiments, the nucleic acid sequence provides/encodes the full-length allergen
coding sequence, but which lacks any naturally-occurring signal peptide sequence associated
with the allergen sequence. In other embodiments, the nucleic acid sequence encodes at least
one allergenic region of an allergen, but not the full-length allergen protein (and also lacking the
signal sequence, if one was naturally present). Although it is recognized in the art that an
immune response can be generated against the primary sequence of an epitope, the present
invention recognizes that nucleic acid vaccines for the production of an MHC-II immune
response to encoded epitopes preferably uses nucleic acid constructs that encode enough
sequence data to produce a correct three-dimensional peptide structure in the region comprising
an allergenic epitope, at least at the time when the allergenic sequence is delivered to a lysosome
for processing. While not being limited to any particular molecular theory, it is believed that
delivery of a properly three-dimensionally folded protein, polypeptide, or peptide to an
endosome improves processing and presentation of allergenic epitopes for an immune response.

[0861       As yet another example of an embodiment that can be implemented, alone or as part
of a combination of embodiments, the expression of multiple allergens from a single construct is
provided. To date, it has not been shown that a nucleic acid vaccine that is protective against an
allergen can be effectively produced and used. The present invention not only provides an
effective nucleic acid vaccine against an allergen, but further provides an effective nucleic acid
vaccine against multiple allergens at the same time. The allergens can be allergens from the
same source (e.g., a single plant), or can be allergens from two or more sources (e.g., a tree, a
flower, a food, etc.). As above, the full-length allergen sequences can be used (lacking any
naturally-associated signal sequence for the allergen), or allergenic portions can be used. In
constructs comprising multiple allergen sequences, any mixture of full-length or truncated
allergen sequences can be used. Further, as with other embodiments, it is preferred that
naturally-occurring signal sequence for each allergen sequence be removed (i.e., the naturally
occurring signal sequences for each allergen sequence are not present in the constructs).
[087]       Although the use of signal sequences for the independent allergenic sequences within
the allergen domain has been found to be detrimental to the function of the nucleic acid
construct, it has been found that the use of signal sequence region or domain within the nucleic
acid vaccine constructs is an important feature. As such, in embodiments, the nucleic acid
vaccine includes at least one signal sequence within the signal sequence domain to direct the
encoded peptide to and through a membrane. Although the amino acid sequence of the signal
sequence may vary from construct to construct, and any known signal sequence can be selected,
it has been found that in preferred embodiments, the signal sequence is present and provided in
frame with the coding sequence of the allergen sequence(s). The use of a single signal sequence
is adequate to direct the entire encoded chimeric protein to and through a membrane. As such,
signal sequences for each allergen sequence are not necessary and, in fact, have been found to be
detrimental to proper localization, processing, and expression of allergen epitopes on immune
cell surfaces.
[0881       And further, in specific embodiments and in combinations of embodiments, it has
been found that sequestration, or physical protection, of allergen sequences during the transfer of

the polypeptide from the cytoplasm to the endosome, including the time in the endosome prior to
cleavage of the polypeptide into units for presentation at the cell surface, can be an important
factor in providing a useful nucleic acid vaccine according to the invention. As such, in general,
the invention includes a construct that comprises an intra-organelle stabilizing domain (IOSD) to
protect allergen sequences.
[089]       The nucleic acid of the invention comprises at least the following domains: a signal
sequence domain; an intra-organelle stabilizing domain; an allergen domain (which can comprise
a single allergen or two or more allergens, each comprising one or more allergenic epitopes); a
transmembrane domain; and a cytoplasmic lysosome/endosome targeting domain. The various
domains are present on a single chimeric or engineered nucleic acid. The various domains can
be combined in any linear order using techniques known and widely practiced in the art. In
preferred embodiments, the domains are combined and arranged such that they comprise a single
open reading frame encoding a chimeric protein, the open reading frame being operably linked to
transcriptional elements sufficient for expression of the chimeric protein. The nucleic acid thus
can be an expression vector, such as a plasmid, phagemid, viral vector, or the like. Preferably,
the nucleic acid comprises transcriptional elements suitable for expression in mammalian cells,
such as human cells. Such expression vector elements and expression vectors are known and
widely used in the art, as exemplified by U.S. patent application publication number
2004/0157307, which is incorporated herein by reference. A non-limiting example of a plasmid
backbone for use in creating nucleic acid constructs according to the invention is referred to at
times herein as a "pITI"plasmid, the sequence of which is provided as SEQ ID NO:1.
[0901       Three exemplary configurations of the nucleic acid of the invention are depicted
schematically in Figures 1, 3, and 4, respectively. Figure 1 shows a sequential arrangement of
domains in which a single allergen comprising a single epitope is included in the encoded
chimeric protein. Figure 3 shows a sequential arrangement of domains in which multiple
different epitopes of a single allergen are included in the encoded chimeric protein within the
allergen domain. The two epitopes are arranged such that they are in the same reading frame and
are thus both produced as part of the chimeric protein. Those of skill in the art will immediately

recognize that three or more epitopes can be provided in the same reading frame within the
epitope domain using standard molecular biology techniques. Figure 4 shows a sequential
arrangement of domains in which two different allergens are present in the allergen domain. Of
course, the skilled artisan will recognize that each allergen sequence can contain one or multiple
allergenic epitopes. Based on these three schematic representations of embodiments of the
nucleic acids of the invention, the reader will immediately recognize that any number of
allergens, from any number of sources, and containing any number of epitopes, can be included
within the allergen domain, and can be linked in-frame using standard molecular biology
techniques.
[091]        Figure 2 depicts a vector map of a nucleic acid according to one embodiment of the
invention ("pITI-CRY J2-LAMP"; also referred to herein at times as "CRYJ2-LAMP"), which
generally relates to the embodiment of the invention depicted schematically in Figure 1. The
vector or delivery vehicle includes a plasmid backbone with a pUC origin of replication and
various transcription and expression elements for production of the encoded protein. More
specifically, it includes the sequence of the pITI backbone (SEQ ID NO: 1). It is to be noted that
the nucleic acid construct does not include an antibiotic resistance gene, in accordance with
preferred embodiments of the invention. The nucleic acid further comprises sequences for the
encoded protein, which comprises an N-terminal region of the human LAMP protein, which
includes a signal sequence and an intra-organelle stabilizing domain. The nucleic acid further
provides sequences for the encoded protein that comprises the CryJ2 allergen sequence (lacking
its signal sequence) fused in-frame to the N-terminal region of the LAMP protein. The nucleic
acid further includes sequences encoding a portion of the C-terminal region of the human LAMP
protein, which includes a transmembrane region and a targeting region. The coding region for
the CRY J2-LAMP chimeric protein sequence is provided as SEQ ID NO:2. The amino acid
sequence for the CRY J2-LAMP chimeric protein is provided as SEQ ID NO:3.
[0921        In exemplary embodiments, the invention also relates to nucleic acid constructs for
the delivery and expression of other allergens of C.japonica,including the CryJi allergen.
Using the same plasmid backbone, a pITI-CRYJ1-LAMP construct has been created. The

chimeric protein can elicit an MHC II type immune response. The coding region for the pITI
CRYJI-LAMP construct is presented as SEQ ID NO:4. The amino acid sequence for the CRY
Ji-LAMP chimeric protein is provided as SEQ ID NO:5.
[0931       As shown in Figures 3 and 4, the allergen domain can include an allergen having
multiple allergenic epitopes, or can include multiple allergens (each having one or more
allergenic epitopes). Figure 5 depicts a vector map of a particular exemplary embodiment of a
nucleic acid construct in which the allergen domain includes two allergenic sequences. In this
exemplary embodiment, the allergen domain contains the CryJ1 and CryJ2 allergens (each
lacking its natural signal sequence) of C.japonica fused in-frame and fused at the N-terminal
end with a LAMP signal sequence domain and intra-organelle stabilizing domain. The CryJl
CryJ2 sequences are also fused at the C-terminal end with a LAMP transmembrane domain and
targeting domain. The full nucleotide sequence of the coding region for the chimeric protein is
presented as SEQ ID NO:6. The full amino acid sequence of the encoded chimeric protein is
presented as SEQ ID NO:7, in which: residues 1-27 represent the signal sequence for the
chimeric protein; residues 28-380 represent the intra-organelle stabilizing domain (sequence
taken from human LAMP); residues 381 and 382 represent a linker; residues 383-735 represent
the coding region of the Cryil (without its signal sequence); residues 736-741 represent a linker
region; residues 742-1232 represent the coding region for the CryJ2 allergen; residues 1233-1234
represent a linker region; residues 1235-1258 represent the transmembrane and targeting domain;
and residues 1259-1270 represent additional C-terminal residues.
[094]       The nucleic acid constructs of the invention are essentially limitless in the number of
allergens that can be coordinately produced. As such, two, three, four, five, six, ten, twenty, or
more different allergens (from the same or a mixture of different sources) can be included in the
nucleic acid constructs of the invention. Figure 6A presents a vector map of another exemplary
nucleic acid according to an embodiment of the invention. The vector or delivery vehicle
includes a plasmid backbone with a pUC origin of replication and various transcription and
expression elements for production of the encoded protein. The backbone can be, but is not
necessarily, the pITI backbone of SEQ ID NO: 1. The nucleic acid further comprises sequences

for the encoded protein, which comprises an N-terminal region of the human LAMP protein,
which includes a signal sequence domain and an intra-organelle stabilizing domain. The nucleic
acid further provides sequences for an encoded chimeric protein that comprises the peanut
allergen polyprotein AraHl/AraH2/AraH3. The nucleic acid further includes sequences
encoding a portion of the C-terminal region of the human LAMP protein, which includes a
transmembrane region and a targeting region. The nucleotide sequence for the coding region of
the chimeric protein is provided as SEQ ID NO:8 The chimeric protein encoded by the vector of
Figure 6A is presented schematically in Figure 6B (and as SEQ ID NO:9).
[095]        The domains present in the nucleic acids of the invention are described in more detail
below with respect to the functions provided by the encoded chimeric proteins. It is to be
understood that practice of the invention is not dependent upon or limited by any particular
nucleic acid or protein sequence, but rather it is the combination of elements and domains that
provides the advantages and properties to the constructs. It is also to be understood that the
description relating to the various domains of the nucleic acid construct, when discussed in the
context of the physical and functional characteristics of the encoded protein, and vice versa. It is
sufficient to apprise one of skill in the art of the physical and functional characteristics of either
the nucleic acids or the proteins. It is a simple matter using computers and the degeneracy of the
genetic code to arrive at all possible nucleic acid molecules encoding known protein sequences
and to arrive at proteins encoded by nucleic acids. Thus reference to a physical or functional
characteristic of a particular protein sequence immediately discloses to the skilled artisan all of
the possible nucleic acid sequences associated with that physical or functional characteristic, and
vice versa.
[096]        It is also well within the skill of those of skill in the art to design and combine two or
more nucleic acid molecules or sequences to arrive at a sequence encoding a chimeric protein
according to the invention. Likewise, it is well within the skilled artisan's abilities to select and
combine transcription and translation control elements to express the coding sequences and
chimeric proteins in vivo or in vitro as desired. Accordingly, these commonly used techniques
need not be discussed in detail herein to enable one to practice the present invention.

[0971        The nucleic acid of the invention comprises a signal sequence domain. The signal
sequence domain contains a signal sequence that is provided for insertion of the encoded
chimeric protein into a biological membrane that defines the border between an external
environment and an internal environment. The signal sequence also directs transfer of the
protein from the external environment to the internal environment. The general structure of a
signal sequence is well known in the art, as are numerous examples of particular signal
sequences. The practitioner is free to select any appropriate signal sequence according to the
various selection parameters for each embodiment falling within the scope of this invention. In
exemplary embodiments, the signal sequence is one that directs the chimeric protein to the
endoplasmic reticulum. It is important to note at this juncture that the signal sequence domain is
the only portion of the chimeric protein that contains a signal sequence. As such, the naturally
occurring signal sequences of allergens residing in the allergen domain have been removed prior
to inclusion of the allergen sequences in the construct. It has been found that removal of these
individual signal sequences improves the overall performance of the construct in vivo.
[098]        The nucleic acid of the invention comprises an intra-organelle stabilizing domain
(IOSD). The IOSD comprises a sequence that encodes an amino acid sequence that binds, via
chemical bonds, to one or more sequences in the allergen domain and protects those sequences
from degradation (e.g., proteolysis) prior to arrival of the chimeric protein in the
endosomal/lysosomal compartment. In essence, the IOSD can be envisioned as a protective cap
for the allergen domain sequences, shielding those sequences, and in particular allergenic epitope
sequences, from proteolytic enzymes, low pH, and other protein-destabilizing substances and
conditions. The IOSD can be any of a number of known or engineered sequences, including, but
not limited to, a LAMP polypeptide lumenal domain and the macrosialin/CD68 protein, which is
a heavily glycosylated transmembrane protein that is expressed in macrophages and
macrophage-like cells as a late endosomal protein. The key feature of the IOSD is the ability of
the IOSD to bind to and protect the allergen domain from proteolysis until the MHC class II
molecule is released from the invariant peptide. In this way, the three-dimensional structures of
the allergenic epitope(s) are preserved until active MHC class II molecules are available for

interaction. In preferred embodiments, the IOSD comprises all or part of the sequence of a
lysosomal protein. In some embodiments, the IOSD is a protein or polypeptide other than a
LAMP polypeptide lumenal domain, such as, but not limited to, macrosialin/CD68.
[0991        The nucleic acid construct of the invention comprises an allergen domain. The
allergen domain comprises one or more sequences that encode allergen proteins, polypeptides, or
peptides, which comprise one or more allergenic epitopes. The allergen domain does not include
signal sequences from the allergens present. Numerous proteinaceous allergens are known in the
art, and any one or combination of allergens and/or allergenic epitopes can be used in accordance
with the present invention. Where less than a full-length allergenic sequence is used, preferably,
one or more epitopes of the full-length allergen protein are provided in the context of their
natural positions within the allergenic protein. More specifically, the present invention provides
for improved nucleic acid vaccines, in which the vaccines encode chimeric proteins that retain or
substantially retain their three dimensional structure until MHC class H molecules are competent
to bind to epitopes on the chimeric proteins. In this way, an improved immune response can be
elicited, as compared to delivery to the MHC class II molecules of short peptides, which
generally will lack appropriate three dimensional structures. Accordingly, it is preferred that the
allergen domain encode relatively long amino acid sequences that include one or more epitopes,
if originally present on the allergen protein.
[1001        The allergen domain can include two or more allergens, each containing one or more
allergenic epitopes. It is known that certain allergenic proteins contain two or more epitopes. As
a preferred embodiment of the invention uses an entire allergenic coding region (i.e., the coding
region lacking a signal sequence), or a substantial portion thereof, of an allergenic protein,
certain allergen domains will include two or more epitopes in their naturally-occurring
relationship. Alternatively, two or more known epitopes can be fused into one coding region.
Yet again, in exemplary embodiments, two or more allergenic proteins, or allergenic regions
thereof, are present in the allergen domain. Where two or more epitopes are engineered to be
present in a single epitope domain, the epitopes can be from the same antigenic protein.
Alternatively, they can be from two different proteins of the same species. Yet again, they can

be from the same protein of two different species. Furthermore, they can be from two or more
different proteins from two or more different species. In essence, any combination of epitopes
from the same or different proteins from the same or different species is contemplated by this
invention. Likewise, the order of the various allergens and epitopes can be varied in any way
imaginable. The mixing of allergenic proteins and/or allergenic peptides from multiple species
allows the creation of a robust nucleic acid vaccine that can provide treatment for allergies to a
single source organism (e.g., particular species of tree) based on multiple allergens, as well as
treatment for allergies to multiple source organisms (e.g., multiple plants that release spores
during the same season of the year) based on multiple allergens. The ability to combat multiple
allergies from a single nucleic acid vaccine has not been proven to date.
[101]        The nucleic acid construct of the invention further comprises a transmembrane
domain. Transmembrane domains are well known and well characterized physical and
functional elements of proteins that exist partially on both sides of a biological membrane. In
essence, a transmembrane domain is a linear sequence of amino acids that are generally
hydrophobic or lipophilic in nature and which function to anchor a protein at a biological
membrane. Generally, such sequences are 20-25 residues in length. Those of skill in the art are
well aware of such sequences and can easily obtain or engineer a suitable transmembrane
sequence for use in the present invention.
[102]        In addition to the elements discussed above, the nucleic acid of the invention
comprises a targeting domain. The targeting domain is a sequence that encodes an amino acid
sequence that functions to target the encoded chimeric protein to the endosomal/lysosomal
compartment. While not so limited in its identity, in preferred embodiments, the targeting
domain comprises the C-terminal cytoplasmic targeting sequence of the LAMP polypeptide, DC
LAMP, LAMP2, LAMP-3, LIMP II, ENDOLYN, or macrosialin/CD68.
[1031        In embodiments, the nucleic acid of the invention comprises, as part of the allergen
domain, the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 (i.e., the Cry J2 nucleotide sequence lacking its signal
sequence) or another sequence encoding SEQ ID NO:3 (i.e., the Cry J2 protein sequence lacking
its signal sequence) in the allergen domain. SEQ ID NO:2 consists of nucleotides encoding the

 full protein coding sequence of Cry J2, with the exception of its signal sequence (Le., SEQ ID
 NO:2), a pectate lysase protein found in the pollen of Cryptoneriajaponica.Cry J2 is well
 known in the art to be correlated with seasonal and persistent allergies in areas where cedar
 pollen is present. IgE specific to Cry J2 is commonly found in allergic patients in areas near
 cedar groves. It is to be noted that, in the Sequence Listing provided as part of the disclosure of
 the invention, the signal sequence for each allergen, if present, is noted. It is to be understood
 that, within the context of the constructs of the invention, these signal sequences are not present.
 [1041       In other embodiments, the nucleic acid comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:4 (i.e.,
 the Cry II nucleotide sequence, lacking its signal sequence) or another sequence encoding SEQ
 ID NO:5 (Le., the Cry J2 protein sequence lacking its signal sequence). In yet other
 embodiments, the nucleic acid comprises the sequence of both SEQ ID NO:2 and SEQ ID NO:4,
 or other sequences encoding SEQ ID NO:3 and SEQ ID NO:5, respectively. In embodiments,
 the nucleic acid comprises one or more of the other sequences disclosed herein, such as those
 encoding any of the following allergens: Cry J3 (Cry J3.8; C.japonica; SEQ ID NO: 10; signal
 sequence is residues 1-26), CJP-4 (C. japonica;SEQ ID NO:11), CJP-6 (C japonica; SEQ ID
 NO:12), CJP-8 (C japonica; SEQ ID NO:13; signal sequence is residues 1-35), CPA63 (C.
japonica; SEQ ID NO:14; signal sequence is residues 1-20), CJP38 (C.japonica; SEQ ID
 NO:15; signal sequence is residues 1-28), Cha o 1 (C. obtuse; SEQ ID NO:16; signal sequence is
 residues 1-21), Jun a I (J. ashei; SEQ ID NO:17; signal sequence is residues 1-21), Jun v 1 (J.
 virginiana:SEQ ID NO:18; signal sequence is residues 1-2 1), Cup a I (H. arizonica;SEQ ID
 NO:19; signal sequence is residues 1-21), Jun o 1 (J. oxycedrus; SEQ ID NO:20; signal sequence
 is residues 1-2 1), Cup s 1 (C. sempervirens; SEQ ID NO:21; signal sequence is residues 1-21)
 Cha o 2 (C. obtuse; SEQ ID NO:22; signal sequence is residues 1-22), Jun a 2 (J. ashei; SEQ ID
 NO:23; signal sequence is residues 1-22), Cup a 2 (H. arizonica;SEQ ID NO:24), Jun a 3 (J.
 ashei; SEQ ID NO:25; signal sequence is residues 1-16), Jun r 3 (J. rigida; SEQ ID NO:26;
 signal sequence is residues 1-26), Cup s 3 (C. sempervirens; SEQ ID NO:27; signal sequence is
 residues 1-26), Cup a 3 (H. arizonica;SEQ ID NO:28), Ch4A (P.nonticola;SEQ ID NO:29;
 signal sequences is from residues 1-25), Ch4-1 (P. menziesii; SEQ ID NO:30; signal sequence is

residues 1-26), PT-I (P.taeda;SEQ IDNO:31), and LTP (Rabies; SEQ IDNO:32; signal
sequence is from residues 1-25). Nucleic acid and amino acid sequences not listed with
reference to SEQ ID NOs are also publicly available. It is a mere matter of computer program
implementation to arrive at protein sequences according to the present invention based on the
nucleic acid sequences. Of course, biochemically homologous sequences to these protein
sequences are encompassed by these embodiments. For example, sequences showing 30% or
more identity, such as 40% or more, 50% or more, 75% or more, 90% or more 95% or more,
98% or more, or 99% or more to the disclosed sequences are encompassed by these
embodiments. It is to be understood that this concept applies not only to the particular sequences
of allergens disclosed herein, but to all protein and nucleic acid sequences provided herein.
Further, as stated above, each value within the disclosed ranges are understood to be specifically
encompassed by the present disclosure.
[105]       In a particular instance of the invention, a DNA vaccine comprising SEQ ID NO:2 or
another sequence encoding SEQ ID NO:3 within the allergen domain is provided. When such a
vaccine is administered to a patient for whom there is considerable evidence of a Japanese red
cedar allergy, the vaccine results in the de novo synthesis of a fusion or chimeric (these terms
used interchangeably herein) protein comprising the allergen Cry J2 (presented within SEQ ID
NO:3). Due to the combination of domains present on the chimeric protein, the protein is
directed from the endoplasmic reticulum into the endolysosomal pathway, resulting in the
processing of the fusion protein into epitopes in MHC vesicles, some of which become bound to
MHC class II molecules, leading to an enhanced humoral immune response.
[1061       In another instance of the invention, a DNA vaccine comprising the sequence of SEQ
ID NO:4 or another sequence encoding SEQ ID NO:5 within the allergen domain is provided.
When such a vaccine is administered to a patient for whom there is considerable evidence of a
Japanese red cedar allergy, the vaccine results in the de novo synthesis of a fusion or chimeric
(these terms used interchangeably herein) protein comprising the allergen Cry J1 (found within
the sequence of SEQ ID NO:4). Due to the combination of domains present on the chimeric
protein, the protein is directed from the endoplasmic reticulum into the endolysosomal pathway,

resulting in the processing of the fusion protein into epitopes in MHC vesicles, some of which
become bound to MHC class 11 molecules, leading to an enhanced humoral immune response.
]107]       In another instance of the invention, a DNA vaccine comprising SEQ ID NO:6 within
the allergen domain is provided. When such a vaccine is administered to a patient for whom
there is considerable evidence of a Japanese red cedar allergy, the vaccine results in the de novo
synthesis of a fusion or chimeric (these terms used interchangeably herein) protein comprising
the allergens CryJI and Cry J2 (SEQ ID NO:7). Due to the combination of domains present on
the chimeric protein, the protein is directed from the endoplasmic reticulum into the
endolysosomal pathway, resulting in the processing of the fusion protein into epitopes in MHC
vesicles, some of which become bound to MHC class II molecules, leading to an enhanced
humoral immune response.
 [1081      In another instance of the invention, a nucleic acid encoding the full protein coding
sequence of Jun al, a pectate lysase belonging to the genus Juniperus ashei, is provided in the
allergen domain. Jun al demonstrates a high degree of sequence identity with Cry JI and both
retains a similar enzymatic activity to Cry JI and possesses a high similarity in known epitopes.
 [109]      Other polypeptides are well known to be cross-reactive to Cry JI and that this cross
reactivity is due to shared epitopes related to the enzymatic activity of pectate lysase family
polypeptides. The family includes the major allergen of Japanese cypress (Chamzaecyparis
obtusa (Ch o1)), and includes allergens from: Juniperusashei (Jun a 1), Juniperusvirginiana
(Jun v 1), Cuppressus arizonica(Cup a 1), Juniperusoxycedrus (Jun o 1), and Cupressus
sempervirens (Cup s 1). It has been observed in the literature that there is strong cross-reactivity
among allergic patients to pollen from the cedar family (Cupressus). Table I, below, depicts a
table showing levels of cross-reactivity among related proteins. While the invention is described
in detail with regard to Cry J I and Cry J2, it is to be understood that one or more of the allergens
disclosed herein and particularly in Table I can be used in addition to or as alternatives to the Cry
J1 and Cry J2 sequences.

[1101   Table 1: Cryptomeriajaponicacross-reactivity to other allergens
Cryptomeria      Cha    Jun   Jun   Cup    Jun      Cup   Cha     Jun    Cup    Jun   Jun   Cup    Cup
  Japonica       01      al    v1   al     01        s1   o2      a2     a2     a3     r3    s3     a3
Cryil
    J80%                79%   80%   75%    85%      85%
CryJ3         |       |                  |       |      |       |      |      |86%    87%   85%    87%
 Cryptomeria      Ch4A      Ch4-1     PT-1         LTP
   Japonica
CJP-4              70%      57%
CJP-6                                 74%
OP-8                                             45%
CPA63
[111]       It is well known in the art that certain sites for inserting a nucleotide sequence for a
coding region into the nucleotide sequence for a different coding region (i.e., fusion sites) are
more favorable than others. The location of the allergen sequence taught in, for example,
Figures 1-5 is taught as the favorable location for using the composition taught in the present
invention. It is within the scope of the present invention to move the location of the allergen
sequence to other locations, such as within the luminal domain of a LAMP polypeptide or other
intra-organelle stabilizing domain. However, it is preferred that the allergen is not placed within
the coding region of either the transmembrane or cytoplasmic domain. In a preferred instance of
the invention, the allergen sequence is inserted into the luminal domain of a LAMP polypeptide
within 5 amino acids from the junction with the transmembrane domain and up to 20 amino acids
on the 5N terminal side of a LAMP polypeptide luminal domain.
[112]       The nucleic acid of the invention can be provided as a purified or isolated molecule.
The nucleic acid also can be provided as part of a composition. The composition can consist
essentially of the nucleic acid, meaning that the nucleic acid is the only nucleic acid in the
composition suitable for expression of a coding sequence. Alternatively, the composition can
comprise a nucleic acid of the invention. In exemplary embodiments, the composition is a

pharmaceutical composition comprising the nucleic acid of the invention along with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable substances or carriers. In some embodiments, the composition
comprises a substance that promotes uptake of the nucleic acid by a cell. In some embodiments,
the composition comprises a targeting molecule that assists in delivering the nucleic acid to a
specific cell type, such as an immune cell (e.g., and APC). In embodiments, the nucleic acid is
part of a delivery vehicle or delivery vector for delivery of the nucleic acid to a cell or tissue.
[1131       In a particular instance of the invention, the composition comprises a mixture of two
DNA vaccines, where one vaccine comprises the sequence of one allergen and where the other
vaccine comprises the sequence of another allergen. The two vaccine constructs can be mixed
together at a ratio of 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, sequentially up to 1:10. The preferred ratio is 1:1.
[114]       In a particular instance of the invention, the nucleic acids of Cry J1,Cry J2, and/or Jun
a2 are present within a nucleic acid delivery vector. In a preferred embodiment of the invention,
the nucleic acid delivery vector does not contain an antibiotic resistance gene, such as the nucleic
acid delivery vector taught by U.S. patent application publication number 2008/006554, or
vectors that are disclosed in or result from U.S. patent application publication number
2006/003148. In a particular instance of the invention, the nucleic acid is a viral vector, such as
an adenoviral vector.
[1151       The nucleic acids and compositions are novel and useful as agents for reducing
allergic reactions in patients. For example, the nucleic acids and compositions are useful in
reducing pollinosis in patients with a demonstrated allergic reaction correlated with Japanese red
cedar pollen, or from a homologous pollen or allergen. As another non-limiting example, the
nucleic acids are useful for reducing food allergies, such as allergy to peanuts or other nuts.
Delivery of nucleic acids and compositions to treat pollinosis from Japanese red cedar pollen,
such that the nucleic acids and compositions transfect an antigen presenting cell, results in an
increase in serum levels of immunoglobulin G (IgG) specific to epitopes contained within Cry J1
and/or Cry J2. This response is useful for the reduction of allergy symptoms. Delivery of
allergens for other allergies, including ragweed, other tree pollens, and foods also result in
increase in serum levels of IgG.

[1161        Methods of treating subjects in need are also provided by this invention. The
methods are methods of prophylactically treating or therapeutically treating a subject suffering
from or at risk of developing an allergic reaction to one or more allergens. The method
comprises administering to the subject a DNA vaccine according to the invention in an amount
sufficient to cause uptake of and expression of the DNA vaccine by an APC. Expression of the
DNA vaccine results in presentation of the encoded allergenic epitope(s) on the APC, and
development of an IgG immune response.
[1171        In a particular instance of the invention, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:4, and/or another
allergen encoding sequence are administered to a cell. In preferred embodiments, the cell is an
antigen presenting cell, such as a dendritic cell. Preferably, the dendritic cell is a human
dendritic cell. The present invention can be administered by methods known in the art to be
effective delivery methods for nucleic acid vaccines, including intramuscular injection,
subcutaneous injection, electroporation, gene gun vaccination, or liposome-mediated transfer.
[118]        This invention provides a formulation useful for the treatment of pollinosis correlated
with Japanese red cedar pollen. It has previously been determined that delivering a DNA
plasmid encoding the protein coding sequence of an allergen to an animal can increase IFN
gamma production and lower IL-4 production, which is useful in treating animals allergic to the
specific allergen. The present invention provides an improved DNA vaccine composition for
treating patients with an allergy correlated to Japanese red cedar pollen. The fusion protein of
the invention has a specific intracellular trafficking pattern that intersects with MHC class 11
vesicles, and results in enhanced presentation of allergen epitopes to the immune system,
specifically resulting in an enhanced antibody response. Nucleic acids and compositions
provided by the present invention are useful for conducting allergy immunotherapy.
[119]        The present invention provides a formulation that when administered to a cell results
in an increased specific antibody response. The increased antibody response to the allergen is
useful for treating an IgE-mediated allergic disease. IgE has certain properties related to its
cellular restriction and the resulting intracellular signaling upon binding cognate allergen. IgE is
generated against an allergen when B cells receive IL-4 secreted by Th2 cells. This helps

instruct B cells to produce IgE class antibodies. Upon secretion by B cells, IgE binds to Fc-eRI,
its high affinity receptor expressed by mast cells and eosinophils, resulting in these cells and the
animal becoming sensitized to future allergen exposure. Consequently, the symptoms of allergy
can be triggered upon the ingestion, inhalation, or mucosal contact with an allergen. Due to the
binding properties of antibodies, it has been proposed that one way of reducing allergy
symptoms is to chelate free allergen available for binding by IgE through competition with other
antibody classes. In particular, an allergy formulation that increases IgG has been proposed to be
an pathway for reducing allergic disease. The invention described herein induces enhanced IgG
production, thus causing a decrease in the ratio of IgE to IgG in a clinically significant manner.
The results of studies that have been conducted indicate that at day 98, the level of IgG induced
by a Cry J2-LAMP construct is greater than that induced by delivery of nucleotides encoding
unmodified Cry J2.
[120]        In another instance of the invention, a method is taught for selecting pectate lysase
polypeptides found in the pollen of a cedar tree, for determining the degree of sequence
homology with the amino acid or nucleic acid sequence of a Cry J1, a pectate lysase, so that a
new composition of matter similar to Cry JI can be generated, and so that administration of the
homologous composition of matter to a patient would produce a therapeutic result useful for
treating allergies correlated with cedar pollen.
                                            EXAMPLES
[1211        The invention will now be described with reference to exemplary embodiments of the
invention. The following examples are intended to give the reader a better understanding of the
construction and activity of the constructs of the invention, and should not be construed as a
limitation on the scope of the invention.
[1221        Examnple 1: General Materials and Methods
[1231        Immunizations and Sera Collection

[1241        Six to eight week old female BALB/c mice were purchased from Harlan
Laboratories, Frederick, Maryland and maintained at our animal facility in Rockville, Maryland.
The DNA immunizations were given either intramuscularly or intradermal with 50 ug of plasmid
DNA in a volume of 100 ul of sterile PBS. Sera were obtained by orbital bleed and stored at
200 C for later analysis. For sensitization, mice were injected with either 5 ug/ml of recombinant
CRYJ2 (rCRYJ2) or recombinant CRYJI (rCYRJI) together with 100 ul of alum (2 mg/ml) in a
total volume of 200 ul. Mice were bled weekly and sera were analyzed for CRYJ specific
antibodies by ELISA.
[125]        Guinea Pigs
[1261        Female Guinea pigs were purchased and housed at Spring Valley Laboratories
(Woodline, MD). The DNA immunizations were given intramuscularly with 100 ug of plasmid
DNA in a volume of 200 ul of sterile saline. Sera were obtained by cardiac bleed and store at
20 0 C for later analysis.
[127]        Detection of CYRJ2-specific immunoglobulin responses
[1281        Nune Maxisorp immunoassay plates were coated with rCRYJ2 at a concentration of 5
ug/ml in PBS overnight at 4 'C. After blocking with 1%BSA in PBS, sera were diluted in PBS
containing 0.05% Tween-20 (PBS-T) added and incubated for I hour. The IgG, IgG1, or IgG2a
bound to the CRYJ2 immobilized on the wells was detected using peroxidase conjugated goat
anti-mouse IgG, IgG I or IgG2a antibodies (Jackson Laboratories). TMB substrate (KPL) was
added and the enzymatic activity stopped with TMB Stop Solution. The plates were read at 450
nm. In some instances, Sure Stop Solution (KPL) was used and plates were read at 650 nm.
[1291        Preparation of Splenocytes for Cytokine Measurements
[1301        Spleens were removed aseptically and teased to prepare a single-cell suspension. To
study the primary response, splenocytes were cultured in 24-well plates (4 x 10' cells/well) in the
presence or absence of 10 ug/ml, 5 ug/ml, or 2.5 ug/mI of rCRYJ2 for 72 hours.
[131]        Cytokine assays
[1321        Supernatants were assayed for the presence of IFN-gamma and IL-4 by ELISA.
Matched antibody pairs were used for IFN-gamma and IL-4 and done according to

manufacturer's instructions. The standard curves were generated with mouse recombinant IFN
gamma and IL-4. All antibodies and cytokines were purchased from Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA.
The detection limits of IFN-gamma and IL-4 assays were 20 and 10 pg/mI in respective.
[133]       Example 2: Expression of Allergens From Constructs
[134]       To show that the nucleic acid constructs of the invention can be used to express one
or multiple allergens in transformed cells, human 293 cells were transfected with the CryJ2
LAMP plasmid, CryJI+J2-LAMP plasmid (Figure 4), CryJI-LAMP plasmid, CryJl plasmid
(lacking the CryJ I signal sequence; Figure 7), and the base plasmid vector alone (negative
control; SEQ ID NO: 1). The results of the experiments are shown in Figure 9.
[135]       Figure 9A shows the results of the transfection reactions, with detection using an anti
CryJ2 antibody. Briefly, thirty micrograms of cell lysate was electrophoresed, then transferred to
a membrane for immunoblotting. Proteins were detected by immunoblotting with a CryJ2
monoclonal antibody, followed by chemiluminescence. As can be seen from the Figure,
constructs comprising the CryJ2 allergen alone, and the CryJ 1+CryJ2 allergens were detected
(lanes 2 and 3), whereas other allergens were not. In this experiment, the naturally-occurring
signal sequences for the CryJ and CryJ2 allergens were removed prior to the experiment, except
for the construct in lane 5. These results show not only that the constructs of the invention are
suitable for expression of allergens, but also that multiple allergens can be co-expressed.
[136]       Figure 9B shows the results of the transfection reactions, with detection using an anti
CryJi antibody. Briefly, thirty micrograms of cell lysate was electrophoresed, then transferred to
a membrane for immunoblotting. Proteins were detected by immunoblotting with a CryJ1
monoclonal antibody, followed by chemiluminescence. As can be seen from the Figure,
constructs comprising the CryJl +CryJ2 allergens (lacking natural signal sequences) were
detected (lane 3), as was the construct comprising the CryJi allergen in which the naturally
occurring signal sequence had been removed (lane 5). However, the construct in which the Cryl
allergen, which included its natural signal sequence, was not detected. These results show that
the constructs of the invention are suitable for expression and detection of multiple allergens, and

that removal of naturally-occurring signal sequences is important in expressing and detecting
products.
[1371       Example 3: Data Supporting MHC II Processing Pathway For Constructs
[138]       To determine if chimeric proteins produced from the constructs of the invention are
processed through the MHC II pathway, a set of experiments was performed to compare the
immune response to the CryJ2 protein when administered as a coding region on a plasmid or as
an allergen domain on a construct according to the present invention. The results are presented
in Figure 10, Panels A and B.
[1391       More specifically, the figure shows the CryJ2 specific response following four DNA
immunizations and crude pollen extract sensitization. Groups of mice (n=5) were immunized
subcutaneously with either CRYJ2-LAMP plasmid DNA or CRYJ2 plasmid (see Figure 8) DNA
on days 0, 7, 14, and 21. Six weeks (day 77) following the last DNA immunization, the mice
were sensitized with crude pollen extract in alum and given a booster three weeks (day 91) later.
The data show the values generated from the pooled sera for each time point. IgG 1 (Panel A)
and IgG2a (Panel B) response in mice receiving CRYJ2-LAMP DNA remained elevated through
day 112 and well above those mice that received CRYJ2 plasmid DNA that did not include
LAMP. Delivery of allergens by way of constructs according to the invention thus provide a
superior MHC II response than delivery of allergens without the context of the constructs of the
invention.
[140]       Example 4: Dosing Rationales - Comparison of Immune Response to Different
            Doses of Constructs and to vector alone
[1411       Figure lI shows a CryJ2-specific response following four DNA immunizations at
different levels of dosing, for both IgG2a production and IgGI production. Groups of mice
(n=5) were given either 10 ug, 50 ug, or 100 ug of CRYJ2-LAMP plasmid DNA or Vector DNA
intramuscularly on days 0, 7, 14, and 21. Three weeks following the last DNA immunization,
the mice were sacrificed and spleens removed for Cytokine Induction assays.

[1421        The data show the values generated from the pooled sera for each vaccine dose. All
three concentrations of CRYJ2-LAMP plasmid DNA gave IgGI and lgG2a responses, with the
50 ug dose appearing to have given the highest antibody response. Vector alone, at any of the
concentrations, did not induce any antibody response. These data show that there is a dose
dependent response for invoking an immune response, and that the immune response is, at least
in part, an MHC II type response.
[1431        Example 5: Further Data Showing an Immune Response Via the MHC 11 Pathway
[144]        In this set of experiments, secretion of cytokines in supernatants of stimulated spleen
cells was determined using IL-4 and IFN-gamma as markers. Specifically, spleen cells of mice
(n=3) were harvested at day 42 and cultured in the presence of 10 ug/ml, 5 ug/ml, 2.5 ug/ml, or
no rCRYJ2. Spleen cells from naive mice were used as a negative control. IL-4 and IFN
gamma levels of rCRYJ2 stimulated splenocytes were measured by ELISA in pg/ml.
[145]        The data are presented in Figure 12, Panels A and B. The data show that mice
receiving 50 ug of CRYJ2-LAMP plasmid DNA had a significantly higher expression of IFN
gamma (an established biomarker for activation of the MHC 11 immune response pathway) than
those receiving the lower dose of plasmid DNA. There was very little response seen of IL-4
levels in any of the groups, an established biomarker for the MHC I pathway. There was also
very little response, if any, with IL-5 (data not shown). These results indicate that Cry J2-LAMP
DNA immunization induced the recruitment of Thl memory cells and not Th2 cells, as indicated
by the production of IFN-gamma and not IL-4 after stimulation with the recombinant Cry J2
protein.
[146]        Example 6: Studies on the Therapeutic Effect of Immunization with CryJ2-LAMP
             DNA Vaccine In Previously CryJ2 Sensitized Mice
[1471        To study the therapeutic effects of the DNA-LAMP-CryJ2 vaccine, groups of mice
(n=5) were sensitized with three injections of 5 ug of rCRYJ2 recombinant protein and four
weeks later, treated with four injections of CRYJ2-LAMP plasmid DNA given in a weekly (7

day) intervals. The DNA immunizations induced a booster effect for IgG2a and a transient
increase for IgG I antibodies indicating a Th I-directed modulatory effect of the DNA vaccine.
Two additional DNA immunizations on days 167 and 174 boosted the CRYJ2 specific IgG2a
response and almost no change in IgG 1 response. Visual examination of the mice revealed no
physical distress or skin reactions. There were also no changes in appetite nor did they appear
lethargic. The effects on IgG 1 and IgG2a titers are shown in Figure 13, Panels A and B,
respectively.
[148]       Example 7: Induction of IFN-gamma and IL-4 in Mouse Spleen Cell Cultures
[149]       The therapeutic effect of CryJ2-LAMP DNA vaccine was also studied in terms of
cytokine induction. Spleen cells of mice (n=3) were harvested at day 183 and stimulated with
varying concentrations of rCRYJ2. Spleen cells from naive mice were used as a negative
control. IL-4 and IFN-gamma levels of rCRYJ2 stimulated splenocytes were measured by
ELISA in pg/ml. Significantly elevated expression of IFN-gamma was detected in the CRYJ2
LAMP vaccinated group compared with that in the vector group. However, IL-4 expression
showed no difference from the vector group. The increase in IFN-gamma as a result of Cry J2
LAMP DNA immunization presumably involves the recruitment of antigen-specific ThI cells
and the creation of a Thl cytokine milieu. Data obtained from this experiment is presented in
Figure 14, Panels A and B.
[150]       Example 8: Detection of Circulating CryJ2 Protein in Sera
[1511       Mice were immunized with Cry J2 protein, pDNA-Cry J2 (no LAMP) and Cry J2
LAMP-vax. Serum samples were taken at days 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 and evaluated for the presence
of free Cry J2 protein in a sensitive sandwich immunoassay. Free Cry J2 was detected in the
protein and non-LAMP immunization. However, no free allergen was detected in any time point
in any experiment with Cry J2-LAMP-vax immunized mice (minimum detectable level 2 ng/ml).
Data supporting these statements are provided in Figure 12.

[1521       LAMP vaccines according to the invention will be the only formulations that treat
allergies without introducing free allergen into the patient systemically. This is unlike traditional
immunotherapy which can sometimes result in anaphylactic reactions due to systemic
introduction of allergen. This experiment shows that mice which received the Cry J2-LAMP
DNA plasmid did not have free Cry J2 protein and thus not released into the systemic circulation
as seen with mice given protein alone or Cry J2 DNA without LAMP.
[1531       Example 9: Effectiveness of DNA Vaccines in Guinea Pigs
[154]       To expand the scientific understanding of the function of the present nucleic acid
constructs in other mammals, studies were performed in female guinea pigs immunized with the
CryJ2-LAMP DNA vaccine, then challenged with recombinant CryJ2 protein. The results of the
studies are shown in Figure 16, Panels A and B.
[155]       Specifically, female guinea pigs received intramuscular injections of 100 Ug of
CRYJ2-LAMP DNA Vaccine or vector alone on days 0, 7, and 14. Four weeks following the
last DNA vaccine immunization on day 14, the guinea pigs received subcutaneous injections of
10 ug/mI of rCRYJ2 protein/alum on days 42 and 49. Serum samples were obtained from guinea
pigs on days 0, 21, 35, 63, and 77. The data show that the mean absorbance values for the
guinea pigs receiving CRYJ2-LAMP DNA increased through day 35 for 1gG2 with little or no
IgGI response. The increase in IgG2a is consistent with what is typically seen in a ThI biased
response.
[156]       Example 10: Further Investigation In Other Mammals - Toxicology Data Showing
            Safety
[157]       New Zealand White rabbits received intramuscular injections of 4.128 mg of CRYJ2
LAMP DNA. Age and gender-matched control rabbits received saline alone. Rabbits were
immunized on days 1, 14, 28, 42, and 56. Serum samples were obtained from rabbits on days 1,
14, 28,42, 56, 58, and 85. Mean absorbance values of rabbit serum at 1:100 following multiple
IM injections of CryJ2-LAMP plasmid or saline are shown in Figure 17. As can be seen from

the Figure, the data show that the mean absorbance values for the rabbits receiving saline are less
than 0.100. The absorbance values of rabbits in the groups treated with CRYJ2-LAMP DNA
generally increased through day 42 and in some cases increased through day 85.
[1581        Example 11: Applicability to Food Allergies
[159]        Over the last 25 years, 8 significant peanut allergens have been identified based on
sensitization in peanut allergic patients. Three major peanut allergens are most commonly
recognized by IgE of peanut allergic individuals: 65-100% recognize Ara hi, a 63.5 kDa seed
storage vicilin family protein; 71-100% recognize Ara h2, a 17 kDa seed storage conglutin
family protein; and 45-95% recognize Ara h3, a 14 kDa seed storage glycinin family protein. In
addition to being a common causative agent in triggering peanut-dependent allergic reactions and
anaphylaxis, these three proteins also appear to promote stronger allergic reactions. Targeting
these allergens as the basis for peanut allergy immunotherapy has the potential of providing the
broadest protection from strong allergic reactions among the diverse population of peanut
allergies. Phase I clinical trials are currently underway that use hypoallergenic forms of the three
major allergens and a heat killed bacterium adjuvant as allergy immunotherapy. This trial is
ongoing, but the eventual commercialization of such a therapy will be a challenge due to a highly
complex manufacturing process.
[160]        To address the rising incidence of food allergies, and in particular peanut allergy, a
nucleic acid construct according to the invention was created. The construct is depicted in
Figure 6A, and a schematic of the encoded chimeric protein is depicted in Figure 6B, as
discussed above. This construct can be used to generate a predominantly MHC II response in
subjects to which it is administered. The presence of the three most common peanut allergens in
a single chimeric protein allows for a broad immunization, which will treat the vast majority of
peanut allergies in the population.
[1611         The construct was expressed and the results shown in Figure 18. Figure 19 shows
that all three allergens can be expressed and detected as a single poly-protein on Western blots.

[162]       It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations
can be made in the practice of the present invention and in construction of the nucleic acid
constructs without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the
invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and
practice of the invention. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as
exemplary only, with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following
claims.

                               Further Sequences For Sequence Listing
         In addition to the sequences provided in the formal Sequence Listing provided as part of
this application, the following sequences comprise part of the present disclosure:
     1. The nucleotide sequence of the coding region for the CryI-Cry2-LAMP chimeric
         construct, as follows:
    SEQ IDNO:6 - Cry JI+J2-LAMP
    ccgcctaatg agcgggcttt tttttcttag ggtgcaaaag gagagcctgt aagcgggcac       60
    tcttccgtgg tctggtggat aaattcgcaa gggtatcatg gcggacgacc ggggttegag       120
    ccccgtatcc ggccgtccgc cgtgatccat gcggttaccg cccgcgtgtc gaacccaggt        180
    gtgegacgte agacaacggg ggagtgctcc ttttggette cttccccttc ttccgcttcc    240
    tcgctcactg actcgctgcg ctcggtcgtt cggctgcggc gagcggtatc agctcactca       300
    aaggcggtaa tacggttatc cacagaatca ggggataacg caggaaagaa catgtgagca         360
    aaaggccagc aaaaggccag gaaccgtaaa aaggccgcgt tgctggcgtt tttccatagg         420
    ctccgccccc ctgacgagca tcacaaaaat cgacgctcaa gtcagaggtg gcgaaacccg          480
    acaggactat aaagatacca ggcgtttccc cctggaagct ccctcgtgcg ctctcctgtt     540
    ccgaccctgc cgettaccgg atacctgtcc gcctttetcc ettegggaag cgtggcgctt      600
    tetcatagct cacgctgtag gratctcagt tcggtgtagg tcgttcgctc caagctgggc    660
    tgtgtgcacg aaccccccgt teagecegac cgctgegcct tatccggtaa ctatcgtett     720
    gagtccaacc cggtaagaca cgacttatcg ccactggcag cagccactgg taacaggatt        780
    agcagagcga ggtatgtagg cggtgctaca gagttcttga agtggtggcc taactacggc        840
    tacactagaa gaacagtatt tggtatctgc gctctgctga agccagttac cttcggaaaa     900
    agagttggta gctcttgatc cggcaaacaa accaccgctg gtagcggtgg tttttttgtt    960
    tgcaagcagc agattacgcg cagaaaaaaa ggatetcaag aagatccttt gatettttct     1020

acggggtctg acgctcagtg gaacgaaaac tcacgttaag ggattttggt catgagatta       1080
tcaaaaagga tcttcaccta gatcctttta aattaaaaat gaagttttaa atcaatctaa  1140
agtatatatg agtaaaettg gtctgacagt taccaatgct taatcagtga ggcacetatc    1200
tcagcgatet gtctatttcg ttcatccata gttgcctgac tcctgcaaac cacgttgtgg   1260
tagaattggt aaagagagtc gtgtaaaata tcgagttcgc acatcttgtt gtetgattat   1320
tgatttttgg cgaaaccatt tgatcatatg acaagatgtg tatetacctt aacttaatga  1380
ttttgataaa aatcattagg taccccggct ctagatggca tgacattaac ctataaaaat    1440
aggcgtatca cgaggccctt tcgtctcgcg cgtttcggtg atgacggtga aaacctctga       1500
cacatgcagc tcccggagac ggtcacagct tgtctgtaag cggatgccgg gagcagacaa          1560
geccgtcagg gcgcgtcagc gggtgttggc gggtgtcggg gctggettaa ctatgcggca          1620
tcagagcaga ttgtactgag agtgcaccat atgcggtgtg aaataccgca cagatgcgta        1680
aggagaaaat accgcatcag attggetatt ggccattgca tacgttgtat ceatatcata     1740
atatgtacat ttatattggc teatgtecaa cattacegcc atgttgacat tgattattga 1800
ctagttatta atagtaatca attacggggt cattagttca tagcccatat atggagttcc   1860
gcgttacata acttacggta aatggcccgc ctggctgace gcccaacgac ecccgcccat         1920
tgacgtcaat aatgacgtat gttcccatag taacgccaat agggactttc cattgacgtc     1980
aatgggtgga gtatttacgg taaactgecc acttggcagt acatcaagtg tatcatatgc     2040
caagtacgcc ccetattgac gtcaatgacg gtaaatggcc cgcctggcat tatgcccagt       2100
acatgacctt atgggacttt cctacttggc agtacatcta cgtattagtc atcgetatta  2160
ccatggtgat gcggttttgg cagtacatca atgggcgtgg atagcggttt gactcacggg      2220
gatttecaag tctccacccc attgacgtca atgggagttt gttttggcac caaaatcaac    2280
gggactttec aaaatgtcgt aacaactceg ccccattgac gcaaatgggc ggtaggcgtg        2340
tacggtggga ggtctatata agcagagctc gtttagtgaa ccgtcagatc gcctggagac       2400

gccatccacg ctgttttgac ctccatagaa gacaccggga ccgatccagc etccgcggct       2460
cgcatctctc cttcacgcgc ccgccgccct acctgaggcc gccatccacg ccggttgagt       2520
cgcgttctgc cgcctcccgc ctgtggtgcc tcctgaactg cgtccgccgt ctaggtaagt     2580
ttaaagctca ggtcgagacc gggcctttgt ceggcgctcc cttggagcct acetagactc     2640
agccggctct ccacgctttg cctgaccctg cttgctcaac tctagttctc tcgttaactt  2700
aatgagacag atagaaactg gtcttgtaga aacagagtag tcgcctgctt ttctgccagg     2760
tgctgacttc tcteccectgg gcttttttct ttttctcagg ttgaaaagaa gaagacgaag 2820
aagacgaaga agacaaaccg tcgtegacat ggcgccccgc agcgcccggc gaccectgct          2880
gctgetactg ctgttgctgc tgctcggcct catgcattgt gcgtcagcag caatgtttat   2940
ggtgaaaaat ggcaacggga ccgcgtgcat aatggccaac ttctctgctg cettetcagt     3000
gaactacgac accaagagtg gccctaagaa catgaccctt gacctgccat cagatgccac       3060
agtggtgetc aaccgcaget cctgtggaaa agagaacact tctgacccca gtctcgtgat      3120
tgettttgga agaggacata cacteactet caatttcacg agaaatgcaa cacgttacag    3180
cgtccagctc atgagttttg tttataactt gtcagacaca caccttitcc ccaatgcgag   3240
ctccaaagaa atcaagactg tggaatctat aactgacatc agggcagata tagataaaaa      3300
atacagatgt gttagtggca cccaggtcca catgaacaac gtgaccgtaa cgctccatga      3360
tgccaccatc caggcgtacc tttccaacag cagcttcagc cggggagaga cacgctgtga        3420
acaagacagg ccttccccaa ccacagcgcc ccctgcgcca cccagcccct cgccctcacc         3480
cgtgcccaag agcccctctg tggacaagta caacgtgagc ggcaccaacg ggacctgcct         3540
gctggccagc atggggctgc agctgaacct cacctatgag aggaaggaca acacgacggt         3600
gacaaggctt ctcaacatca accccaacaa gaceteggcc agcgggaget geggcgccca         3660
cctggtgact ctggagctgc acagcgaggg caccaccgtc ctgctcttcc agttcgggat      3720
gaatgcaagt tctagccggt ttttcctaca aggaatccag ttgaatacaa ttcttcctga   3780

cgccagagac cctgccttta aagctgccaa cggctccctg cgagcgctgc aggccacagt      3840
cggcaattcc tacaagtgca acgcggagga gcacgtccgt gtcacgaagg cgttttcagt     3900
caatatattc aaagtgtggg tccaggcttt caaggtggaa ggtggccagt ttggctetgt  3960
ggaggagtgt ctgetggacg agaacagcct cgaggacaat cctattgatt cctgctggeg     4020
tggagattct aactgggcac agaaccggat gaaactggct gactgtgccg tgggetttgg    4080
ctcttccact atgggaggga agggaggcga cctgtacact gttacaaaca gcgacgacga      4140
ccctgtcaat ccagcacccg gaacettgag atatggtgca acgcgagacc gaccactttg    4200
gatcatettt agcggaaaca tgaacatcaa gttgaagatg cctatgtaca tagctgggta  4260
caaaaccttc gacggcagag gagcccaagt gtacattggc aaeggaggc cctgcgtglt      4320
catcaagcgt gttagtaatg tgatcattca eggtctgcac ctctatgget gttcaacaag 4380
cgtgctgggg aatgtgctga tcaatgagtc atteggtgtt gaacccgtgc acccacagga    4440
cggtgatgcg ttgacactga ggacagccac caatatctgg attgaccata acagtttetc   4500
taacagetca gatggcctgg tggatgtcac cttgagtagc acaggggtca caatcagcaa    4560
caatctgttc ttcaaccatc ataaggtgat gctgctgggc cacgacgatg cgtattccga  4620
cgataagagc atgaaagtga cggtggcctt taaccagftt ggtcctaact gtggacagcg    4680
gatgcctaga gccaggtacg gactggtgca cgtggccaac aacaactatg atccgtggac      4740
tatctatgca attggcggtt cttccaaccc gacgatactg agtgaaggga actectttac 4800
cgctcccaat gagagetaca agaagcaggt caccatccgc ataggctgca aaactagttc     4860
atcctgtage aactgggtgt ggcagtccac tcaagatgtc ttctacaacg gagettactt  4920
cgttageagt gggaaatacg aaggtggcaa catatacaca aagaaagagg ctttcaatgt    4980
ggagaatggc aatgccactc cccagctcac caagaatgca ggggtgetca ectgetcect     5040
gagcaaacgg tgeggcggtg gtggectcga ggatcagtca gcgcagatca tgctggatag       5100
cgtggtggag aagtacctga ggagtaacag gtcactgcgc aaggttgagc attccagaca      5160

egacgctatc aacatcttca acgtggagaa gtacggtget gtcggagacg ggaagcacga       5220
ctgcaccgaa gccttttcta cagcctggca agctgcctgc aagaatccct cagccatgct    5280
cctcgtgcct gggtetaaga agtttgtcgt gaataacett ttcttcaatg gaccctgcca 5340
gccacacttt accttcaaag ttgatgggat categeagcc tatcagaacc cagctagctg   5400
gaagaacaat cggatctggt tgcagtttgc caaactgaca ggattcaccc tgatggggaa     5460
aggcgtgatc gacggacagg gcaaacagtg gtgggcaggg cagtgcaagt gggtcaatgg         5520
tagggagatt tgcaatgaca gggaccgtcc taccgetate aagtttgatt teageacagg   5580
actgattatt caggggttga agctgatgaa tagtccagag tttcaccttg tgtttggcaa 5640
ttgtgaaggt gtgaagatca taggcattag cattacagca cctcgcgatt ctcccaatac  5700
ggacggcatt gacatctteg cctccaagaa ctttcacctg caaaagaata ccattggeac    5760
aggcgacgac tgcgtggcca ttggeactgg cagcagcaat atcgttatcg aagatttgat     5820
atgtggtcct gggcatggca taagcattgg aagcctgggt agagaaaact caagagctga      5880
agtcagctat gttcacgtta acggagegaa gttcattgat acccagaacg gactgcgaat    5940
caaaacttgg caagggggaa gtggcatggc atctcacatc atctacgaga acgtcgagat      6000
gatcaattcc gagaacccca tactgattaa ccaattctat tgtacttccg cetctgcctg 6060
ccagaatcag agatcagccg tgcagattca ggacgtgaca tacaagaata tccgagggac       6120
gagcgctacc gctgccgcaa tacagctcaa atgttccgat agcatgccet gcaaagatat     6180
caagettagt gatatetccc tcaaactgac tagcggaaag atagcgtcct gtctcaatga   6240
taacgcaaat ggetacttct cagggcatgt gatecctgca tgcaaaaacc ttagccegag    6300
tgcgaaacgc aaagaatcca aatcccataa gcatccgaag actgtgatgg tcgagaacat      6360
gagagcctac gacaaaggga accggacgag gattctgctg ggetetcgac cgccaaactg        6420
taccaacaaa tgtcacggtt gttctecatg caaagctaaa ctggtgatag tgcatcgcat  6480
catgcctcaa gagtactatc cccagcgttg gatttgtagt tgccatggca agatctatca  6540

cccagaatte acgctgatcc ccatcgctgt gggtggtgcc ctggcggggc tggtcctcat          6600
cgtcctcatc gcctacctcg tcggcaggaa gaggagtcac gcaggctacc agactateta           6660
gtaaggatct ttttcctct gecaaaaatt atggggacat catgaagccc cttgagcatc        6720
tgacttctgg ctaataaagg aaatttattt teattgcaat agtgtgttgg aattttttgt   6780
gtctctcact cggaaggaca taagggcggc cgctagc                          6817
2.The nucleic acid sequence of the coding region for he Ara HI / H2/ h3 polyprotein:
SEQ ID NO:8
ccgcctaatg agegggettt tttttcttag ggtgcaaaag gagagcctgt aagegggcac           60
tettccgtgg tctggtggat aaattcgcaa gggtatcatg gcggacgace ggggttcgag           120
ccccgtatcc ggccgtccgc cgtgatccat gcggttaccg cccgcgtgtc gaacccaggt            180
gtgcgacgtc agacaacggg ggagtgctcc ttttggcttc etteccette ttccgcttcc        240
tcgctcactg actcgctgcg ctcggtcgtt cggctgcggc gagcggtatc agctcactca           300
aaggcggtaa tacggttatc cacagaatca ggggataacg caggaaagaa catgtgagca             360
aaaggccagc aaaaggccag gaaccgtaaa aaggccgcgt tgctggegtt tttccatagg             420
ctccgccccc ctgacgagca tcacaaaaat cgacgctcaa gtcagaggtg gcgaaacccg              480
acaggactat aaagatacca ggcgtttcce cctggaagct ccctcgtgcg ctctcctgtt         540
ccgaccctgc cgettaccgg atacctgtcc gcctttetcc ettegggaag cgtggcgctt          600
tetcatagct cacgctgtag gratctcagt tcggtgtagg tcgttcgctc caagctgggc        660
tgtgtgcacg aaccccccgt tcageccgac cgctgegcct tatccggtaa ctatcgtett         720
gagtccaacc cggtaagaca cgacttatcg ccactggcag cagccactgg taacaggatt            780
agcagagcga ggtatgtagg cggtgctaca gagttcttga agtggtggcc taactacggc            840
tacactagaa gaacagtatt tggtatctgc gctctgctga agccagttac cttcggaaaa         900
agagttggta gctcttgatc cggcaaacaa accaccgctg gtagcggtgg tttttttgtt        960
tgcaagcagc agattacgcg cagaaaaaaa ggatetcaag aagatccttt gatettttct         1020

acggggtctg acgctcagtg gaacgaaaac tcacgttaag ggattttggt catgagatta       1080
tcaaaaagga tcttcaccta gatcctttta aattaaaaat gaagttttaa atcaatctaa  1140
agtatatatg agtaaaettg gtctgacagt taccaatgct taatcagtga ggcacetatc    1200
tcagcgatet gtctatttcg ttcatccata gttgcctgac tcctgcaaac cacgttgtgg   1260
tagaattggt aaagagagtc gtgtaaaata tcgagttcgc acatcttgtt gtetgattat   1320
tgatttttgg cgaaaccatt tgatcatatg acaagatgtg tatetacctt aacttaatga  1380
ttttgataaa aatcattagg taccccggct ctagatggca tgacattaac ctataaaaat    1440
aggcgtatca cgaggccctt tcgtctcgcg cgtttcggtg atgacggtga aaacctctga       1500
cacatgcagc tcccggagac ggtcacagct tgtctgtaag cggatgccgg gagcagacaa          1560
geccgtcagg gcgcgtcagc gggtgttggc gggtgtcggg gctggettaa ctatgcggca          1620
tcagagcaga ttgtactgag agtgcaccat atgcggtgtg aaataccgca cagatgcgta        1680
aggagaaaat accgcatcag attggetatt ggccattgca tacgttgtat ceatatcata     1740
atatgtacat ttatattggc teatgtecaa cattacegcc atgttgacat tgattattga 1800
ctagttatta atagtaatca attacggggt cattagttca tagcccatat atggagttcc   1860
gcgttacata acttacggta aatggcccgc ctggctgace gcccaacgac ecccgcccat         1920
tgacgtcaat aatgacgtat gttcccatag taacgccaat agggactttc cattgacgtc     1980
aatgggtgga gtatttacgg taaactgecc acttggcagt acatcaagtg tatcatatgc     2040
caagtacgcc ccetattgac gtcaatgacg gtaaatggcc cgcctggcat tatgcccagt       2100
acatgacctt atgggacttt cctacttggc agtacatcta cgtattagtc atcgetatta  2160
ccatggtgat gcggttttgg cagtacatca atgggcgtgg atagcggttt gactcacggg      2220
gatttecaag tctccacccc attgacgtca atgggagttt gttttggcac caaaatcaac    2280
gggactttec aaaatgtcgt aacaactceg ccccattgac gcaaatgggc ggtaggcgtg        2340
tacggtggga ggtctatata agcagagctc gtttagtgaa ccgtcagatc gcctggagac       2400

gccatccacg ctgttttgac ctccatagaa gacaccggga ccgatccagc etccgcggct       2460
cgcatctctc cttcacgcgc ccgccgccct acctgaggcc gccatccacg ccggttgagt       2520
cgcgttctgc cgcctcccgc ctgtggtgcc tcctgaactg cgtccgccgt ctaggtaagt     2580
ttaaagctca ggtcgagacc gggcctttgt ceggcgctcc cttggagcct acetagactc     2640
agccggctct ccacgctttg cctgaccctg cttgctcaac tctagttctc tcgttaactt  2700
aatgagacag atagaaactg gtcttgtaga aacagagtag tcgcctgctt ttctgccagg     2760
tgctgacttc tcteccectgg gcttttttct ttttctcagg ttgaaaagaa gaagacgaag 2820
aagacgaaga agacaaaccg tcgtegacat ggcgccccgc agcgcccggc gaccectgct          2880
gctgetactg ctgttgctgc tgctcggcct catgcattgt gcgtcagcag caatgtttat   2940
ggtgaaaaat ggcaacggga ccgcgtgcat aatggccaac ttctctgctg cettetcagt     3000
gaactacgac accaagagtg gccctaagaa catgaccctt gacctgccat cagatgccac       3060
agtggtgetc aaccgcaget cctgtggaaa agagaacact tctgacccca gtctcgtgat      3120
tgettttgga agaggacata cacteactet caatttcacg agaaatgcaa cacgttacag    3180
cgttcagctc atgagttttg tttataactt gtcagacaca caccttttcc ccaatgcgag  3240
ctccaaagaa atcaagactg tggaatctat aactgacatc agggcagata tagataaaaa      3300
atacagatgt gttagtggca cccaggtcca catgaacaac gtgaccgtaa cgctccatga      3360
tgccaccatc caggcgtacc tttccaacag cagcttcagc aggggagaga cacgctgtga        3420
acaagacagg ccttccccaa ccacagcgcc ccctgcgcca cccagcccct cgccctcacc         3480
cgtgcccaag agcccctctg tggacaagta caacgtgagc ggcaccaacg ggacctgcct         3540
gctggccagc atggggctgc agctgaacct cacctatgag aggaaggaca acacgacggt         3600
gacaaggctt ctcaacatca accccaacaa gaceteggcc agcgggaget geggcgccca         3660
cctggtgact ctggagctgc acagcgaggg caccaccgtc ctgctcttcc agttcgggat      3720
gaatgcaagt tctagccggt ttttcctaca aggaatccag ttgaatacaa ttcttcctga   3780

cgccagagac cctgccttta aagctgccaa cggctccctg cgagcgctgc aggccacagt     3840
cggcaattcc tacaagtgca acgcggagga gcacgtccgt gtcacgaagg cgttttcagt   3900
caatatattc aaagtgtggg tccaggcttt caaggtggaa ggtggccagt ttggctetgt 3960
ggaggagtgt ctgetggacg agaacagcct cgagaagtcc agcccctacc agaagaaaac      4020
cgagaacccc tgcgcccagc ggtgcctgca gtcttgtcag caggaacccg acgacctgaa     4080
gcagaaggcc tgcgagagcc ggtgcaccaa gctggaatac gaccccagat gcgtgtacga       4140
ccctagaggc cacaccggca ccaccaacca gagaagccet ccaggcgagc ggaccagagg         4200
cagacagect ggcgactacg acgacgacag acggcagccc agaagagaag agggcggcag          4260
atggggacct gccggcccta gagagagaga acgcgaggaa gattggagac agcccagaga         4320
ggactggcgg aggecttete accagcagcc ccggaagate agacccgagg gcagagaagg        4380
cgagcaggaa tggggcacac ctggctctca cgtgcgcgag gaaaccagcc ggaacaaccc        4440
ettetactte ccteccgge ggttcagcac cagatacggc aaccagaacg gecggateag    4500
agtgctgcag agattcgacc ageggageeg geagttecag aacctgcaga accacoggat      4560
cgtgcagatc gaggccaagc ccaacaccct ggtgctgcce aaacacgccg acgccgacaa       4620
catcctcgtg atccagcagg gccaggccac cgtgacagtg gccaacggca acaacagama      4680
gagcttcaac ctggacgagg gccacgecct gagaatcccc agcggcttca tcagctacat    4740
cctgaacaga cacgacaatc agaacctgag ggtggccaag atcagcatgc ccgtgaacac      4800
ccctggccag ttcgaggact tcttccccgc atcctcccgg gaccagagca gctacctgca   4860
gggettcagc eggaataccc tggaagccgc cttcaacgcc gagttcaacg agatcagacg     4920
ggtgctgctg gaagagaacg ctggcggaga gcaggaagaa cggggccaga gaagatggte         4980
caccagaagc agegagaaca acgagggcgt gatcgtgaag gtgtccaaag aacacgtgga       5040
agaactgacc aagcacgcca agagcgtgtc caagaaggge tccgaggaag agggggacat        5100
caccaacccc atcaatctga gagagggcga gcccgacctg agcaacaact tcggcaaget      5160

gttegaagtg aagcccgaca agaagaaccc ccagctgcag gacctggaca tgatgctgac    5220
ctgcgtggaa atcaaagagg gggccctgat gctgccacac ttcaactcca aagccatggt  5280
catcgtggtc gtgaacaagg gcaccggcaa cctggaactg gtggccgtgc ggaaagagea     5340
gcagcagaga ggccgcagag aggaagaaga ggacgaggac gaagaagaag agggatccaa         5400
ccgggaagtg cggcggtaca ccgccagact gaaagaaggc gacgtgttca teatgcctge    5460
cgcccacccc gtggccatca atgcctctag cgagctgcat ctgctggget teggcattaa 5520
cgccgagaac aatcaccgga tctttctggc cggcgacaaa gacaacgtga tegaccagat   5580
cgagaagcag gccaaggace tggcctttcc eggctctgge gaacaagtgg aaaagctgat    5640
caagaaccag aaagaaagcc acttcgtgtc cgccagaccc cagagccagt ctcagagccc    5700
tagetecccec gagaaagagt etcctgagaa agaggaccag gaagaggaaa accagggcgg     5760
caagggccct ctgctgagea tcctgaaggc cttcaatggc ggeggaggca ggcagcagtg    5820
ggaactgcag ggcgacagaa gatgccagtc ccagctggaa egggccaace tgaggccttg     5880
egagcagcac ctgatgcaga aaatecageg cgacgaggac agetacggcc gggatectta     5940
cagccccagc caggaccett actcccetag ccaggatccc gacagaaggg acccetacag    6000
ccctagcccc tacgatagaa gaggcgccgg aagcagccag caccaggaaa gatgctgcaa      6060
cgagctgaac gagtttgaga acaaccagcg ctgcatgtgc gaggccctgc agcagatcat   6120
ggaaaatcag agcgaccggc tgcagggacg gcagcaggaa cagcagttca agagagaget       6180
gcggaacctg ccccagcagt gtggactgag agecccccag agatgcgacc tggaagtgga     6240
aagcggcggc agagateggt acggcggagg gggcgtgace ttcagacagg gcggagaaga        6300
gaatgagtgc cagtttcage ggctgaacgc ecagaggece gacaacagaa tegagagega     6360
gggcggctac ategagacat ggaaccccaa caaccaggaa tttcagtgcg ctggggtgge    6420
cctgagcagg accgtgctga gaagaaatgc cctgaggcgg cccttctaca gcaacgcccc    6480
cctggaaatc tacgtgcagc agggcagcgg ctacttcggc ctgatctttc ccggatgccc 6540

ctccacetat gaggaacccg ctcaggaagg cagacggtat cagagccaga agcctagcag       6600
acggttccaa gtgggccagg acgatcccag ccaacagcag caggactctc accagaaggt       6660
gcaccgettc gacgagggcg acctgatcgc tgtgccaace ggcgtggcct tctggatgta     6720
caacgacgag gataccgacg tcgtgaccgt gaccctgagc gacaccagct ccatccacaa       6780
ccagctggac cagttcccca ggcggtttta cctggccgge aatcaggaac aggaatttet    6840
gagataccag cagcagcagg gctccagace ccactacaga cagatcagec ctagagtgcg       6900
gggcgacgaa caggaaaatg agggcagcaa catcttctec ggctttgccc aggaatttct     6960
gcagcacgcc ttccaggtgg accggcagac cgtggaaaac ctgagaggcg agaaegagag         7020
agaggaacag ggcgccatcg tgactgtgaa gggcggcctg aggatcctga gccccgacga        7080
agaggatgag tcetctagaa gccccccaa ccgccgggaa gagttcgatg aggaccgcag         7140
cagacctcag cagcggggga agtacgacga gaacaggcgg ggctacaaga acggcatcga         7200
ggaaacaate tgcagegcca gcgtgaagaa gaatctgggc cggtccagca acccgacat        7260
ctacaatcca caggccggca gcctgeggag cgtgaacgaa ctggatctgc ccatectggg      7320
atggctgggc ctgtctgccc agcacggcac catctaccgg aacgccatgt tcgtgcctca    7380
ctacaccctg aatgcccaca ccatcgtggt ggctctgaac ggccgcgccc acgtecaagt     7440
ggtggacagc aacggcaatc gggtgtacga tgaagaactg caggaaggac acgtcctggt       7500
ggtgccccag aattttgccg tggccgccaa ggcccagtcc gagaactatg agtatctgge     7560
cttcaagacc gacagccggc cctctatcgc caatcaagcc ggcgagaaca gcatcatcga      7620
caacctgccc gaggaagtgg tggccaacag ctaccggctg cctagagagc aggeccggca        7680
gctgaagaac aacaaccctt tcaagttctt cgtgccccca ttcgaccacc agagcatgag   7740
agaggtggcc gaattcacgc tgatccccat cgctgtgggt ggtgccetgg eggggctggt     7800
cctcatcgtc ctcategcct acctcgtcgg caggaagagg agtcacgcag getaccagac     7860
tatctagtaa ggatcttttt ccctctgcca aaaattatgg ggacatcatg aagccccttg 7920

agcatctgac ttctggctaa taaaggaaat ttattttcat tgcaatagtg tgttggaatt    7980
ttttgtgtct ctcactcgga aggacataag ggcggccgct agc                   8023
2. Theamino acid sequence of the coding region for the Ara HI / H2 / H3 polyprotein
     chimeric construct, as follows:
SEQ ID NO:9 - AraH-LAMP
<220>
<221> SIGNAL
<222> (1)..(27)
<220>
<221> N-LAMP
<222> (28)..(380)
<220>
<221> AraH
<222> (383)..(983)
<220>
<221> AraH2
<222> (988)..(1138)
<220>
<221> AraH3
<222> (1143)..(1634)
<220>
<221> TM/CYTO
<222> (1637)..(1672)
<400> 7
Met Ala Pro Arg Ser Ala Arg Arg Po Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu
1            5            10            15
Leu Leu Leu Gly Leu Met His Cys Ala Ser Ala Ala Met Phe Met Val

         20              25             30
Lys Asn Gly Asn Gly Thr Ala Cys Ile Met Ala Asn Phe Ser Ala Ala
      35              40             45
Phe Set Val Asn Tyr Asp Thr Lys Set Gly Pro Lys Asn Met Thr Leu
   50              55              60
Asp Leu Pro Ser Asp Ala Thr Val Val Leu Asn Arg Set Ser Cys Gly
65              70              75            80
Lys Glu Asn Thr Set Asp Pro Set Leu Val Ile Ala Phe Gly Arg Gly
            85              90            95
His Thr Leu Thr Leu Asn Phe Thr Arg Asn Ala Thr Arg Tyr Set Val
         100              105            110
Gin Leu Met Ser Phe Val Tyr Asn Leu Set Asp Thr His Leu Phe Pro
      115              120            125
Asn Ala Ser Set Lys Glu Ile Lys Thr Val Glu Ser Ile Thr Asp Ile
   130              135             140
Arg Ala Asp lie Asp Lys Lys Tyr Arg Cys Val Ser Gly Thr Gin Val
145              150             155            160
His Met Asn Asn Val Thr Val Thr Leu His Asp Ala Thr Ile Gin Ala
            165              170            175
Tyr Leu Ser Asn Ser Ser Plc Ser Arg Gly Glu Thr Arg Cys Glu Gin
         180              185            190
Asp Arg Pro Set Pm Thr Thr Ala Pro Pro Ala Pro Pro Set Pro Ser
      195              200            205

Pro Ser Pro Val Pro Lys Ser Pro Ser Val Asp Lys Tyr Asn Val Ser
   210          215           220
Gly Thr Asn Gly Thr Cys Leu Leu Ala Ser Met Gly Leu Gln Leu Asn
225           230           235          240
Leu Thr Tyr Glu Arg Lys Asp Asn Thr Thr Val Thr Arg Leu Leu Asn
          245           250          255
Ile Asn Pro Asn Lys Thr Ser Ala Ser Gly Ser Cys Gly Ala His Leu
        260          265           270
Val Thr Leu Glu Leu His Ser Glu Gly Thr Thr Val Lou Leu Phe Gln
     275           280          285
Phe Gly Met Asn Ala Ser Ser Ser Arg Phe Phe Leu Gin Gly Ile Gin
   290          295           300
Leu Asn Thr lie Leu Pro Asp Ala Arg Asp Pro Ala Phe Lys Ala Ala
305           310           315          320
Asn Gly Ser Leu Arg Ala Leu Gln Ala Thr Val Gly Asn Ser Tyr Lys
          325           330          335
Cys Asn Ala Glu Gtu His Val Arg Val Thr Lys Ala Phe Ser Val Asn
        340          345           350
Ile Phe Lys Val Trp Val Gln Ala Phe Lys Val Glu Gly Gly Gln Phe
     355           360          365
Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Cys Leu Leu Asp Glu Asn Ser Leu Glu Lys Ser
   370          375           380
Ser Pro Tyr GIn Lys Lys Thr Glu Asn Pro Cys Ala GIn Arg Cys Leu

385           390          395            400
Gin Ser Cys Gin Gin Glu Pro Asp Asp Leu Lys Gin Lys Ala Cys Glu
         405           410            415
Ser Arg Cys Thr Lys Leu Glu Tyr Asp Pro Arg Cys Val Tyr Asp Pro
       420          425            430
Arg Gly His Thr Gly Thr Thr Asn Gin Arg Ser Pro Pro Gly Glu Arg
     435          440           445
Thr Arg Gly Arg Gin Pro Gly Asp Tyr Asp Asp Asp Arg Arg Gin Pro
  450           455           460
Arg Arg Gin Glu Gly Gly Arg Trp Gly Pro Ala Gly Pro Arg Glu Arg
465           470          475            480
Giu Arg Glu Giu Asp Trp Arg Gin Pro Arg Glu Asp Trp Arg Arg Pro
         485           490            495
Ser His Gin Gin Pro Arg Lys Ile Arg Pro Glu Gly Arg Glu Gly Glu
       500           505           510
Gln Glu Trp Gly Thr Pro Gly Ser His Val Arg Glu Glu Thr Ser Arg
     515          520           525
Asn Asn Pro Phe Tyr Phe Pro Ser Arg Arg Phe Ser Thr Arg Tyr Gly
  530           535           540
Asn Gin Asn Gly Arg Ile Arg Val Leu Gin Arg Phe Asp Gin Arg Ser
545           550          555            560
Arg Gin Phe Gin Asn Leu Gin Asn His Arg Ile Val Gin Ile Glu Ala
          565          570            575

Lys Pro Asn Thr Leu Val Leu Pro Lys His Ala Asp Ala Asp Asn Ile
        580           585           590
Leu Val Ile G[n Gin Gly Gin Ala Thr Val Thr Val Ala Asn Gly Asn
     595           600           605
Asn Arg Lys Ser Phe Asn Leu Asp Gtu Gly His Ala Leu Arg Ile Pro
   610           615           620
Ser Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ile Leu Asn Arg His Asp Asn Gin Asn Leu
625           630            635          640
Arg Val Ala Lys Ile Ser Met Pro Val Asn Thr Pro Gly Gln Phe Glu
          645           650           655
Asp Phe Phe Pro Ala Ser Ser Arg Asp Gin Ser Ser Tyr Leu Gin Gly
        660           665           670
Phe Ser Arg Asn Thr Leu Glu Ala Ala Phe Asn Ala Glu Phe Asn Gin
     675           680           685
lie Arg Arg Val Lea Leu Glu Giu Asn Ala Gly Gly Glu Gin Glu Gin
   690           695           700
Arg Gly Gin Arg Arg Trp Ser Thr Arg Ser Ser Glu Asn Asn Giu Gly
705           710            715          720
Val ile Val Lys Val Ser Lys Glu His Val Gin Giu Leu Thr Lys His
          725            730          735
Ala Lys Ser Vai Ser Lys Lys Gly Ser Giu Glu Giu Gly Asp Ile Thr
        740           745           750
Asn Pro Ile Asn Leu Arg Glu Gly Giu Pro Asp Leu Ser Asn Asn Phe

     755          760           765
Gly Lys Leu Phe Glu Val Lys Pro Asp Lys Lys Asn Pro Gin Leu Gin
  770           775          780
Asp Leu Asp Met Met Leu Thr Cys Val Glu Ile Lys Glu Gly Ala Leu
785           790          795           800
Met Leu Pro His Phe Asn Ser Lys Ala Met Val Ile Val Val Val Asn
          805          810           815
Lys Gly Thr Gly Asn Leu Giu Leu Val Ala Val Arg Lys Glu Gin Gin
        820          825          830
Gin Arg Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Glu Glu Asp Glu Asp Glu Glu Glu Giu
     835          840           845
Gly Ser Asn Arg Glu Val Arg Arg Tyr Thr Ala Arg Leu Lys Glu Gly
  850           855          860
Asp Val Phe Ile Met Pro Ala Ala His Pro Val Ala Ile Asn Ala Set
865           870          875           880
Ser Glu Leu His Leu Lou Gly Phe Gly Ile Asn Ala Giu Asn Asn His
          885          890           895
Arg Ile Phe Leu Ala Gly Asp Lys Asp Asn Val Ile Asp Gln Ile Glu
        900          905          910
Lys Gln Ala Lys Asp Leu Ala Phe Pro Gly Ser Gly Glu Gin Val Glu
     915          920           925
Lys Leu Ile Lys Asn Gln Lys Giu Ser His Phe Val Ser Ala Arg Pro
  930           935          940

Gin Ser Gin Ser Gin Ser Pro Ser Ser Pro Gin Lys Glu Ser Pro Glu
945           950           955           960
Lys Glu Asp Gin Glu Glu Glu Asn Gin Gly Gly Lys Gly Pro Leu Leu
          965           970           975
Ser Ile Leu Lys Ala Phe Asn Gly Gly Gly Gly Arg Gin Gin Trp Glu
        980          985           990
Leu Gin Gly Asp Arg Arg Cys Gin Set Gin Leu Gli Arg Ala Asn Leu
     995           1000           1005
Arg Pro Cys Giu Gin His Leu Met Gin Lys Ile Gin Arg Asp Giu
   1010           1015           1020
Asp Ser Tyr Gly Arg Asp Pro Tyr Ser Pro Ser Gin Asp Pro Tyr
   1025           1030           1035
Ser Pro Ser Gin Asp Pro Asp Arg Arg Asp Pro Tyr Ser Pro Set
   1040           1045           1050
Pro Tyr Asp Arg Arg Gly Ala Gly Ser Ser Gin His Gin GIu Arg
   1055           1060           1065
Cys Cys Asn Glu Leu Asn Gin Phe Glu Asn Asn Gin Arg Cys Met
   1070           1075           1080
Cys Giu Ala Leu Gin Gin Ile Met Glu Asn Gin Ser Asp Arg Leu
   1085           1090           1095
Gin Gly Arg Gin Gin Gi Gin Gin Phe Lys Arg Glu Leu Arg Asn
   1100           1105           1110
Leu Pro Gin Gin Cys Gly Leu Arg Ala Pro Gin Arg Cys Asp Leu

   1115          1120          1125
Glu Val Glu Set Gly Gly Arg Asp Arg Tyr Gly Gly Gly Gly Val
   1130          1135          1140
Thr Phe Arg Gin Gly Gly Glu Glu Asn Giu Cys Gin Phe Gin Arg
   1145          1150          1155
Leu Asn Ala Gin Arg Pro Asp Asn Arg Ile Glu Set Glu Gly Gly
   1160          1165          1170
Tyr Ile Glu Thr Trp Asn Pro Asn Asn Gin Glu Phe Gin Cys Ala
   1175          1180          1185
Gly Val Ala Leu Ser Arg Thr Val Leu Arg Arg Asn Ala Leu Arg
   1190          1195          1200
Arg Pro Phe Tyr Ser Asn Ala Pro Leu Gli lie Tyr Val Gin Gin
   1205          1210          1215
Gly Set Gly Tyr Phe Gly Leu Ile Phe Pro Gly Cys Pro Ser Thr
   1220          1225           1230
Tyr GIu Glu Pro Ala Gin Glu Gly Arg Arg Tyr Gin Set Gin Lys
   1235          1240          1245
Pro Ser Arg Arg Phe Gin Vat Gly Gin Asp Asp Pro Ser Gin Gin
   1250          1255          1260
Gin Gin Asp Ser His Gin Lys Val His Arg Phe Asp Glu Gly Asp
   1265          1270          1275
Leu Ile Ala Vai Pro Thr Gly Val Ala Phe Trp Met Tyr Asn Asp
   1280          1285          1290

Gin Asp Thr Asp Val Val Thr Val Thr Leu Ser Asp Thr Ser Ser
   1295          1300          1305
Ile His Asn Gin Leu Asp Gin Phe Pro Arg Arg Phe Tyr Leu Ala
   1310          1315          1320
Gly Asn Gin GIu Gin GIu Phe Leu Arg Tyr Gin Gin Gin Gin Gly
   1325          1330          1335
Ser Arg Pro His Tyr Arg Gin Ile Ser Pro Arg Val Arg Gly Asp
   1340          1345           1350
Glu Gin Glu Asn Gin Gly Ser Asn Ile Phe Ser Gly Phe Ala Gin
   1355          1360          1365
Gtu Phe Leu Gin His Ala Phe Gin Val Asp Arg Gin Thr Val Giu
   1370          1375          1380
Asn Leu Arg Gly Giu Asn Giu Arg Glu Giu Gin Gly Ala Ile Val
   1385          1390          1395
Thr Val Lys Gly Gly Leu Arg lie Leu Ser Pro Asp Glu Glu Asp
   1400          1405          1410
Glu Ser Ser Arg Ser Pro Pro Asn Arg Arg Glu Glu Phe Asp Glu
   1415          1420          1425
Asp Arg Ser Arg Pro Gin Gin Arg Gly Lys Tyr Asp Glu Asn Arg
   1430          1435          1440
Arg Gly Tyr Lys Asn Gly Ile Giu Glu Thr Ile Cys Ser Ala Ser
   1445          1450          1455
Val Lys Lys Asn Leu Gly Arg Ser Ser Asn Pro Asp Ile Tyr Asn

    1460         1465          1470
Pro Gin Ala Gly Set Leu Arg Ser Val Asn Glu Leu Asp Leu Pro
    1475         1480          1485
Ile Leu Gly Trp Leu Gly Leu Ser Ala Gln His Gly Thr Ile Tyr
    1490         1495          1500
Arg Asn Ala Met Phe Val Pro His Tyr Thr Leu Asn Ala His Thr
    1505         1510          1515
Ile Val Val Ala Leu Asn Gly Arg Ala His Val Gin Val Val Asp
    1520         1525          1530
Set Asn Gly Asn Arg Val Tyr Asp Glu Glu Leu Gin Glu Gly His
    1535         1540          1545
Val Leu Val Val Pro Gin Asn Phe Ala Val Ala Ala Lys Ala Gln
    1550         1555          1560
Set Glu Asn Tyr Glu Tyr Leu Ala Phe Lys Thr Asp Set Arg Pro
    1565         1570          1575
Set Ile Ala Asn Gin Ala Gly Glu Asn Ser Ile Ile Asp Asn Leu
    1580         1585          1590
Pro Gtu Glu Val Val Ala Asn Set Tyr Arg Leu Pro Arg Glu Gin
    1595         1600          1605
Ala Arg Gin Leu Lys Asn Asn Asn Pro Phe Lys Phe Phe Val Pro
    1610         1615          1620
Pro Phe Asp His Gln Set Met Arg Glu Val Ala Glu Phe Thr Leu
    1625         1630          1635

Ile Pro Ile Ala Val Gly Gly Ala Leu Ala Gly Leu Val Leu Ile
   1640           1645          1650
Val Leu Ile Ala Tyr Leu Val Gly Arg Lys Arg Ser His Ala Gly
   1655           1660          1665
Tyr Gln Thr lie
   1670

Claims
1.      A nucleic acid molecule encoding a chimeric protein, wherein the nucleic acid molecule
comprises, in sequential order:
         a nucleic acid sequence encoding a signal sequence;
         a nucleic acid sequence encoding a lumenal domain of a lysosomal associated
membrane protein (LAMP);
         a nucleic acid sequence encoding an allergen domain comprising two or more allergen
proteins that do not include a naturally-occurring signal sequences of the allergen proteins;
         a nucleic acid sequence encoding a transmembrane domain of a LAMP; and
         a nucleic acid sequence encoding a targeting domain of a LAMP.
2.      The nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the allergen proteins comprise allergens
selected from plant allergens, pollen allergens, mite allergens, insect allergens, animal allergens,
fungi allergens and food allergens.
3.      The nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the chimeric protein
preferentially evokes a cell-mediated immune response via the MHC-II pathway by activating
an allergen-specific T-helper type 1 (Thl) cellular response relative to a Th2-type response.
4.      The nucleic acid of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the LAMP is a mammalian
LAMP.
5.      The nucleic acid of claim 4, wherein the LAMP is a human LAMP.
6.      The nucleic acid molecule of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the allergen proteins
comprise at least one allergen selected from AraH1, AraH2 and AraH3.
7.      The nucleic acid molecule of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the allergen proteins
comprise AraH1, AraH2 and AraH3
8.      The nucleic acid molecule of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the nucleic acid molecule
comprises DNA.
                                                 69

9.      An expression vector comprising the nucleic acid molecule of claim 8.
10.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising the expression vector of claim 9.
11.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 10 further comprising a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier.
12.     A method of treating or preventing an allergy said method comprising a step of
administering to a subject in need thereof a nucleic acid molecule according to claim 8, an
expression vector according to claim 9 or a pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10
or claim 11.
13.     A nucleic acid vaccine comprising the pharmaceutical composition of claim 10 or claim
11.
14.     A method of treating or preventing an allergy said method comprising a step of
administering to a subject in need thereof the nucleic acid vaccine of claim 13.
15.     The nucleic acid molecule of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the nucleic acid molecule
comprises DNA.
16.     An expression vector comprising the nucleic acid molecule of claim 15.
17.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising the expression vector of claim 16.
18.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 17 further comprising a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier.
19.     A method of treating a peanut allergy said method comprising the step of administering
to a subject in need thereof the nucleic acid molecule of claim 15, the expression vector of claim
16 or the pharmaceutical composition of claim 17 or claim 18.
20.     A nucleic acid vaccine comprising the pharmaceutical composition of claim 17 or claim
18.
                                                70

21.      A method of treating a peanut allergy said method comprising the step of administering
to a subject in need thereof the nucleic acid vaccine of claim 20.
22.     Use of the nucleic acid molecule of claim 8 or the expression vector of claim 9 in the
preparation of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of an allergy.
23.      Use of the nucleic acid molecule of claim 15 or the expression vector of claim 16 in the
preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a peanut allergy.
                                                 71

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
