Online Dispute Resolution System - Abstract
Online dispute resolution system available 24/7 via mobile, tablet and desktop prior to the
commencement of litigation.
Four stage process commencing with a guided interface to provide relevant knowledge for
participants, followed by an automated online algorithm based mediator (AOAM) who will
use machine learning and artificial intelligence to detect patterns in participants information
/ language and use a library of previous legal decisions in the same arena to make
suggestions and coach the participants to agreement via a combination of individual private
side bars and online communication between the participants.
Proposed agreements are graded red, amber or green using predictive analysis of previous
legal decisions in the same area of law.
The system can use information inputted by participants to populate appropriate legal
documentation prior to filing via relevant court or tribunal portal.


Innovation Patent Application - Description
Stage 1 - guided interface.
           a. Mandatory entry point to Online Dispute Resolution System.
            b. Anonymous guided interface to provide the knowledge required by the
               participant within 4/5 clicks.
           c.  Guided interface for information and user learning about dispute resolution,
               available options and applicable law
           d. Information to be written in a manner that grade 6 or lower can
               comprehend.
           e. Links to relevant agencies such as financial counsellors, Beyond Blue,
               Domestic Violence Helpline, Crisis Care, migration advice and Anglicare SA.
           f. Contact links available to provide advice specific to the unique situation being
               experienced by the participant telephone, online chat or face to face
               appointment with relevant agencies such as Consumer and Business Affairs,
               Legal Services Commission, Community Legal Service, Family Law Courts etc.
           g. Client may now advance to stage 2 or leave the Online Dispute Resolution
               System.
Stage 2 - Automated online algorithmic mediator based on artificial intelligence (AOAM)
           a. Having completed authentication, the client gains entry to the agreement
               arena and completes an intake form.
            b. A combination of Smart Text interpreting the information given on the intake
               form and psychometric testing will now guide vulnerable participants such as
               a victim of domestic violence back to stage 2 and suggest an appointment
               with one of the named services.
           c. If a participant is not identified as vulnerable an invitation to partake is issued
               to the other party. If accepted the other party commences at the mandatory
               stage 1.
           d. There is a time limit for the other party to accept the invitation and progress
               to this stage.
           e. Artificial intelligence will then compare the intake forms from each party and
               inform the parties of their areas of agreement and then the areas of
               disagreement.
           f.  Individual private chat bars are offered to each participant where they can
               converse with the algorithm based automated mediator.
           g.  The automated online algorithmic mediator (AOAM) is the first fully automated
               mediator of its kind based on machine learning and Al reviewing the responses of
               each participant and using a library of previous settlements in the same area of law
               to make suggestions to each participant via the private side bars.
                                                                                                    1

               h. Participants may also converse with each other directly where the input can
                    be analysed, participant patterns detected and AOAM can offer coaching /
                   guidance to each participant via their private chat bars.
               i.   Participants may also formulate offers of agreement.
              j.    Before transmitting their offer to the other party, or after receipt of such an
                   offer, participants can ask the 'library' to grade the suggested agreement.
         Stage 3 - Library of previous case law against which offers of settlement are graded using
         artificial intelligence
              a. Previous dispute decisions provide the data for machine learning to analyse
                   and then predict if an application to the relevant court or tribunal might
                    result in a similar agreement.
         Proposed agreements are graded:
                 *    Green - Similar or better than an application to the relevant court or
                      tribunal based on previous results of similar matters. If both participants
                      accept the agreement they can either:
                          o    Sign it and do nothing more or
                          o    Automatically submit the agreement to the relevant court or tribunal
                               as a consent order for approval by a tribunal member (there will be a
                               charge for this) or relevant court.
                 *    Amber - Nearly there, participants have the option to:
                          o    seek further advice from stage 2 or
                          o    make a counter offer or
                          o    apply for a traditional conciliation conference with human mediator
                              / hearing. The normal fees will apply.
                    It is not possible to accept an Amber agreement in the automated system.
                *    Red - Highly unlikely an application to the relevant court or tribunal would
                     result in a similar agreement. Participants have the option to:
                          o   seek further advice from stage 2 or
                          o   make a counter offer or
                          o   apply for a traditional conciliation conference with human mediator /
                              hearing. The normal fees will apply.
It is not possible to accept a red agreement in the automated system.
Stage 4 - Auto completion of applicable legal documentation
Auto completion of applicable legal documentation based on information provided via the Online
Dispute Resolution System process
This will interface with pre existing portals with the relevant courts and tribunals
                                                                                                    2

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

Online Dispute Resolution System - innovation claim
Claim 1 - Automated online algorithmic mediator (AOAM):
             a. The automated online algorithmic mediator (AOAM) is the first fully automated
                 mediator of its kind based on machine learning and Al reviewing the responses of
                 each participant and using a library of previous settlements in the same area of law
                 to make suggestions to each participant via the private side bars.
             b. Participants may also converse with each other directly where the input can
                 be analysed, participant patterns detected and AOAM can offer coaching /
                 guidance to each participant via their private chat bars.
             c. Participants may also formulate offers of agreement.
             d. Before transmitting their offer to the other party, or after receipt of such an
                 offer, participants can ask the 'library' to grade the suggested agreement.
Claim 2 - Library of previous case law against which offers of settlement are graded using artificial
intelligence
             a. Previous dispute decisions provide the data for machine learning to analyse
                 and then predict if an application to the relevant court or tribunal might
                 result in a similar agreement as that being proposed by the client.
         Proposed agreements are graded:
               "   Green - Similar or better than an application to the relevant court or
                   tribunal based on previous results of similar matters. If both participants
                   accept the agreement they can either:
                       o Sign it and do nothing more or
                       o Automatically submit the agreement to the relevant court or tribunal
                           as a consent order for approval by a tribunal member (there will be a
                           charge for this) or relevant court.
               * Amber - Nearly there, participants have the option to:
                       o seek further advice from stage 2 or
                       o make a counter offer or
                       o apply for a traditional conciliation conference with human mediator
                           / hearing. The normal fees will apply.
                 It is not possible to accept an Amber agreement in the automated system.
              *   Red - Highly unlikely an application to the relevant court or tribunal would
                  result in a similar agreement. Participants have the option to:
                       o seek further advice from stage 2 or
                       o make a counter offer or
                       o apply for a traditional conciliation conference with human mediator /
                           hearing. The normal fees will apply.
It is not possible to accept a red agreement in the automated system.

Claim 3 - Auto completion of applicable legal documentation
Auto completion of applicable legal documentation based on information provided via the Online
Dispute Resolution System process
This will interface with pre existing portals with the relevant courts and tribunals

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
