                                               8
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a logistics system. The system includes a shipper's
phone configured to create a delivery job relating to shipping an item. A poster (e.g.
server) is configured to post the delivery job. A deliverer's phone is configured to display
the posted delivery job responsive to a specified radius of a location. Advantageously,
the deliverer's phone displays the proximal delivery job based upon the radius, and the
job is more likely to be of interest than other jobs which are located further away outside
the radius.

                       AUSTRALIA
                   PATENTS ACT 1990
             PROVISIONAL SPECIFICATION
                   LOGISTICS SYSTEM
The following statement is a full description of this invention:

                                                1
LOGISTICS SYSTEM
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to a logistics system.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.
[0003]       Public logistics systems such as the postal system are used to transport
items from an origin to a destination. A more convenient system for transporting items
involves instead using a courier as the deliverer, whereby the deliverer delivers an item
from origin to destination on behalf of a shipper. In practice, using a courier can be
expensive.
[0004]       The Applicant has perceived a need for an alternative public logistics system
utilizing everyday travelers as deliverers on behalf of shippers seeking to ship items.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]       According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
logistics system including:
         a shipper's phone configured to create a delivery job relating to shipping an item;
        a poster configured to post the delivery job; and
         a deliverer's phone configured to display the posted delivery job responsive to a
specified radius of a location.
[0006]       Advantageously, the deliverer's phone displays the proximal delivery job
based upon the radius, and the job is more likely to be of interest than other jobs which
are located further away outside the radius.

                                               2
[0007]      The location may be a home location of a deliverer using the deliverer's
phone. The location may be along a path between an origin and destination of the
delivery job. The location may be the location of the deliverer's phone.
[0008]      The deliverer's phone may include a requestor for requesting the delivery job
and the shipper's phone may include an acceptor for accepting the request.
Advantageously, the poster may post a number associated with the deliverer's phone to
the shipper's phone, and a number associated with the shipper's phone to the
deliverer's phone to facilitate communication (e.g. SMS, call) between the phones
during the delivery job.
[0009]       The system may include an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the radius.
The adjuster may include a slider.
[00010]     The system may further include a sorter to sort the displayed delivery job
based upon a price set by the shipper's phone.
[00011]     According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
logistics method including:
        using a shipper's phone create a delivery job relating to shipping an item from an
origin to a destination;
        posting the delivery job; and
        using a deliverer's phone to display the posted delivery job responsive to a
specified radius of a location.
[00012]     Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination
with any one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the
invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00013]     Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information
for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way.
The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows:

                                               3
[00014]     Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a public logistics system in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
[00015]     Figure 2 shows shipper screens presented on a shipper's phone of the
logistics system of Figure 1; and
[00016]     Figure 3 shows deliverer screens presented on a deliverer's phone of the
logistics system of Figure 1.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[00017]     According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
public logistics system 100 as shown in Figure 1. The system 100 includes a shipper's
phone 102 configured to create a delivery job relating to shipping an item 104 from an
origin to a destination. An administration server 106 (i.e. poster) is configured to
electronically post the delivery job. A deliverer's phone 108 displays the posted delivery
job responsive to a specified radius of a location. Advantageously, the deliverer's phone
108 displays the proximal delivery job based upon the radius, and the job is more likely
to be of interest than other jobs which are located further away outside the radius.
[00018]     The shipper's smartphone 102 is used by a shipper 110, whereas the
deliverer's smartphone 108 is used by the deliverer 112. Each phone 102, 108 utilizes
application software (i.e. an App) communicating with the administration server 106 and
associated database 114 over a network including the Internet.
[00019]     In practice, the shipper 110 is an everyday member of the public, seeking to
have the item 104 shipped in accordance with the delivery job. In contrast, the deliverer
112 is also an everyday member of the public, seeking to deliver the item 104 in
accordance with the delivery job which is displayed for relevance based upon the
radius. Each of the shipper 110 and deliverer 112 use their phones 102, 108 to register
to the App, create an account stored in database 114 and choose whether they are a
deliverer, shipper or both. The deliverer's account includes an entered home address
location and default radius around that location relating to the delivery (e.g. denoting
that the shipper lives in one town and is prepared to deliver within a radius of that town).

                                                  4
[00020]       Figure 2 shows shipper screens presented to the shipper 110 on the
shipper's phone 102.
[00021]      In particular, Figures 2a-j illustrate how the shipper 110 creates and posts a
delivery job relating to shipping an item from an origin to a destination. Initially the job
title and description are entered (figure 2a), the number of packages to ship are
selected (figure 2b), photographs of the packages are provided (figure 2c) whether they
be taken by the shipper's phone 102 or selected from a gallery (figure 2d), and the job
origin and destination are specified (figure 2e). The job expiry, pickup and drop-off times
are also specified (figure 2f) using selection tools (figure 2g). Once completed, the
shipper 110 posts the job (figure 2h) which is publicly posted by the server 106 upon
escrowed payment provided by the shipper (figure 2i). The shipper 110 can also set the
price for the delivery job on the phone 102, which is cheaper than using a courier. As
shown in Figure 2j, the status (e.g. on the way, picked up, etc.) of the job is also
provided.
[00022]      The server 106 notifies the shipper's phone 102 once a request to deliver the
package in accordance with the posted job is received from the deliverer's phone 108.
The shipper's phone 102 includes an acceptor for accepting the request. Once
accepted, the server 106 posts a number associated with the deliverer's phone 108 to
the shipper's phone 102, and a number associated with the shipper's phone 102 to the
deliverer's phone 108 to facilitate communication (e.g. SMS, call) between the phones
102, 108 during the delivery job.
[00023]      The server 106 notifies the shipper's phone 102 once the package is
delivered (figure 2k) by the deliverer 112. The shipper 110 can then rate the experience
(figure 2il) and provide comments during a dispute (figure 2m).
[00024]      Figure 3 shows deliverer screens presented to the deliverer 112 on the
deliverer's phone 108.
[00025]      The deliverer 112 is presented with a list of posted jobs 300 (Figure 3a), and
has the option to sort according to price (i.e. cost) or filter according to radius from the
entered home address location of the deliverer 112 (Figure 3b). Alternatively, the origin
location of the radius can be along a path between the origin and destination, or the
current location of the deliverer's phone. Figure 3c shows the filtered list when the

                                               5
radius has been adjusted using the sliding adjustment mechanism 302 as shown in
figure 3d. Delivery jobs with an origin and/or destination within the specified radius of
the home location are displayed. Further sorting by price in the radius can be performed
using the sorter switch 304 which changes the order of shipper price presentation
between lowest to highest and highest to lowest.
[00026]     As shown in Figure 3e, the deliverer's phone 108 includes a requestor button
306 for requesting a suitable delivery job within the radius and for the right price. Details
of the shipper 110 including a rating are provided. If the deliverer 112 has a change of
heart, he can cancel any pending jobs (figure 3f), and receives confirmation when the
job is cancelled (figure 3g). The deliverer 112 can create a financial account in which
payment for the job is deposited from escrow by the server 106 upon successful
completion of the job (figure 3h). Once the financial account is established, the job
application is completed (figure 3i) and the job details can be viewed on the deliverer's
phone 108 (figure 3j).
[00027]     Once the job has been completed, the deliverer 112 updates the job status
(figure 3k), adds a photo of the completed job (figure 31) whether from a photo taken by
the phone 108 or from a gallery (figure 3m). The deliverer 112 can also rate the shipper
110.
[00028]     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that many embodiments and
variations can be made without departing from the ambit of the present invention.
[00029]     In one embodiment, the item to be delivered is a person.
[00030]     The preferred embodiment is described in relation to a single shipper 110
and deliverers 12 for simplicity. However, in practice, many deliverers 112 would
compete for posted delivery jobs from a multitude of shippers 110.
[00031]     In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the
invention is not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein
described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect.
[00032]     Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an

                                           6
embodiment' means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
invention. Thus, the appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an
embodiment' in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or
characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more combinations.

                                                7
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A logistics system including:
        a shipper's phone configured to create a delivery job relating to shipping an item;
        a poster configured to post the delivery job; and
        a deliverer's phone configured to display the posted delivery job responsive to a
specified radius of a location.
2.      A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the location is a home location of a
deliverer using the deliverer's phone.
3.      A system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the deliverer's phone includes
a requestor for requesting the delivery job and the shipper's phone includes an acceptor
for accepting the request, the poster posting a number associated with the deliverer's
phone to the shipper's phone and a number associated with the shipper's phone to the
deliverer's phone to facilitate communication (e.g. SMS, call) between the phones
during the delivery job.
4.      A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further including an
adjustment mechanism for adjusting the radius.
5.      A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further including a sorter
to sort the displayed delivery job based upon a price set by the shipper's phone.
                           Dated this 1 2 th day of December 2017
                                GOING THAT WAY PTY LTD
                                      by my attorneys
                                             Cullens
                             Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys

                              
<removed-date>             
               
<removed-apn>
                              
              
                      
               
                      
                              ),*

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
