                                      ABSTRACT
  A rechargeable cell comprising h combination a bipolar electrode, a zinc
  electrolyte,  a  copper    electrolyte and  metal-ion  impermeable,     polymer
  electrochemical membrane separator, wherein the zinc electrolyte and the copper
5 electrolyte are separated from each other by the bipolar electrode on one side
  and by the membrane separator on the other side. A battery comprising at least
  one said rechargeable cell.

     4/4
               5
11a              11b
               4
             6
             7
    Figure 4

                                             1
Rechargeable copper-zinc battery
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
2014224422 associated with International Application No. PCT/GB2014/000054 filed
Feb. 17, 2014, which claims priority from GB Patent Application No. 1303759.3 filed
Mar. 4, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are hereby explicitly incorporated by
reference herein.
1.     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The present invention relates to a rechargeable copper-zinc cell comprising a
polymer membrane separator useful as an electron and proton conductive, but metal
ions non-conductive and impermeable membrane separator.
2.     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Recently, many experiments have been carried out in an attempt to develop
rechargeable batteries having alkaline electrolyte and zinc compound used as a
negative electrode material, because such a combination would have many excellent
characteristics such as high energy density, high working voltage, reasonable material
cost, excellent heavy drain duty performance and low temperature duty characteristics.
After many technological efforts, improvements to obtain a long life for charge-discharge
cyclic operations have been found. An electrode, for example, was made by coating a
mixture of zinc oxide and/or zinc powder and mercury or mercuric oxide on a current
collector wherein the zinc oxide and/or zinc powder comprised from 80 to 90 wt. % of
the mixture and the mercury or mercuric oxide comprised 5 to 20 wt. %. However, the
discharge capacity of the battery having this electrode gradually decreases if the battery
is subjected to a repetitive charge-discharge operation even under the low current
density of 2 to 3 mA/cm 2. In such an operation it was difficult to go over 50 cycles as the
capacity decreased to half the initial capacity. The rechargeable batteries in commercial
use must keep more than half of the initial capacity even after the          2 0 0 th charging

                                              2
treatment. To produce such batteries, new improvements in the zinc electrode, the
positive electrode, the separator and the electrolyte are necessary.
[0004] A good rechargeability for a battery can be expected, if the discharged product of
the zinc electrode of the battery does not dissolve into the electrolyte during discharge.
One electrode tested for preventing the dissolution was a sheet-like zinc electrode
containing calcium hydroxide for fixing the discharge products as CaZn(OH) 4 on the
electrode as reported by N. A. Zhulidov in U.S.S.R. Author's Certificate No. 116812 filed
on Mar. 7, 1958. However, this electrode cannot endure high drain discharge service
because of the formation of passive film on the zinc powder which is called passivation
phenomena. Also, a semi-dry type negative electrode in which the amount of the
electrolyte was restricted in order to prevent the dissolution of the reactive products into
the electrolyte was tested but it, too, proved unsatisfactory.
[0005] U.S. Pat. No. 684,204 discloses a rechargeable copper/zinc battery. The battery
did not, however, function properly, as it did not comprise a membrane.
[0006] U.S. Pat. No. 4,037,033 discloses a rechargeable nickel-zinc battery which is
capable of undergoing many charge-discharge cycles.
[0007] Accordingly, there is a need for a copper-zinc rechargeable cell capable of many
charge-discharge cycles at a high drain rate of discharge.
[0008] Conventional cation and proton conducting membranes typically comprise a
sheet of a homogeneous polymer, a laminated sheet of similar polymers, or a blend of
polymers.
[0009] A variety of polymers have been demonstrated to be cation conductors.
[0010] An example of such a polymer is a family of perfluorosulfonic acids (PFSA's),
which are solid organic super-acids, and membranes are produced as homogeneous
sheets.

                                                 3
[0011] All of those polymer materials rely on sulfonate functionalities (R--S0 3--) as the
stationary counter charge for the mobile cations (H*, Li'' Na*, etc.), which are generally
monovalent.
[0012] Alternatives to polymer proton conductors include oxide proton conductors. A
wide variety of metal oxides are proton conductors, generally in their hydrated or
hydrous forms. These oxides include hydrated precious metal containing oxides, such
as RuOx (H2 O)n and (Ru--Ti)Ox ( H2 0), acid oxides of the heavy post transition
elements, such as acidic antimony oxides and tin oxides, and the oxides of the heavier
early transition metals, such as Mo, W, and Zr. Many of these materials are also useful
as mixed oxides. Some oxides which do not fit this description may be useful as well,
such as silica (SiO 2 ) and alumina (A12 0 3 ), although these are generally used as, or with,
modifiers.
[0013] The number of metal oxides with the potential to serve as proton conductors is
too large to fully discuss in detail here. This group, which can be summarized as those
elements forming insoluble hydrated oxides that are not basic, includes not only known
proton conductors, but oxide superacids that will furnish a multitude of free protons in
the presence of an aqueous medium.
[0014] Zirconium phosphate, specifically alpha-zirconium phosphate is known to be an
excellent proton conductor when tested as a powder at ambient temperature. Under
these conditions the compound is hydrated (Zr(HPO 4 )2 (H2 0), and most of the
conductivity is the result of protons migrating over the surface of the individual
crystallites. Above 120 0 C, the water of hydration is lost and the conductivity drops
substantially to a value representing the bulk conductivity of the solid, which increases
from 1.42 pScm- 1 at 200 0 C to 2.85 pScm- 1 at 300 0 C. With this combination of
properties, alpha-zirconium phosphate is suitable for use in either low temperature
(<100 0 C) fuel cells, or in higher temperature (>150 0 C) fuel cells.
[0015] This structure is not unique to alpha-zirconium phosphate. Hafnium, titanium,
lead and tin all have phosphates that crystallize in this structure. These compounds

                                                    4
have substantially less free volume in their structures than the zirconium compound,
and are expected to show lower proton mobilities.
[0016] Tungsten and molybdenum offer two groups of proton conductors. The first of
these groups are the simple, fully oxidized metals, as exemplified by tungsten trioxide
(W0 3 ). This compound has been the subject of much interest due to its electrochromic
properties. This oxide can be repeatedly electrochemically reduced in the solid state,
with a color shift from light yellow to blue, and reoxidized back to the light yellow form.
This property has been used to produce electrochromic windows that can be lightened
and darkened as desired. This reaction occurs without any significant rearrangement of
the crystal lattice. As a result, maintaining charge neutrality requires a cation (proton) to
diffuse into the structure and reside on an interstitial site. By maintaining an appropriate
bias across an oxide film, a proton flux can be maintained.
[0017] The second family of tungsten and molybdenum compounds demonstrated to
have high protonic conductivity are the hetero- and homo- polymolybdates and
polytungstates. This description encompasses a broad range of compounds with widely
varying compositions, all of which are based on the fusion of groups of MO6 (M=Mo, W)
octahedra by edge or corner sharing. These ions (and they are all anions) have a
generic formula of          (Xk+ Ma O( 3n+m))(2m-k) - where k is the positive charge of the
heteroatom, if any, and m is the number of unshared octahedral corners in the structure.
[0018] The variety of compounds in this category continues to expand, with new
compounds being synthesized and characterized regularly. Some of them, such as the
(M06 V 14 0 84 )14 - ion, have very complex structures.
[0019] Compounds in this family have been demonstrated to have room temperature
proton conductivities as high as 0.17 Scm- 1 for H3Wi 2 PO 4o*29 H2 0 and 0.18 Scm- 1 for
H3 Mo12 PO 4o*29 H2 0 (this is over an order of magnitude greater than the conductivity of
Nafion@ measured under the same conditions). These compounds have the thermal
stability to remain proton conducting above 200 0 C, albeit with a reduced conductivity.
Not only are these compounds proton conductors in their own right, but when silica gel

                                               5
is doped with H3 Wi1PO 4o*29 H20 while it is being formed from tetraethoxysilane (TEOS)
by a sol-gel reaction, then the product is an amorphous proton conductor with a
conductivity that varies with the concentration of the tungstate, which may be present at
up to about 50% by weight.
[0020] Another family of compounds that have been demonstrated to have high proton
conductivity are the oxoacids of antimony. These compounds have a structure
consisting of edge or corner shared SbO 6 octahedra. Unshared oxygens are protonated
(i.e., hydroxyls) and charge neutrality is maintained by exchangeable external cations.
 In these acids, antimony can be in either the +3 or +5 oxidation states, or a mixture of
the two, depending on the synthesis conditions and subsequent treatment. The key step
in the synthesis is the hydrolysis of SbCI 5 , with or without hydrogen peroxide, generally
carried out at 00 C. The more oxidizing the hydrolysis conditions, the larger will be the
fraction of the antimony in the +5 oxidation state in the final product, and with a
sufficiently oxidizing hydrolysis solution it is possible to obtain acids with all of the
antimony in the +5 state. The acid precipitates as an insoluble white powder having a
pyrochlore-type framework structure (based on cubic symmetry). The powder is
thoroughly washed and dried at room temperature before further use.
[0021] Antimonic acids are dehydrated on heating in dry air, with most of the water lost
at around 140 0C. As long as the material is not heated above 200 0 C, it will reabsorb
water from air, even under normal room conditions, and return to its original weight.
 Heating to temperatures above 300 0 C lead to deoxygenation, with the Sb+5 present
reverting to Sb+3
[0022] Thin films of antimonic acid have been produced on conductive surfaces by
electrophoretically depositing fine particles suspended in a solution of ammonium
hydroxide in acetone. Although the resulting layers were shown by SEM to be smooth,
no information was given on whether or not they were pore free, a requirement for this
application.

                                                  6
[0023] Like tungsten and molybdenum, tantalum and niobium form highly charged
complex polyanions. These materials are also facile cation exchangers capable of
proton conduction and subject to irreversible dehydration if heated above 100 C.
[0024] These families of inorganic ion exchangers have significant differences, but they
also have three common features that make them candidates for use as proton
conducting electrolytes in fuel cells. First, they all have easily exchangeable protons.
Second, they all have open framework structures with channels to provide low
resistance paths for the mobile protons to move along. Third, they all retain their proton
conductivity at temperatures in excess of 200 0 C, and in most cases, in excess of 300 0 C.
This last characteristic would appear to make it possible to use these compounds in fuel
cells operating at slightly elevated temperatures, as well as at the same low
temperatures (<100 0 C) where conventional PEM (proton exchange membrane) fuel
cells are used. Unfortunately, all of these oxide proton conductors are ceramic materials
which are difficult to fabricate into thin, pin hole free, films.
[0025] There are other inorganic compounds, with significantly different structures,
which also offer a high degree of proton mobility. These inorganic compounds include
solid superacids and oxides with highly hydrated surfaces. The proton conductivity
comes from protons diffusing over the surface of individual crystallites, or particles in the
case of amorphous materials. This effect has already been described for fully hydrated
alpha-zirconium phosphate.
[0026] Hydrated ruthenium oxides are one of the materials known to be capable of
supporting a significant ionic current through the surface proton hopping mechanism
described above. However, pure RuOx (H2 O)o would not be acceptable for use in
electrolyte membranes since this compound is a metallic conductor. As such, it would
electrically short circuit any cell in which it is used.
[0027] Ruthenium oxide "stuffed" Nafion membranes have been tested as electrolyte
membranes in direct methanol fuel cells and were demonstrated to reduce methanol

                                              7
crossover. Unfortunately, in this incarnation they were also found to reduce proton
conductivity significantly.
[0028] A recently reported aerogel synthesis has been demonstrated to be particularly
effective in generating proton conducting materials, largely because the products of this
reaction have very high surface areas with a high degree of hydroxyl terminations and
good electrical separation of local RuOx domains. (Ruo. 3 2To. 68 )0 2 is a mixed conductor
with both electrons and protons acting as charge carriers, and flowing in opposite
directions. When normally synthesized as a bulk material, the majority of the current is
carried by electrons. When the material is synthesized as an aerogel, with a greatly
increased surface area, the majority of the charge is carried by protons. This is a clear
demonstration of the surface protonic conductivity of RuO and a clear route to a way of
utilizing it. The key to the aerogel process is keeping the widely dispersed sol-gel
network, which is produced by the hydrolysis of a relatively dilute solution of metal
alkoxides, separated as the solvent is removed. A similar effect can be harnessed in the
production of membranes, as described in a later section of this disclosure.
[0029] Sulfated zirconia is an amorphous solid super acid that has recently received
significant attention as an acid catalyst primarily for use in hydrocarbon conversions and
as an acid support for other catalysts. Titanium oxides, and titanium-aluminum oxides,
have been shown to have similar properties, but this discussion will focus on the better
known zirconia compounds.
[0030] These materials are generally viewed as amorphous metal oxides with sulfate
groups attached to their surface. They are produced by a variety of routes. The classical
method is precipitation of amorphous Zr(OH) 4 by treating an aqueous solution of a
zirconium salt with a base followed by sulfonation of the gel with either sulfuric acid or
ammonium sulfate. The amorphous Zr(OH) 4 can also be produced by a sol-gel method,
and sulfated in the same way. Both of these methods are essentially two-step
syntheses. Higher surface area materials can be produced by the direct reaction of
sulfuric acid with the alkoxide precursor. The catalyst is activated before use by
calcination at temperatures between 400 0C and 650 0 C. Although these materials are

                                             8
strong Bronsted acids, like PFSA materials, they require water for the formation of free
protons.
[0031] Solids with similar properties can also be produced with alumina (Al2 03) serving
in place of zirconia. These materials are produced by combining a salt, such as Li2 SO 4
or RbNO 3, with the corresponding aluminum salt and sintering the mixture to convert the
aluminum salt to an alumina matrix. The guest salt remains relatively unchanged. These
materials can be pressed to form tablets about 1-2 mm thick, which were tested as fuel
cell electrolytes. When operated at 400'C they were found to produce promising results,
with single cell potentials as high as 0.75 V observed at current densities of 200
mA/cm 2 . The conductivity was attributed to protons moving along sites formed by the
salt in the alumina matrix based on IR evidence of H--SO 4 coordination in the lithium
containing electrolyte. However,      because of the high temperature required for
conductivity, these materials are not considered promising for use in a polymer bonded
system.
[0032] All of the oxides described above are potentially useful as proton conductors, if
they could be fabricated into sufficiently thin sheets that the conductivity would be
similar to conventional polymeric membranes. The inability to produce thin sheets is a
key weakness of materials produced by the approach or method used by Nakamora et
al. (U.S. Pat. No. 4,024,036.)
[0033]    In addition to inorganic cation conductors,      inorganic-organic composite
membranes are potentially useful for electrochemical applications. PFSA membranes,
such as Nafion@, have been filled with 12-phosphotungstic acid (H3W 1 2 PO 4 0 ), an
inorganic proton conductor. These membranes have been demonstrated to have better
water retention and, consequently, better conductivity at temperatures above 100 0C
than the same membranes in their unfilled form. The goal was to develop membranes
for PEM fuel cells that could be operated at elevated temperatures to ameliorate the
problem of CO poisoning for anode electrocatalysts. The addition of 12-phosphotungstic
acid to the polymer electrolyte permitted operation at temperatures up to 120 0 C, but no
evidence was shown for improved CO tolerance.

                                                9
[0034] In U.S. Pat. No. 5,523,181, Stonehart et al. describe a composite membrane
useful for PEM fuel cells consisting of high surface area silica, preferably in the form of
fibers, as a filler, with a variety of polymers capable of exchanging cations with solutions
as the matrix. These membranes are produced by suspending the inorganic phase in a
solvent appropriate for the dissolution of the polymer and blending the suspension with
a solution of the polymer in the same solvent. Membranes are formed by evaporating
the solvent in a controlled manner to produce a thin film of the composite. The silica is
selected to maximize its affinity for water and ability to retain water. They demonstrate
reduced     electrical resistance      in fuel cells operating  under conditions of low
humidification. The improved performance is attributed to improved water retention by
the silica, and improved back diffusion of water from the cathode to the anode along the
silica fibers with the back diffusing water replacing water removed by electroosmotic
transport. They have not attributed any contribution to the overall proton conductivity to
the silica.
[0035] In U.S. Pat. No. 5,512,263, McIntyre describes a composite membrane produced
using an ionically conductive polymer together with an electrically conductive filler
phase. This membrane permits the construction of an internally shorted fuel cell, which
is described as useful for the synthesis of hydrogen peroxide. Since all of the electrical
current flows internally within the membrane, there is no external electrical control or
monitoring of the reaction. This lack of control may contribute to the relatively low
efficiency of their process.
[0036] In U.S. Pat. No. 5,682,261, Takada et al. disclose a three phase system for
producing a composite membrane. A Bronsted acid, typically a strong mineral acid is
adsorbed onto the surface of finely divided silica and this mixture is combined with a
thermoplastic binder to produce a proton conducting membrane. In this membrane the
primary conductivity is due to free protons in the acid. This membrane has been found
to be useful as an ion conductor for electrochromic windows and for fuel cells.
[0037] In U.S. Pat. No. 5,334,292, Rajeshwar et al. describe a composite consisting of
an electron conducting polymer (as opposed to an ion conducting electrolyte) and

                                            10
catalytically active metal particles. The polymers they use are polypyrrole and
polyanaline which are polymerized electrochemically on a conductive surface. This
composite is described as being useful as a supported electrocatalyst where it is
desirable to suspend precious (e.g., Pt, Pd, Ag, Ru, etc.) electrocatalytically active
particles in an inexpensive conductive matrix to minimize the amount of precious metal
used.
[0038] Inorganic-organic composite membranes may also be useful for a variety of other
applications. These composites may include a Nafion.RTM. matrix and a semiconductor
filler, where the semiconductors generally selected are those known to show activity for
carrying out photocatalytic reactions, such as CdS, CdSe, FeS 2 , ZnS, TiO 2 , and Fe2O 3.
The composites produced          are useful for carrying   out reactions such as the
photocatalytic decomposition and oxidation of organic compounds and even the fixation
of nitrogen.
[0039] In their article entitled "Nafion/ORMOSIL Hybrids via in Situ Sol-Gel Reactions.
3. Pyrene Fluorescence Probe Investigations of Nanoscale Environment," (Chemistry of
Materials, 9, 36-44, (1997), Mauritz et al. describe PFSA-silica composites by the
hydrolysis of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) inside the polymer matrix. The inorganic-organic
ratio can be varied over a wide range, as can the properties of the inorganic phase,
permitting the properties of the final composite to be tailored for specific applications.
These composite materials have been demonstrated to have improved selectivity for
gas separation when compared to the unfilled polymer. Mauritz et al. have also
demonstrated the ability to produce nanophase composites with TiO 2 , titaniasilicate,
and aluminasilicate inorganic phases.
3.       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0040] Against this background it would be advantageous to provide an improved long
cycle life rechargeable copper-zinc battery that provides a viable alternative to existing
rechargeable batteries.

                                             11
[0041] Such rechargeable copper-zinc battery should use an electrochemical polymer
membrane separator useful as an electron and proton conducting membrane. The
polymer electrochemical membrane separator is not metal ions conducting.
[0042] Disclosed herein is a rechargeable copper-zinc bipolar cell which can be
incorporated into a rechargeable battery arrangement.
[0043] In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
rechargeable battery comprising, in combination, a tank; at least one cassette
removably mounted in the tank; at least one bipolar electrode; a zinc electrolyte; a
copper electrolyte; and at least one electrochemical polymer membrane separator;
wherein the zinc electrolyte and the copper electrolyte are separated from each other by
the bipolar electrode on one side of the cassette and by the membrane separator on the
other side of the cassette. Discharging involves electro-depositing copper from the
copper electrolyte on the negative side of the bipolar electrode while corroding zinc from
the positive side of the bipolar electrode into the zinc electrolyte. The charging of the
battery system involves the reverse of this process, electro-depositing zinc from the zinc
electrolyte on the positive side of the bipolar electrode while corroding copper from the
negative side of the bipolar electrode into the copper electrolyte.
[0044] The primary function of the metal-ion impermeable, polymer electrochemical
membrane separator is to separate the copper half-cell from the zinc half-cell such that
the copper ions and the zinc ions remain in their respective half-cells, but still permitting
protons and electrons to pass through.
[0045] The bipolar electrode may be made of a single conductive material, or a
combination of more than one conductive materials, or layers of material to give suitable
conductivity, corrosion resistance, mechanical strength and electroplated material
adhesion.
[0046] The metal-ion impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane separator may
comprise a first polymer, a second polymer and functionalizing groups.

                                             12
[0047] Preferably, the metal-ion impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane
separator comprises polystyrene, polyethylene terephthalate and functionalizing groups.
The membrane separator isolates copper and zinc on either side of the membrane
separator with a permeation rate of less than 1 pmol/day. The functional groups are
chemically bonded to polystyrene and polyethylene terephthalate and contain a mixture
of compounds which may include MePO 3 and EtCO(OH).
[0048] According to another aspect of the present invention, rechargeable copper-zinc
bipolar cells are combined in multi-cell batteries or electrowinning systems with the
voltage of 1000V, 320 KV, 500 KV, 800 KV to correspond to HVDC grid. The voltage of
1000V would enable the energy storage to be connected to the low voltage part of the
electricity network. Such battery comprises at least one cell.
[0049] Embodiments described herein may have an advantage in that the conversion of
the transformer and AC/DC is eliminated.
[0050]    Embodiments     described   herein  may    have   another advantage       in  that
maintenance of the cell is relatively easy due to a "tank" configuration of a battery, when
compared with closed cell electrolyser configuration.
[0051] Embodiments described herein may have another advantage in that the cell
configuration eliminates pumping and, as a result of that, parasitic pumping losses.
[0052] Embodiments described herein may have another advantage in that bypass
currents and manifolds are eliminated.
[0053] Embodiments described herein may have another advantage in that the cell is a
long-life cell.
[0054] Multi-cell battery embodiments described herein may have another advantage in
that individual cells can be removed, maintained and replaced if required without

                                               13
affecting the overall battery operation. The life-time of the battery is then in the range of
20-30 years.
[0055] Embodiments described herein may have another advantage in that the
membrane separator has selective permeability (it is not permeable to metal ions) and
is highly conductive.
[0056] Other aspects are as set out in the ensuing description and claims.
[0057] For a better understanding of the invention and to show how the same may be
carried into effect, there will now be described by way of example only, specific
embodiments, methods and processes according to the present invention with
reference to the accompanying drawings.
4.      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0058] FIG. 1 illustrates a cross-section of a rechargeable copper-zinc cell.
[0059] FIG. 2 illustrates a profile view of a rechargeable copper-zinc cell.
[0060] FIG. 3 illustrates a detail view of a rechargeable copper-zinc cell with a metal-ion
impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane separator.
[0061] FIG. 4 illustrates a removal device for a rechargeable copper-zinc cell.
5.      DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0062] There will now be described by way of example a specific mode contemplated by
the inventors. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order
to provide a thorough understanding. It will be apparent however, to one skilled in the
art, that the present invention may be practiced without limitation to these specific

                                             14
details. In other instances, well known methods and structures have not been described
in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the description.
[0063] There will now be described several different embodiments and variations of a
rechargeable copper-zinc cell.
[0064] FIG. 1 is a schematic cross-section depiction of a rechargeable copper-zinc cell
according to a particular embodiment of the invention. The cell comprises a tank (1) with
a sealing surface (2) and a tank bottom (1a), a cassette (3), a metal-ion impermeable,
polymer electrochemical membrane separator (4) and a polymer frame (5) of the
cassette (3).
[0065] FIG. 2 is a schematic section view of a rechargeable copper-zinc cell according
to a particular embodiment of the invention. The cell comprises a tank bottom (1a) and a
plurality of cassettes (3). Each cassette (3) includes a polymer frame (5), a metal-ion
impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane separator (4), a bipolar electrode (6),
a zinc electrolyte space (7) and a copper electrolyte space (8) positioned between the
separator (4) of one cassette (3) and the electrode (6) of an adjacent cassette (3).
[0066] FIG. 3 is a detail view of a rechargeable copper-zinc cell according to a particular
embodiment of the invention. The cell comprises a bipolar electrode (6), a metal ion
impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane separator (4), a tank bottom (1a), a
polymer weld or other fastening (9) of a bipolar electrode (6) to the frame (5), a
fastening (10)     of a metal-ion impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane
separator (4) to the frame (5), and a zinc electrolyte space (7) between the bipolar
electrode (6) and the membrane separator (4). As shown in FIG. 3, the frame (5) may
be coupled to the tank bottom (1a) via a tongue and groove connection (12), for
example.
[0067] FIG. 4 is a depiction of a particular embodiment of a removal device for inserting
and extracting one or more cassettes (3) to and from a tank (1). A battery comprises
one or more cassettes (3) mounted in a tank (1) (See FIGS. 1 and 2). Each cassette (3)

                                            15
comprises a bipolar electrode (6), a zinc electrolyte space (7), a metal ion impermeable,
polymer electrochemical membrane separator (4) and a polymer frame (5). A
rechargeable cell comprises in combination a bipolar electrode (6), a zinc electrolyte in
the zinc electrolyte space (7), a copper electrolyte in the copper electrolyte space (8)
(See FIG. 2) and a metal-ion impermeable, polymer electrochemical membrane
separator (4). A battery comprises at least one rechargeable cell. The removal device
comprises mechanical support structures (11a), (11b) that are inserted into the tank (1)
from the top and are then clamped onto both sides of the cassette (3). The mechanical
support structures (11a), (11b) hold the frame (5) of the cassette (3) and prevent
distortion   of a   bipolar electrode   (6)  and    a  metal-ion   impermeable,   polymer
electrochemical membrane separator (4) during insertion and removal of the cassette
(3) to and from the tank (1).

                                             16
CLAIMS:
1.      A rechargeable cell, comprising: a bipolar electrode; a zinc electrolyte; a copper
electrolyte; and a substantially metal-ion impermeable, electrochemical membrane
separator, wherein the zinc electrolyte and the copper electrolyte are separated from
each other by the bipolar electrode on one side and by the membrane separator on the
other side of the cell.
2.     A rechargeable battery, comprising: a tank; at least one cassette removably
mounted in the tank; a bipolar electrode preferably mounted to the cassette; a zinc
electrolyte; a copper electrolyte; and a separator preferably mounted to the cassette,
wherein the zinc electrolyte and the copper electrolyte are separated from each other by
the bipolar electrode on one side of the cassette and by the separator on the other side
of the cassette.
3.      The battery of claim 2, wherein the cassette includes a polymer frame.
4.      The battery of claim 3, further comprising a fastening of the bipolar electrode to
the frame; and
a fastening of the separator to the frame.
5.      The battery of claim 2, 3 or 4, wherein the at least one cassette is coupled to the
tank via a tongue and groove connection.
6.      The battery of any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the separator is a substantially
metal-ion impermeable, electrochemical membrane separator.
7.      The battery of any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the membrane separator
comprises at least one polymer.
8.      The battery or cell of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the bipolar electrode is
made of one or more electrically conductive materials that are or may be layered.

                                             17
9.     The battery or cell of claim 7 or claim 1, wherein the membrane separator
comprises a first polymer, a second polymer and functional groups.
10.    The battery or cell of claim 9, wherein the first polymer is polystyrene and the
second polymer is polyethylene terephthalate.
11.    The battery or cell of claim 9 or 10, wherein the functional groups are selected
from the group consisting of MePO 3, EtCO(OH), and combinations thereof.
12.    The battery or cell of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the membrane separator
separates the copper electrolyte and the zinc electrolyte on either side of the membrane
separator with a permeation rate through the membrane separator of less than 1
pmol/day.
13.    The battery or cell of anyone of claims 1 to 12, wherein the bipolar electrode has
a positive side and a negative side, and wherein the battery is discharged by depositing
copper from the copper electrolyte onto the negative side of the bipolar electrode and
corroding zinc from the positive side of the bipolar electrode into the zinc electrolyte,
and wherein the battery is charged by depositing zinc from the zinc electrolyte onto the
positive side of the bipolar electrode and corroding copper from the negative side of the
bipolar electrode into the copper electrolyte.
14.    The battery of any one of claims 2 to 13, wherein the battery operates at a
voltage of about 1OOOV to about 800 KV.
15.    The battery of one of claims 2 to 14, comprising a plurality of said cassettes
mounting each a respective bipolar electrode and membrane separator.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
