32510
                                               ABSTRACT
      Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media
      for remotely initiating lost mode on a computing device. A request that lost mode be initiated
      can include a message and contact information provided by the requesting user. Once
      authenticated, a command to initiate lost mode is sent to the lost device. Initiating lost mode
      includes locking the lost device and suppressing select functionality. The message and
      contact information are displayed and the lost device is enabled to contact the requesting user
      using the contact information. The lost device can also collect and transmit location data to
      the requesting user. The location data can be presented on a map indicating the lost devices
      location and the time the lost device was at the location. The location data can be scheduled
      to be resent to the user based on numerous factors such as a set schedule, rules or heuristic.

    SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REMOTELY INITIATING LOST MODE ON A
                                      COMPUTING DEVICE
                                         BACKGROUND
         I.      Technical Field
 [00011 The present disclosure relates to computing devices and, more specifically, to
 remotely initiating a lost mode on a computing device.
         2.      Introduction
 [00021 Modern advances in computing devices has resulted in smaller, more powerful and
wirelessly networked computing devices that can be easily carried by users at all times. As a
result, these devices are relied on greatly by their owners and often are trusted to carry their
owner's personal and sensitive information. Along with the great power and convenience of
these devices also comes a high price tag.
 [0003] Naturally, theft of such devices has increased as thieves are attracted to the high price
and high demand for such computing devices as well as the possibility to steal personal
information of the owner of the computing device. The high price and demand of a
computing device can also tempt a non-thief that finds a lost computing device to keep the
device rather than search for its rightful owner. Alternatively, a person that finds a lost device
and intends to return in may find it difficult to locate the owner.
 [0004] Current systems attempt to address these problems by providing the location of the
device to an owner of a lost device, however, these types of systems do not help a person that
finds the lost device return it to its owner. Other systems allow the lost device to be locked to
deter theft. Although effective, the lock also makes it even more difficult for a person that
finds the device to determine who is the owner of the device because the information on the
                                                 1

device cannot be accessed. Leaving the device unlocked increases the likelihood that the identity of
the owner can be ascertained, however it also increases the likelihood that the device will not be
returned and leaves and personal or sensitive data stored on the lost device unprotected. Accordingly,
there is a need for an improved system for locating a lost computing device that allows the owner of
the computing device to protect the personal or sensitive data on the computing device while also
making it easy for a person that finds the computing device to return the computing device to its
owner.
                                                SUMMARY
[0004A] In a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method comprising: receiving, at
a computing device, a command initiating a lost mode on the computing device, the command
including request data, the request data including a password defined by a requesting user, where the
command is sent by a server computer that is configured to initiate and terminate the lost mode in
response to a request from a requesting device; and initiating the lost mode, comprising: responsive
to the command: suppressing select functionality of the computing device; and transmitting, to the
server computer, first location data identifying a first geographic location of the computing device
and including a time at which the computing device was at the first geographic location; determining
that a first condition has been satisfied, the first condition being at least one of: i) that the computing
device has traveled beyond a threshold distance from the first geographic location, or ii) that a
predetermined amount of time has passed since the time at which the computing device was at the
first geographic location; responsive to the determining, transmitting, to the server computer, second
location data identifying a second geographic location of the computing device and including a time
at which the computing device was at the second geographic location; determining that a second
condition has been satisfied, the second condition being at least one of: i) that the computing device
has traveled beyond a threshold distance from the second geographic location, or ii) that a
predetermined amount of time has passed since the time at which the computing device was at the
second geographic location; responsive to the determining, transmitting, to the server computer, third
location data identifying a third geographic location of the computing device; receiving, at the
computing device, the password; and upon authentication of the password, restoring the select
functionality of the computing device.
                                                      2

 [0004B] In a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a computing device comprising:
 a positioning system; a wireless transceiver; one or more processors coupled to the positioning
 system and the wireless transceiver; memory coupled to the one or more processors and configured to
 store instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more
processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a command initiating a lost mode on the
 computing device, the command including request data, the request data including a password
 defined by a requesting user, where the command is sent by a server computer that is configured to
 initiate and terminate the lost mode in response to a request from a requesting device; and initiating
the lost mode, comprising responsive to the command: suppressing select functionality of the
computing device; and transmitting to the server computer first location data identifying a first
geographic location of the computing device and including a time at which the computing device was
at the first geographic location; determining that a first condition has been satisfied, the first condition
being at least one of: i) that the computing device has traveled beyond a threshold distance from the
first geographic location; or ii) that a predetermined amount of time has passed since the time at
which the computing device was at the first geographic location; responsive to the determining,
transmitting to the server computer, second location data identifying a second geographic location of
the computing device and including a time at which the computing device was at the second
geographic location; determining that a second condition has been satisfied, the second condition
being at least one of: i) that the computing device has traveled beyond a threshold distance from the
second geographic location, or ii) that a determined amount of time has passed since the time at
which the computing device was at the second geographic location; responsive to the determining,
transmitting, to the server computer, third location data identifying a third geographic location of the
computing device; receiving a password at the computing device; and upon authentication of the
password, restoring the select functionality of the computing device.
  [0004C] Disclosed herein but not claimed is a method comprising: receiving, by a server computer, a
request to initiate lost mode from a requesting device; determining, by the server computer, if a user
of the requesting device is authorized to initiate lost mode on the computing device based on
authenticating information received from the requesting device; upon determining that the user is
authorized: transmitting a command to the computing device placing the computing device into lost
mode; receiving a last geographic location from the computing device; determining that the
                                                    2A

requesting device is unavailable; and storing the last geographic location in a database of the server
computer.
         [0004D] Also disclosed herein but not claimed is a server computer comprising: one or more
processors; memory coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions,
which when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform
operations comprising: receiving a request to initiate lost mode from a requesting device; determining
if a user of the requesting device is authorized to initiate lost mode on the computing device based on
authenticating information received from the requesting device; upon determining that the user is
authorized: transmitting a command to the computing device placing the computing device into lost
mode; receiving a last geographic location from the computing device; determining that the
requesting device is unavailable; and storing the last geographic location in a database of the server
computer.
         [0005] Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description
which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or can be learned by practice of the
herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and
obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended
claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the
following description and appended claims, or can be learned by the practice of the principles set
forth herein.
         [0006] Disclosed are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media
for remotely initiating lost mode on a computing device. A requesting user can request that lost mode
be initiated on a lost computing device. The request can be made on a requesting device in network
communication with a server configured to communicate with the lost device. The request can
include request data such as a message, contact information and password. The request data can be
provided by the requesting user when requesting that lost mode be initiated on the lost device. A
requesting user can be required to enter authenticating
                                                    2B

 information to ensure that the requesting user is authorized to request that lost mode be
 initiated on the lost device.
 [0007] Upon a request being made by a requesting user and the requesting user being
 authenticated, the server can be configured to send a command, including the request data, to
 the lost device to initiate lost mode on the lost device. Initiating lost mode can include
 locking the lost device and suppressing select functionality of the lost device so that the
 functionality of the lost device as well as data and applications stored on the lost device
 cannot be accessed by an unauthorized user.
 [0008] Additionally, the message and contact information provided by the requesting user
 can be displayed on the user device to alert a person who finds the lost device on how to
contact the requesting user. A user interface element, such as a button, can also be presented
and configured to enable the lost device to contact the requesting user by using the provided
contact information. For example, a lost device such as a smart phone can be enabled to
make an outbound call to a phone number provided by a requesting user as their contact
information, while outbound calls to all other numbers is restricted. A person who finds the
phone can thus easily contact the requesting user while all other functionality of the lost
device and data stored thereon are protected.
 [0009] When lost mode is initiated, the lost device can also be configured to collect and
transmit location data identifying the location of the lost device to the requesting user. The
location data can be presented on a map indicating the lost devices location as well as the
time when the lost device was at the location. The location data can be scheduled to be resent
to the user based on numerous factors such as a set schedule, rules or heuristics.
                                               3

                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010] In order to describe the manner in which the above-recited and other advantages and
features of the disclosure can be obtained, a more particular description of the principles
briefly described above will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof, which
are illustrated in the appended drawings.      Understanding that these drawings depict only
exemplary embodiments of the disclosure and are not therefore to be considered to be
limiting of its scope, the principles herein are described and explained with additional
specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings in which:
[0011] FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary system embodiment;
[0012] FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a general purpose computing
environment wherein a user can remotely initiate lost mode on a user device;
[0013] FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary method embodiment of remotely initiating lost mode
on a lost device;
[0014] FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary method embodiment of initiating lost mode on the lost
device;
[0015] FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary method embodiment of transmitting information data
to the requesting user;
[0016] FIG. 6 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary interface configured to authenticate a
requesting user;
[00171 FIG. 7 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary interface configured to receive a
password from the requesting user;
[0018] FIG. 8 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary interface wherein a requesting user
can enter contact information;
                                                4

[0019] FIG. 9 illustrates a screenshot of exemplary embodiment of an interface wherein a
requesting user can enter a message;
[00201 FIG. 10 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of a lost device after
lost mode has been initiated;
 [0021] FIG. 11 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of a lost device after
lost mode has been initiated;
 [00221 FIG. 12 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of location data being
presented; and
 [0023] FIG. 13 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of location data being
presented.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0024] Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific
implementations are discussed, it should be understood that this is done for illustration
purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and
configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.
 [0025] With reference to FIG. 1, an exemplary system 100 includes a general-purpose
computing device 100, including a processing unit (CPU or processor) 120 and a system bus
 110 that couples various system components including the system memory 130 such as read
only memory (ROM) 140 and random access memory (RAM) 150 to the processor 120. The
system 100 can include a cache 122 of high speed memory connected directly with, in close
proximity to, or integrated as part of the processor 120. The system 100 copies data from the
memory 130 and/or the storage device 160 to the cache 122 for quick access by the processor
                                                5

120. In this way, the cache 122 provides a performance boost that avoids processor 120
delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to
control the processor 120 to perform various actions.     Other system memory 130 may be
available for use as well. The memory 130 can include multiple different types of memory
with different performance characteristics.    It can be appreciated that the disclosure may
operate on a computing device 100 with more than one processor 120 or on a group or cluster
of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability.          The
processor 120 can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software
module, such as module 1 162, module 2 164, and module 3 166 stored in storage device
160, configured to control the processor 120 as well as a special-purpose processor where
software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor 120
may essentially be a completely self-contained computing system, containing multiple cores
or processors, a bus, memory controller, cache, etc.        A multi-core processor may be
symmetric or asymmetric.
[0026] The system bus 110 may be any of several types of bus structures including a
memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of
bus architectures. A basic input/output (BIOS) stored in ROM 140 or the like, may provide
the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing
device 100, such as during start-up.     The computing device 100 further includes storage
devices 160 such as a hard disk drive, a magnetic disk drive, an optical disk drive, tape drive
or the like.   The storage device 160 can include software modules 162, 164, 166 for
controlling the processor 120. Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The
storage device 160 is connected to the system bus 110 by a drive interface. The drives and
                                                6

the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer
readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computing
device 100. In one aspect, a hardware module that performs a particular function includes
the software component stored in a non-transitory computer-readable medium in connection
with the necessary hardware components, such as the processor 120, bus 110, output device
 170, and so forth, to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of
skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device,
such as whether the device 100 is a small, handheld computing device, a desktop computer,
or a computer server.
 [0027] Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs a storage device 160,
it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable
media which can store data that are accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes,
flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, cartridges, random access memories (RAMs) 150,
read only memory (ROM) 140, a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like,
may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.            Non-transitory computer
readable    storage  media expressly     exclude media      such as energy,   carrier signals,
electromagnetic waves, and signals per se.
 [0028] To enable user interaction with the computing device 100, an input device 190
represents any number of input mechanisms, such as a microphone for speech, a touch
sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input, keyboard, mouse, motion input, speech and so
forth. An output device 170 can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms
known to those of skill in the art. In some instances, multimodal systems enable a user to
provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device 100.             The
                                                7

communications interface 180 generally governs and manages the user input and system
output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and
therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or
firmware arrangements as they are developed.
 [0029] For clarity of explanation, the illustrative system embodiment is presented as
including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a "processor" or
processor 120. The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of
either shared or dedicated hardware, including, but not limited to, hardware capable of
executing software and hardware, such as a processor 120, that is purpose-built to operate as
an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor.         For example the
functions of one or more processors presented in FIG. 1 may be provided by a single shared
processor or multiple processors. (Use of the term 'processor" should not be construed to
refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software.) Illustrative embodiments may
include microprocessor and/or digital signal processor (DSP) hardware, read-only memory
(ROM) 140 for storing software performing the operations discussed below, and random
access memory (RAM) 150 for storing results. Very large scale integration (VLSI) hardware
embodiments, as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP
circuit, may also be provided.
 [0030] The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as: (1) a
sequence   of computer     implemented steps, operations,     or procedures running on a
programmable circuit within a general use computer, (2) a sequence of computer
implemented steps, operations, or procedures running on a specific-use programmable
circuit; and/or (3) interconnected    machine modules or program engines within the
                                               8

programmable circuits.     The system 100 shown in FIG. 1 can practice all or part of the
recited methods, can be a part of the recited systems, and/or can operate according to
instructions in the recited non-transitory computer-readable storage media.     Such logical
operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor 120 to
perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example,
FIG. 1 illustrates three modules Modl 162, Mod2 164 and Mod3 166 which are modules
configured to control the processor 120. These modules may be stored on the storage device
160 and loaded into RAM 150 or memory 130 at runtime or may be stored as would be
known in the art in other computer-readable memory locations.
[0031] Having disclosed some components of a computing system, the disclosure now turns
to FIG. 2, which illustrates a general purpose computing environment 200 wherein a user can
remotely initiate lost mode on a user device. As illustrated, multiple computing devices can
be connected to a communication network and be configured to communicate with each
other through use of the communication network. The communication network 210 can be
any type of network, including a local area network ("LAN"), such as an intranet, a wide area
network ("WAN"), such as the internet, or any combination thereof.              Further, the
communication network 210 can be a public network, a private network, or a combination
thereof. The communication network can also be implemented using any type or types of
physical media, including wired communication paths and wireless communication paths
associated with one or more service providers. Additionally, the communication network
210 can be configured to support the transmission of messages formatted using a variety of
protocols.
                                               9

[0032] Multiple computing devices can be connected to the communication network. A
computing device can be any type of general computing device capable of network
communication with other computing devices. For example, the computing device can be a
personal computing device such as a desktop or workstation, a business server, or a portable
computing device, such as a laptop, smart phone, or a post-pc device. The computing device
can include some or all of the features, components, and peripherals of computing device 100
of FIG. 1. To facilitate communication with other computing devices, the computing device
can also include a communication interface configured to receive a communication, such as a
request, data, etc., from another computing device in network communication with the
computing device and pass the communication along to an appropriate module running on
the computing device. The communication interface can also be configured to send a
communication to another computing device in network communication with the computing
device.
[0033] As illustrated in FIG. 2, the exemplary system includes three computing devices in
network communication with each other, a lost user device 205, a Find My Device (FMD)
server 215 and a requesting user device 220. The system illustrated in FIG. 2 can be
configured to remotely initiate lost mode on the lost user device 205. The requesting user
device 220 can be configured to communicate with the FMD server215 to create a request to
initiate lost mode on the lost device 205.
[0034] The FMD server 215 can be configured to receive a request to initiate lost mode on
the lost user device 205 and send a command to the lost user device 205 to initiate lost mode.
As illustrated, the FMD server 215 can contain a number of components. The components
can include one or more databases for storing data relevant to the operation of the FMD
                                              10

server 215, e.g. an account database 225 and a location database 230; and one or more
modules or interfaces for interacting with the databases and/or controlling the features
provided by the FMD server 215, e.g., an authentication module 235, a request module 240
and a location module 245. Each of these components is discussed in more detail below,
however, it should be understood to one skilled in the art that the configuration illustrated is
simply one possible configuration and that other configurations, with more or less
components, are possible.
[00351 The FMD server 215 can include an account database 225 configured to store a user
profile for each of a plurality of users. A user's profile can include a variety of information
about the user, for example the information can include a user name, password, a list of all
computing devices owned by the user, an identifier for each computing device owned by the
user, user specified preferences, contact information, demographic information, etc.
 [0036] The FMD server 215 can also include an authentication module 235, configured to
communicate with the account database 225 and authenticate that the user requesting to
initiate lost mode on the lost user device 205 has permission to make the request. To properly
authenticate a requesting user, the authentication module 235 can be configured to prompt
the requesting user to enter authenticating information, such as a user name and password. To
confirm that the authenticating information received from the requesting user is correct, the
authentication module 235 can be configured to communicate with the account database 225
to confirm that the given user name and password match a user profile in the account
database 225. If the given user name and password matches a user profile stored in the
account database 225, the requesting user can be authenticated as having permission to
request that lost mode be initiated on any of the computing device associated with the user's
                                               11

profile. Although user name and password are used as an example, one skilled in the art
would recognize that any variety of authenticating information can be requested from the
user, including personal information or answers to predetermined security questions.
[00371 The FMD server 215 can also include a request module 240 configured to allow a
user to request that lost mode be initiated on the lost user device 205. The request module
240 can be configured to provide the requesting user with an interface to create the request
that lost mode be initiated on the lost user device 205. The interface can also be configured to
receive request data from the requesting user. For example, request data can include an
identifier identifying the lost user device. The identifier can be any type of identifier which
can identify the lost user device. For example, if the lost user device 205 is a smart phone,
the identifier can include a phone number associate with the device. Alternatively, the
identifier can include a unique name or ID associated with the device. In some embodiments,
an authenticated requesting user can be presented with a list of all user devices listed in the
user's profile, and the requesting user can select which user device is lost.
[0038] In addition to the identifier, the request data can also include contact information.
Contact information can include any type of information used to contact the requesting user.
For example, contact information can include a phone number, e-mail address, physical
address, instant messenger handle, website, etc. The request module 240 can be configured to
prompt the requesting user for the contact information. In some embodiments, the request
module 240 can be configured to use information specified in a user's profile data as the
contact information. In some embodiments, the request module 240 can be configured to ask
a requesting user whether the requesting user would like to use the contact information stored
in the user's profile or enter new contact information.
                                                12

 [0039] The request data can also include a message specified by the requesting user. The
message can be any message specified by the requesting user, which the requesting user
would like to have displayed on the lost device 205. In some embodiments, the message can
be predetermined and stored in the user's profile and the request module 240 can be
configured to allow the requesting user to either use the stored message or create a new one.
 [0040] The request data can also include a password. The password can be any type of
password known to those skilled in the art such as a numeric pin, character password,
gesture, etc. In some embodiments, the password can be preset by the requesting user and the
request module 240 can be configured to allow the requesting user to either use the preset
password or enter a new one.
 [00411 The requesting user can access the FMD server 215 to request that lost mode be
initiated on the lost device 205 by using the requesting device 220 to communicate with the
FMD server 215. For example, in some embodiments, the requesting device 220 can include
a web browser application configured to request access to the FMD server 215 via the
communication network 210. In some embodiments, the authentication module 235 and
request module 240, either entirely or partially can be running on the requesting device 220
and the requesting user can access the modules 235 240 from the requesting device 220 to
create the request.
 [0042] Upon receiving the request, including request data, from the requesting user and
authenticating that the requesting user is authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost device
205, the request module 240 can be configured to send a command, including the received
request data, to the lost device 205 to initiate lost mode. The lost device 205 can be
configured to initiate lock mode on the lost device 205 upon receiving the command.
                                               13

[0043] The FMD server 215 can also include a location module 245 configured to receive
location data from the lost device 205 and transmit the location to the requesting user. The
location data can include data indicating the location of the lost device 205 as well as the
time the lost device 205 was at the location. Once received, the location module 245 can be
configured to transmit the location data to the requesting user in numerous ways. For
example, in some embodiments, the location data can be sent to the requesting device 220.
The location module 245 can determine whether the requesting device 220 is available, and if
available, send the location date. If the requesting device 220 is not available, the location
module can be configured to store the location data in a location database 230 on the FMD
server 215 until the requesting device 220 is available.
[0044] The location data can be presented to the requesting user in numerous ways. In some
embodiments, the location data can be presented to the requesting user on a map that tracks
the movement of the lost device 205. In some embodiments, the location data can be
presented to the requesting user by giving the street address or GPS coordinate of the lost
device 205.
[0045] The location data can also be sent to the requesting user in numerous ways. For
example, in some embodiments the requesting user can log into web interface or application
configured to communicate with the location module 245 to view the location of the lost
device. In some embodiments, the location data can be e-mailed to the owner of the user
device. In some embodiments, the location data can be sent to the requesting device 220 via a
push notification to immediately update the requesting user of the location of the lost device
205.
                                               14

[00461 Although the above examples of sending location data are described, these examples
are not meant to be limiting and are just a few possible embodiments. One skilled in the art
would recognize that there are numerous ways to send and present data.
[00471 The lost device 205 can contain a number of components. The components can
include one or more databases for storing data relevant to the operation of the device and one
or more modules or interfaces for interacting with the databases and/or controlling the
features provided by the lost user device, e.g., a user interface module 255, lost mode module
260, and Find My Device (FMD) module 265. Each of these components is discussed in
more detail below, however, it should be understood to one skilled in the art that the
configuration illustrated is simply one possible configuration and that other configurations,
with more or less components, are possible.
[00481 The lost device 205 can include a user interface module 255 configured to manage the
user interface on the lost device 205. This can include displaying all user interface elements
on the device such as icons, buttons, controls, date, time, notifications, alerts, etc.
[0049] The lost device 205 can also include a FMD module 265 configured to initiate lost
mode on the lost device 205 upon receiving the command to initiate lost mode from the FMD
server 215. For example, in some embodiments, the FMD module 265 can be a daemon
running in the background on the lost device 205 and configured to communicate with the
operating system to initiate applications and modules running on the lost device 205 as well
control hardware components of the lost device 205.
[0050] The FMD module 265 can be configured to receive the command from the FMD
server 215 to initiate lost mode on the lost device 205. Upon receiving the command, the
FMD module 265 can be configured to execute the lost mode module 260. Further, the FMD
                                                15

module 265 can be configured to communicate the request data received from the FMD
server 215 to the lost mode module 260.
[0051] The lost mode module 260 can be configured to run with or as part of the user
interface module 255 to graphically lock the lost device. For example, the lost mode module
260 can be a plug-in application configured to communicate with the user interface module
255 through use of an Application Programming Interface (API) provided by the user
interface module 255. The lost mode module 260 can be configured to instruct the user
interface module 255 to lock the lost device 205 and to suppress functionality of the lost
device 205. For example, the lost mode module 260 can instruct the user interface module
255 that certain user interface elements are not to be displayed on the lost device 205. For
example, the lost mode module 260 can instruct the user interface module 255 to suppress all
user interface elements that would allow access to data and/or applications on the lost device
205 and thus render the device in a useless locked state. Further, the lost mode module 260
can instruct the user interface module 255 to suppress other features such as presenting
notifications on the lost device 205. Although presenting the notification is suppressed, the
lost device 205 can still be enabled to receive data which would normally trigger the
notification being presented.
[0052] The lost mode module 260 can also instruct the user interface module to present the
contact information and message received from the FMD server 215.
[0053] In addition to presenting the contact information, the lost mode module 260 can also
be configured to instruct the user interface module 255 to present a user interface element on
the lost device 205 that is enabled with the limited functionality to allow the lost device 205
to contact the requesting user using the contact information. For example, if the lost device
                                               16

205 is a smart phone and the provided contact information is a phone number, the lost mode
module 260 can be configured to instruct the user interface module 255 to present the contact
number and provide a user interface element which enables the smart phone the limited
functionality of making outbound phone calls to the provided contact number, while
outbound calls to all other numbers are prohibited. Thus, if the smart phone is found, a Good
Samaritan can easily contact the owner of the device by simply selecting the user interface
element to be connected to the provided contact number. Alternatively, the contact
information can be an e-mail address and the user interface element can allow the user to
compose and send an e-mail to the owner of the device at the e-mail address provided.
[00541 In addition to executing the lost mode module 260, in some embodiments, the FMD
module 265 can also be configured to transmit location data to the requesting user. For
example, the FMD module 265 can be configured to collect location data from a GPS
component of the lost device 205 and periodically send the location data to the requesting
user. The location data can be any type of data that can identify the location of the lost
device. For example, the location data can be GPS coordinates, a street address, etc. In
addition, the location data can include the time that the lost device was at the specified
location. For example, the FMD module 265 can be configured to receive the time from an
internal clock running on the lost device 205.
[0055] In some embodiments, the FMD module 265 can be configured to send the location
data to the FMD server 215 which then sends the location data to the requesting user. In
some embodiments, the FMD module 265 sends the location data to the requesting device
220. In some embodiments, the FMD module determines whether the requesting device 220
is available to receive the location data, and if so, send the location data to the requesting
                                               17

device 220, but if the requesting device is not available, the FMD module 265 sends the
location data to the FMD server 215. In some embodiments, the FMD module 265 sends the
location data to a personal account associated with the requesting user, such as the requesting
user's e-mail account. Although the above examples of sending location data to a requesting
user are described, these are just possible embodiment and are not meant to be limiting. One
skilled in the art would recognize that the location information can be sent to the requesting
user in numerous other ways.
[0056] The FMD module 265 can be configured to schedule transmission of the location data
in numerous ways. For example, in some embodiments, the FMD module 265 can be
configured to send the location data in set time intervals such as every 10 minutes, 30
minutes, I hour, etc. In some embodiments, the location data can be sent based on a heuristic
that determines when the requesting user would want the location data sent. For example, the
heuristic can conclude that based on the lost device making a significant movement in
location, the requesting user would want to be updated of the new location of the lost device
205. Alternatively, the heuristic can determine that the requesting user would like to be
updated about the location of the lost device based on the time of day, for example first thing
in the morning when the requesting user is likely waking up. In some embodiments, the
heuristic can determine that the requesting user would want messages sent less frequently, for
example when the battery is running low and sending location data less frequently will
preserve the battery life and enable the lost device 205 to be tracked as long as possible.
[0057] To terminate lost mode on the lost device 205, the lost mode module 260 can be
configured to instruct the user interface module 255 to present a prompt for a password to be
entered. If the proper password is entered, the FMD module can be configured to terminate
                                                18

the lost mode module 260, thus returning the user interface module 255 to its regular
functionality. The lost device 205 can be unlocked and all suppressed functionality can be
restored. Further, the FMD module 265 can stop collecting and sending location data to the
requesting user.
[0058] In some embodiments, lost mode can be terminated remotely. For example, the lost
device 205 can receive a command from the requesting user that lost mode be terminated.
The command can include the password or require the password be entered prior to being
sent. In some embodiments, the command can be received from the FMD server 215. In
some embodiments, the command can be received from the requesting device 220.
[0059] FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary method embodiment of remotely initiating lost mode
on a lost device. As illustrated, the method begins with a request being received by the server
to initiate lost mode on a lost device 305. The request can inform the server that the lost
device is lost and that the requesting user would like to initiate lost mode on the lost device.
Additionally, the request can include request data such as a device identifier, contact
information, message and password. The device identifier can be any type of data that can
identify the lost device such as a phone number, UUID, device name, etc.
[00601 The request data can also include contact information and a message provided by the
requesting user to be displayed on the lost device. The contact information can be any
information identifying how the requesting user can be contacted. For example, the contact
information can be a phone number and be accompanied with the message, "Please call this
number if found." Alternatively, the contact information can be an e-mail address and be
accompanied with the message, "Please e-mail me at this address if you find this device."
                                               19

[0061] In some embodiments, the request data can also include a password. For example, the
requesting user can set a password that, upon lost mode being initiated on the lost device, can
be used to terminate lost mode and return the lost device to regular functionality.
[0062] The requesting user can request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device in
numerous ways. For example, in some embodiments, the requesting user can log into a
website configured to prompt a requesting user for request data and send a request that lost
mode be initiated on the lost device. In some embodiments, the requesting user can use an
application running on a requesting device in network communication with the server to
request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device. The application can be configured to
prompt the user for request data used to create the request.
[00631 Upon receiving the request at the server, the method continues to block 310 where the
server determines whether the requesting user is authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost
device. To accomplish this, the server can require that the requesting user enter
authentication information. For example, the requesting user can be prompted to enter a user
name and password associated with the lost device. Alternatively, the requesting user can be
prompted to answer predetermined authentication questions. For example, the authentication
questions can ask for personal information associated with the known owner of the lost
device such as the owner's social security number, or mother's maiden name, etc.
[0064] If it is determined that the requesting user is not authorized to initiate lost mode on
the lost device, the method can proceed to block 315 wherein the server sends the requesting
user a message that the requesting user is not authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost
device and the method ends.
                                               20

[0065] If it is determined that the requesting user is authorized to initiate lost mode on the
user device, the method continues to block 320 wherein a command is sent to the lost device
instructing the lost device to initiate lost mode. The command can include the request data
received in the request to initiate lost mode, such as the contact info, message, password, etc.
An exemplary method of lost mode being initiated by the lost device is illustrated in FIG. 4
and explained in detail below.
[00661 The method illustrated in FIG. 3 then determines whether location data is received
from the lost device 325. Location data can be any type of data that describes the location of
the lost device. For example, location data can include the global positioning system (GPS)
coordinates of the lost device or the street address of the lost device.
[0067] If no location data is received from the lost device, the method ends. If location data
is received, the server can send the location data to the requesting user 330.
[00681 FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary method embodiment of initiating lost mode on the lost
device. As illustrated the method begins at block 405 when a command is received at the lost
device to initiate lost mode. The command can be received from a server that has
authenticated the requesting user as being authorized to request that lost mode be initiated on
the lost device. The command can include request data such as contact information, a
message and a password.
[0069] After receiving the command, the method then continues to block 410 wherein the
lost device locks itself from use. For example, this can include presenting a lock screen that
is void of any UI elements that provide access to functionality of the lost device or any data
or applications stored on the user device. In some embodiments, the lost device can also be
locked so that data stored on the lost device cannot be accessed from another computing
                                                21

device connected to lost device. For example, if the lost device is a smart phone connected to
a desktop computer, the smart phone can be locked so that the files stored on the smart phone
cannot be accessed by the desktop computer. Locking the lost device can protect the lost
device and the data stored thereon from being accessed by an unauthorized user.
[0070] Upon locking the lost device, the method next suppresses select functionality 415 of
the lost device. This can include functionality that enables use of the lost device or presents
information meant for the owner of the lost device. For example, functionality such as
notifications and alerts displayed on the lost device can be suppressed so that information
intended for the owner of the lost device cannot be viewed by an unauthorized user. In some
embodiments, any external buttons of the lost device can be suppressed to prevent the user
from accessing functionality of the lost device. In some embodiments, the functionality to
turn the lost device off can be suppressed to prevent a thief from prohibiting the lost device
from sending location information. Further functionality that can be can suppressed can
include outgoing calls, voice command functionality, camera, video camera, microphone,
power, etc. Although only the above examples are given, they are only a few possible
embodiments and are not meant to be limiting. One skilled in the art would recognize that
any functionality of the lost device can be suppressed.
[0071] Once the lost device is locked 410 and functionality is suppressed 415, the method
continues to block 420 wherein the lost device transmits location data to the requesting user.
The location data can be any data that identifies the location of the lost device. For example,
the location data can be the GPS coordinates of the lost device.
[0072] FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary method embodiment of transmitting information data
to the requesting user. As illustrated the method begins by collecting location data and the
                                               22

time 505 the location data was collected. For example, the lost terminal can include a GPS
device capable of communicating with a GPS satellite to receive the GPS coordinates of the
lost device. The lost device can collect the location data directly from the GPS device.
Alternatively, in some embodiments, the GPS device can periodically store the location data
in a database on the lost device and the location can be collected from the database. The time
the location data was collected can be gathered from an internal clock running on the lost
device. In some embodiments, the time can be received from the GPS satellite the location
GPS coordinates of the lost device are received from the satellite.
 [0073] After collecting the location data and the associated time, the method determines
whether the requesting device is available 510 to receive the location data. The requesting
device can be available if the requesting device is in a state that allows data to be received at
the requesting device from the lost device. For example, in some embodiments the requesting
device is available if the requesting device is in network communication with the lost device.
In some embodiments, the requesting device is available if the requesting device is logged
into or running an application configured to receive and present the location data. If the
requesting device is available, the lost device can transmit the location data to the requesting
device 515. If the requesting deice is not available, the lost device can transmit the location
data to the server 520 where it can be stored until the requesting device is available or until
the requesting device accesses it from the server.
[0074] After the location data has been transmitted, the method can determine whether a
transmission condition has been triggered 525. A transmission condition can be a condition
that, when met, instructs the lost device to transmit the location data to the requesting user. In
some embodiments, the transmission condition can be triggered upon a predetermined
                                                23

amount of time passing since the last time location data was transmitted. For example the
transmission condition can be triggered upon an hour passing from the last time location data
was transmitted.
[0075] In some embodiments, the transmission condition can be triggered upon the lost
device making a significant change in location from the last transmitted location. For
example, if the transmission condition can be triggered if the lost device travels a mile or
more from the previously transmitted location.
[00761 The examples given of when a transmission condition can be triggered are just
example embodiments and not meant to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art would
recognize that the disclosed system can be configured in any way know in the art.
[00771 If it is determined that a transmission condition has been triggered, the method can
return to block 505. If a transmission condition is not triggered, the method can end.
[0078] Returning to FIG.4, upon transmitting the location data, the method can then continue
to block 425 wherein the contact information and the message are displayed on the lost
device. For example, the contact information can be a phone number associated with the
requesting user and the message can state "please call this number if you find this device."
This allows a Good Samaritan who finds the lost device to be able to easily contact the
requesting user.
[0079] The method can also display a user interface element 430 that, if selected 435,
enables the lost device to contact the requesting user at the given contact information 440.
For example, if the lost device is a cellular phone and the contact information is a telephone
number, a user interface element can be displayed on the lost device that, upon selection,
enables the lost device to make an outbound call to the phone number specified as the contact
                                               24

information. This allows a Good Samaritan to easily contact the requesting user to contact
from the lost device itself by simply pressing a single button. Although the user interface
element is configured to enable suppressed functionality, such as making an outbound call,
the enabled functionality can be limited to the given contact information. For example, a lost
smart phone can be enabled to only make a call to the phone number provided by the
requesting user.
 [00801 A requesting user can choose to terminate lost mode on the lost device by entering a
password. The method can determine whether the password has been entered 445, and if so
terminate lost mode 450. Terminating lost mode can include removing the lock on the lost
device and restoring all suppressed functionality of the lost device. In some embodiments,
the password can be entered on the lost device itself. In some embodiments, the password
can be entered remotely, for example on a requesting device in communication with the
server, and a command that the password has been entered can be sent to the lost device.
 [0081] FIG. 6 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary interface configured to authenticate a
requesting user. As illustrated, a requesting user can be prompted to enter a user name 605
and password 610 into the interface. A sign in button 615 can also be presented and
configured to, upon selection, submit the requesting user's entered user name 605 and
password 610. The submitted user name and password can be compared to records in a user
database to authenticate the requesting user. If the provided user name 605 and password 610
are a match with the stored records, the requesting user can be authenticated.
 [0082] FIG. 7 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary interface configured to receive a
password from the requesting user. As illustrated, the requesting user can enter the password
using the keypad provided. In some embodiments, this interface can be configured to receive
                                               25

an predetermined password to authenticate a requesting user. In some embodiments, the
interface can be configured to receive a new password from an already authenticated
requesting user. The new password can be used to unlock the lost device after lost mode has
been initiated on the lost device.
[00831 FIG. 8 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary interface wherein a requesting user
can enter contact information. The contact information can be included as part of a request to
initiate lost mode on a lost device. The contact information can be displayed on the lost
device so that, if found, the requesting user can be contacted. As illustrated, the requesting
user can enter contact information 805, such as a phone number, using a provided keypad
810. The user interface can also include a next button 815 configured to receive the contact
information 805 entered by the requesting user and direct the user to the interface illustrated
in FIG. 9.
[00841 FIG. 9 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of an interface wherein a
requesting user can enter a message. The message can be included as part of a request to
initiate lost mode on a lost device. The message can be displayed on the lost device upon lost
mode being initiated. As illustrated, the interface can provide the user with a message input
field 905 configured to receive the message from the requesting user. Although not
illustrated, a requesting user can enter the message using a keyboard or other input device.
The interface can also include a done button 910 that is configured to complete the request to
initiate lost mode on the lost device. Upon selection of the done button, the entered message
as well as any other request data such as a password and contact information, can be
assembled into a request to initiate lost mode on a lost device and sent to the server.
                                               26

Alternatively, the done button can automatically send a command directly to the lost device
to initiate lost mode using the included request data.
 [00851 FIG. 10 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of a lost device after
lost mode has been initiated. As illustrated, the lost device has been locked and is void of all
user interface elements that would allow access to functionality of the lost device or data or
applications stored on the user device. The lost device can display the message 1005 alerting
any person who finds the lost device that it has been lost and to please call the requesting
user. Further, the requesting user's contact information 1010 can also be displayed. The
illustrated embodiment also allows a user to enter a password which, if entered correctly,
unlocks the lost device and terminates lost mode, thus restoring the lost device to its regular
function state.
[0086] FIG. I1 illustrates a screenshot of a different exemplary embodiment of a lost device
after lost mode has been initiated. Similar to the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 10, the lost
device can be locked and the message 1105 and contact information 1110 can be displayed to
alert any person that finds the lost device that the device is lost and to please contact the
requesting user.
[0087] Additionally, a user interface element 1115 can be included which enables the lost
device to contact the requesting user using the contact information. As illustrated, the user
interface element can be a button tittle "Tap here to Call Owner" which is configured to
contact the requesting user upon selection. While the user interface element is configured to
allow the lost device make an outbound call to the given contact information phone number,
outbound calls cannot be made to any other phone numbers, nor is any other locked or
suppressed functionality enabled.
                                                27

 [0088] This embodiment also includes a slide to unlock button 1120 rather than the password
interface 1015 of FIG. 10. This is just another possible embodiment and the slide to unlock
button 1120 can be configured to bring up another page wherein the user is prompted to enter
a password to unlock the lost device.
 [0089] FIG. 12 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of location data being
presented. As illustrated, the location data 1205 can be presented as a dot over a map to
illustrate the location of the device. Further, an info box 1210 can be presented with the dot
that displays the time the location data was collected. As illustrated, the lost device was
determined to be at the identified location one minute prior to the location data being
presented.
 [0090] FIG. 13 illustrates a screenshot of an exemplary embodiment of location data being
presented. As illustrated multiple location data points 1305 1310 1315 1320 can be displayed
as dots on a map to illustrate the movement of the lost device. The location data points can be
connected by a line to display the path of the lost device and the dots can be different colors
to signify which location data point is the most recent. For example, all previous location
data points can be illustrated in one color, such as green, while the most current data location
point can be illustrate in a different color, such as red. Further, the each location data point
can be configured to display an information box 1325 associated with the location data point
that identifies the time at which the device was at the given location data point. As illustrated,
the lost device was at location data point 1315 16 minutes prior at 11:30 am.
 [0091] The present disclosure recognizes that the use of such personal information data in
the present technology can be used to the benefit of users. For example, the personal
information data can be used to better understand user behavior, facilitate and measure the
                                                28

effectiveness of advertisements, applications, and delivered content. Accordingly, use of
such personal information data enables calculated control of the delivered content. For
example, the system can reduce the number of times a user receives a given ad or other
content and can thereby select and deliver content that is more meaningful to users. Such
changes in system behavior improve the user experience. Further, other uses for personal
information data that benefit the user are also contemplated by the present disclosure.
[00921 The present disclosure further contemplates that the entities responsible for the
collection, analysis, disclosure, transfer, storage, or other use of such personal information
data should implement and consistently use privacy policies and practices that are generally
recognized as meeting or exceeding industry or governmental requirements for maintaining
personal information data private and secure. For example, personal information from users
should be collected for legitimate and reasonable uses of the entity and not shared or sold
outside of those legitimate uses. Further, such collection should occur only after the
informed consent of the users. Additionally, such entities would take any needed steps for
safeguarding and securing access to such personal information data and ensuring that others
with access to the personal information data adhere to their privacy and security policies and
procedures. Further, such entities can subject themselves to evaluation by third parties to
certify their adherence to widely accepted privacy policies and practices.
[0093] Despite the foregoing, the present disclosure also contemplates embodiments in
which users selectively block the use of, or access to, personal information data. That is, the
present disclosure contemplates that hardware and/or software elements can be provided to
prevent or block access to such personal information data. For example, in the case of
advertisement delivery services, the present technology can be configured to allow users to
                                                 29

select to "opt in" or "opt out" of participation in the collection of personal information data
during registration for services. In another example, users can select not to provide location
information for advertisement delivery services. In yet another example, users can configure
their devices or user terminals to prevent storage or use of cookies and other mechanisms
from which personal information data can be discerned. The present disclosure also
contemplates that other methods or technologies may exist for blocking access to their
personal information data.
[0094] Therefore, although the present disclosure broadly covers use of personal information
data to implement one or more various disclosed embodiments, the present disclosure also
contemplates that the various embodiments can also be implemented without the need for
accessing such personal information data. That is, the various embodiments of the present
technology are not rendered inoperable due to the lack of all or a portion of such personal
information data. For example, content can be selected and delivered to users by inferring
preferences based on non-personal information data or a bare minimum amount of personal
information, such as the content being requested by the device associated with a user, other
non-personal information available to the content delivery services, or publicly available
information.
[0095] Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible
and/or non-transitory computer-readable storage media for carrying or having computer
executable instructions or data structures stored thereon.        Such non-transitory computer
readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose
or special purpose computer, including the functional design of any special purpose
processor as discussed above. By way of example, and not limitation, such non-transitory
                                                 30

computer-readable media can include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical
disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium
which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer
executable instructions, data structures, or processor chip design.        When information is
transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection (either
hardwired, wireless, or combination thereof) to a computer, the computer properly views the
connection as a computer-readable medium. Thus, any such connection is properly termed a
computer-readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the
scope of the computer-readable media.
[00961 Computer-executable instructions include, for example, instructions and data which
cause a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or special purpose processing
device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer-executable instructions
also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand-alone or network
environments.     Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data
structures, objects, and the functions inherent in the design of special-purpose processors, etc.
that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.           Computer
executable instructions, associated data structures, and program modules represent examples
of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein.               The
particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents
examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.
[0097] Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may
be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system
configurations, including personal computers, hand-held devices, multi-processor systems,
                                                31

microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers,
mainframe computers, and the like.       Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed
computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices
that are linked (either by hardwired links, wireless links, or by a combination thereof)
through a communications network.         In a distributed computing environment, program
modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
 [0098] Also disclosed herein is a system, comprising: a processor; and memory containing
instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: receive at a lost computing device
an authorized command that lost mode be initiated on the lost computing device, wherein the
authorized command includes contact information associated with a requesting user; and
initiate lost mode on the lost computing device upon receiving the authorized command,
wherein initiating lost mode comprises: locking the lost computing device; suppressing select
functionality of the lost computing device; displaying the contact information on the lost
computing device; and contacting the requesting user based on the contact information
associated with the requesting user.
 [0099] The authorized command can include a message and initiating lost mode further
comprises displaying the message on the lost computing device.
 [00100]        The contact information may be a telephone number and contacting the
requesting user comprises calling the telephone number.
[00101]         The contact information may be an e-mail address and contacting the
requesting user comprises composing and sending an outgoing e-mail to the e-mail address.
                                              32

 [001021         The instructions can further cause the processor to: present a user interface
element configured to enable the lost computing device to contact the requesting user based
on the contact information associated with the requesting user.
 [00103]         Suppressing select functionality may include suppressing notifications and
alerts presented on the lost computing device.
 [001041        The instructions may further cause the processor to: terminate lost mode upon
receiving a correct password, wherein terminating lost mode comprises: unlocking the lost
computing device; restoring suppressed functionality of the lost computing device; and
removing the displayed contact information associated with the requesting user.
 [001051        Also disclosed     herein   is a non-transitory    computer-readable  medium
containing instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing
device to: receive at a lost computing device an authorized command that lost mode be
initiated on the lost computing device, wherein the authorized command includes contact
information associated with a requesting user; and initiate lost mode on the lost computing
device upon receiving the authorized command, wherein initiating lost mode comprises:
locking the lost computing device; suppressing select functionality of the lost computing
device; displaying the contact information on the lost computing device; and contacting the
requesting user based on the contact information associated with the requesting user.
[001061         The instructions can further cause the computing device to: transmit location
data identifying the location of the lost computing device to the requesting user.
[001071         The location data may include a time the lost computing device was at the
identified location.
[00108]         The location data may be transmitted based on a predetermined schedule.
                                               33

[001091         The location data may be transmitted upon a transmitting condition being
triggered.
[00110]         The transmitting condition may be triggered upon the lost computing device
making a significant movement.
[001111         The instructions may further cause the computing device to: terminate lost
mode upon receiving a correct password, wherein terminating lost mode comprises:
unlocking the lost computing device; restoring suppressed functionality of the lost computing
device; and removing the displayed contact information associated with the requesting user.
[00112]         The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration
only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art
will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles
described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and
described herein, and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.
                                              34

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
     1. A method comprising:
         receiving, at a computing device, a command initiating a lost mode on the computing
device, the command including request data, the request data including a password defined
by a requesting user, where the command is sent by a server computer that is configured to
initiate and terminate the lost mode in response to a request from a requesting device; and
         initiating the lost mode, comprising:
                   responsive to the command:
                           suppressing select functionality of the computing device; and
                           transmitting, to the server computer, first location data identifying a
                  first geographic location of the computing device and including a time at
                  which the computing device was at the first geographic location;
                   determining that a first condition has been satisfied, the first condition being at
         least one of: i) that the computing device has traveled beyond a threshold distance
         from the first geographic location, or ii) that a predetermined amount of time has
         passed since the time at which the computing device was at the first geographic
         location;
                  responsive to the determining, transmitting, to the server computer, second
         location data identifying a second geographic location of the computing device and
         including a time at which the computing device was at the second geographic
         location;
                  determining that a second condition has been satisfied, the second condition
        being at least one of: i) that the computing device has traveled beyond a threshold
         distance from the second geographic location, or ii) that a predetermined amount of
        time has passed since the time at which the computing device was at the second
        geographic location;
                  responsive to the determining, transmitting, to the server computer, third
        location data identifying a third geographic location of the computing device;
        receiving, at the computing device, the password; and
        upon authentication of the password, restoring the select functionality of the
computing device.
                                                    is

2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the command includes a message and initiating the
lost mode further comprises displaying the message on the computing device.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the message is configured to enable the computing
device to contact a requesting device.
4.       The method of claim 1, 2, or 3 wherein suppressing select functionality includes
suppressing notifications and alerts presented on the computing device.
5.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first, second, and third location
data is transmitted based on a predetermined schedule.
6.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the computing device having
traveled beyond a threshold distance from at least one of the first geographic location or the
second geographic location represents the computing device having made a significant
change in location relative to the first geographic location or the second geographic location.
7.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the threshold distance is a mile.
8.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein initiating the lost mode comprises
locking the computing device such that at least some data cannot be accessed by an
unauthorized user.
9.      The method of any one of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the command includes
contact information associated with a user of the requesting device and initiating the lost
mode further comprises displaying the contact information on the computing device.
10.     A computing device comprising:
        a positioning system;
        a wireless transceiver;
        one or more processors coupled to the positioning system and the wireless transceiver;
        memory coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions,
which when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to
perform operations comprising:

           receiving a command initiating a lost mode on the computing device, the
command including request data, the request data including a password defined by a
requesting user where the command is sent by a server computer that is configured to
initiate and terminate the lost mode in response to a request from a requesting device;
and
           initiating the lost mode, comprising:
                     responsive to the command:
                             suppressing select functionality of the computing device; and
                             transmitting to the server computer first location data
                    identifying a first geographic location of the computing device and
                    including a time at which the computing device was at the first
                    geographic location;
                     determining that a first condition has been satisfied, the first condition
          being at least one of: i) that the computing device has traveled beyond a
          threshold distance from the first geographic location; or ii) that a
          predetermined amount of time has passed since the time at which the
          computing device was at the first geographic location;
                     responsive to the determining, transmitting to the server computer,
          second location data identifying a second geographic location of the
          computing device and including a time at which the computing device was at
          the second geographic location;
                    determining that a second condition has been satisfied, the second
          condition being at least one of: i) that the computing device has traveled
          beyond a threshold distance from the second geographic location, or ii) that a
          determined amount of time has passed since the time at which the computing
          device was at the second geographic location;
                    responsive to the determining, transmitting, to the server computer,
          third location data identifying a third geographic location of the computing
          device;
          receiving a password at the computing device; and
          upon authentication of the password, restoring the select functionality of the
computing device.

11.      The computing device of claim 10, wherein the command includes a message and
initiating the lost mode further comprises displaying the message on the computing device.
12.      The computing device of claim 11, wherein the message is configured to enable the
computing device to contact a requesting device.
13.      The computing device of claim 10, 11 or 12, wherein suppressing select functionality
includes suppressing notifications and alerts presented on the computing device.
14.      The computing device of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the first, second, and
third location data is transmitted based on a predetermined schedule.
15.      The computing device of any one of claims 10 to 14 wherein the command includes
contact information associated with a user of the requesting device and initiating the lost
mode further comprises displaying the contact information on the computing device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
