WALKWAY INSTALLATION, AS WELL AS A VESSEL WITH SUCH A
WALKWAY INSTALLATION
ABSTRACT
A walkway installation comprising a base (1) intended to be fastened to a support construction,
such as to the deck (5) of a ship (6), as well as a base bridge part (2) that is connected at one end
so it can be rotated around an upright base axis of rotation (11) with the base. Furthermore, a
main bridge part (4) is provided on the other end of the base bridge part (1) as well as a hinge
construction between the base bridge part (1) and the main bridge part (2). The hinge
construction has an upright main axis of rotation (12) and an auxiliary axis of rotation (13)
aligned transversely to the upright main axis of rotation and transversely to the main bridge part.
By rotating the gangplank parts, the installation may be adjusted in a reliable and quick way in
relation to a fixed object or another vessel.

                                                    1
WALKWAY INSTALLATION, AS WELL AS A VESSEL WITH SUCH A
WALKWAY INSTALLATION
[0001]    This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014334997, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0002]    The invention relates to a walkway installation, comprising a base intended to be
fastened to a support construction, such as the deck of a ship, a base bridge part that is
connected to the base at one end so it can rotate around an upright base axis of rotation, a main
bridge part at the other end of the base bridge part as well as a hinge construction between the
base bridge part and the main bridge part, wherein the hinge construction comprises an upright
main axis of rotation and an auxiliary axis of rotation aligned transversely to the upright main
axis of rotation as well as transversely to the main bridge part.
[0003]    Such a walkway installation is known from SU-A-494306. The base bridge part of the
same is rotatable about a vertical axis of rotation and a horizontal axis of rotation in such a way
that the extremity of the same can be positioned next to an object, such as a platform. The
walkway installation may be brought, in the desired rotational position, between a vessel and an
adjacent object by means of cables. Given the vessel must remain at a safe distance from the
object, the base bridge part and the main bridge part must be able to be rotated quite far
outwards. Furthermore, it is necessary to be able to respond quickly with these movements to
the movements of the vessel, in such a way that undesirable impact loads between the main
bridge part and the object can be avoided.
[0004]    The disadvantage of such a known walkway installation is that it is difficult to displace
the walkway installation reliably and at the desired speed. The aim of the invention, therefore,
is to create a walkway installation of the type mentioned above that can better respond to the
mutual movements of, for example, a vessel and an adjacent object. The aim is achieved by the
base bridge part being able to rotate around only the upright base axis of rotation. The walking
surface of the base bridge part may be flat or level, or provided with steps. The walking surface
may run essentially horizontally (at rest), but it is also possible to provide an inclined walking
surface. In the latter case, as an alternative a staircase with step-shaped surface can be applied.

                                                   2
[0005]    In the walkway installation in accordance with the invention, the differences in
movement can be responded to quickly by manipulating the base bridge part around only the
base axis of rotation of the same. After the base bridge part is thus brought into a certain desired
position, the main bridge part can be rotated around the auxiliary axis of rotation so as to bring it
to the desired height in relation to the object to be approached, such as a fixed platform or
another vessel. The main bridge part can also be rotated around the main axis of rotation of the
same. The rotations may be implemented reliably and quickly so that, by a suitable choice of
rotations around the base axis of rotation and the main axis of rotation the desired position, more
or less pointing outwards from the free end of the main bridge part, can be ensured. In setting
the height alignment of the main bridge part around the auxiliary axis of rotation, only the mass
of that main bridge part plays a role. As a result of this, for a certain power of the adjustment
drive, the adjustment of the main bridge part can be done faster, given that the mass of the base
bridge part has no effect on this.
[0006]    The free end of the main bridge part can therefore be positioned precisely on an object
such as a vessel or a quay, platform and similar. With the aim of simplifying the transfer, on the
end of the main bridge part away from the hinge construction, a platform that can be rotated
about an axis of rotation is suspended which is essentially parallel to the auxiliary axis of
rotation. A floating body may be provided on the platform in connection with the transfer from
a small boat or to rescue a person from drowning.
[0007]    The hinge construction may comprise a gangplank intermediate piece or intermediate
platform that operates together via the main axis of rotation with the base bridge part and via the
auxiliary axis of rotation with the main bridge part. The gangplank intermediate piece may be
embodied as a platform, through which the main bridge part and the base bridge part are
connected to each other in such a way that is it possible to walk freely over the entire walkway
installation.
[0008]    To adjust the walkway installation, various drives may be provided. Between the
gangplank intermediate piece and the main bridge part, a main drive, such as a hydraulic
piston/cylinder unit, may be provided to adjust the main bridge part around the main axis of
rotation. Between the gangplank intermediate piece and the main bridge part, an auxiliary drive,
such as one or more hydraulic piston/cylinder mechanisms, may be provided in between to
adjust the main bridge part around the auxiliary axis of rotation. Furthermore, between the base

                                                   3
and the base bridge part, a base drive, such as a hydraulic piston/cylinder mechanism, may be
provided to adjust the base bridge part around the base axis of rotation.
[0009]    In a simple embodiment, the base axis of rotation and the main axis of rotation are
parallel. In particular, the base axis of rotation and the main axis of rotation may be aligned
essentially vertically and the auxiliary axis of rotation may be essentially aligned horizontally.
[0010]    Furthermore, an operating mechanism may be provided, comprising a movement
reference unit to establish relative movements of the free end of the main bridge part in relation
to an object, as well as a control unit for controlling the main drive and/or the auxiliary drive
and/or the base drive on the basis of the control signals given by the movement reference unit.
[0011]    The main bridge part may consist of a single part, but it is also possible to implement
the main bridge part telescopically. The adjustment to the position of the object can also be
achieved by extending/contracting the telescopic main bridge part. Furthermore, the base bridge
part and the main bridge part may both be provided on each side with a barrier. The gangplank
intermediate piece may also be provided with barrier.
[0012]    When the walkway installation is not in use, the various hinge options can be used to
give it a limited volume for storage. To achieve this, the main axis of rotation is preferably
arranged eccentrically in relation to the base bridge part and the main bridge part in such a way
that the base bridge part and the main bridge part can be brought parallel next to each other in a
collapsed condition. In that case, the barrier of the gangplank intermediate piece is essentially
concentric in relation to the main axis of rotation.
[0013]    The walkway installation may be arranged permanently, yet an implementation is also
conceivable in which the walkway installation is mobile or interchangeable. In that case, the
base is preferably implemented with dimensions in accordance with those of the base of an ISO
container, and ISO connectors are attached to the four comers. By means of these connectors,
the walkway installation can be easily fixed to corresponding positions on the deck of a vessel
and similar, or can be removed therefrom after temporary use.

                                                  4
[0014]    The invention further relates to a vessel, comprising a walkway installation such as
described above. The base of the walkway installation may, for example, be attached to the
hull, such as to the deck, the superstructure and similar of the vessel.
[0015]    A walkway installation can also be understood to be a gangplank installation. Such a
walkway installation may exhibit a part that is implemented as a plank.
[0016]    Furthermore, a part in the form of a staircase or also in the form of a plank may be
present.
[0017]    The invention shall be described further using the embodiment represented in the
figures.
[0018]    Fig. 1 shows a perspective view of the walkway installation while in use and in an
extended state.
[0019]    Fig. 2 shows a plan view of Fig. 1.
[0020]    Fig. 3 shows the walkway installation in a collapsed state and in plan view.
[0021]    Fig. 4 shows the walkway installation in a collapsed state in perspective and
accommodated in a container.
[0022]    Fig. 5 shows a longitudinal cross-section through the main bridge part and intermediate
platform.
[0023]    The walkway installation represented in Fig. 1 and 2 consists of the base 1, the base
bridge part 2, the intermediate platform 3 and the main bridge part 4. This walkway installation
is mounted on the deck 5 of an only partially-represented vessel 6. The base bridge part has a
flat walking surface 24 and is swivelled outward somewhat by means of the piston/cylinder
mechanism 7 in relation to the base 1 around the base axis of rotation 11. The intermediate
platform 3 is swivelled with the main bridge part 4 in relation to the base bridge part 2 by means
of the piston/cylinder mechanism 8 around the main axis of rotation 12. The main bridge part 4
is also swivelled up in relation to the platform 3 by means of the piston/cylinder mechanisms 9
around the auxiliary axis of rotation 13. These piston/cylinder mechanisms 9 are, on the one

                                                   5
hand, fastened to the top of the barrier 14 of the intermediate platform 3 and, on the other hand,
to the barrier 10 of the main bridge part 4, and in particular, to the web plates 18 of the same, as
represented in Fig. 4.
[0024]     The main bridge part 4 is a staircase with rotating steps 26 in the represented
illustrative example. Furthermore, the main bridge part 4 is implemented telescopically with the
two parts 15, 16. By extending part 16, together with the aforementioned rotational movements,
the extremity of the walkway installation may be held next to an object, such as the leg 17 of a
platform, for example. As represented in Fig. 5, a platform 22 is mounted onto the free end of
the main bridge part 4 so it can rotate about an axis of rotation 23 transversely onto the main
bridge part. Via the upper surface 25 of the platform 22, which is preferably parallel to the steps
26 and the upper surface of the intermediate platform 3, the transfer from the deck of the vessel,
for example, can be made simply. The platform 22 may also be provided with a floating body
27, which is useful in connection with a transfer close to the surface of the water, such as when
rescuing a person from drowning.
[0025]     Onto the base bridge part 2 and the main bridge part 4, barriers 10 are attached. The
intermediate platform 3 supports a barrier 14 that is concentric in relation to the main axis of
rotation 12. As represented in Fig. 2, the main axis of rotation is arranged eccentrically in
relation to the base bridge part 2 and the main bridge part 4, in such a way that, when the same
are at rest, they can be stored next to each other as represented in Fig. 3 and 4.
[0026]     As represented in Fig. 3 and 4, the barrier 14 of the intermediate platform 3 consists of
two parts 14' and 14". Part 14' is fastened to the main bridge part 4, while part 14" is fastened
to the base bridge part. When the main bridge part 4 rotates in relation to the base bridge part 2,
these parts 14' and 14" are moved alongside each other in such a way that a closed barrier 14 is
still maintained.
[0027]     The base 1 consists of a frame 19 with ISO connectors 20 on the four comers, by
means of which the walkway installation can be connected to the corresponding connectors on
the deck 5 of the vessel 6. However, a different, permanent arrangement is also possible. The
entire walkway installation may be provided with a closed container shell 21 as reproduced in
Fig. 4. When in use, this container shell first has to be removed, after which the walkway
installation can be extended.

                               6
List of reference numbers
1. Base
2. Base bridge part
3. Intermediate platform
4. Main bridge part
5. Deck
6. Vessel
7. Base drive
8. Main drive
9. Auxiliary drive
10. Barrier
11. Base axis of rotation
12. Main axis of rotation
13. Auxiliary axis of rotation
14. Barrier
15. Part of main bridge part
16. Part of main bridge part
17. Object

                                        7
18. Web plate
19. Frame
20. ISO connector
21. Container shell
22. Platform
23. Axis of rotation of platform 22
24. Walking surface of base bridge part
25. Walking surface of platform 22
26. Steps of main bridge part
27. Floating body

                                                     8
CLAIMS
1.     Walkway installation, comprising a base intended to be fastened to a support construction,
such as to the deck of a ship, a base bridge part that is connected with the base at one end so it
can be rotated around an upright base axis of rotation, a main bridge part on the other end of the
base bridge part as well as a hinge construction between the base bridge part and the main
bridge part, wherein the hinge construction comprises an upright main axis of rotation and an
auxiliary axis of rotation aligned transversely to this upright main axis of rotation as well as
transversely to the main bridge part,
       wherein the base is implemented with dimensions in accordance with those of the base of
an ISO container and ISO connectors are attached to the four corners.
2.     Walkway installation according to Claim 1, wherein the walking surface of the base bridge
part is flat or level, or is provided with steps.
3.     Walkway installation according to any one of Claim 1 or 2, wherein at the end of the main
bridge part away from the hinge construction, a platform is suspended so it can rotate around an
axis of rotation that is essentially parallel to the auxiliary axis of rotation as well as a possibly
floating body on the platform.
4.     Walkway installation according to Claim 3, wherein the platform has a walking surface
that is essentially parallel to the walking surface of the base bridge part.
5.     Walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the main
bridge part is implemented as a staircase with rotatable steps which are preferably parallel to the
walking surface of the base bridge part and/or the walking surface of the platform.
6.     Walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the hinge
construction comprises a gangplank intermediate piece or intermediate platforms that works
together via the main axis of rotation with the base bridge part and via the auxiliary axis of
rotation with the main bridge part.
7.     Walkway installation according to Claim 6, wherein a main drive, such as a hydraulic
piston/cylinder unit is provided between the gangplank intermediate piece and the main bridge
part for adjusting the main bridge part around the main axis of rotation.

                                                   9
8.    Walkway installation according to any one of Claim 6 or 7, wherein an auxiliary drive,
such as one or more hydraulic piston/cylinder mechanism is provided between the gangplank
intermediate piece and the main bridge part for adjusting the main bridge part around the
auxiliary axis of rotation.
9.    Walkway installation in accordance with any one of Claims 6-8, wherein a base drive,
such as a hydraulic piston/cylinder mechanism is provided between the base and the base bridge
part for adjusting the base bridge part around the main axis of rotation.
10.   Walkway installation according to any one of Claims 7-9, wherein an operating
mechanism is provided comprising a movement reference unit to establish relative movements
of the free end of the main bridge part in relation to an object, as well as a control unit for
controlling the main drive and/or the auxiliary drive and/or the base drive on the basis of the
control signals given by the movement reference unit.
11.   Walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the base axis
of rotation and the main axis of rotation are parallel and/or the auxiliary axis of rotation is
aligned perpendicular in relation to the base axis of rotation and/or the main axis of rotation.
12.   Walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the base
bridge part and the main bridge part are provided with a barrier on both opposite sides, and/or
the gangplank intermediate piece is provided with a barrier.
13.   Walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the main axis
of rotation is arranged eccentrically in relation to the base bridge part and the main bridge part in
such a way that the base bridge part and the main bridge part can be brought parallel next to
each other in a collapsed condition.
14.   Walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
ISO sized container shell, to be removed before extending the walkway installation.
15.   Vessel comprising a walkway installation according to any one of the preceding claims.

                                                  10
16.    Method of deploying a walkway installation, comprising a base intended to be fastened to
a support construction, such as to the deck of a ship, a base bridge part that is connected with the
base at one end so it can be rotated around an upright base axis of rotation, a main bridge part on
the other end of the base bridge part as well as a hinge construction between the base bridge part
and the main bridge part, wherein the hinge construction comprises an upright main axis of
rotation and an auxiliary axis of rotation aligned transversely to this upright main axis of
rotation as well as transversely to the main bridge part,
       wherein the base is implemented with dimensions in accordance with those of the base of
an ISO container and ISO connectors are attached to the four corners and
       wherein the method is characterised by connecting the ISO connectors to corresponding
connectors on a deck of a vessel or to a container shell.
                                         Kalkman IP B.V.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
