                               A GUIDE VANE ASSEMBLY
 5 Abstract
   Disclosed herein is a guide vane assembly (20) comprising a rig structure (26)
   configurable with a turbine and having an inner portion (30) and an outer portion (32)
   forming extremities thereof, a sail (28) and an actuator assembly. The sail is coupled to
   the rig structure and shaped for presenting a trough to a flow of impinging fluid, the
10 trough having a depth defined from the rig plane.       The sail extends from the outer
   portion towards the inner portion of the rig structure to terminate at an inner edge
   whereat a vent is defined. The fluid impinging on the sail is concentrated at the trough
   and redirected towards the turbine from the vent.
15
   Figure 1
20

WO 2016/209161                 PCT/SG2O1S/050178
                          1/10
                  N-N
               '04
                      too

                                                  1
                                 A GUIDE VANE ASSEMBLY
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   This invention relates generally to a guide vane assembly for use with turbines including
 5 vertical wind turbines.
   Background
   Wind energy has used for powering machinery since ancient times. Since then, the need
   to generate power from greener and renewable sources like the wind has become ever
10 more urgent, and wind turbines have been developed for the production 10 of electrical
   power. In spite of this, wind power has seldom succeeded in commercial terms, owing to
   the variability of the supply of wind over time and geography. Typically, wind turbines
   operating in areas with consistently high wind speeds tend to be the most commercially
   viable, but such sites are rare.
15
   Different wind turbine designs have been developed for use in different scenarios and
   applications. For example, they may be classified according to whether the blades of the
   wind vane rotate about an axis of a shaft which is horizontally or vertically disposed.
   Horizontal axis wind turbines (HAWTs) tend to be more commonly deployed as they
20 tend to be more efficient: this is a result of blade rotation in a direction perpendicular to
   the direction of wind flow so that they receive energy through the entire cycle during
   rotation. However, they suffer various disadvantages, not least in the sheer height, size
   and weight of the towers and the blades, which makes installation, operation and
   maintenance extremely costly. They also need careful positioning into the wind, are
25 unlikely to work well in conditions where the 25 wind is variable in speed and direction.
   Such wind turbines are also potentially disruptive, in the visual sense as well as to
   anything from wildlife, to the transmissions of radio signals.

                                                2
   Vertical axis wind turbines (VAWTs) are inherently less efficient as the blades receive
   energy from the wind for only a part of its rotation cycle during which it is "blown"
   forward. For much of the remaining part of the cycle, the blade rotates in a direction
   substantially against the direction of wind flow. There has been disclosure of use of
 5 guide vanes to better guide the wind flow to the blades to improve efficiency of the
   VAWTs. However, use of guide vanes with a planar surface often results on an amount
   of the wind impinging on the planar surface of the guide vanes being dispersed away
   from the intended direction of flow towards the blades. Therefore, there exists a need for
   a guide vane for addressing the foregoing problems.
10
   Summary
   In accordance with an aspect of the invention, there is disclosed a guide vane assembly
   comprising a rig structure configurable with a turbine and having an inner portion and an
   outer portion forming extremities thereof, a sail and an actuator assembly.        The rig
15 structure defines a rig plane with the inner portion thereof being positioned nearer to the
   turbine than the outer portion. The sail is coupled to the rig structure and shaped for
   presenting a trough to a flow of impinging fluid, the trough having a depth defined from
   the rig plane. The sail extends from the outer portion towards the inner portion of the rig
   structure to terminate at an inner edge whereat a vent is defined. The fluid impinging on
20 the sail is concentrated at the trough and redirected towards the turbine from the vent.
   The actuator assembly is coupled to the rig structure and whereto the portion of the sail
   at the vent is anchored. The actuator assembly is operable for reciprocating the inner
   edge of the sail towards and away from the rig plane for varying the depth of the trough
   at the vent.
25
   In accordance with a second aspect of the invention, there is disclosed a guide vane
   structure comprising a support structure and a plurality of guide vane assemblies. The
   support structure defines a cylindrical hollow with a structure axis extending along the
   longitude thereof      The cylindrical hollow is for receiving a turbine comprising a
30 plurality of rotor blades therewithin with the axis of rotation of the plurality of rotor
   blades substantially coinciding with the structure axis.      The plurality of guide vane
   assemblies are coupled to and along an outer portion of the support structure and are
   spatially distributed about the structure axis.     Each of the plurality of guide vanes

                                                 3
   comprising a rig structure, a sail and an actuator assembly. The rig structure has an inner
   portion and an outer portion forming extremities thereof with the rig structure defining a
   rig plane with the inner portion being positioned nearer to the turbine than the outer
   portion. The sail is coupled to the rig structure and shaped for presenting a trough to a
 5 flow of impinging fluid. The trough has a depth defined from the rig plane with the sail
   extending from the outer portion towards the inner portion of the rig structure to
   terminate at an inner edge whereat a vent is defined. The fluid impinging on the sail
   being concentrated at the trough and redirected towards the turbine from the vent. The
   actuator assembly is coupled to the rig structure and whereto the portion of the sail at the
10 vent is anchored. The actuator assembly is operable for positioning the inner edge of the
   sail one of towards and away from the rig plane for varying the depth of the trough at the
   vent.
15 Brief Description of the Drawings
   FIG. 1 shows an exemplary partial front view of a guide vane assembly in accordance
   with an aspect of the invention for use with an engine;
   FIG. 2 shows a perspective view of the guide vane assembly of FIG. 1;
20
   FIG. 3 shows a partial side sectional view of the guide vane assembly of FIG. 1
   according to view A;
   FIG. 4 shows a partial side sectional view of a sail coupled to a top boom of the guide
25 vane assembly of FIG. 3;
   FIG. 5 shows a partial plan view of the guide vane assembly of FIG. 1 according to view
   B-B of FIG. 3;
30 FIG. 6 shows a partial plan view of the guide vane assembly of FIG. 1 according to view
   B-B of FIG. 3 with wind flow being redirected towards a rotor blade of a turbine;

                                               4
   FIG. 7 shows a perspective view of a plurality of the guide vane assembly of FIG. 1
   being configure for forming a guide vane structure for use with a turbine;
   FIG. 8 shows a support structure for supporting the plurality of the guide vane assembly
 5 in the guide vane structure of FIG. 7;
   FIG. 9 shows an array of rotor blades being arranged in a cage for being configured with
   the guide vane structure of FIG. 7;
10 FIG. 10 shows a partial plan view representation of the guide vane structure of FIG. 7
   when configured with a turbine; and
   FIG. 11 shows a plan view of two of the plurality of the guide vane assembly when
   configured with the guide vane structure of FIG. 7 with illustration of wind being
15 redirected to rotor blades of the turbine.

                                                  5
   Detailed Description
   An exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a guide vane assembly 20, is
   described hereinafter with reference to FIG. 1 to FIG. 11. The guide vane assembly 20 is
 5 preferably for use with a turbine 22 for converting energy from fluid flow into
   mechanical movement.        The turbine 22 comprises plurality of rotor blades 24 for
   harvesting energy from fluid flow, for example wind flow. In order for the energy from
   the fluid flow to be efficiently harvested, the fluid needs to be presented in substantially
   the right direction of flow to each of the plurality of rotor blades 24.
10
   Preferably, the guide vane assembly 20 comprises a rig structure 26 configurable with
   the turbine 22 and a sail 28. The rig structure 26 has an inner portion 30 and an outer
   portion 32 forming extremities thereof The rig structure 26 defines a rig plane 34 with
   the inner portion 30 being positioned nearer to the turbine 22 than the outer portion 32
15 thereof    The sail 28 is coupled to the rig structure 26 and is shaped for presenting a
   trough 36 to a flow of impinging fluid. The impinging fluid can be one or a combination
   of wind, water or any type of liquids. The trough 36 has a depth 40 defined from the rig
   plane 34. The sail 28 extends from the outer portion 32 towards the inner portion 30 of
   the rig structure 26 to terminate at an inner edge 42 whereat a vent 44 is defined. The
20 fluid impinging on the sail 28 is concentrated at the trough 36 and redirected towards the
   turbine 22 from the vent 44. The guide vane assembly 20 further comprises an actuator
   assembly coupled to the rig structure 26 and whereto the portion of the sail 22 at the vent
   44 is anchored. The actuator assembly is operable for reciprocating the inner edge 42 of
   the sail 22 towards and away from the rig plane 34 for varying the depth 44 of the trough
25 36 at the vent.
   The rig structure 26 comprises a post 48 configured at the inner portion 30 of the rig
   structure 26 and a pair of booms, specifically a first boom 50 and a second boom 52,
   extending from the post 48.      The post 48 has an upright and a substantially vertical
30 orientation and is preferably coupled, at least at one end thereof, to a support structure.
   The first boom 50 and the second boom 52 are spaced apart along the post 48 with each
   thereof extending substantially perpendicular the post 48 towards the outer portion of the
   rig structure 26. It is preferred that each of the first boom 50 and the second boom 52

                                                 6
   are angled away from each other with each thereof being supported by support lines
   extending between the post 48 and each of the first boom 50 and the second boom 52.
   Each of the post 48, the first boom 50 and the second boom 52 are formed from truss
 5 structures. However, use of other types of elongated structures with a solid core, a
   hollow core or a frame-based construction are not precluded from being use in forming
   or constructing the post 48, the first boom 50 and the second boom 52. For example,
   each of the first boom 50 and the second boom are formed from truss structures with a
   triangular cross-sectional shape, with a corner of the triangular cross-section of the truss
10 structure of one of the first boom 50 and the second boom 52 inwardly pointed towards a
   corner of the triangular cross-section of the truss structure of the other of the first boom
   50 and the second boom 52.
   The sail 28 has an upper edge 56 and a lower edge 58 coupled respectively to the first
15 boom 50 and the second boom 52. The sail 28 can be directly coupled to the first boom
   50 and the second boom 52. Alternatively, the rig structure 26 further comprises a first
   mast 60 coupled to the first boom 50 whereto the upper edge 56 of the sail 28 slidably
   couples, and a second mast 62 whereto the lower edge 58 of the sail 28 slidably couples.
   This enables the sail 28 to be collapsible from an extended state towards the inner
20 portion 30 of the rig structure 26 to a retracted state. Preferably, each of the first boom
   50 and the second boom 52 is constructed to allow flexure. Hence, as an alternative to
   truss structures, the first boom 50 and the second boom are constructable from metal H/I
   beams, composite elongates or the like structures to enable the first mast 60 and the
   second mast 62 to swing.
25
   Each of the upper mast 60 and the lower mast 62 can comprise and employ a pulley-line
   assembly to control deployment of the sail 28 between the extended state and the
   collapsed state. The pulley-line assemblies can be coupled to independent upper and
   lower cranks or to a common crank operable for communicating motion to the respective
30 pulley line assembly.       The crank can be hand-operated or counted to a motor for
   operation thereof.

                                                  7
   The sail 28 is formed from a flexible material, for example, fabric, denim, polymeric,
   cellulosic, metallic mesh or any combination thereof          When the sail 28 is in the
   extended state, the depth of the trough 40 of the trough 36 increases the nearer it gets to
   the inner portion 30 of the rig structure 26.
 5
   The actuator assembly comprises a winch 64 and a control line 66 whereto the inner
   edge 42 of the sail 28 is coupled. The winch 64 is for one of taking and releasing slack
   in the control line 66 to thereby displace the inner edge 42 of the sail 28 one of towards
   and away from the rig plane 34. The control line 66 can be a braided cable, a tape, a
10 composite cable or the like lines with high tensile strength. The control of the trough
   depth 40 at the vent 44 not only controls the cross-sectional area of the vent 44, but also
   serves to vary the deployable volume of the trough 36 and the exhaust angle 67a of the
   sail 28 along a medial axis 67b extending substantially perpendicular the inner edge 42
   of the sail 28 with reference to the rig plane 34.
15
   The guide vane assembly 20 further comprises a plurality of stiffeners formed with the
   sail 28 for shaping the trough 40. Each of the plurality of stiffeners is elongated and
   spatially inter-displaced along a medial segment 70 of the sail 28 from the outer portion
   32 towards the inner portion 30 of the rig structure 26 with each of the plurality of
20 stiffeners being substantially perpendicular the pair of booms. Each of the plurality of
   stiffeners are shaped and formed to be resiliently biased to accommodate and impart
   flexure to the medial segment 70 of the sail 28.
   Each of the first mast 60 and the second mast 62 comprises a pair of flanges 72
25 outwardly extending from the respective one of the first mast 60 and the second mast 62
   over a portion of the sail 28 oblique the rig plane 34. The pair of flanges 72 at each of
   the first mast 60 and the second mast 62 is to reduce escape of fluid from the trough 36
   theretowards.
30 The first boom 50 and the second boom 52 are rotatably coupled with the post 48 to
   enable varying of vane angle 74 of the rig plane 34 with reference to the turbine 22 about
   a first axis 76 defined adjacent the inner portion 30 of the rig structure 26. Specifically,
   the vane angle 74 is referenced from the tangent of a reference circle circumscribing the

                                                  8
   periphery of the turbine 22. The rig structure 26 comprises an actuator, for example a
   linear motor and a rotary motor, and a coupling assembly for communicating
   displacement to the first boom 50 and the second boom 52 about the first axis 76. The
   coupling assembly is at least one of a pulley assembly, a translational linkage and a
 5 plurality of gears interposing the actuator and the first boom 50 and the second boom 52.
   The guide vane assembly 20 further comprises a rotary guide whereon the post 48 is
   coupled. The rotary guide is for pivotably guiding and positioning the rig structure 26
   about a second axis.      Preferably, the rotary guide comprises a circular actuator for
10 displacement of the rig structure 26 along the rotary guide about the second axis.
   The guide vane assembly 20 is for implementation with a guide vane structure 100
   comprising a support structure 102 and a plurality of the guide vane assembly 20 as
   aforedescribed.    The support structure 102 defines a cylindrical hollow 104 with a
15 structure axis 106 extending along the longitude thereof The cylindrical hollow 104 is
   for receiving the turbine 22 with the plurality of rotor blades 24 therewithin. The axis of
   rotation of the plurality of rotor blades 24 substantially coinciding with the structure axis
   106. The plurality of the guide vane assembly 20 is coupled to and along an outer
   portion 108 of the support structure 102 and spatially distributed about the structure axis
20 106.
   The support structure 102 comprises an upper annular structure 108, a lower annular
   structure 110 and a plurality of pillars 112 extending between and inter-coupling the
   upper annular structure 108 and the lower annular structure                110.    In some
25 implementations, the support structure 102 sit on a circular guide rail to enable rotational
   displacement of the support structure 102 about the structure axis 106.
   Based on quantity of the guide vane assembly 20 used and wind direction, displacement
   of the support structure 102 about the structure axis 106 allows for minor adjustments to
30 be made on best presenting the sail 28 to the wind and to avoid flow dead zones.

                                                 9
   Preferably, the turbine 22 is formed integral with the support structure 102. The turbine
   22 comprises a cylindrically-shaped cage 114 for supporting the plurality of rotor blades
   24. The cage 114 is adapted to enable each of the plurality of rotor blades 24 to rotate
   about its length and for controlling orientation of each of the rotor blades 24. The cage
 5 114 is movably coupled to the support structure 102, functioning as a carousel with the
   support structure 102. Movable coupling can be achieved through a variety of coupling
   apparatus including a friction plate which interposes the cage 114 and the support
   structure 102. The friction plate comprises an annular protrusion which is disposed
   between each of an array of wheel pairs coupled to the cage 114. Each wheel pair rides
10 on inner and outer faces of the annular protrusion of the friction plate to isolate rotation
   of the cage 114, and consequently travel of the plurality of rotor blades 24, to a specific
   path about the structure axis 106 and to reduce wobble in the displacement travel of the
   cage 114.    Each of the wheel of the array of wheel pairs is preferably form from a
   polymeric material and has either a solid core or an air-filled core. The cage 114 is
15 coupled via universal joint to a generator for converting motion communicated from the
   turbine 22 into energy, for example electrical energy.
   An array of preferably six to eight of the guide vane assemblies 20 may be employed in
   the guide vane structure 100 and are arranged, preferably, at equal angular spacing about
20 the structure axis 106 with the first axis 76 substantially parallel the structure axis for
   functioning as outer guide vanes (OGVs) to the turbine 22. Based on the direction of the
   incoming wind, each of the array of guide vane assemblies 20 may serve to guide and
   shape air received at the windward side of the turbine for exhausting to the plurality of
   rotor blades 24 for driving the turbine 22.
25
   Each of the plurality of rotor blades 24 is rotatable about its longitudinal axis for
   presenting the best blade orientation to the air exhausted from the windward projecting
   guide vane assembly. On the leeward side of the turbine 22, the leeward projecting
   guide vane assembly 20 functions to guide the air exiting the turbine 22 away therefrom
30 to reduce impinging turbulence on the rotor blades 24.
   In an exemplary configuration utilizing six of the guide vane assemblies 20, the guide
   vane assemblies outwardly extends from the support structure 102 at the 12 o'clock, 2

                                                 10
   o'clock, 4 o'clock, 6 o'clock, 8 o'clock and 10 o'clock clock angular reference points on
   support structure 102 centering at the structure axis 106.      With wind traveling in the
   direction of the turbine in the 9 o'clock to the 3 o'clock direction, wind will impinge the
   sail 28 of the guide vane assembly 20 at the 12 o'clock, 6 o'clock, 8 o'clock and 10
 5 o'clock positions. In the use of a typical outer guide vane with a planar surface, the wind
   is likely to take the path of least resistance when impinging on the surface of the outer
   guide vane and be also dispersed away from the intended direction of flow towards the
   rotor blades 24. However in the case where the guide vane assembly 20 is utilized, wind
   is collected and concentrated in and along the trough 36 being redirected during exhaust
10 from the vent 44 towards the leading edges of the rotor blades 24 proximal the respective
   guide vane assembly 20 at a particular instance.
   The trough 36 also enables the build-up of air pressure therewithin to increase the mass
   flow rate of the air being exhausted from the vent 44. Further assistance is provided by
15 the pair of flanges 72 at each of the first mast 60 and the second mast 62 to reduce
   spillover of air from the upper edge 56 and the lower edge 58 of the sail 28 which in turn
   mitigates pressure loss from the trough 36. Each of the rotor blades 24 is shaped to have
   a low pressure surface and a high pressure surface extending from the leading edge to the
   trailing edge thereof along its chord. When wind, or fluid, is directed at leading edge of
20 the rotor blades 24 towards the trailing edge thereof, a low pressure zone is created along
   the low pressure surface which provides lift to the rotor blade 24.
   Hence, an increase in the mass flow rate of air directed at the respective rotor blades 24
   by the guide vane assemblies at the 12 o'clock, 6 o'clock, 8 o'clock and 10 o'clock
25 positions will generate lift at the respective rotor blades 24 which will in turn rotate the
   turbine 22. Even at the 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock positions, the guide vane assemblies 20
   positioned thereat is able to redirect wind impinging the sail 28 perpendicular the rig
   plane 34 towards the turbine 22 and the leading edge of proximal rotor blades 24. This
   increases the number of rotor blades 24 that can benefit from wind, or air, exhausted
30 from the guide vane assemblies 20.
   The trough depth 40 of the trough 36 at the vent 44 is controllable to vary the outflow
   area at the vent 44. If the outflow area is too small for the inflow of air into the trough

                                                 11
   36, the pressure build-up will restrict and hinder the outflow from the vent 44. However,
   if the trough depth 40 of the trough 36 at the vent 44 is too deep, the inner edge 42 of the
   sail 28 may collide with the rotor blades 24 displaced adjacent thereto.          A further
   consideration is the exhaust angle 66a of the sail 28 at the region of the vent which has to
 5 be configured with the vane angle 74 of the rig plane 34 with reference to the turbine 22
   and orientation of the rotor blades 24 to prevent stalling and to obtain the best possible
   lift coefficient. Further, adjustments to the vane angle 74 of each of the guide vane
   assembly 20 is to reduce overlap between adjacent guide vane assemblies 20 in the
   direction of the wind.
10
   The turbine 22 further comprises inner guide vanes 120 for concentrically interposing
   the rotor blades 44 between the guide vane assemblies 20 and the inner guide vanes 120.
   As the wind travels across the respective rotor blades 44 from the guide vane assemblies
   20 at the 12 o'clock, 6 o'clock, 8 o'clock and 10 o'clock positions, the wind is guided
15 into a central space by a first portion of the inner guide vanes 120 before flowing across
   a second portion of the inner guide vanes 120 to be directed towards the rotor blades 44
   between the 2 o'clock and 4 o'clock positions. The leading edges of the rotor blades
   between the 2 o'clock and 4 o'clock positions are presented to the inner guide vanes 120
   to harvest remaining wind energy therefrom before the wind exits towards the guide
20 vane assemblies 20 at the 2 o'clock and 4 o'clock positions.
   The trough depth 40 of the trough 36 at the vent 44 of each guide vane assembly 20 at
   the 2 o'clock and 4 o'clock positions is substantially reduced to reduce drag as the wind
   approaches the sail 28 thereof from the inner portion 30 towards the outer portion 32 of
   the rig structure 26 thereof    The vane angle 74 of the rig plane 34 of each guide vane
25 assembly 20 at the 2 o'clock and 4 o'clock positions may be further optimized to guide
   flow of wind exiting the rotor blades 44 to reduce turbulence or eddy swirls thereat
   which may introduce drag to the rotor blades 44.
   Aspects of particular embodiments of the present disclosure address at least one aspect,
30 problem, limitation, and/or disadvantage associated with existing guide vanes. While
   features, aspects, and/or advantages associated with certain embodiments have been
   described in the disclosure, other embodiments may also exhibit such features, aspects,
   and/or advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such features,

                                               12
  aspects, and/or advantages to fall within the scope of the disclosure.           It will be
  appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art that several of the above-disclosed
  structures, components, or alternatives thereof, can be desirably combined              into
  alternative   structures,  components,    and/or   applications.     In  addition,  various
5 modifications, alterations, and/or improvements may be made to various embodiments
  that are disclosed by a person of ordinary skill in the art within the scope of the present
  disclosure, which is limited only by the following claims.

                                                   13
      Claims
      1.   A guide vane assembly comprising:
                  a rig structure configurable with a turbine and having an inner portion and an
           outer portion forming extremities thereof, the rig structure defining a rig plane with
 5         the inner portion being positioned nearer to the turbine than the outer portion;
                  a sail coupled to the rig structure and shaped for presenting a trough to a
           flow of impinging fluid, the trough having a depth defined from the rig plane, the
           sail extending from the outer portion towards the inner portion of the rig structure
           to terminate at an inner edge whereat a vent is defined, the fluid impinging on the
10         sail being concentrated at the trough and redirected towards the turbine from the
           vent; and
                  an actuator assembly coupled to the rig structure and whereto the portion of
           the sail at the vent is anchored, the actuator assembly being operable for
           positioning the inner edge of the sail one of towards and away from the rig plane
15         for varying the depth of the trough at the vent.
   2.      The guide vane assembly as in claim 1, the sail being formed from a flexible
           material for enabling displacement of the trough across the rig plane by the
           impinging fluid.
20
   3.      The guide vane assembly as in any of the preceding claims, the depth of the trough
           increases as the sail extends from the outer portion towards the inner portion of the
           rig structure.
25 4.      The guide vane assembly as in any of the preceding claims, the actuator assembly
           comprising a winch and a control line whereto the inner edge of the sail is coupled,
           the winch for one of taking and releasing slack in the control line to thereby
           displace the inner edge of the sail one of towards and away from the rig plane.

                                               14
   5.  The guide vane assembly as in any of the preceding claims, the rig structure
       comprising:
                  a post configured at the inner portion of the rig structure; and
                  a pair of booms extending from the post.
 5
   6.  The guide vane assembly as in any of the preceding claims, further comprising a
       plurality of stiffeners formed with the sail for shaping the trough.
   7.  The guide vane assembly as in claim 6, each of the plurality of stiffeners being
10     elongated and spatially inter-displaced along a medial segment of the sail from the
       outer portion towards the inner portion of the rig structure with each of the
       plurality of stiffeners being substantially perpendicular the pair of booms.
   8.  The guide vane assembly as in any of claims 5-7, each of the pair of boom having
15     a mast coupled thereto, the sail being slidably coupled to the mast of each of the
       pair of boom for being slidably displaceable for collapsing towards the inner
       portion of the rig structure.
   9.  The guide vane assembly as in any of claims 5-8, each of the pair of mast
20     comprising a pair of flange extending therefrom oblique the rig plane to reduce
       escape of fluid from the trough theretowards.
   10. The guide vane assembly as in any of claims 5-9, each of the pair of booms and the
       post being a truss structures.
25
   11. The guide vane assembly as in any of claims 5-10, the pair of boom being
       rotatably coupled with the post to enable varying of angle of the rig plane with the
       turbine about a first axis defined adjacent the inner portion of the rig structure.
30 12. The guide vane assembly as in any of claims 5-11, the rig structure comprising an
       actuator and at least one of a pulley, a translational linkage and a plurality of gears
       interposing the actuator and the pair of boom for communicating displacement
       thereto about the first axis.

                                                   15
   13.     The guide vane assembly as in any of claims 5-12, further comprising a rotary
           guide whereon the post is coupled, the rotary guide for pivoting the rig structure
           about a second axis.
 5
   14.     The guide vane assembly as in claim 13, the rotary guide comprising a circular
           actuator for displacement of the rig structure along the rotary guide about the
           second axis.
   15.     A guide vane structure comprising:
10                 a support structure defining a cylindrical hollow with a structure axis
           extending along the longitude thereof, the cylindrical hollow for receiving a
           turbine comprising a plurality of rotor blades therewithin, the axis of rotation of
           the plurality of rotor blades substantially coinciding with the structure axis;
                   a plurality of guide vane assemblies coupled to and along an outer portion
15         of the support structure and spatially distributed about the structure axis, each of
           the plurality of guide vanes comprising:
                          a rig structure having an inner portion and an outer portion forming
                   extremities thereof, the rig structure defining a rig plane with the inner
                   portion being positioned nearer to the turbine than the outer portion;
20                        a sail coupled to the rig structure and shaped for presenting a trough
                   to a flow of impinging fluid, the trough having a depth defined from the rig
                   plane, the sail extending from the outer portion towards the inner portion of
                   the rig structure to terminate at an inner edge whereat a vent is defined, the
                   fluid impinging on the sail being concentrated at the trough and redirected
25                 towards the turbine from the vent; and
                          an actuator assembly coupled to the rig structure and whereto the
                   portion of the sail at the vent is anchored, the actuator assembly being
                   operable for positioning the inner edge of the sail one of towards and away
                   from the rig plane for varying the depth of the trough at the vent.
30
       16.   The guide vane structure as in claim 15, the turbine being formed integral with
             the support structure.

                                            16
   17. The guide vane structure as in any of claims 15 and 16, the support structure
       comprising:
             an upper annular structure;
             a lower annular structure; and
 5           a plurality of pillars extending between and inter-coupling the upper
       annular structure and the lower annular structure.
   18. The guide vane structure as in claim 17, at least one of the upper annular
       structure, the lower annular structure and the plurality of pillars being formed
10     from truss structures.
   19. The guide vane structure as in any of claims 15-18, further comprising:
             a guide rail whereon the support structure sits for enabling rotational
       displacement of the support structure about the structure axis.
15
   20. The guide vane structure as in claim 15, further comprising a friction plate inter
       coupling the support structure and a cage, the cage for supporting the plurality of
       rotor blades for rotational displacement about the structure axis in the turbine.
20 21. The guide vane structure as in any of claims 15-20, the friction plate comprises
       an annular protrusion which is disposed between each of an array of wheel pairs
       coupled to the cage, each of the wheel pair for riding on inner and outer faces of
       the annular protrusion of the friction plate to isolate rotation of the cage and
       travel of the plurality of rotor blades to a specific path about the structure axis
25     and to reduce wobble in the displacement travel of the cage.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
