                                            ABSTRACT
         The present invention provides fusion polypeptides comprising polypeptide ligands
that are modified by circular permutation and fused to at least one polypeptide fusion partner
wherein such fusion polypeptides have new, improved or enhanced biological functions or
activities. Such improvements include, but are not limited to, increased binding affinity,
increased activity, increased agonist activity (super agonist), antagonist activity, increased
accessibility, increased flexibility of the active site, increased stability, broader and/or
changed substrate specificity, and combinations thereof.

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
         LIGANDS MODIFIED BY CIRCULAR PERMUTATION AS AGONISTS AND
                                           ANTAGONISTS
    RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos.
    61/657,378, filed on June 8, 2012; 61/723,081, filed November 6, 2012; 61/657,264, filed
    June 8, 2012; 61/778,575, filed March 13, 2013; 61/657,285, filed June 8, 2012 and
    61/778,812, filed March 13, 2013. The entire teachings of the above applications are
    incorporated herein by reference.
10  SEQUENCE LISTING
             The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in
    ASCII format via EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said
    ASCII copy, created on May 31, 2013, is named 4000.3059WOSL.txt and is 66,878 bytes
    in size.
15
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Ligand-receptor interactions are essential to a number of cell signaling pathways.
    Growth factors, cytokines and other regulatory proteins use these interactions to mediate
    cell responses. Proteins that inhibit or facilitate these processes have potential as
20  therapeutics.
             Given some of the drawbacks of monoclonal antibody approaches to inhibiting
    ligand-receptor functions such as expensive manufacturing, large size, limited penetration
    into tissues and undesirable side effects, researchers have been focusing on the use of non
    antibody proteins as therapeutic agents. Furthermore, therapeutic antibody strategies are
25  generally limited to inhibiting, or antagonizing, a signaling pathway and not competent to
    strategies to enhance, or agonize, a pathway. Thus, new protein engineering approaches
    are being explored to develop ligands and receptors as agonists and antagonists of
    clinically important targets as an alternative to antibody strategies.

   WO 2013/184942                                                                 PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  -2
             Circular permutation involves the linking of the native amino and carboxy ends of a
    protein, generally with a linker, and creating new amino and carboxy termini by cleaving at
    a new site within the protein sequence, generally a loop; such that the primary sequence of
    the resulting protein is reordered, while the secondary structure (and activity) is retained.
 5  Thus, creation of the new termini may provide better locations for attachment of a fusion
    partner relative to the native termini.
             Circular permutation of a protein ligand provides a means by which a protein may
    be altered to produce new carboxyl and amino termini without diminishing the specificity
    and binding affinity of the altered protein ligand for its target relative to its native form.
10  Additionally, the new termini can be preferentially moved to a location preferential for
    incorporating the circularly permuted ligand into a fusion polypeptide, and demonstrate
    better activity compared with a fusion polypeptide containing the native (non-circularly
    permuted) ligand.
             The present invention provides fusion polypeptides comprising ligands modified by
15  circular permutation which function as agonists, super agonists or antagonists of a
    signaling pathway. Such fusion polypeptides are beneficial in the treatment of many
    disorders, conditions, and diseases that rely on ligand-receptor interaction and signal
    transduction. For example, such fusion polypeptides that act as antagonists of a target
    receptor have potential as therapeutics for cancer and autoimmune disorders. Such fusion
20  polypeptides that act as agonists or superagonists of a signaling pathway have the potential,
    for example, in cancer or regenerative medicine.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention provides fusion polypeptides comprising polypeptide ligands
25  that are modified by circular permutation and fused to at least one polypeptide fusion
    partner wherein such fusion polypeptides have new, improved or enhanced biological
    functions or activities relative the analogous fusion protein with the native (non-circularly
    permuted) ligand. Such improvements include, but are not limited to, increased binding
    affinity, increased activity, increased agonist activity (super agonist), increased antagonist
30  activity, increased accessibility, increased flexibility of the active site, increased stability,
    broader and/or changed substrate specificity, enhanced tissue targeting, enhanced protein

   WO 2013/184942                                                                  PCT/US2013/044556
                                                     -3
    binding, enhanced membrane targeting, improved pharmacokinetic parameters, improved
    physical properties, and combinations thereof.
             In one embodiment, the circularly permuted ligands comprise all or any portion of
    their native polypeptide chains, and may optionally include linkers. The circularly
 5  permuted ligands of the invention are designed to be optimally oriented such that they may
    be fused to at least one desired polypeptide fusion partner without compromising the
    activity, such as the binding affinity of the modified ligand for its target. In one
    embodiment, the circularly permuted (modified) ligands of the fusion polypeptides are at
    least as active, and are preferably more active, as compared to their corresponding native
10  proteins. In one embodiment the fusion proteins of the invention have a greater binding
    affinity for their targets proteins. In one embodiment the binding affinity of the fusion
    protein for its target protein is at least 5-fold, preferably at least 10-fold, preferably at least
    20 fold or more greater than the affinity of the native ligand for the protein target. In one
    embodiment the fusion polypeptide of the invention has at least 10 fold greater binding
15  affinity for the receptor.
             In one embodiment, the ligands are selected from the group including, but not
    limited to, cytokines, lymphokines, chemokines, adipokines, growth factors, hormones, cell
    adhesion molecules and neurotransmitters. Polypeptide fusion partners may be any
    polypeptide that provides and enhancement to the native protein. For example, fusion
20  partners may be selected from the group including, but not limited to, all or a portion of:
    glycoproteins, proteoglycans, cell signaling molecules, accessory proteins, soluble
    receptors, membrane bound receptors, transmembrane receptors, antibodies, enzymes,
    targeting polypeptides (e.g., nanobodies), mucins or mucin-like peptides, synthetic
    polypeptides or any combinations thereof. Enhancements include, but are not limited to,
25  improvements in affinity, agonism, antagonism, addition of synergistic functional activity,
    tissue targeting, protein targeting, membrane targeting, pharmacokinetic parameters (eg.
    half life), or physical properties (eg. solubility).
             In a preferred embodiment, at least one polypeptide fusion partner comprises all or
    a portion of a subunit of the target receptor or another molecule involved in its natural
30  signal transduction pathway. It is understood that a polypeptide fusion partner may
    comprise a polypeptide that is at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80% or at least 90%

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  -4
    homologous to all or a portion of a subunit of a target receptor or another molecule
    involved in a signal transduction pathway.
             In one embodiment, the invention provides for fusion polypeptides comprising a
    modified ligand and a polypeptide fusion partner that are further linked to a second fusion
 5  partner. Examples of second fusion partners include all or any portion of an antibody (e.g.
    the Fc region of an antibody) and any of the types of polypeptides suitable as a first fusion
    partner described above.
             In a preferred embodiment, the fusion polypeptides of the invention function as
    new and improved agonists (super agonists), or antagonists of a receptor such as a cellular
10  receptor that is involved in signal transduction of a cell signaling pathway. In a preferred
    embodiment, the fusion polypeptides of the invention can bind a monomeric, dimeric, or a
    multimeric target receptor and can inhibit or enhance dimerization, trimerization or
    multimerization of the receptor and/or inhibit or enhance signal transduction and
    downstream signaling of a cellular pathway.
15           In one embodiment, the invention provides a fusion polypeptide comprising, a first
    polypeptide fusion partner linked to a modified ligand corresponding to a native ligand
    specific for a target receptor, wherein the modified ligand has been circularly permuted to
    create a new N-terminus and a new C-terminus as compared to the native ligand, and
    wherein the new N-terminus or the new C-terminus of the modified ligand is linked to a
20  first polypeptide fusion partner to form a fusion polypeptide that optionally has increased
    affinity for the target receptor as compared to the native ligand for the receptor, and
    wherein upon association of the fusion polypeptide with the target receptor the fusion
    polypeptide super agonizes or antagonizes the activity of the target receptor. In one
    embodiment, the the new C-terminus and the new N-terminus of the modified ligand do
25  not disrupt any binding domain of the modified ligand for the target receptor.
             In one embodiment, the target receptor functions by stepwise formation of a
    multimeric activation complex to trigger signal transduction of a signaling cellular pathway
    and wherein upon binding of the fusion polypeptide to the receptor, signal transduction is
    super agonized or antagonized.

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -5
             In one embodiment, the fusion polypeptide binds the receptor and enhances the
    stepwise formation of the multimeric activation complex thereby super agonizing signal
    transduction by the target receptor.
             In one embodiment, the fusion polypeptide binds the receptor and sterically hinders
 5  the stepwise formation of the multimeric complex thereby antagonizing signal transduction
    by the target receptor.
             In one embodiment the fusion polypeptide comprises the modified ligand and a first
    fusion partner wherein the first fusion partner of the modified ligand is derived from all or
    a portion of the protein with which the native ligand of the target receptor would have
10  associated in the first step of the stepwise formation of the receptor's multimeric activation
    complex. In one embodiment the fusion polypeptide comprises the modified protein and a
    fusion partner wherein the fusion partner of the modified protein is derived from all or a
    portion of the protein with which the native protein of the target receptor would have
    associated in downstream steps of the stepwise formation of the receptor's multimeric
15  activation complex.
             In one embodiment the first fusion partner of the heterodimer is fused to the
    modified ligand in a position that is oriented to enhance the stepwise formation of the
    receptor's multimeric activation complex.
             In one embodiment, the first fusion partner of the heterodimer is fused to the
20  modified ligand in a position that is oriented to sterically hinder the formation of the
    receptor's multimeric activation complex.
             In one embodiment the fusion polypeptide is a homodimer comprising the modified
    protein and a fusion partner wherein the fusion partner of the modified ligand is derived
    from all or a portion of the same ligand where homodimerization is required for formation
25  of the receptor's multimeric activation complex.
             In one embodiment the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
    comprising the fusion polypeptide of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier.
             In one embodiment the invention provides an isolated or recombinant nucleic acid
30  encoding the fusion polypeptide of the invention; a recombinant vector comprising the

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -6
    nucleic acid encoding a fusion polypeptide of the invention and a host cell comprising a
    vector of the invention.
             In one embodiment the invention provides a method of super agonizing a target
    receptor comprising the step of contacting the receptor with the fusion polypeptide of the
 5  invention.
             In one embodiment the invention provides a method of antagonizing a target
    receptor comprising the step of contacting the receptor with a fusion polypeptide of the
    invention.
             In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of making a fusion
10  polypeptide of the invention comprising the steps of: a) selecting a native ligand that binds
    to a receptor wherein the receptor functions by stepwise formation of a multimeric
    activation complex to trigger signal transduction of a signaling cellular pathway; b)
    creating a modified ligand by circular permutation to provide a modified ligand having
    new N-terminus and a new C-terminus as compared to the native ligand of step (a); and c)
15  linking a first polypeptide fusion partner to the N- or C- terminus of the modified ligand of
    step (b) to make a fusion polypeptide, wherein the new N- or C-termini of the modified
    ligand are located to permit the first fusion partner to be linked to the modified ligand in a
    position oriented to antagonize or super agonize the function of the target receptor upon
    binding of the fusion polypeptide to the target receptor. In one embodiment, the method
20  further comprises fusing a second fusion partner to the modified ligand of step (b) wherein
    the second fusion partner provides an additional enhancement to the protein, such as
    extending the half-life of the fusion polypeptide in vivo. Other enhancements that could be
    engineered via step (c) include, but are not limited to, addition of synergistic functional
    activity, organ targeting, tissue targeting, protein targeting, membrane targeting, biological
25  matrix targeting, pharmacokinetic (e.g. percent bioavailability) or physical properties (e.g.
    solubility).

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                    -7
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             FIG. 1. Structure of the human IL6 hexameric signaling complex (PDB: 1P9M).
    Side view (top) and top view (bottom) of the hexameric complex consisting of two IL-6
    molecules (dark grey), two soluble IL-6Ra molecules (D2-D3 of IL6 receptor subunit a
 5  black), and two soluble gp130 molecules (D1-D2-D3, light grey).
             FIG. 2. Illustration of the process of circular permutation utilizing the 4-helix
    bundle protein, IL-6. Ribbon representation of the IL-6 crystal structure (PDB 1P9M, top
    left) and of modeled structure of a circularly permuted IL-6 (RDB1503, top right). N and
    C termini are labeled as are helicies A, B, C, D as per standard IL-6 nomenclature. The
10  circularly permuted protein was engineered by linking the native termini and creating new
    termini between helicies C and D of native IL-6. The end result of the circular permutation
    is the relocation of the termini to the opposite face of IL-6. The amino acid sequences for
    IL-6 (residues 47-212 of SEQ ID NO: 3) and RDB1503 (SEQ ID NO: 1) (middle and
    bottom, respectively) highlight the reordered sequence. The new N-terminus of RDB 1503
15  immediately precedes helix D. The shaded area within the ribbon representation and the
    protein sequence of RDB1503 highlight the linker created to connect the native IL-6 N and
    C termini.
             FIG. 3. Molecular model illustrating the relative orientation of the D1 (domain 1 of
    gp130) when fused to IL-6 (FIG. 3A) and RDB 1503 (FIG. 3B), resulting in fusion proteins
20  RDB1529 and RDB1527, respectively. The D1 domain is shaded for highlighting
    purposes. Portions of gp130 and IL-6Ra in the active hexameric complex are included for
    reference. The D1 domain of RDB1529 is pointing away from the gp130 binding interface
    in the hexameric active complex and is therefore predicted to be unable to effectively
    antagonize the signal (FIG. 3A). In contrast, the D1 domain of RDB 1527 both participates
25  in binding to IL-6Ra and occupies the space occupied by the second gp130 molecule in the
    hexameric complex, thus effectively antagonizing the signal (FIG. 3B).
             FIG. 4. Dose-response curves for IL-6 (A) and RDB 1503 (<) in the HEK-BlueT M
    cell assay. The EC 50 is estimated at 1pM and 0.6pM, for IL-6 and RDB1503, respectively.
             FIG. 5. Inhibition of IL6 signaling by RDB1527 in the HEK-Blue T M cell assay.
30  Activity of IL6 ()e)     as a function of its concentration in the absence of inhibition.
    Inhibition by RDB1527(.-), and RDB 1529 (-+ ) were measured in the presence of

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
     12.5pM of IL6. All measurements were made in duplicate. The estimated value of IC50 for
    RDB1527 is 0.22nM. RDB1529 did not show robust inhibitory activity.
             FIG. 6. Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR) measurements of soluble IL-6Ra
    binding to immobilized IL-6 (FIG. 6A), RDB1529 (FIG. 6B), and RDB1527 (FIG. 6C).
 5  Sensorgrams and fitted curves are in grey and black, respectively. The kinetic parameters
    calculated from the data are in the inserted tables.
             FIG. 7. Structure of the human IL-1$ signaling complex (PDB: 4DEP; FIG. 7A)
    and a modeled representation of the potential complex formation mediated by RDB 1538
    (CP IL-1$_IL-1RI (D1-D2); FIG. 7B). IL-1$ (highlighted with an arrow in the structure)
10  binds to receptors IL-IRI (black, coming out of the plane) and IL-lRAcP (light grey, going
    away from the plane) . The native N and C termini of IL-1$ are not in close proximity to
    the C-terminus of D1-D2 domain of IL-IRI. The termini of the engineered circularly
    permuted IL- 1$ are now proximal to the C-terminus of D1 -D2 domain of IL-i RI, thus
    facilitating the generation of the fusion protein. The shaded area highlights the linker
15  connecting the circularly permuted IL-1 variant to IL-IRI receptor.
             FIG. 8. Structure of the human IL2 signaling complex (PDB: 2ERJ; FIG. 8A) and
    modeled signaling complex mediated by RDB 1405 (CPIL-2_IL-2Ra; FIG. 8B). IL2
    (highlighted with an arrow in the structure) binds to receptors IL2Ra (grey, top left in the
    complex), IL2R$ (light grey, bottom left in the complex) and ye (black, bottom right in the
20  complex). IL-2Ra stabilizes the conformation of IL-2 to enhance its binding affinity to IL
    2R$. The native N and C termini of IL-2 are on the face distal to IL-2/IL-2Ra interface.
    The termini of the engineered circularly permuted IL-2 are now proximal to the IL-2/IL
    2Ra interface, thus facilitating the generation of the fusion protein. The shaded area
    highlights the linker connecting the circularly permuted IL-2 variant to IL-2Ra receptor.
25           FIG. 9. Is a diagram showing representative signaling complexes for cytokines and
    growth factors illustrating multimeric assembly leading to activation.
             FIG. 10. Is a diagram representing the mechanism of antagonism by Picasso3_D1.
    Binding determinants from both IL-6 and D1 (domain of gp130) are present in the hybrid
    fusion protein resulting in high affinity binding to IL-6Ra. Once Picasso3_D1_Fc is

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -9
    bound to IL-6Ra, assembly of the signaling complex of IL-6 cannot proceed, resulting in
    antagonism.
            FIGs. 11 A and 11B. Response of HH cells (left) and CTLL-2 cells (right) to wild
    type IL-2 (Proleukin) and engineered IL-2 variants.
 5          FIGs. 12A and 12B Response of HH cells (left) and CTLL-2 cells (right) to wild
    type IL-15 and engineered IL-15 variants.
            FIG. 13. Structure of the modeled IL-15 signaling complex for the CP-IL-15-IL
     15Ra fusion proteins generated by superposition of the IL-15/IL-15Ra complex
    (2Z3Q.pdb onto the IL-R$ and IL-2Ry chains from the IL-2 ternary signaling complex
10  structure, 2ERJ.pdb). The 'Linker' joining the native termini of IL-15 to create the
    circularly permuted IL-15 variant and 'Spacer' to create the CP-IL-15-IL-15Ra fusion are
    highlighted with arrows. Note that the native termini of IL-15 (originally located at the
    'Linker' site) are far distally oriented from the IL-15Ra binding interface, thus creating the
    need for circular permutation of the ligand.
15
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            A description of preferred embodiments of the invention follows. For illustrative
    purposes, polypeptide fusion proteins of the invention featuring a circularly permutated IL
    6 ligand fused to a portion of gp130 is used as an exemplary fusion polypeptide of the
20  invention. It is understood that the biological functions, activities and other features of the
    described embodiments are generally applicable to other fusion polypeptides in accordance
    with the invention comprising ligands modified by circular permutation fused to
    polypeptide fusion partners.
            As used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an"
25  and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for
    example, reference to "a polypeptide fusion partner" includes a plurality of polypeptide
    fusion partners. In this specification and in the claims that follow, reference will be made
    to a number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings, unless a
    contrary intention is apparent.
30  Definitions

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 10
             The terms "circular permutation" and "circularly permuted" "(CP)" as used herein,
    refers to the conceptual process of taking a linear protein, or its cognate nucleic acid
    sequence, and fusing the native N- and C- termini (directly or through a linker, using
    protein or recombinant DNA methodologies) to form a circular molecule, and then cutting
 5  (opening?) the circular molecule at a different location to form a new linear protein, or
    cognate nucleic acid molecule, with termini different from the termini in the original
    molecule. Circular permutation thus preserves the sequence, structure, and function of a
    protein (other than the optional linker), while generating new C- and N-termini at different
    locations that, in accordance with one aspect of the invention, results in an improved
10  orientation for fusing a desired polypeptide fusion partner as compared to the original
    ligand. Circular permutation also includes any process that results in a circularly
    permutated straight-chain molecule, as defined herein. In general, a circularly permuted
    molecule is de novo expressed as a linear molecule and does not formally go through the
    circularization and opening steps. The particular circular permutation of a molecule, herein,
15  is designated by brackets containing, in the case of a circularly permuted protein, the amino
    acid residues between which the peptide bond is eliminated. For example, the designation
    IL6(Q 182/Q180) designates a circularly permuted IL6 growth factor in which the opening
    site (position at which the peptide bond is eliminated) occurred between residues Q182 and
    Q180 of the unpermuted or unmodified native IL6, and thus the newly created N-terminus
20  is a Glutamine which was formerly residue 182, and the newly created C-terminus is a
    Glutamine which was formerly residue 180.
            A "spacer" as used herein and refer to a peptide that joins the proteins comprising a
    fusion protein. Generally the spacer has no specific biological activity and its purpose is
    merely to join the proteins or to preserve some minimum distance or other spatial
25  relationship between them. However, the constituent amino acids of a spacer may be
    selected based on some properties of the linker or of the resulting molecule such as the
    flexibility, hydrophilicity, net charge, or proteolytic susceptibility or lack thereof, and lack
    of immunogenicity.

   WO 2013/184942                                                                 PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 11
             The terms "unpermuted", "native", "wild type", or "unmodified" ligand,
    polypeptide, protein, cytokine, or growth factor, are used herein to provide a reference
    point for the ligand, cytokine, growth factor or protein prior to its rearrangement into a
    circularly permuted molecule, as described above. Typically, the unmodified ligand,
 5  growth factor or protein has amino and carboxy termini and an amino acid sequence that
    correspond substantially to the amino and carboxy termini and amino acid sequence of the
    ligand, growth factor, or protein, or an independent domain of a protein, as it generally
    occurs in vivo. The unmodified ligand, growth factor, or protein may be a fully mature
    form or a precursor to the mature form (such as a pro-protein).
10           The term "ligand" is used herein generally to denote any polypeptide (whether
    native, endogenous, or modified in accordance with the invention) that binds to a second
    protein or receptor and is a component of a biochemical pathways. A ligand directly or
    indirectly may affect (e.g., induce, inhibit) receptor activity (e.g., signaling, adhesion).
             The term" modified ligand" is used herein to indicate a ligand that has been
15  modified by circular permutation as compared to the corresponding native ligand.
             "Activity" or "biological activity" refer to an in vitro or in vivo biological function
    or effect, including but not limited to receptor binding, antagonist activity, agonist activity,
    or a cellular or physiologic response.
            An "agonist" is a fusion polypeptide of the invention which is capable of binding to
20  a desired receptor to result in an activated receptor complex. A "superagonist" is a fusion
    polypeptide of the invention capable of binding the target receptor and that provides
    enhanced activation of the receptor complex as compared to the native ligand for that target
    receptor. Activation by the fusion polypeptide superagonist of the invention may be
    enhanced at least two-fold, and preferably at least 5-fold, preferably at least 10-fold or
25  preferably at least 20-fold or more as compared to activation of the target receptor by the
    native ligand. A fusion polypeptide of the invention "having agonist activity" refers to the
    fact that the fusion polypeptides are able to bind to and activate or superagonize at least
    one receptor.
            An "antagonist" is a fusion polypeptide of the invention which is capable of
30  binding to a desired receptor but incapable of mediating correct conformational or
    molecular assembly changes of the receptor molecules necessary to result in an activated

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 12
    complex, and whereby native ligand-mediated receptor activation is substantially inhibited.
    Receptor activation upon binding of a suitable ligand generally involves either a
    conformational change in the receptor or a difference in association states of the receptor,
    e.g. oligomerisation of receptor subunits or recruitment of additional proteins or receptors.
 5           The term "receptor" is understood to indicate a protein present on a cell surface (or
    a soluble receptor not present on the cell surface but which has or associates with a
    counterpart cell surface receptor) with which a ligand binds. Cell surface receptors are
    typically composed of different domains or subunits with different functions, such as an
    extracellular domain (or domains) containing the region with which the ligand interacts, a
10  transmembrane domain or domains (or in some cases an anchoring lipid) which anchors
    the receptor in the cell membrane. In some cases an intracellular effector domain which
    initiates a cellular signal in response to ligand binding (signal transduction) is also present.
    Soluble receptors are typically composed of one or more of the extracellular domains
    resulting from protolytic cleavage from the membrane anchoring region.
15           "Target receptors" or "Target ligands" according to the invention are the molecules
    to which the fusion-polypeptides of the invention are designed to directly bind. In one
    embodiment "target receptors" according to the invention are capable of ultimately binding
    or otherwise associating with, signaling molecules (e.g. ligands) in triggering signal
    transduction of a signaling cellular pathway.
20           A receptor that is activated by the "stepwise formation of a multimeric activation
    complex" is a receptor that in addition to the binding of one or more ligands, requires the
    interaction of one or more additional protein subunits in a process known as dimerization,
    trimerization, multimerization, complexation, or oligomerization (also referred to in the art
    as "clustering") to fully achieve signal transduction of a cell signaling pathway. The
25  receptor may already be in the form of a dimer or multimer prior to ligand binding and
    upon ligand binding may recruit additional soluble or membrane-anchored proteins in a
    stepwise fashion to build the fully functioning multimeric activation complex.
             The "hydrodynamic radius" is the apparent radius (R h in nm) of a molecule in a
    solution calculated from diffusional properties. The "hydrodynamic radius" of a protein
30  affects its rate of diffusion in aqueous. The hydrodynamic radius of a protein is influenced
    by its molecular weight as well as by its structure, including shape and compactness, and

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                 - 13
    its hydration state. Methods for determining the hydrodynamic radius are well known in
    the art, such as by the use of DLS and size exclusion chromatography. Most proteins have
    globular structure, which is the most compact three-dimensional structure a protein can
    have with the smallest hydrodynamic radius. Some proteins adopt a random and open,
 5  unstructured, or 'linear' conformation and as a result have a much larger hydrodynamic
    radius compared to typical globular proteins of similar molecular weight.
             A "mucin-domain polypeptide" is defined herein as any protein comprising a
    "mucin domain". A mucin domain is rich in potential glycosylation sites, and has a high
    content of serine and/or threonine and proline, which can make up greater than 40% of the
10  amino acids. A mucin domain is heavily glycosylated with predominantly O-linked
    glycans.
             The term "linker" or "linker sequence" as used herein, refers to the peptidic
    sequence that is used to join the amino and carboxy termini of a protein (or its
    corresponding nucleic acid sequence encoding the protein) through covalent bonds to both
15  the amino and carboxy terminus. In some embodiments, the circularly permuted protein is
    produced by linking the ends of the corresponding DNA or RNA sequence, forming
    various permutants by cutting the circularized nucleic acid sequence, and subsequently
    translating the nucleic acid sequences to form the circularly permuted protein(s).
             The term "residue" as used herein refers to an amino acid that is incorporated into a
20  peptide. The amino acid may be a naturally occurring amino acid and, unless otherwise
    limited, may encompass known analogs of natural amino acids that can function in a
    similar manner as naturally occurring amino acids.
             The term "opening site", as used herein when referring to circular permutation,
    refers to the position at which a peptide bond would be eliminated to form new amino and
25  carboxy termini, whether by protein or nucleic acid manipulation. The opening site is
    designated by the positions of the pair of amino acids, located between the amino and
    carboxy termini of the unpermuted (native) protein that become the new amino and
    carboxy termini of the circularly permuted protein. For example, in IL6 (Q1 82/Q180), the
    newly created N-terminus (the new starting point of the circularly permuted IL-6) is
30  equivalent (structurally) to Q182 of native IL-6 and the newly created C-terminus (the last

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 14
    residue of the circularly permuted IL-6) is equivalent (structurally) to Q180 of native IL-6.
    Residue 181 of native IL-6 was eliminated in creating the opening site.
             The term "polypeptides" and "protein" are used interchangeably herein and include
    proteins and fragments thereof. Polypeptides are disclosed herein as amino acid residue
 5  sequences. Those sequences are written left to right in the direction from the amino to the
    carboxy terminus. In accordance with standard nomenclature, amino acid residue
    sequences are denominated by either a three letter or a single letter code as indicated as
    follows: Alanine (Ala, A), Arginine (Arg, R), Asparagine (Asn, N), Aspartic Acid (Asp,
    D), Cysteine (Cys, C), Glutamine (Gln,     Q), Glutamic Acid  (Glu, E), Glycine (Gly, G),
10  Histidine (His, H), Isoleucine (Ile, I), Leucine (Leu, L), Lysine (Lys, K), Methionine (Met,
    M), Phenylalanine (Phe, F), Proline (Pro, P), Serine (Ser, S), Threonine (Thr, T),
    Tryptophan (Trp, W), Tyrosine (Tyr, Y), and Valine (Val, V).
            All amino acid positions described herein use as a frame of reference sequences for
    the native protein. For example, native IL-1$ (SEQ ID NO:19), native IL-6 (SEQ ID
15  NO:3), native IL-2 (SEQ ID NO:20), native gp130 (SEQ ID NO:21), native IL-IRI (SEQ
    ID NO:22), and native IL-2Ra (SEQ ID NO:23) as presented in the Sequence Listing. For
    example, an IL-6 molecule "comprising amino acids 47 to 212 " would refer to a molecule
    having amino acids substantially corresponding to those positions in SEQ ID NO:3. Other
    common references are used herein to indicate deletions or substitutions to a sequence
20  using as reference sequences, the respective native sequences as referenced in the sequence
    listing or whose GenBank accession number is provided herein. Amino acid substitutions
    may be indicated by parentheses, for example "(Ser 287)" refers to a molecule having
    serine at amino acid position 287. Circularly permuted molecules are designated by the
    native molecule followed by brackets enclosing the amino acid positions that comprise the
25  opening site. Thus, for example, IL6 (182/180 ) designates a circularly permuted IL6 in
    which the new amino terminus is at amino acid residue 182, and the new carboxy terminus
    is at amino acid residue 180 of the unpermuted native IL6. It is recognized that some
    substitutions, addition, or deletions may be made to any sequences described herein that do
    not alter the biological activity of the region. Indeed, some such modifications may be
30  required to achieve expression of a particular protein. Thus, for example, a methionine may
    be added to a sequence to provide an initiator.

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 15
             "Variant" refers to a polypeptide that differs from a reference polypeptide, but
    retains essential properties. A typical variant of a polypeptide differs in its primary amino
    acid sequence from another, reference polypeptide. Generally, differences are limited so
    that the sequences of the reference polypeptide and the variant are closely similar overall
 5  and, in many regions, identical. A variant and reference polypeptide may differ in amino
    acid sequence by one or more modifications (e.g., substitutions, additions, and/or
    deletions). A substituted or inserted amino acid residue may or may not be one encoded by
    the genetic code. A variant of a polypeptide may be naturally occurring such as an allelic
    variant, or it may be a variant that is not known to occur naturally. In addition, the term
10  "variant" as used herein includes circular permutations of proteins and peptides.
             The term "antibody", as used herein, includes various forms of modified or altered
    antibodies, such as an intact immunoglobulin, an Fc fragment comprising the constant
    region of the heavy chains, an Fv fragment containing only the light and heavy chain
    variable regions, an Fv fragment linked by a disulfide bond an Fab or (Fab)' 2 fragment
15  containing the variable regions and parts of the constant regions, a single-chain antibody
    and the like.
            As used herein, "treatment" or "treating," or "palliating" or "ameliorating" is used
    interchangeably herein. These terms refer to an approach for obtaining beneficial or desired
    results including but not limited to a therapeutic benefit and/or a prophylactic benefit. By
20  therapeutic benefit is meant eradication or amelioration of the underlying disorder being
    treated. Also, a therapeutic benefit is achieved with the eradication or amelioration of one
    or more of the physiological symptoms associated with the underlying disorder such that
    an improvement is observed in the subject, notwithstanding that the subject may still be
    afflicted with the underlying disorder. For prophylactic benefit, the compositions may be
25  administered to a subject at risk of developing a particular disease, or to a subject reporting
    one or more of the physiological symptoms of a disease, even though a diagnosis of this
    disease may not have been made.
            A "therapeutic effect", as used herein, refers to a physiologic effect, including but
    not limited to the cure, mitigation, amelioration, or prevention of disease in humans or
30  other animals, or to otherwise enhance physical or mental well being of humans or animals,
    caused by a fusion protein of the invention other than the ability to induce the production

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -  16
    of an antibody against an antigenic epitope possessed by the active protein. Determination
    of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art,
    especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.
             The terms "therapeutically effective amount" and "therapeutically effective dose",
 5  as used herein, refers to an amount of a active protein, either alone or as a part of a fusion
    protein composition, that is capable of having any detectable, beneficial effect on any
    symptom, aspect, measured parameter or characteristics of a disease state or condition
    when administered in one or repeated doses to a subject. Such effect need not be absolute
    to be beneficial.
10           The term "therapeutically effective dose regimen", as used herein, refers to a
    schedule for consecutively administered doses of a active protein, either alone or as a part
    of a fusion protein composition, wherein the doses are given in therapeutically effective
    amounts to result in sustained beneficial effect on any symptom, aspect, measured
    parameter or characteristics of a disease state or condition.
15           As used herein, the term "dose" refers to the quantity of fusion polypeptide of the
    invention administered to a subject all at one time (unit dose), or in two or more
    administrations over a defined time interval. For example, dose can refer to the quantity of
    fusion polypeptide administered to a subject over the course of one day (24 hours) (daily
    dose), two days, one week, two weeks, three weeks or one or more months (e.g., by a
20  single administration, or by two or more administrations). The interval between doses can
    be any desired amount of time.
             The phrase, "half-life," refers to the time taken for the serum concentration of the
    fusion polypeptide to reduce by 50%, in vivo, for example due to degradation of the ligand
    and/or clearance or sequestration of the dual-specific ligand by natural mechanisms. The
25  half-life of a fusion polypeptide is increased if presence in a biological matrix (blood,
    serum, plasma, tissue) persists, in vivo, for a longer period as compared to an appropriate
    control. Half life may be increased by 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% or more as compared to
    an appropriate control.
             Sequences similar or homologous (e.g., at least about 70% sequence identity) to the
30  sequences disclosed herein are also part of the invention. In some embodiments, the
    sequence identity at the amino acid level can be about 8 0%,     85
                                                                        %, 9 0%, 9
                                                                                   1%, 92
                                                                                          %, 93%,

   WO 2013/184942                                                                 PCT/US2013/044556
                                                    - 17
    94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or higher. At the nucleic acid level, the sequence identity
    can be about 7 0%,   7 5 %, 8     8 5 %, 9 0%, 9     92 %, 93%,               9 6 %, 9 7 %, 9 8
                                  0%,                1%,              94%, 95%,                     %,
    99% or higher. Alternatively, substantial identity exists when the nucleic acid segments
    will hybridize under selective hybridization conditions (e.g., very high stringency
 5  hybridization conditions), to the complement of the strand. The nucleic acids may be
    present in whole cells, in a cell lysate, or in a partially purified or substantially pure form.
             Calculations of "homology" or "sequence identity" or "similarity" between two
    sequences (the terms are used interchangeably herein) are performed as follows. The
    sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes (e.g., gaps can be introduced in one
10  or both of a first and a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment
    and non-homologous sequences can be disregarded for comparison purposes). In a
    preferred embodiment, the length of a reference sequence aligned for comparison purposes
    is at least 30%, preferably at least 40%, more preferably at least 50%, even more preferably
    at least 60%, and even more preferably at least 70%, 80%, 90%, 100% of the length of the
15  reference sequence. The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid
    positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence
    is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in
    the second sequence, then the molecules are identical at that position (as used herein amino
    acid or nucleic acid "homology" is equivalent to amino acid or nucleic acid "identity").
20  The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical
    positions shared by the sequences, taking into account the number of gaps, and the length
    of each gap, which need to be introduced for optimal alignment of the two sequences. In
    the case of circularly related proteins, the sequence of one of the partners needs to be
    appropriately split and aligned in two sections to achieve optimal alignment of the
25  functionally equivalent residues necessary to calculate the percent identity.
             Amino acid and nucleotide sequence alignments and homology, similarity or
    identity, as defined herein are preferably prepared and determined using the algorithm
    BLAST 2 Sequences, using default parameters (Tatusova, T. A. et al., FEMS Microbiol
    Lett, 174:187-188 (1999)). Alternatively, the BLAST algorithm (version 2.0) is employed
30  for sequence alignment, with parameters set to default values. BLAST (Basic Local
    Alignment Search Tool) is the heuristic search algorithm employed by the programs blastp,

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 18
    blastn, blastx, tblastn, and tblastx; these programs ascribe significance to their findings
    usingthe statistical methods of Karlin and Altschul, 1990, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
    87(6):2264-8.
             Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
 5  same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art (e.g., in cell
    culture, molecular genetics, nucleic acid chemistry, hybridization techniques and
    biochemistry). Standard techniques are used for molecular, genetic and biochemical
    methods (see generally, Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2d ed.
    (1989) Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. and Ausubel et al.,
10  Short Protocols in Molecular Biology (1999) 4th Ed, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. which are
    incorporated herein by reference) and chemical methods.
    Circular Permutation of a Reference Ligand
             Circular permutation is functionally equivalent to taking a straight-chain molecule,
15  fusing the ends to form a circular molecule, and then cutting the circular molecule at a
    different location to form a new straight chain molecule with different termini. Circular
    permutation thus has the effect of essentially preserving the sequence and identity of the
    amino acids of a protein while generating new termini at different locations.
             Engineered fusion proteins aim to combine the beneficial properties of two
20  polypeptides into a single protein, however, the construction of the fusion protein comes
    with various challenges and risks. Often, the functional activity of the fusion protein is
    compromised relative that of the unmodified protein potentially due to a negative effect of
    the fusion partner on the integrity of the tertiary structure of the protein or on the proteins
    ability to bind to cognate partners (for example, due to steric hindrance) to elicit it's
25  biological function. Furthermore, inclusion of spacers between the fusion partners can
    increase the potential for susceptibility to proteolysis or, in the case of therapeutic proteins,
    also increase the potential for immunogenicity; the longer the spacer, the greater the risk.
    Thus, in generating fusion proteins, preserving the structural integrity of the fusion peptide,
    maintaining unobstructed access for binding to the necessary cognate partners, and
30  minimizing the length of spacer sequences are important design goals. Towards these

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 19
    aims, utilizing circular permutation of a ligand as described herein provides preferential
    locations for fusion to a second protein.
             Preferential locations for the new termini are geometrically, structurally, and
    functionally favored (relative to the native termini) for the fusion of a desired polypeptide
 5  fusion partner, and reduce the length of the required spacer. In one embodiment, the
    location of the new termini is more proximal to the native position of a potential fusion
    partner to which the ligand may normally associate with during the stepwise formation of a
    cellular receptor activation complex. The orientation of the modified ligand and the fusion
    partner in the fusion polypeptide may be optimal to either enhance agonistic activity of the
10  ligand to the receptor activation complex, or provide steric hindrance of the stepwise
    formation of the activation complex thereby providing antagonism of the activation
    complex.
             The process of circular permutation for IL6 is schematically illustrated in FIG. 2.
    The constituent amino acid residues of the native IL6 protein are numbered sequentially 47
15  through 212 from the amino to the carboxyl terminus.
             To circularly permute IL6, recombinant constructs are engineered such that the
    native amino and carboxy termini of IL6 are joined by a linker sequence, and new amino
    and carboxy termini are engineered at amino acid residues 182 and 180, respectively. (FIG.
20  2). Thus, circular permutation produces a new linear protein (IL-6 (182/180), aka Picasso3)
    which, proceeding from the amino to the carboxy terminus, comprises the segment of the
    original protein corresponding to residues 182 through 212 (now 1 through 31) followed by
    the linker, followed by a segment of the original protein corresponding to residues 49
    through 180 (now 39 through 107) (FIG. 2).
25           It is important to create a permutation of a native ligand that will retain the
    biological activity of the native form of the ligand while providing an optimal termini for
    fusing a desired polypeptide fusion partner. If the new termini interrupt a critical region of
    the native protein, activity may be lost. Similarly, if linking the original termini destroys
    activity, then no permutation will retain biological activity. Thus, there are two
30  requirements for the creation of an active circularly permuted protein: 1) The termini in the
    native protein must be favorably located so that creation of a linkage does not destroy

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 20
    biological activity; and 2) There must exist an "opening site" where new termini can be
    formed without disrupting a region critical for protein folding and desired biological
    activity.
             In one embodiment, the new N-terminus and C-terminus of the modified ligand do
 5  not disrupt any binding domain of the modified ligand for the target receptor.
             In one embodiment, the modified ligands are as fully active as the original ligands.
    In one embodiment the modified ligands have enhanced activity as compared to the
    original ligands. In one embodiment the enhanced activity is increased binding affinity for
    the target receptor.
10           Thus, in general, good candidates for circular permutation are proteins in which the
    termini of the original protein are in close proximity and favorably oriented. In one
    embodiment, the termini of the original protein are equal to or less than 20A apart. Where
    the termini are naturally situated close together, it is expected that direct fusion of the
    termini to each other is possible and the introduction of a linker will have relatively little
15  effect. However, because the linker may be of any length, close proximity of the native
    termini is not an absolute requirement.
             In a preferred embodiment, it is desirable to use a linker sequence in the permuted
    protein that preserves the spacing between the amino and carboxy termini that is
    comparable to the spacing between the amino and carboxy termini found in the
20  unpermuted or native molecule. In a preferred embodiment, the linker sequence will itself
    be between at least about one amino acid to at least about 10 amino acids. In a preferred
    embodiment, a small number of amino acids from either terminus may be removed
    (trimmed back) to bring the termini closer together. For example, in the crystal complex of
    IL-6 with IL-6R and gp130, the termini of the cytokine IL6 are 16 A apart (Brevnova et al.
25  (2003) Science 300:2102). Removal of the first two N-terminal residues, which are not
    required structurally or functionally, reduces the distance between the termini to 10.2 A. A
    linkage that essentially preserves this spacing is made with the peptide sequence
    SGGSGGG (SEQ ID NO: 14). Similarly, a preferred linker for circularly permuted IL-1
    and IL-2 are GGSGGSG and GG, respectively (SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 16,
30  respectively).

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -21
             The selection of an opening site may be determined by a number of factors. Where
    the three dimensional conformation of the protein is known or predicted, preferred opening
    sites will be located in connecting loops or regions that do not show a highly regular three
    dimensional structure. Thus, it is preferred that opening sites be selected in regions of the
 5  protein that do not contain defined secondary structures such as alpha helices,     P strands,
    and the like. Methods of identifying regions of defined secondary structure based on amino
    acid sequence are widely available on the World Wide Web. Furthermore, various
    programs are available for predicting the three-dimensional structure of proteins, recently
    reviewed in Nayeem et al., Protein Science, 808-24 (2006).
10           When retention or enhancement of the bioactivity of the native molecule is desired
    in the circularly permuted molecule, it is preferable that the opening site not be involved
    directly or indirectly in interactions with its protein partners. In one embodiment, the
    choice of the new opening site does not disrupt a binding domain present in the native
    ligand that is involved directly or indirectly in the binding affinity of the native ligand for
15  its target receptor.
             Alternatively, where the substitution of certain amino acids or the modification of
    the side chains of certain amino acids does not change the activity of a protein, it is
    expected that those amino acids are not critical to the protein's activity. Thus, amino acids
    that can be mutated (in vitro) or are actually modified in vivo, with little impact on the
20  protein's activity, are potentially good candidates for opening sites. Preferred opening sites
    in IL-6 are between residues 131 and 135 and between residues 180 and 182. A preferred
    opening site in IL-l$3 is between residues 179 and 180, and also between residues 223 and
    224. A preferred opening site in IL-2 is between residues 94 and 95.
             Where the protein is a member of a family of related proteins within a species, one
25  may infer that the highly conserved sequences are critical for biological activity, while the
    variable regions are not. Likewise, one may infer that highly conserved sequences of a
    protein which is functionally conserved across mammalian species, particularly if there is
    cross-species pharmacological activity, are critical for biological activity. Preferred
    opening sites are then selected in regions of the protein that do not show highly conserved
30  sequence identity between various members of the protein family, either within or between
    species. Alternatively, preferred opening sites that are identified in a protein provide good

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 22
    candidate locations for opening sites in homologous proteins. Methods of determining
    sequence identity are well known to those of skill in the art and are described above.
             One of skill in the art will recognize that other modifications may be made. Thus
    for example, amino acid substitutions may be made that increase the specificity or binding
 5  affinity of the ligand modified by circular permutation. Thus where there are regions of the
    ligand that are not themselves involved in the activity of the ligand, those regions may be
    eliminated or replaced with shorter segments that merely serve to maintain the correct
    special relationships between the ligand and the proteins that it is intended to associate
    with.
10           For a number of native ligands (e.g. growth factors, cytokines, and other proteins),
    the carboxy and amino termini are situated such that when fusion polypeptides are formed
    by joining a second polypeptide or molecule to either terminus of the native ligand, the
    desired downstream activity of the second polypeptide is significantly decreased or absent.
    Aberrant protein folding or steric hindrance is often ascribed to account for the decreased
15  or absent activity of the second polypeptide. In other cases, fusion of a second polypeptide
    to either terminus of the native protein is tolerated (i.e. the functional activity of the native
    protein is not significantly impacted), however the orientation of the fusion polypeptide
    does not impart the desired activity to the fusion protein, such as in the case where the
    fusion polypeptide is meant to interfere (i.e. antagonize) with the formation of a signaling
20  complex through steric interference where the location of the fusion polypeptide occupies
    the space that a downstream signaling molecule would occupy in the assembly of the active
    signaling complex.
             In contrast, circular permutation of a ligand as described here provides a means by
    which the ligand may be altered to produce new carboxy and amino termini that permit
25  fusion of the second molecule or polypeptide without diminishing the specificity and
    binding affinity of the altered ligand relative to its native form, and that also permits that
    the fused second molecule or polypeptide to impart, for example, superagonism or
    antagonism of a signaling activation complex. In one embodiment the fusion polypeptide
    of the invention converts a native ligand that is an agonist of a target signaling activation
30  complex to an antagonist of the signaling activation complex. This is illustrated in the
    context of the cytokine, IL-6, in Figs. 1-5.

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  -23
            One feature of the invention is that fusion polypeptides comprised of a circularly
    permuted ligand fused to a fusion partner, enhance the binding affinity of the fusion
    polypeptide to the native ligand's native receptor relative to the binding affinity of the
    native (unfused, unmodified, unpermuted) ligand for its native receptor. For example,
 5  Example 3 compares the binding affinity to the IL6 receptor of, 1) a fusion polypeptide
    comprised of circularly permuted IL6 fused to domain one of the transmembrane signaling
    molecule gp130, with 2) native IL-6. The binding affinity of the fusion polypeptide is seen
    to be more than 200 fold greater than the binding affinity of native IL6 to the IL6 receptor
    (Figs. 6A and 6C).
10
    Fusion Polypeptides
            The present invention provides for novel fusion polypeptides comprising circularly
    permuted (modified) ligands and at least one polypeptide fusion partner, wherein the fusion
    polypeptide optionally possesses specificity and binding affinity greater than the specificity
15  and binding affinity of the native (unpermuted) ligand for its native target receptor.
    Additionally, the fusion polypeptide may for example, be further engineered to generate an
    antagonist of a pathway where the native ligand functioned as an agonist through binding a
    target receptor as described herein.
            Many receptors bind native ligands and cluster, i.e., form dimers, trimers or
20  multimers, upon binding their native ligands (dimeric or multimeric receptor). For
    example, the IL-I family cytokines, fibroblast growth factors, and 4-helix cytokines form
    multimeric signaling complexes of incorporating various numbers of ligands and receptors
    (FIG. 9). Ligand-induced clustering (e.g., dimerization, multimerization) often leads to
    higher affinity complexes and initiates signal transduction. Accordingly, the fusion
25  polypeptides of the invention can, for example, antagonize signaling by, for example,
    inhibiting binding of the native ligand, or inhibiting receptor clustering (e.g., dimerization,
    trimerization, multimerization) with or without also inhibiting native ligand binding (FIG.
     10). Alternatively, the fusion polypeptides of the invention can enhance signaling by, for
    example, facilitating the progression of the clustering, through generation of ligands with
30  greater affinity for target receptors or pre-association of components leading to a signaling
    complex. In a preferred embodiment, the fusion polypeptides of the invention can bind a

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 24
    monomeric ligand or receptor, or a dimeric, or multimeric complex and can inhibit or
    enhance one or more steps in the assembly of signaling complexes and thereby inhibit or
    enhance signal transduction of a cellular pathway.
             For example, in the stepwise build up of higher order complexes leading to a final
 5  active complex as set forth in Scheme 1, which is representative of the pathway leading to
    signaling by IL-2 where IL-2 is "A", IL-2Ra is "B", IL-2R$ is "C" and yc is "D":
             Scheme 1:        A+B -* AB (step 1);
                              AB + C -* ABC (step 2);
10                            ABC + D - ABCD (step 3);
                     where ABCD is the signaling complex and signaling is initiated by bringing
                      C and D proximal to one another. (The signaling complex is illustrated in
                     FIG. 9 and the structure of the extracellular components of the complex are
                      in FIG. 8).
15
             A pre-assembled, single chain 'AB' would be expected to be a superagonist as it
    would possess a higher affinity to C than either A or B and thus facilitate assembly of
    ABCD at lower concentrations. In the case where the native termini of "A" are not
    positioned to enable the fusion protein, a fusion protein of the ligand "A" that has been
20  modified by circular permutation in accordance with the invention to be optimally oriented
    to be fused with "B" enables the generation of the single chain 'AB' protein. Figure 8
    illustrates this for the case of an engineered IL-2 superagonist (RDB 1405; SEQ ID NO: 12
    (protein) and SEQ ID NO: 13 (DNA)). On activated T cells, IL-2 signals through the 'high
    affinity' quaternary complex consisting of IL-2, IL-2Ra (also termed CD25), IL-2R$ and
25  yc (FIG. 8A). Although IL-2 can much more weakly bind to IL-2R$ in the absence of IL
    2Ra , the binding of IL-2Ra to IL-2 stabilizes the conformation of IL-2 for presentation to
    IL-2R$ with much greater affinity. yc is then recruited to the composite surface formed by
    the IL-2/IL-2R$ complex. Expression of a fusion protein of native IL-2 with IL-2Ra is
    challenging because the IL-2 termini are at the polar opposite face to which IL-2Ra
30  interacts, requiring a spacer to span greater than 50 angstroms and likely disrupting the
    ability for the fusion protein to bind (FIG. 8A, the IL-2 termini are at the bottom pointing

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 25
    away from IL-2Ra at the top). In fact, an IL-2/IL-2Ra fusion protein with a long spacer
    has recently been described, and it is incapable of promoting a signal in the absence of a
    protease-mediated cleavage of the linker with subsequent release of IL-2 (Puskas et al.,
    Immunology, 13 3(2), 206-220 (2011)). The termini of circularly permuted IL-2(95/94) are
 5  engineered to be on the face proximal to the binding interface with IL-2Ra, significantly
    reducing the length of the spacer required to generate a fusion protein that can assemble as
    an activated complex and may function as a super agonist (FIG. 8B). (The distance
    between the engineered C-terminus of the circularly permuted IL-2 and the N-terminus of
    IL-2Ra is about 11 angstroms; the design fusion construct, RDB 1405 contains a 6 amino
10  acid spacer between IL-2 and IL-2Ra).
            Alternatively, the stepwise build up of multimeric activation complexes for signal
    transduction offers the opportunity to create potent antagonists. In this case, the ligand is
    modified by circular permutation to provide an N- or C-terminus which facilitates linking a
    fusion partner in an orientation that sterically hinders the stepwise formation of a
15  multimeric activation complex of a target receptor, and in some cases the fusion partner
    can furthermore augment the binding affinity to the target receptor, if for example, the
    fusion partner is a protein or domain that in itself contains binding determinants to the
    target receptor. This latter case is illustrated in the context of the cytokine, IL-6, in Figs. 1
    5 and 10. In this example, the fusion polypeptide comprises circularly permuted
20  interleukin 6 (IL-6) fused to a polypeptide comprising the D1 domain of the
    transmembrane receptor gp130, which is a natural component of the hexameric IL-6
    signaling complex. The circularly permuted ligand (RDB 1503) (FIG. 2), in absence of a
    fusion partner, retains the identical agonistic activity as wild-type IL-6 (FIG. 4), and thus
    retains the necessary interactions with IL-6Ra and gp130. The hexameric signaling
25  complex of IL-6 is composed of 2 molecules each of IL-6, IL-6Ra, and gp130 (FIG. 1).
    Signal is initiated through the cytoplasmic domain of the two gp130 molecules when two
    heterotrimers (each with one molecule each of IL-6, IL-6Ra, and gp130) come together
    (FIG. 1). The driving force for the final step in complex formation is the symmetrical
    interactions between the D1 domains of gp 130 from one heterotrimer with IL-6 and IL
30  6Ra of the other heterotrimer. A fusion of the D1 domain of gp130 to native IL-6 orients
    the D1 domain away from the gp130 interface (FIG. 3A) and results in a protein

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  -26
    (RDB1529) that does not antagonize IL-6-mediated signaling (FIG. 5). In contrast, a
    fusion of the D1 domain to the circularly permuted IL-6 (RDB1527) orients the D1 such
    that it can interact with IL-6Ra in an analogous fashion to the hexameric complex, and
    more importantly sterically prevent the binding of the D1 domain from a second
 5  heterotrimer (FIG. 3B), and thus is a potent antagonist of IL-6-mediated signaling (FIG. 5).
    As the CPIL-6_Dl fusion protein now carries the combined IL-6Ra binding determinants
    of the unmodified IL-6 and the native gp13O-D1 domain in a single polypeptide, the
    binding affinity of the fusion polypeptide is measured to be 40 pM, more than 200 fold
    greater than the binding affinity of native IL6 to the IL-6Ra (Figs. 6A and 6C).
10           In one embodiment, the invention provides for fusion polypeptides comprising the
    modified ligand and a first fusion partner wherein the first fusion partner of the modified
    ligand is derived from all or a portion of a protein with additional binding determinants to
    the target receptor, for example as in the case of a protein or domain which is a component
    of the natural multimeric signaling complex, and the first fusion partner sterically prevents
15  the assembly of the full signaling complex, thereby acting as an antagonist.
             The ligands modified by circular permutation comprising the fusion polypeptides of
    the invention include soluble proteins whose binding to cell surface receptors initiate a
    signaling cascade or serve as natural negative regulators of a signaling cascade (eg.
    antagonists), including, but not limited to, cytokines, chemokines, adipokines, growth
20  factors, hormones, soluble receptors, cytokine binding proteins (eg. IL-18bp).
             Preferred ligands and proteins modified by circular permutation comprising the
    fusion polypeptides of the invention include helix bundle proteins and cytokines
    (including, but not limited to, growth hormone, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-22, IL
    23p19, IL-11, IL-13, IL-15, IL-12p35, IL-21, IL-30 (IL27p28), IL-34, IL-35, IL-35p35,
25  IFN-$, IFNy, LIF, CNTF, Oncostatin M, CLCF-i, GCSF, GM-CSF, EPO, ferritin, leptin,
    placental lactogen, prolactin, apolipoprotein e), b-trefoil proteins (including, but not limited
    to, IL-la, IL-1$, IL-iRa, IL18, IL-33, IL-36Ra, IL-36a, IL-36b, IL-36g, IL-37, IL-38,
    ILiHy2, FGF-i, FGF-2, FGF-3, FGF-4, FGF-5, FGF-6, FGF-7, FGF-8a, FGF-8b, FGF-8e,
    FGF-8f, FGF-9, FGF-10, FGF-11, FGF-12, FGF-13, FGF-14, FGF-16, FGF-17, FGF-18,
30  FGF-19, FGF-20, FGF-21, FGF-22, FGF-23), a/$ (TIM) barrel proteins (including, but not
    limited to, triosephosphate isomerase), beta sandwich proteins (including, but not limited

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 27
    to, galectin-1, galectin-3, TNF-beta, seven $-propeller proteins, class 1 MHC ala2
    domain, integrin I domain, GYF domain, C1 domain, C2 domain (for example, from
    cPLA2, PKC, synaptotagmin), PDZ domains, C3d, C5a.
             In the most preferred embodiments, the ligand modified by circular permutation
 5  comprising the fusion polypeptides of the invention is selected from IL-6, IL-2, IL-15, IL
     la, IL-1$, IL-iRa, IL-18, FGF-19, FGF-21, FGF-23.
              The ligands modified by circular permutation comprising the fusion polypeptides
    of the invention can have binding specificity for a receptor, or for a receptor that binds a
    native ligand in the following list: ApoE, Apo-SAA, BDNF, Cardiotrophin-1, EGF, EGF
10  receptor, ENA-78, Eotaxin, Eotaxin-2, Exodus-2, FGF-acidic, FGF-basic, fibroblast
    growth factor-10, FLT3 ligand, Fractalkine (CX3C), GDNF, G-CSF, GM-CSF, GF-pl,
    insulin, IFN-7, IGF-I, IGF-II, IL-la, IL-1p, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8 (72
    a.a.), IL-8 (77 a.a.), IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17, IL-18 (IGIF),
    Inhibin a, Inhibin P, IP-10, keratinocyte growth factor-2 (KGF-2), KGF, Leptin, LIF,
15  Lymphotactin, Mullerian inhibitory substance, monocyte colony inhibitory factor,
    monocyte attractant protein, M-CSF, MCP-1 (MCAF), MCP-2, MCP-3, MCP-4, MDC (67
    a.a.), MDC (69 a.a.), MIG, MIP-la, MIP-1P, MIP-3a, MIP-3 P, MIP-4, myeloid progenitor
    inhibitor factor-I (MPIF-1), NAP-2, Neurturin, Nerve growth factor, p-NGF, NT-3, NT-4,
    Oncostatin M, PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB, PDGF-BB, PF-4, RANTES, SDF la, SDFlIP, SCF,
20  SCGF, stem cell factor (SCF), TARC, TGF-a, TGF-p, TGF-p2, TGF-p3, tumor necrosis
    factor (TNF), TNF-a, TNF-p, TNF receptor I, TNF receptor II, TNIL-1, TPO, VEGF,
    VEGF receptor 1, VEGF receptor 2, VEGF receptor 3, GCP-2, GRO/MGSA, GRO-p,
    GRO-7, HCC1, 1-309, HERi, HER2, HER3, and HER4.
             Additional receptors that the modified ligand can have binding specificity for
25  include the receptors in the following list, or a receptor that binds a native ligand included
    in the following list: EpoR, TACE recognition site, TNF BP-I, TNF BP-II, IL-IRI, IL-6R,
    IL-10R, IL-18R, IL-i, IL-19, IL-20, IL-21, IL-23, IL-24, IL-25, IL-27, IFN-7, IFN-a/p,
    CD4, CD89, CD19, HLA-DR, CD38, CD138, CD33, CD56, CEA, and VEGF receptor.
             Further receptors that the modified ligands of the fusion polypeptides of the
30  invention can have binding specificity for include gastrin releasing peptide receptor,

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
                                                 -28
    neurotensin receptor, adrenomedullin receptor, H2 histamine receptor, HCG receptor, MET
    receptor, sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor, CD 126, CD213a1, and KDR, among others.
            The modified ligand of the polypeptide fusion protein of the invention can have
    binding specificity for a receptor that dimerizes upon binding to a native ligand (a dimeric
 5  receptor), or a receptor that forms multimers, such as trimers, upon binding to a native
    ligand (a multimeric receptor). Many cytokine receptors and growth factor receptors, such
    as members of the TNF receptor superfamily (e.g., TNFR1, TNFR2) and members of the
    receptor tyrosine kinase family (e.g., EGFR, PDGFR, M-CSF receptor (c-Fms)) form
    dimers or multimers upon binding their native ligands. The TNF receptor superfamily is an
10  art recognized group of proteins that includes TNFR1 (p5 5 , CD120a, p60, TNF receptor
    superfamily member 1A, TNFRSF1A), TNFR2 (p75, p80, CD120b, TNF receptor
    superfamily member 1B, TNFRSF1B), CD (TNFRSF3, LTpR, TNFR2-RP, TNFR-RP,
    TNFCR, TNF-R-III), OX40 (TNFRSF4, ACT35, TXGPlL), CD40 (TNFRSF5, p50,
    Bp50), Fas (CD95, TNFRSF6, APO-1, APTI), DcR3 (TNFRSF6B), CD27 (TNFRSF7,
15  Tp55, S152), CD30 (TNFRSF8, Ki-1, DIS166E), CD137 (TNFRSF9, 4-1BB, ILA),
    TRAILR-1 (TNFRSF1OA, DR4, Apo2), TRAIL-R2 (TNFRSF1OB, DR5, KILLER,
    TRICK2A, TRICKB), TRAILR3 (TNFRSF1OC, DcR1, LIT, TRID), TRAILR4
    (TNFRSF1OD, DcR2, TRUNDD), RANK (TNFRSF1 1A), OPG (TNFRSF1 IB, OCIF,
    TRI), DR3 (TNFRSF12, TRAMP, WSL-1, LARD, WSL-LR, DDR3, TR3, APO-3), DR3L
20  (TNFRSF12L), TACI (TNFRSF13B), BAFFR (TNFRSF13C), HVEM (TNFRSF14,
    ATAR, TR2, LIGHTR, HVEA), NGFR (TNFRSF 16), BCMA (TNFRSF 17, BCM), AITR
    (TNFRSF18, GITR), TNFRSF19, FLJ14993 (TNFRSF19L, RELT), DR6 (TNFRSF21),
    SOBa (TNFRSF22, Tnfrh2, 2810028K06Rik), and mSOB (THFRSF23, Tnfrhl). The
    receptor tyrosine kinase family is an art recognized group of proteins that includes EGFR
25  (ERBB1, HERI), PDGFR, c-Fms, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, Insulin receptor, and
    Insulin-like growth factor receptors (IGF1R, IGF2R). See, Grassot et al., Nucleic Acids
    Research, 31(1):353-358 (2003).
            In one embodiment, the first polypeptide fusion partner comprises all or any portion
    of the extracellular domains of the natural receptors or accessory proteins for growth
30  hormone, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL
    30 (IL27p28), IL-34, IL-35, IFN-P, IFNy, LIF, CNTF, Oncostatin M, CLCF-i, GCSF,

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -29
    GM-CSF, EPO, placental lactogen, prolactin, apolipoprotein, IL-la, IL-1$, IL-IRa, IL18,
    IL-33, IL-36Ra, IL-36a, IL-36b, IL-36g, IL-37, ILlHy2, FGF-1, FGF-2, FGF-3, FGF-4,
    FGF-5, FGF-6, FGF-7, FGF-8a, FGF-8b, FGF-8e, FGF-8f, FGF-9, FGF-10, FGF-11, FGF
    12, FGF-13, FGF-14, FGF-16, FGF-17, FGF-18, FGF-19, FGF-20, FGF-21, FGF-22,
 5  FGF-23, TNF-beta.
            In the most preferred embodiments, the fusion partner is the extracellular domain or
    a domain thereof selected from gp130 (most preferentially the D1 domain), IL-2Ra, IL
    15Ra, IL-IRI, IL-IRII, IL-18Ra, IL-18R$, ILlRAcP, FGFRlb, FGFRlc, FGFR2b,
    FGFR2c, FGFR3b, FGFR3c, FGFR4, a-Klotho, and j-Klotho.
10          In one embodiment, the protein modified by circular permutation comprising the
    fusion polypeptides of the invention and the fusion partner may originate from the same
    original protein such that the fusion generates a single chain "homodimer".
            In one embodiment, the fusion partner to the circularly permuted polypeptide may
    also require circular permutation to enable the fusion. Thus both partners of the fusion
15  protein of the invention may be circularly permuted, if necessary.
            In one embodiment the polypeptide fusion partner provides other novel or
    improved/enhanced functions or behavior to the fusion polypeptide. In addition to, or
    alternatively, a second fusion partner may be added to the fusion polypeptide of the
    invention to provide other novel and improved/enhanced functions or behavior to the
20  fusion polypeptide of the invention. For example, the fusion partners may provide
    extended half life to the fusion polypeptide of the invention. Addition of fusion partners to
    extend in vivo half-life is particularly useful when the fusion polypeptide of the invention is
    of a size that is rapidly cleared from the body, which can limit clinical use.
            A polypeptide of the invention can be modified such that it has a larger
25  hydrodynamic size by for example, coupling to polymers or carbohydrates (such as
    polyethyleneglycol (PEG), colominic acid, or hydroxyethyl starch), incorporation of N
    glycosylation sites, or through recombinant PEG mimetics produced through fusion of a
    long, flexible polypeptide sequence, such as those described in U.S. 2010/0239554 Al,
    Hydrodynamic size of a polypeptide fusion protein of the invention may be determined
30  using methods which are well known in the art. For example, gel filtration chromatography
    may be used to determine the hydrodynamic size. Suitable gel filtration matrices for

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 30
    determining the hydrodynamic sizes of ligands, such as cross-linked agarose matrices, are
    well known and readily available.
             In one preferred embodiment, a fusion polypeptide of the invention is designed to
    incorporate a mucin-domain polypeptide as is described in USSN 61/657,264 entitled
 5  "Fusion Polypeptides Comprising an Active Protein Linked to a Mucin-Domain
    Polypeptide" filed on even date herewith, bearing attorney docket number 4000.305 8 US,
    and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
             In one embodiment, a fusion polypeptide of the invention can be fused to proteins,
    protein domains, or peptides that that enhance serum half-life through FcRn-mediated
10  recycling, including immunoglobulins, the Fc domain of immunoglobulins (most notably
    IgGI and IgG2), serum albumin, serum albumin domains (most notably DIII), peptides
    with binding affinity to FcRn, or proteins or peptides with binding affinity to
    immunoglobulins or serum albumin (such as nanobodies).
             Methods for pharmacokinetic analysis and determination of ligand half-life will be
15  familiar to those skilled in the art. Details may be found in Kenneth, A et al: Chemical
    Stability of Pharmaceuticals: A Handbook for Pharmacists and in Peters et al,
    Pharmacokinetc analysis: A Practical Approach (1996). Reference is also made to
    "Pharmacokinetics", M Gibaldi & D Perron, published by Marcel Dekker, 2 Rev. ex
    edition (1982), which describes pharmacokinetic parameters such as t alpha and t beta half
20  lives and area under the curve (AUC).
             In one embodiment, a fusion polypeptide of the invention can be fused to proteins,
    protein domains, or peptides that that target (i.e. have affinity for) specific organs, tissues,
    cells, or physiological matrices (such as collagen), carbohydrates, or lipids as a means for
    localizing, distributing, or retaining the fusion polypeptide of the invention in a particular
25  region of the body.
            Additional sequences also can be included as part of the fusion polypeptide such as
    affinity tag sequences that can be provided to facilitate the purification or isolation of the
    fusion polypeptide such as those known in the art. Stability sequences can also be added to
    the fusion polypeptide to protect the molecule from degradation (e.g., by a protease).
30  Suitable stability sequences include, but are not limited to, glycine molecules incorporated
    after the initiation methionine (e.g., MG (SEQ ID NO: 17), or MGG (SEQ ID NO: 18) to

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                    -31
    protect the fusion molecule from ubiquitination; two prolines incorporated at the C
    terminus (conferring protection against carboxypeptidase action), and the like.
             In order to test the biological activity, binding specificity and binding affinity of a
    fusion polypeptide of the invention, an appropriate biological assay may be used. Assays
 5  for biological activities of various kinds are well known to those of skill in the art. The
    particular assay depends on the particular activity of the molecule.
    Preparation of Circularly Permuted Proteins
             Circularly permuted proteins may be made by a number of means known to those
10  of skill in the art. These include chemical synthesis, modification of existing proteins, and
    expression of circularly permuted proteins using recombinant DNA methodology.
    Where the protein is relatively short (i.e., less than about 50 amino acids) the circularly
    permuted protein may be synthesized using standard chemical peptide synthesis
    techniques. If the linker is a peptide, it may be incorporated during the synthesis. If the
15  linker is not a peptide, it may be coupled to the peptide after synthesis. Solid phase
    synthesis in which the C-terminal amino acid of the sequence is attached to an insoluble
    support followed by sequential addition of the remaining amino acids in the sequence is the
    preferred method for the chemical synthesis of the circularly permuted ligands and fusion
    proteins of this invention. Techniques for solid phase, synthesis are described by Barany
20  and Merrifield, Solid-Phase Peptide Synthesis; pp. 3-284 in The Peptides: Analysis,
    Synthesis, Biology. Vol. 2: Special Methods in Peptide Synthesis, Part A., Merrifield, et al.
    J. Am. Chem. Soc., 85: 2149-2156 (1963), and Stewart et al., Solid Phase Peptide
    Synthesis, 2nd ed. Pierce Chem. Co., Rockford, Ill. (1984) which are incorporated herein
    by reference.
25           Alternatively, the circularly permuted protein may be made by chemically
    modifying a native protein. Generally, this requires reacting the native protein in the
    presence of the linker to form covalent bonds between the linker and the carboxyl and
    amino termini of the protein, thus forming a circular protein. New termini are then formed
    by opening the peptide bond joining amino acids at another location. This may be
30  accomplished chemically or enzymatically using, for example, a peptidase.

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 32
             In a preferred embodiment, the circularly permuted protein, or fusion polypeptides
    comprising the circularly permuted protein fused to at least one fusion partner, will be
    synthesized using recombinant DNA methodology. Generally this involves creating a DNA
    sequence that encodes the circularly permuted ligand (or entire fusion polypeptide
 5  containing the circularly permuted ligand and fusion partner), placing the DNA in an
    expression vector under the control of a particular promoter, expressing the protein in a
    host, isolating the expressed protein and, if required, renaturing the protein.
             DNA encoding the circularly permuted ligand may be produced by gene synthesis,
    or by using DNA amplification methods, for example polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
10  and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). DNA encoding a signal
    sequence such that the properly processed circularly permuted fusion protein is secreted
    from the cell can optionally be added.
             One of skill will appreciate that the circularly permuted ligand and the other
    molecule comprising the fusion polypeptides of the invention may be joined together in
15  any order. Thus, the second molecule is preferably joined to either the amino (N-terminal
    fusion) or carboxy (C-terminal fusion) terminus of the circularly permuted ligand.
             The circularly permuted ligands and their fusion proteins may be expressed in a
    variety of host cells, including E. coli, other bacterial hosts, yeast, and various higher
    eukaryotic cells such as the COS, CHO and HeLa cells lines and myeloma cell lines. The
20  recombinant protein gene will be operably linked to appropriate expression control
    sequences for each host. For E. coli this includes a promoter such as the T7, trp, or lambda
    promoters, a ribosome binding site and preferably a transcription termination signal. For
    eukaryotic cells, the control sequences will include a promoter and preferably an enhancer
    derived from immunoglobulin genes, SV40, cytomegalovirus, etc., and a polyadenylation
25  sequence, and may include splice donor and acceptor sequences.
             The plasmids of the invention can be transferred (transfected) into the chosen host
    cell by well-known methods such as calcium chloride transformation for E. coli and
    calcium phosphate treatment, electroporation, lipofectamine treatment, or PEI treatment for
    mammalian cells. Cells transformed by the plasmids can be selected by resistance to
30  antibiotics conferred by genes contained on the plasmids, such as the amp, gpt, neo and
    hyg genes.

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 33
             Once expressed, the recombinant fusion proteins can be purified according to
    standard procedures of the art, including ammonium sulfate precipitation, affinity
    chromatography, column chromatography with ionic or hydrophobic resins, gel
    electrophoresis and the like (see, generally, R. Scopes, Protein Purification, Springer
 5  Verlag, N.Y. (1982), Deutscher, Methods in Enzymology Vol. 182: Guide to Protein
    Purification., Academic Press, Inc. N.Y. (1990)). Substantially pure compositions of at
    least about 90 to 95% purity are preferred, and 98 to 99% or higher purity are most
    preferred for pharmaceutical uses. Once purified, the polypeptides may be tested in
    preclinical models, tested clinically, or used therapeutically.
10           One of skill would recognize that modifications can be made to the circularized
    protein sequence without diminishing its biological activity. Some modifications may be
    made to facilitate the cloning, expression, or incorporation of the circularly permuted
    ligand into a fusion protein. Such modifications are well known to those of skill in the art
    and include, addition of residues for example, a methionine added at the amino terminus to
15  provide an initiation site, or additional amino acids placed on either terminus to protect the
    protein from exopeptidases. For example, circularly permuted IL6 may optionally have an
    additional methionine (Met) codon at the amino terminus to provide an initiation site for
    translation.
             One of skill will recognize that other modifications may be made. Thus, for
20  example, amino acid substitutions may be made that increase specificity or binding affinity
    of the circularly permuted protein, etc. Alternatively, non-essential regions of the molecule
    may be shortened or eliminated entirely. Thus, where there are regions of the molecule that
    are not themselves involved in the activity of the molecule, they may be eliminated or
    replaced with shorter segments that merely serve to maintain the correct spatial
25  relationships between the active components of the molecule.
             The two proteins may be fused together directly or joined by means of a peptide
    spacer. The peptide spacer may range from about 1 to 40 residues in length. In a preferred
    embodiment, the peptide spacer is 20 A or less in length.
             Generally, the spacer has no biological activity itself and functions only to link and
30  provide some distance between the two active proteins comprising the fusion protein.
    However, one of skill will recognize that the residues of the spacer may be chosen to

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 34
    optimize a property of the fusion protein. For example, a spacer containing polar or
    charged residues in the spacer may enhance solubility in aqueous solutions. Similarly, the
    spacer residues may be chosen for their effect on the folding of the fusion protein.
             It is understood that the invention includes the above-described nucleic acids
 5  encoding the fusion polypeptides of the inventions such as recombinant nucleic acids
    produced by recombinant DNA methodology, as well as expression vectors comprising the
    nucleic acids of the invention and host cells comprising the vectors of the invention.
    Therapeutic Uses
10           The fusion polypeptides of the invention compositions described herein are
    particularly well suited as therapeutic agents targeting cells of interest in vivo (i.e., target
    cells) since they exhibit, among other properties, higher binding affinities for native
    receptors than native ligands, and super agonist and antagonistic activities. Thus, the
    compositions and pharmaceutical compositions containing the present fusion polypeptides
15  can be administered to a patient in need for therapeutic treatments. In therapeutic
    applications, fusion polypeptides of the invention comprising circularly permuted ligands,
    and various compositions containing these molecules are administered to a patient
    suffering from a disease or disorder in a therapeutically effective amount.
             The invention provides compositions comprising the fusion polypeptides of the
20  invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient, and therapeutic
    and diagnostic methods that employ the ligands or compositions of the invention.
             Therapeutic and prophylactic uses of ligands of the invention involve the
    administration of ligands according to the invention to a recipient mammal, such as a
    human. The fusion polypeptides of the invention preferably bind to targets with high
25  affinity and/or avidity. Substantially pure ligands of at least 90 to 95% homogeneity are
    preferred for administration to a mammal, and 98 to 99% or more homogeneity is most
    preferred for pharmaceutical uses, especially when the mammal is a human. Once purified,
    partially or to homogeneity as desired, the fusion polypeptides of the invention may be
    used diagnostically or therapeutically (including extracorporeally) or in developing and
30  performing assay procedures, immunofluorescent stainings and the like.

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 35
             For example, the fusion polypeptides of the present invention will typically find use
    in preventing, suppressing or treating disease states. For example, fusion polypeptides can
    be administered to treat, suppress or prevent a disease or disorder caused by receptor
    activity, or characterized by expression or overexpression of receptor, such as chronic
 5  inflammation or chronic inflammatory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, metabolic
    diseases (e.g., obesity, Type II diabetes, metabolic syndrome), respiratory diseases (e.g.,
    asthma, COPD), ophthalmic diseases (e.g., AMD, glaucoma), hematopoietic disorders,
    immunosuppression, organ transplant rejection, graft versus host disease, bone and
    cartilage diseases (osteoporosis, osteoarthritis), allergic hypersensitivity, cancer, bacterial
10  or viral infection, autoimmune disorders (which include, but are not limited to, Type I
    diabetes, asthma, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis,
    psoriatic arthritis, spondylarthropathy (e.g., ankylosing spondylitis), autoinflammatory
    disorders, systemic lupus erythematosus, inflammatory bowel disease (e.g., Crohn's
    disease, ulcerative colitis), myasthenia gravis and Behcet's syndrome), psoriasis,
15  endometriosis, and abdominal adhesions (e.g., post abdominal surgery).
             One preferred application is, through the use of the circularly permuted IL-2 fused
    to IL-2Ra generating an IL-2 super agonist), the treatment of cancer, or of autoimmune
    conditions such as graft-versus-host disease, organ transplant rejection.
            Another preferred application is, through the use of a circularly permuted IL-6
20  fused to the D1 domain of gp 130 (generating a very potent IL-6 antagonist), the treatment
    of chronic inflammatory diseases, autoimmune diseases (including, but not limited to,
    rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's
    disease, inflammatory bowel syndrome), cancer (including multiple myeloma), and
    Castleman's disease. As described in Examples 2 and 3, the circularly permuted ligand
25  gp130 fusion protein of the present invention (RDB1527) shows greater specific binding
    affinity to the native IL6 receptor (Figs. 6A vs. 6C) and target cell inhibition (FIG. 5), as
    compared to native ligands. The increased binding affinity and growth inhibition of
    circularly permuted IL6-gp 130 fusion polypeptides may allow the these fusion proteins to
    be administered at lower dosages as compared to other inhibitors of IL6 signaling, while
30  achieving the same therapeutic efficacy. Alternatively, administration at the same dosages
    results in prolonged therapeutic efficacy as the fusion proteins must be cleared from the

   WO 2013/184942                                                                 PCT/US2013/044556
                                                     - 36
    circulation to a lower concentration before they cease to show significant efficacy. In
    addition, the increased therapeutic efficacy is not accompanied by an increase in undesired
    side effects due to non-specific binding and cytotoxicity.
             Another preferred application is, through the use of a circularly permuted IL-I
 5  fused to a domain of either IL-IRI, IL-IRII, or IL-lRAcP (generating a very potent IL-I
    antagonist), the treatment of autoinflammatory diseases, Type I diabetes, chronic
    inflammatory diseases, autoimmune diseases (including, but not limited to, rheumatoid
    arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease,
    inflammatory bowel syndrome), cancer, gout, and osteoarthritis.
10           Another preferred application is, through the use of the circularly permuted IL-15
    fused to IL-15a (generating an IL-15 super agonist), the treatment of cancer, of
    autoimmune conditions such as graft-versus-host disease, organ transplant rejection, or of
    infection.
             The circularly permuted ligand portion of the fusion polypeptide is chosen
15  according to the intended use. Proteins that may serve as targets for the circularly permuted
    ligands include but are not limited to signaling molecules such as growth factors or
    biologically active fragments or mutants thereof. For example, the growth factor can be a
    cytokine (e.g., an interleukin or chemokine). While one of ordinary skill in the art can
    readily determine whether a molecule is a signaling molecule (i.e., whether it is produced
20  and secreted by a first cell type and exerts an effect on itself or (autocrine) or on a second
    cell type (paracrine), usually by specifically binding a receptor), various particular
    signaling molecules may be properly placed in two or more categories. For example, IL-I
    may be properly referred to as a cytokine or interleukin and erythropoietin may be properly
    referred to as a growth factor or a hormone; etc.
25           An cytokine includes but is not limited to, IL-la, IL-1$, IL-IRa, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4,
    IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-12p35, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17 family
    members, IL18, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-23p19, IL-30 (IL27p28), IL-33, IL-34, IL-35, IL
    35p35, IL-36Ra, IL-36a, IL-36b, IL-36g, IL-37, IL-38, LIF, CNTF, Oncostatin M, CLCF
    1, GCSF, GM-CSF, ferritin, , placental lactogen, apolipoprotein e, interferon-alpha (IFNa.),
30  interferon-beta (IFNp), or interferon-gamma (IFNy). A chemokine can be a member of the
    a subfamily and/or can bind a CXCRi, CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4, or CXCR5 receptor; it

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 37
    can be a member of the    P subfamily and/or can bind a CCR1,     CCR2, CCR3, CCR4, CCR5,
    CCR6, CCR7, CCR8, CCR9, CCR1O, or CCR1 1 molecule. A chemokine can also be
    lymphotactin or another chemokine that binds a XCR1 receptor; a chemokine can also be
    fractalkine or can bind a CX 3 CR1 receptor. For example, the chemokine can be CCL7,
 5  CCL23, CCL27, CCL28, CXCL12, CXCL14, or CXCL15.
             Growth factors include but are not limited to members of the tumor necrosis factor
    (TNF) family, members of the nerve growth factor (NGF) family, members of the
    transforming growth factor (TGF) family, members of the GDF family, members of the
    BMP family, members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family (including FGF-1,
10  FGF-2, FGF-3, FGF-4, FGF-5, FGF-6, FGF-7, FGF-8a, FGF-8b, FGF-8e, FGF-8f, FGF-9,
    FGF-10, FGF-1 1, FGF-12, FGF-13, FGF-14, FGF-16, FGF-17, FGF-18, FGF-19, FGF-20,
    FGF-21, FGF-22, FGF-23, members of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) family,
    members of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family, or members of the platelet-derived
    growth factor (PDGF) family. For example, the growth factor can be TNF, EGF, TGFa,
15  TGF P, FGF, NGF, erythropoietin, IGF-1, or IGF-2.
             A hormone can be a hormone produced by the adrenal gland, parathyroid gland,
    pituitary gland, or thyroid gland; it can also be produced by the hypothalamus, the ovary,
    the testicle, the pancreas, the pineal body, or the thymus. For example, the hormone can be
    a thyroid-stimulating hormone, a follicle-stimulating hormone, a leuteinizing hormone,
20  prolactin, growth hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, antidiuretic hormone, oxytocin,
    thyrotropin-releasing hormone, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, growth hormone
    releasing hormone, corticotropin-releasing hormone, somatostatin, dopamine, melatonin,
    thyroxine, calcitonin, parathyroid hormone, a glucocorticoid, a mineralocorticoid, an
    androgen, adrenaline, an estrogen, progesterone, human chorionic gonadotropin, insulin,
25  glucagons, somatostatin, erythropoietin, calcitriol, atrial-natriuretic peptide, gastrin,
    secretin, cholecystokinin, somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, ghrelin, PYY 3 _3 6, insulin-like
    growth factor-1, angiotensinogen, thrombopoietin, or leptin.
             Neurotransmitters include acetylcholine, dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin,
    histamine, or epinephrine. The neurotransmitter can also be a neuroactive peptide (e.g.,
30  bradykinin, cholecystokinin, gastrin, secretin, oxytocin, a sleep peptide, gonadotropin
    releasing hormone, beta-endorphin, enkephalin, substance P, somatostatin, prolactin,

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 38
    galanin, growth hormone-releasing hormone, bombesin, dynorphin, neurotensin, motilin,
    thyrotrop in, neuropeptide Y, leuteinizing hormone, calcitonin, or vasoactive intestinal
    peptide). Suitable co-stimulatory molecules include B7-1 and B7-2.
 5  Pharmaceutical Compositions
             The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising fusion
    proteins of the invention. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises
    the fusion protein and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Fusion proteins of
    the present invention can be formulated according to known methods to prepare
10  pharmaceutically useful compositions, whereby the polypeptide is combined with a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle, such as aqueous solutions or buffers,
    pharmaceutically acceptable suspensions and emulsions. Examples of non-aqueous
    solvents include propyl ethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol and vegetable oils.
    Therapeutic formulations are prepared for storage by mixing the active ingredient having
15  the desired degree of purity with optional physiologically acceptable carriers, excipients or
    stabilizers, as described in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed.
    (1980), in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions.
             More particularly, the present pharmaceutical compositions may be administered
    for therapy by any suitable route including subcutaneous, subcutaneous or intrathecally by
20  infusion pump, intramuscular, intravenous, intradermal, intravitreal, nasal, and pulmonary.
    It will also be appreciated that the preferred route will vary with the therapeutic agent,
    condition and age of the recipient, and the disease being treated.
             In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is administered
    subcutaneously. In this embodiment, the composition may be supplied as a lyophilized
25  powder to be reconstituted prior to administration. The composition may also be supplied
    in a liquid form, which can be administered directly to a patient. In one embodiment, the
    composition is supplied as a liquid in a pre-filled syringe such that a patient can easily self
    administer the composition.
             In another embodiment, the compositions of the present invention are encapsulated
30  in liposomes, which have demonstrated utility in delivering beneficial active agents in a
    controlled manner over prolonged periods of time. Liposomes are closed bilayer

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
                                                - 39
    membranes containing an entrapped aqueous volume. Liposomes may also be unilamellar
    vesicles possessing a single membrane bilayer or multilamellar vesicles with multiple
    membrane bilayers, each separated from the next by an aqueous layer. The structure of the
    resulting membrane bilayer is such that the hydrophobic (non-polar) tails of the lipid are
 5  oriented toward the center of the bilayer while the hydrophilic (polar) heads orient towards
    the aqueous phase. In one embodiment, the liposome may be coated with a flexible water
    soluble polymer that avoids uptake by the organs of the mononuclear phagocyte system,
    primarily the liver and spleen. Suitable hydrophilic polymers for surrounding the liposomes
    include, without limitation, PEG, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylmethylether,
10  polymethyloxazoline, polyethyloxazoline, polyhydroxypropyloxazoline,
    polyhydroxypropylmethacrylamide, polymethacrylamide, polydimethylacrylamide,
    polyhydroxypropylmethacrylate, polyhydroxethylacrylate, hydroxymethylcellulose
    hydroxyethylcellulose, polyethyleneglycol, polyaspartamide and hydrophilic peptide
    sequences as described in U.S. Pat. No's. 6,316,024; 6,126,966; 6,056,973 and 6,043,094,
15  the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
            Liposomes may be comprised of any lipid or lipid combination known in the art.
    For example, the vesicle-forming lipids may be naturally-occurring or synthetic lipids,
    including phospholipids, such as phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine,
    phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylserine, phasphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol, and
20  sphingomyelin as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No's. 6,056,973 and 5,874,104. The vesicle
    forming lipids may also be glycolipids, cerebrosides, or cationic lipids, such as 1,2
    dioleyloxy-3-(trimethylamino) propane (DOTAP); N-[1-(2,3,-ditetradecyloxy)propyl]
    N,N-dimethyl-N-hydroxyethylammonium bromide (DMRIE); N-[1-(2,3,
    dioleyloxy)propyl] -N,N-dimethyl-N-hydroxy ethylammonium bromide (DORIE); N-[1
25  (2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl]-N,N,N-trimethylammonium chloride (DOTMA); 3 [N-(N',N'
    dimethylaminoethane) carbamoly] cholesterol (DC-Chol); or
    dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDAB) also as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,056,973.
    Cholesterol may also be present in the proper range to impart stability to the vesicle as
    disclosed in U.S. Pat. No's. 5,916,588 and 5,874,104.

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 40
            For liquid formulations, a desired property is that the formulation be supplied in a
    form that can pass through a 25, 28, 30, 31, 32 gauge needle for intravenous,
    intramuscular, intraarticular, or subcutaneous administration.
            In other embodiments, the composition may be delivered via intranasal to enable
 5  transfer of the active agents through the olfactory passages into the CNS and reducing the
    systemic administration. Devices commonly used for this route of administration are
    included in U.S. Pat. No. 6,715,485. Compositions delivered via this route may enable
    increased CNS dosing or reduced total body burden reducing systemic toxicity risks
    associated with certain drugs. Preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for delivery in
10  a subdermally implantable device can be performed using methods known in the art, such
    as those described in, e.g., U.S. Pat. No's. 3,992,518; 5,660,848; and 5,756,115.
            A typical pharmaceutical composition for parenteral administration would be about
    0.1 to 3 mg/kg per patient per day. Methods for preparing parenterally administrable
    compositions will be known or apparent to those skilled in the art and are described in
15  more detail in such publications as Remington's Pharmaceutical Science, 15th ed., Mack
    Publishing Company, Easton, Pa. (1980).
            Single or multiple administrations of the compositions may be administered
    depending on the dosage and frequency as required and tolerated by the patient. In any
    event, the composition should provide a sufficient quantity of the proteins of this invention
20  to effectively treat the patient.
    EXAMPLES
            The following examples are offered by way of illustration and are not to be
    construed as limiting the invention as claimed in any way.
25
    Example 1. Design, Preparation, Expression, and Purification of Picasso Fusion
    Constructs
    1. Design of circularlypermutated IL-6 andfusion to domain D1 ofgp130 receptor
            The crystal structure of the hexameric IL-6 signaling complex (lP9M.pdb; FIG. 1)
30  was utilized to design a circularly permutated variant of human IL6, named picasso3 (FIG.
    2; RDB 1503; SEQ ID NO: 1 (protein) and SEQ ID NO: 2 (nucleic acid)), such that the

   WO 2013/184942                                                              PCT/US2013/044556
                                                -41
    engineered C- terminus can be fused to the N-terminus of the D1 domain of gp130 in the
    complex through a short spacer. Briefly, the engineered N and C termini in picasso3
    correspond to residues 182 and 180 in wild-type IL-6 (SEQ ID NO: 3), and the native IL-6
    termini were joined through a 7 amino acid linker. The D1 domain of gp130 was chosen as
 5  the fusion partner such that not only would it interfere sterically with hexamer formation,
    but also enhance the binding affinity to IL-6R through native interactions present in the
    complex (FIG. 3B). The engineered C-terminus of picasso3 was fused to the D1 domain
    through a two amino acid spacer to form RDB 1527 (FIG. 3B; SEQ ID NO: 4 (protein) and
    SEQ ID NO: 5 (nucleic acid)). As a control an analogous fusion protein consisting of
10  native IL6 fused to D1 (RDB1529) was designed (FIG. 3A; SEQ ID NO: 6 (protein) and
    SEQ ID NO: 7 (nucleic acid)).
    2. Gene synthesis
            Synthesis of the genes for expression of the designed constructs was carried out
15  using standard methods.
    3. Subcloning of the synthesized gene into a mammalian expression vector
            A) Preparation of the expression vector pcDNA T M (Invitrogen).
            5 pg of pcDNA was digested with BamHI and HindIl for two hours at 370 C. The
20  digest was treated with calf alkaline phosphatase to remove the 5' phosphate, thus
    preventing religation of vector on itself. Buffer was exchange to remove salts from calf
    alkaline phosphatase reaction. Qiagen's PCR cleanup kit was used following the
    manufacturer's suggested protocol. The DNA was eluted in 30 Pl of H20.
            B) Preparation of the gene of interest.
25          The gene of interest was digested with BamHI and HindIl for two hours 370 C. The
    digestion reaction was run on an E-Gel@ CloneWellTM apparatus (Invitrogen) using 0.80
    SYBR Green. The fragment corresponding to the gene of interest was isolated from the
    second row of wells on the gel.
            C) Ligation reaction of the gene to pcDNA.
30          The prepared pcDNA (step A) was mixed with the DNA from step B in the
    presence of T4 ligase and incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes. Following the

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   - 42
    ligation, the products were transformed into TOP 10 cells (Invitrogen; chemically
    competent strain of E. coli) and the correct clone was picked and stored as a glycerol stock
    at the -80 'C.
 5  4. Expression of RDB1503, RDB1527, and RDB1529
            All the proteins were expressed in CHO cells using FreeStyleTM Max Reagent
    (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's protocol. Briefly, a day prior to transfection the
    cells were seeded at 0.5x 106 cells/mL and on the day of transfection they were adjusted to
     1x106 cells/mL as recommended by manufacturer. For a 1 liter transfection, two tubes (A
10  and B) of media (OptiPRO TM, Invitrogen) were prepared containing about 19 ml, 1mg of
    DNA was added to tube A and 1ml of FreeStyleTM Max reagent was added to tube B.
    Immediately the contents of both tubes were mixed and incubated at room temperature for
     15 minutes. After the incubation period the mixture was added slowly to the 1 liter of CHO
    cells. After transfection the cells were left for 6-to-7 days and then the supernatant was
15  collected.
    5. PurificationofRDB1527 and RDB1529
             The expressed protein in the supernatant was captured on a protein A column to
    bind the Fc portion of the fusion protein. After binding the protein, the column was washed
20  with up to 5 column volume of PBS. The protein was eluted from the column by lowering
    the pH of the running buffer and directly neutralized with Tris buffer pH=7. The purified
    protein was then dialyzed overnight against PBS.
    Example 2. In Vitro Activity of Circularly Permutated IL6 Fusion Proteins
25           HEK-Blue T M IL-6 cells (Invivogen) are human embryonic kidney cells specifically
    designed to detect bioactive IL-6 in vitro by monitoring the IL-6-induced expression of a
    STAT3-inducible secreted embryonic alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) reporter gene. SEAP
    can be readily monitored when using the SEAP detection medium QUANTI-BlueTM
    (Invivogen). The human cell line and detection medium were used to test the ability of the
30  circularly permutated IL6 and IL6 fusion proteins constructs RDB1503, RDB1527 and
    RDB 1529 to agonize or antagonize the IL-6-induced SEAP.

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 43
             100 pL of media containing HEK-Blue TM IL-6 cells were plated into 96-well
    microtiter plates to a final concentration of 50,000 cells/well. To measure agonist activity,
    IL6 and RDB1503 were prepared at initial concentration of 200 pM then serially diluted
    and added in duplicate test samples to the HEK-BlueTM IL-6 cells. To measure antagonist
 5  potency, RDB 1527 and RDB 1529 were prepared at an initial concentration of 3.3nM then
    serially diluted and added in duplicate test samples to the HEK-Blue T M IL-6 cells in the
    presence of a constant concentration of IL6 of 12.5 pM. The samples were incubated at
    370 C, 5% C02 from 20-24 hours, then 40 pL of each sample transferred to a new 96 well
    plate containing 160 pL of QUANTI-Blue T M in each well, and incubated at 370 C, 5% C02.
10  Absorbance readings were taken at 630 nm after 3 hours of incubation.
             Circularly permuted IL-6 (RDB 1503) demonstrated agonist activity with a
    comparable EC5 0 to that of IL-6 (FIG. 4). RDB1527 (CP IL-6_D l_Fc) was able to inhibit
    IL-6-induced SEAP expression in a dose-dependent fashion with an IC50 value of 0.22nM
    (FIG. 5). In contrast, RDB1529 (unmodified IL-6_Dl_Fc) showed no antagonist effect
15  (FIG. 5).
             The following conclusions were drawn: 1) Circular permutation of IL-6 results in
    no loss in binding affinity; 2) fusion of the D1 domain of gp130 to the C-terminus of wild
    type IL-6 does not convert IL-6 to a potent antagonist, whereas fusion of the D1 domain of
    gp130 to the C-terminus of the circularly permuted IL-6 results in potent antagonism of IL
20  6 mediated signaling.
    Example 3. Kinetics Measurements of wtIL6, RDB1527 and RDB1529
             Wild type IL6-Fc (wtIL6), RDB 1527 and RDB 1529 were immobilized on a
    BiacoreTM sensor chip using the human antibody capture kit (GE Healthcare) as per
25  manufacturer's protocol. IL-6R was passed over the surface of the chip in a stepwise
    model. IL-6R was prepared in 5 concentrations; 3.OnM, 1.OnM, 0.33nM, 0.1InM, and
    0.03nM. In the First cycle the 0.03nM concentration of IL-6R was flowed over the bound
    ligand on the surface of the chip for 180 seconds, after which a blank solution was passed
    over the surface to allow the IL-6R to dissociate. The same procedure was repeated for an
30  additional four times using an increasing concentration from 0.03 to 3nM of 6R. The

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 44
    resulting sensorgrams were analyzed with the native instrument software to calculate the
    binding affinities of the constructs.
    The binding affinity of RDB 1527 to IL-6R was calculated to be 40pM (FIG. 6C),
    representing an increase of over 200-fold when compared to the affinity of the control
 5  wtIL6 (9nM, FIG. 6A). The sensorgram for RDB 1529 (FIG. 6B) resulted in a poor fit, and
    thus the calculated binding affinity is not reliable. This may be due to mixed binding
    between IL-6 and IL-6R and independently DI and IL-6R.
            Based upon the results it was concluded that the binding affinity of RDB 1527 to IL
    6R is 40pM, or greater than 200-fold higher than that of wtIL6. This data, in combination
10  with the potent antagonist activity, strongly suggests that the binding determinants on IL-6
    and on D1 are simultaneously binding to IL-6R, and preventing association of the signaling
    complex, as designed.
    Example 4. Design of Circularly Permutated ILlI Fused to Domains D1-D2 of IL-IRI
15  (RDB1538)
            The crystal structure of the heterotrimeric IL-1$ signaling complex (4DEP.pdb;
    FIG. 7A) was utilized to design a circularly permutated variant of IL-1$ (RDB1515; SEQ
    ID NO: 8 (protein) and SEQ ID NO: 9 (nucleic acid)), such that the engineered N terminus
    can be fused to the C-terminus of the D1-D2 domain of IL-IRI through a short spacer.
20  Briefly, the engineered N and C termini correspond to residues 224 and 223, respectively,
    in wild-type IL-1$, and the native IL-1$ termini were joined through a 7 amino acid linker.
    The newly created N-terminus was fused to domain D1-D2 of RI with a 5 amino acid
    spacer and a FLAG tag was added to the N-terminus of RI, resulting in RDB 1538 (FIG.
    7B; SEQ ID NO: 10 (protein) and SEQ ID NO: 11 (nucleic acid)). The resulting fusion
25  protein is designed to be an antagonist of IL-il$-mediated signaling by binding to IL
     1RAcP and preventing the full signaling complex to assemble.
    Example 5. Design of Circularly Permutated IL-2 Fused to IL-2Ra (RDB 1405)
            Upon binding IL-2Ra, the binding conformation of IL-2 is stabilized to allow for a
30  high affinity complex to be formed with IL-2R$ and y,. RDB 1405 is designed to be a
    super agonist of IL-2-mediated signaling, particularly in cells lacking IL-2Ra, as it would

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 45
    be able to form the high affinity complex without requiring binding to cell-associated IL
    2Ra. The crystal structure of the quaternary signaling complex of IL-2 (2B5I.pdb; FIG.
    8A) was utilized to design a circularly permutated variant of IL-2, such that the engineered
    C terminus can be fused to the N-terminus of IL-2Ra through a short spacer. Briefly, the
 5  engineered N and C termini correspond to residues 95 and 94, respectively, in wild-type
    IL-2. The native IL-2 C-terminus was joined to residue 4 of IL-2 through a 2 amino acid
    linker. Finally the newly created C-terminus was fused to the N-terminus of IL-2Ra
    through a 6 amino acid spacer, and the C-terminus of IL-2Ra was fused to human IgGI Fc,
    resulting in RDB 1405 (FIG. 8B; SEQ ID NO: 12 (protein) and SEQ ID NO: 13 (nucleic
10  acid)).
    Example 6. Design of Circularly Permutated Fusion Proteins
             An IL-2 or IL-15 fusion protein with improved selectivity for cells expressing IL
    2Rpy (but not IL-2Ra) over cells expressing IL-2Rapy relative wild-type IL-2 (wild-type
15  IL-2 has a higher preference for cells expressing IL-2Rapy) was designed. By fusing IL
    2Ra to IL-2 or IL-15Ra to IL-15, the resulting fusion protein had greater activity on cells
    lacking the respective alpha chain (IL-2Ra or IL-15Ra) as compared to the native ligand,
    and preference for cells expressing the respective alpha chain would be reduced. Thus, the
    ratio of activity, EC50 (IL-2Rapy )/ EC 5 (IL-2Ra-IL-2Rpy*) would increase for CP-IL-2
20  IL-2Ra fusion proteins would be less for relative to wild type IL-2. Analogous results
    would be expected for CP-IL-15-IL-15Ra fusion proteins. Circular permutation of the
    cytokine is required to appropriately orient the termini in an optimal location for fusion as
    the native termini are oriented distally to the alpha chains in the signaling complex.
             Results: In cells lacking IL-2Ra, but expressing IL-2Rpy (HH cell line)', the
25  engineered constructs are as effective (in fact, two to five-fold better) as Proleukin in
    promoting STAT5 phosphorylation (Figure 11 A, left panel). In contrast, in a cell line
    expressing the heterotrimeric high affinity receptor complex, IL-2Rapy, (CTLL-2 cell
    line)", two of the engineered constructs (RDB 1411, RDB 1413) are 100- to 300-fold less
    active than Proleukin as measured by cell proliferation. Overall, the engineered constructs
30  show between 400 and 600-fold greater selectivity for cells lacking IL-2Ra, relative to
    wild-type IL-2, and thus have the potential to deliver an improved therapeutic profile.

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  - 46
    Although the increase in the ratio of activity was observed, as expected, it was surprising,
    that the greater effect on the increase in the ratio was the dramatic loss of activity (100- to
    300-fold) in cells containing IL-2Ra, rather than an enhancement in activity (only 2- to 5
    fold) for cells lacking IL-2Ra.
 5          In cells lacking IL-2Ra, but expressing IL-2Rpy (HH cell line)', the engineered
    constructs are potent activators of STAT5 phosphorylation, but about 10x less potent than
    wild-type IL-15 (Figure 12A, left panel). In a cell line expressing the heterotrimeric high
    affinity receptor complex, IL-2Rapy, (CTLL-2 cell line)", the engineered constructs
    (RDB1408, RDB1416) are 2000- to 6000-fold less active than wild-type IL-15 as
10  measured by cell proliferation. Overall, the engineered constructs show between 200 and
    600-fold greater selectivity for cells lacking IL-2Ra, relative to wild-type IL-15. Although
    the increase in the ratio of activity was observed, as expected, it was surprising, that the
    greater effect on the increase in the ratio was the dramatic loss of activity (2000- to 6000
    fold) in cells containing IL-2Ra and that a 10-fold loss of activity was observed for cells
15  lacking IL-2Ra.
    Constructs:
            RDB 1409: CP-IL-2(C 145S)-FLAG; Circularly permuted IL-2. The C 145S
            mutation is analogous to that in Proleukin (rhIL-2) to improve the physical
            properties of the protein. The FLAG tag is added for ease in purification.
20          SKNFHLRPRDLISNINVIVLELKGSETTFMCEYADETATIVEFLNRWITFSQSI
            ISTLTGGSSSTKKTQLQLEHLLLDLQMILNGINNYKNPKLTRMLTFKFYMPK
            KATELKHLQCLEEELKPLEEVLNLAQGSDYKDDDDK (SEQ ID NO: 24)
            RDB 1411: CP-IL-2(C145S)-IL-2Ra-Fc; Circularly permuted IL-2 fused to IL
25          2Ra. The C145S mutation is analogous to that in Proleukin (rhIL-2) to improve the
            physical properties of the protein. The Fc is added for ease in purification.
            SKNFHLRPRDLISNINVIVLELKGSETTFMCEYADETATIVEFLNRWITFSQSI
            ISTLTGGSSSTKKTQLQLEHLLLDLQMILNGINNYKNPKLTRMLTFKFYMPK
30          KATELKHLQCLEEELKPLEEVLNLAQGSGGGSELCDDDPPEIPHATFKAMA
            YKEGTMLNCECKRGFRRIKSGSLYMLCTGNSSHSSWDNQCQCTSSATRNT

   WO 2013/184942                                                         PCT/US2013/044556
                                                - 47
           TKQVTPQPEEQKERKTTEMQSPMQPVDQASLPGHCREPPPWENEATERIYH
           FVVGQMVYYQCVQGYRALHRGPAESVCKMTHGKTRWTQPQLICTGGGGS
           EPKSSDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVS
           HEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVH7NAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLN
 5         GKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLT
           CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRW
           QQGNVFSCSVMHEALINHYTQKSLSLSPGK (SEQ ID NO: 25)
           RDB1413: CP-IL-2(C145S)-IL-2Ra-FLAG; Circularly permuted IL-2 fused to IL
10         2Ra. The C145S mutation is analogous to that in Proleukin (rhIL-2) to improve the
           physical properties of the protein. The FLAG tag is added for ease in purification.
           Construct analogous to RDB1411, replacing Fc with FLAG.
           SKNFHLRPRDLISNINVIVLELKGSETTFMCEYADETATIVEFLNRWITFSQSI
15         ISTLTGGSSSTKKTQLQLEHLLLDLQMILNGINNYKNPKLTRMLTFKFYMPK
           KATELKHLQCLEEELKPLEEVLNLAQGSGGGSELCDDDPPEIPHATFKAMA
           YKEGTMLNCECKRGFRRIKSGSLYMLCTGNSSHSSWDNQCQCTSSATRNT
           TKQVTPQPEEQKERKTTEMQSPMQPVDQASLPGHCREPPPWENEATERIYH
           FVVGQMVYYQCVQGYRALHRGPAESVCKMTHGKTRWTQPQLICTGDYK
20         DDDDK (SEQ ID NO: 26)
       RDB1408: Fc-IL-15Ra(sushi)-CP-IL-15; Circularly permuted IL-15 fused to the sushi
       domain of IL-15Ra. The Fc is added for ease in purification.
25     EPKSSDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHED
       PEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKC
       KVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPS
       DIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSV
       MHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGKGSITCPPPMSVEHADIWVKSYSLYSRERYICNSG
30     FKRKAGTSSLTECVLNKATNVAHWTTPSLKCIRDGGSELEEKNIKEFLQSFVHI
       VQMFINGGGSNWVNVISDLKKIEDLIQSMHIDATLYTESDVHPSCKVTAMKCF

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                   -48
         LLELQVISLESGDASIHDTVENLIILANNSLSSNGNVTESGCKEC                              (SEQ ID NO:
         27)
         RDB1416: FLAG-IL-15Ra(sushi)-CP-IL-15; Circularly permuted IL-15 fused to the
 5       sushi domain of IL-15Ra. The FLAG tag is added for ease in purification. Construct
         analogous to RDB 1408, replacing Fc with FLAG.
         DYKDDDDKGSITCPPPMSVEHADIWVKSYSLYSRERYICNSGFKRKAGTSSLTE
         CVLNKATNVAHWTTPSLKCIRDGGSELEEKNIKEFLQSFVHIVQMFINGGGSN
10       WVNVISDLKKIEDLIQSMHIDATLYTESDVHPSCKVTAMKCFLLELQVISLESG
         DASIHDTVENLIILANNSLSSNGNVTESGCKEC                       (SEQ ID NO: 28)
             The patent and scientific literature referred to herein establishes the knowledge that
    is available to those with skill in the art. All United States patents and published or
15  unpublished United States patent applications cited herein are incorporated by reference.
    All published foreign patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated
    by reference. All other published references, documents, manuscripts and scientific
    literature cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference.
             While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to
20  preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various
    changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the
    invention encompassed by the appended claims. It should also be understood that the
    embodiments described herein are not mutually exclusive and that features from the
    various embodiments may be combined in whole or in part in accordance with the
25  invention.

   WO 2013/184942                                                             PCT/US2013/044556
                                               49
                                              CLAIMS
    What is claimed is:
 5
        1. A fusion polypeptide comprising, a first polypeptide fusion partner linked to a
           modified ligand corresponding to all or a portion of a native ligand of a target
           receptor, wherein the modified ligand has been circularly permuted to create a new
           N-terminus and a new C-terminus as compared to the native ligand, and wherein
10         the new N-terminus or the new C-terminus of the modified ligand is linked to a first
           polypeptide fusion partner to form a fusion polypeptide wherein the new C
           terminus and the new N-terminus of the modified ligand do not disrupt any binding
           domain of the modified ligand for the target receptor and wherein the modified
           ligand optionally has increased affinity for the target receptor as compared to the
15         native ligand for the receptor, wherein the target receptor functions by stepwise
           formation of a multimeric activation complex to trigger signal transduction of a
           signaling cellular pathway and wherein when the fusion polypeptide binds the
           receptor it either enhances the stepwise formation of the multimeric activation
           complex thereby super agonizing signal transduction by the target receptor or it
20         sterically hinders the stepwise formation of the multimeric complex thereby
           antagonizing signal transduction by the target receptor.
       2. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the native ligand is an agonist and the
           fusion polypeptide is an antagonist.
25
       3. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the modified ligand of the fusion
           polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of: cytokines, lymphokines,
           chemokines, adipokines, growth factors, or hormones.
30     4. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the first polypeptide fusion partner is
           selected from the group consisting of: all or a portion of the target receptor's
           multimeric activation complex or an accessory protein.

   WO 2013/184942                                                                PCT/US2013/044556
                                                  50
       5. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the modified ligand is circularly
            permuted modification of IL-6, IL-2, IL-15, IL-la, IL-1$, IL-lRa, IL-18, FGF-19,
            FGF-21, FGF-23.
 5     6. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the fusion partner is all or any portion
            of gp130, IL-2Ra, IL-15Ra, IL-IRI, IL-IRII, IL-18Ra, IL-18R$, ILlRAcP,
            FGFRlb, FGFRlc, FGFR2b, FGFR2c, FGFR3b, FGFR3c, FGFR4, a-Klotho, and
            P-Klotho.
10     7. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the affinity of the fusion polypeptide for
            the receptor is at least 10 fold higher than the affinity of the native ligand for the
            receptor.
       8. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, where the fusion partner is capable of extending
15          the in vivo half-life of the fusion polypeptide.
       9. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, further comprising a second polypeptide fusion
            partner that is capable of extending the in vivo half-life of the fusion polypeptide.
20      10. The fusion polypeptide of claim 9, wherein second fusion partner is a mucin
            domain polypeptide.
        11. The fusion polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the first fusion partner comprises all or
            any portion of the unmodified ligand.
25
        12. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the fusion polypeptide of claim 1 and a
            pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        13. An isolated or recombinant nucleic acid encoding the fusion polypeptide of claim 1.
30      14. A recombinant vector comprising the nucleic acid of claim 13.

   WO 2013/184942                                                               PCT/US2013/044556
                                                 51
        15. A host cell comprising the vector of claim 14.
        16. A method of super agonizing a target receptor comprising the step of contacting the
            receptor with the fusion polypeptide of claim 1.
 5
        17. A method of antagonizing a target receptor comprising the step of contacting the
            receptor with a fusion polypeptide of claim 1.
        18. A method of making a fusion polypeptide comprising the steps of:
10              a. selecting a native ligand that binds to a receptor wherein the receptor
                    functions by stepwise formation of a multimeric activation complex to
                    trigger signal transduction of a signaling cellular pathway;
                b. creating a modified ligand by circular permutation to provide a modified
                    ligand having new N-terminus and a new C-terminus as compared to the
15                  native ligand of step (a); and
                c.  linking a first polypeptide fusion partner to the N- or C- terminus of the
                    modified ligand of step (b) to make a fusion polypeptide, wherein the new
                    N- or C-termini of the modified ligand are located to permit the first fusion
                    partner to be linked to the modified ligand in a position oriented to
20                  antagonize or super agonize the function of the target receptor upon binding
                    of the fusion polypeptide to the target receptor.
        19. The method of claim 18, further comprising fusing a second fusion partner to the
            modified ligand of step (b) wherein the second fusion partner extends the half-life
25          of the fusion polypeptide in vivo.
       20. The method of claim 19, wherein the second fusion partner is a mucin polypeptide
            domain.
30     21. The method of claim 18, wherein the native ligand is an agonist and the fusion
            polypeptide is an antagonist.

WO 2013/184942                                                           PCT/US2013/044556
                                          52
    22. The fusion polypeptide of claim 8, wherein the fusion partner is a mucin-domain
        polypeptide.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                     40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
                                                SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110> ALKERMES, INC.
              <120> LIGANDS MODIFIED BY CIRCULAR PERMUTATION AS AGONISTS AND
                    ANTAGONISTS
              <130> 4000.3059 WO
<removed-apn>
              <140>
              <141>
              <150> 61/778,575
              <151> 2013<U+2701>03<U+2701>13
              <150> 61/778,812
              <151> 2013<U+2701>03<U+2701>13
              <150> 61/723,081
              <151> 2012<U+2701>11<U+2701>06
              <150> 61/657,264
              <151> 2012<U+2701>06<U+2701>08
              <150> 61/657,378
              <151> 2012<U+2701>06<U+2701>08
              <150> 61/657,285
              <151> 2012<U+2701>06<U+2701>08
              <160> 28
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   170
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 1
              Gln Asn Gln Trp Leu Gln Asp Met Thr Thr His Leu Ile Leu Arg Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Lys Glu Phe Leu Gln Ser Ser Leu Arg Ala Leu Arg Gln Met Ser
                          20                  25                  30
                                                     Page 1

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Ser Ser Glu Arg Ile Asp Lys Gln Ile Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Ile Leu Asp Gly Ile Ser Ala Leu Arg Lys Glu Thr Cys Asn Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Asn Met Cys Glu Ser Ser Lys Glu Ala Leu Ala Glu Asn Asn Leu
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asn Leu Pro Lys Met Ala Glu Lys Asp Gly Cys Phe Gln Ser Gly Phe
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Glu Glu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Ile Ile Thr Gly Leu Leu Glu Phe
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Val Tyr Leu Glu Tyr Leu Gln Asn Arg Phe Glu Ser Ser Glu Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Ala Arg Ala Val Gln Met Ser Thr Lys Val Leu Ile Gln Phe Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gln Lys Lys Ala Lys Asn Leu Asp Ala Ile Thr Thr Pro Asp Pro Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Asn Ala Ser Leu Leu Thr Lys Leu Gln
                              165                 170
              <210>   2
              <211>   516
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 2
              cagaaccagt ggctgcagga catgaccacc cacctgatcc tgcggtcctt caaagagttc    60
              ctgcagtcct ccctgcgggc cctgagacag atgagcggag gatctggcgg aggctcctct   120
              gagcggatcg acaagcagat ccggtacatc ctggacggca tctccgccct gcggaaagag   180
                                                  Page 2

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              acatgcaaca agtccaacat gtgcgagtcc agcaaagagg ccctggccga gaacaacctg   240
              aacctgccca agatggctga gaaggacggc tgcttccagt ccggcttcaa cgaagagact   300
              tgcctggtca agatcatcac cggcctgctg gaatttgagg tgtacctgga atacctgcag   360
              aacagattcg agtcctccga ggaacaggcc agagccgtgc agatgtccac caaggtgctg   420
              atccagtttc tgcagaagaa ggccaagaac ctggacgcta tcaccacccc cgaccctacc   480
<removed-apn>
              accaatgcct ccctgctgac caagctgcag tgataa                             516
              <210>   3
              <211>   212
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 3
              Met Asn Ser Phe Ser Thr Ser Ala Phe Gly Pro Val Ala Phe Ser Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Leu Leu Leu Val Leu Pro Ala Ala Phe Pro Ala Pro Val Pro Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Glu Asp Ser Lys Asp Val Ala Ala Pro His Arg Gln Pro Leu Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ser Glu Arg Ile Asp Lys Gln Ile Arg Tyr Ile Leu Asp Gly Ile
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Ala Leu Arg Lys Glu Thr Cys Asn Lys Ser Asn Met Cys Glu Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Lys Glu Ala Leu Ala Glu Asn Asn Leu Asn Leu Pro Lys Met Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Lys Asp Gly Cys Phe Gln Ser Gly Phe Asn Glu Glu Thr Cys Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Lys Ile Ile Thr Gly Leu Leu Glu Phe Glu Val Tyr Leu Glu Tyr
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Gln Asn Arg Phe Glu Ser Ser Glu Glu Gln Ala Arg Ala Val Gln
                                                  Page 3

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
                  130                   135                 140
              Met Ser Thr Lys Val Leu Ile Gln Phe Leu Gln Lys Lys Ala Lys Asn
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Asp Ala Ile Thr Thr Pro Asp Pro Thr Thr Asn Ala Ser Leu Leu
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Thr Lys Leu Gln Ala Gln Asn Gln Trp Leu Gln Asp Met Thr Thr His
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Ile Leu Arg Ser Phe Lys Glu Phe Leu Gln Ser Ser Leu Arg Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Arg Gln Met
                  210
              <210>   4
              <211>   511
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 4
              Gln Asn Gln Trp Leu Gln Asp Met Thr Thr His Leu Ile Leu Arg Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Lys Glu Phe Leu Gln Ser Ser Leu Arg Ala Leu Arg Gln Met Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Ser Ser Glu Arg Ile Asp Lys Gln Ile Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Ile Leu Asp Gly Ile Ser Ala Leu Arg Lys Glu Thr Cys Asn Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Asn Met Cys Glu Ser Ser Lys Glu Ala Leu Ala Glu Asn Asn Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                    Page 4

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Asn Leu Pro Lys Met Ala Glu Lys Asp Gly Cys Phe Gln Ser Gly Phe
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Glu Glu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Ile Ile Thr Gly Leu Leu Glu Phe
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Tyr Leu Glu Tyr Leu Gln Asn Arg Phe Glu Ser Ser Glu Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Ala Arg Ala Val Gln Met Ser Thr Lys Val Leu Ile Gln Phe Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gln Lys Lys Ala Lys Asn Leu Asp Ala Ile Thr Thr Pro Asp Pro Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Asn Ala Ser Leu Leu Thr Lys Leu Gln Ala Ser Glu Leu Leu Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Cys Gly Tyr Ile Ser Pro Glu Ser Pro Val Val Gln Leu His Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Phe Thr Ala Val Cys Val Leu Lys Glu Lys Cys Met Asp Tyr Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              His Val Asn Ala Asn Tyr Ile Val Trp Lys Thr Asn His Phe Thr Ile
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Lys Glu Gln Tyr Thr Ile Ile Asn Arg Thr Ala Ser Ser Val Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Thr Asp Ile Ala Ser Leu Asn Ile Gln Leu Thr Cys Asn Ile Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Leu Glu Gln Asn Val Tyr Gly Ile Thr Ile Ile Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Leu Val Pro Arg Gly Ser Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His
                      275                 280                 285
                                                  Page 5

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro
                              405                 410                 415
              Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser
                  450                 455                 460
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu
                              485                 490                 495
                                                  Page 6

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          500                 505                 510
              <210>   5
              <211>   1539
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 5
              caaaaccagt ggctccagga tatgaccacc cacctcatcc tcagaagttt caaggagttc     60
              ctccagtcca gcctgagggc tctgaggcaa atgagcggag gctccggcgg aggcagctcc    120
              gagagaatcg acaagcagat caggtacatc ctcgatggca tcagcgccct cagaaaagaa    180
              acctgtaata agagcaacat gtgtgagagc agcaaggaag ccctcgccga gaacaatctg    240
              aacctcccca aaatggctga gaaggacgga tgcttccaga gcggcttcaa tgaggagaca    300
              tgcctcgtga agatcatcac aggactcctg gagttcgaag tctacctgga gtacctccag    360
              aacaggttcg aatccagcga ggaacaggct agggctgtgc agatgtccac caaggtgctg    420
              atccagttcc tccagaagaa ggccaagaat ctggatgcca tcaccacacc cgatcctaca    480
              accaacgcca gcctgctgac caagctccag gcctccgaac tcctggaccc ttgtggctac    540
              atttcccctg aaagccctgt ggtgcaactc cacagcaatt tcacagccgt ctgtgtgctc    600
              aaggagaagt gcatggacta ctttcacgtg aatgctaatt atatcgtgtg gaagacaaac    660
              cacttcacca tccccaagga gcagtatacc atcatcaaca ggaccgcctc cagcgtgaca    720
              ttcaccgaca tcgcttccct caacattcag ctgacctgca atatcctcac cttcggccag    780
              ctggagcaga acgtgtacgg aatcaccatc attagcggcc tcgtccctag aggctccgaa    840
              cccaagtcct ccgataaaac ccatacctgc cccccttgcc ctgctcccga actcctcggc    900
              ggccccagcg tgtttctctt ccctcccaag cccaaagata ccctgatgat cagcaggaca    960
              cccgaagtca cctgcgtggt ggtcgacgtg tcccacgagg accccgaggt caaattcaac   1020
              tggtacgtcg atggcgtgga ggtgcataat gctaagacca agcccaggga ggagcagtac   1080
              aactccacat acagggtggt ctccgtcctg accgtgctgc atcaagactg gctgaacggc   1140
                                                    Page 7

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              aaggagtata agtgcaaggt gagcaataaa gccctccccg cccctattga gaagaccatt   1200
              tccaaggcca agggccagcc tagagaacct caagtctaca cactcccccc ctccagggag   1260
              gagatgacca aaaatcaggt ctccctgacc tgcctggtga agggcttcta tcctagcgac   1320
              atcgccgtcg agtgggagag caacggacag cccgagaaca actacaaaac cacacctccc   1380
<removed-apn>
              gtgctcgaca gcgacggcag cttcttcctg tactccaagc tcaccgtgga taagtccagg   1440
              tggcagcaag gcaacgtgtt tagctgcagc gtgatgcacg aagctctcca caaccactat   1500
              acccagaagt ccctcagcct cagccctggc aagtagtga                          1539
              <210>   6
              <211>   506
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 6
              Leu Thr Ser Ser Glu Arg Ile Asp Lys Gln Ile Arg Tyr Ile Leu Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ile Ser Ala Leu Arg Lys Glu Thr Cys Asn Lys Ser Asn Met Cys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Ser Ser Lys Glu Ala Leu Ala Glu Asn Asn Leu Asn Leu Pro Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Ala Glu Lys Asp Gly Cys Phe Gln Ser Gly Phe Asn Glu Glu Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Cys Leu Val Lys Ile Ile Thr Gly Leu Leu Glu Phe Glu Val Tyr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Tyr Leu Gln Asn Arg Phe Glu Ser Ser Glu Glu Gln Ala Arg Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Gln Met Ser Thr Lys Val Leu Ile Gln Phe Leu Gln Lys Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
                                                    Page 8

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Lys Asn Leu Asp Ala Ile Thr Thr Pro Asp Pro Thr Thr Asn Ala Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Leu Thr Lys Leu Gln Ala Gln Asn Gln Trp Leu Gln Asp Met Thr
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Leu Ile Leu Arg Ser Phe Lys Glu Phe Leu Gln Ser Ser Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Ala Leu Arg Gln Met Ser Glu Leu Leu Asp Pro Cys Gly Tyr Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Pro Glu Ser Pro Val Val Gln Leu His Ser Asn Phe Thr Ala Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Val Leu Lys Glu Lys Cys Met Asp Tyr Phe His Val Asn Ala Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Tyr Ile Val Trp Lys Thr Asn His Phe Thr Ile Pro Lys Glu Gln Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Ile Ile Asn Arg Thr Ala Ser Ser Val Thr Phe Thr Asp Ile Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Leu Asn Ile Gln Leu Thr Cys Asn Ile Leu Thr Phe Gly Gln Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Glu Gln Asn Val Tyr Gly Ile Thr Ile Ile Ser Gly Leu Val Pro Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Ser Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                  Page 9

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                      355                 360                 365
              His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn
                  370                 375                 380
              Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu
                              405                 410                 415
              Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn
                      435                 440                 445
              Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe
                  450                 455                 460
              Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr
                              485                 490                 495
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          500                 505
              <210> 7
              <211> 1524
                                                  Page 10

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 7
              ctgacctcca gcgaaaggat cgacaagcag atcaggtaca tcctcgacgg catctccgct     60
<removed-apn>
              ctcagaaagg agacctgcaa caagagcaac atgtgcgaga gcagcaagga agccctggct    120
              gagaacaatc tcaacctgcc caagatggcc gaaaaggatg gatgcttcca gagcggcttt    180
              aacgaggaga cctgcctcgt gaagatcatc accggcctgc tcgagtttga ggtgtatctc    240
              gagtacctgc agaataggtt cgagagcagc gaggaacagg ctagagctgt ccagatgtcc    300
              accaaggtgc tgatccagtt cctgcaaaag aaggccaaga atctcgacgc tatcaccacc    360
              cctgacccta ccacaaacgc cagcctgctg accaagctgc aggcccaaaa ccaatggctc    420
              caggacatga caacccacct gatcctgagg agcttcaagg agttcctcca atcctccctc    480
              agggccctga gacagatgag cgaactgctc gacccttgtg gatacattag ccctgaatcc    540
              cccgtggtgc agctgcatag caatttcacc gccgtgtgcg tgctcaaaga gaagtgcatg    600
              gactacttcc atgtgaacgc caactacatc gtgtggaaga ccaaccattt caccatcccc    660
              aaggagcaat acaccatcat caacagaacc gccagcagcg tcacattcac cgacatcgcc    720
              tccctgaaca tccaactgac atgcaacatt ctcaccttcg gccagctgga gcaaaatgtg    780
              tacggcatca ccatcattag cggcctcgtc cctagaggct ccgaacccaa gtcctccgat    840
              aaaacccata cctgcccccc ttgccctgct cccgaactcc tcggcggccc cagcgtgttt    900
              ctcttccctc ccaagcccaa agataccctg atgatcagca ggacacccga agtcacctgc    960
              gtggtggtcg acgtgtccca cgaggacccc gaggtcaaat tcaactggta cgtcgatggc   1020
              gtggaggtgc ataatgctaa gaccaagccc agggaggagc agtacaactc cacatacagg   1080
              gtggtctccg tcctgaccgt gctgcatcaa gactggctga acggcaagga gtataagtgc   1140
              aaggtgagca ataaagccct ccccgcccct attgagaaga ccatttccaa ggccaagggc   1200
              cagcctagag aacctcaagt ctacacactc cccccctcca gggaggagat gaccaaaaat   1260
              caggtctccc tgacctgcct ggtgaagggc ttctatccta gcgacatcgc cgtcgagtgg   1320
                                                  Page 11

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              gagagcaacg gacagcccga gaacaactac aaaaccacac ctcccgtgct cgacagcgac   1380
              ggcagcttct tcctgtactc caagctcacc gtggataagt ccaggtggca gcaaggcaac   1440
              gtgtttagct gcagcgtgat gcacgaagct ctccacaacc actataccca gaagtccctc   1500
              agcctcagcc ctggcaagta gtga                                          1524
<removed-apn>
              <210>   8
              <211>   160
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 8
              Glu Lys Asn Leu Tyr Leu Ser Cys Val Leu Lys Asp Asp Lys Pro Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Gln Leu Glu Ser Val Asp Pro Lys Asn Tyr Pro Lys Lys Lys Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Lys Arg Phe Val Phe Asn Lys Ile Glu Ile Asn Asn Lys Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Glu Ser Ala Gln Phe Pro Asn Trp Tyr Ile Ser Thr Ser Gln Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Asn Met Pro Val Phe Leu Gly Gly Thr Lys Gly Gly Gln Asp Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Asp Phe Thr Met Gln Phe Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Ala Pro Val Arg Ser Leu Asn Cys Thr Leu Arg Asp Ser Gln Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Lys Ser Leu Val Met Ser Gly Pro Tyr Glu Leu Lys Ala Leu His Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Gly Gln Asp Met Glu Gln Gln Val Val Phe Ser Met Ser Phe Val
                                                  Page 12

                                     40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
                  130                    135                 140
              Gln Gly Glu Glu Ser Asn Asp Lys Ile Pro Val Ala Leu Gly Leu Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              <210>    9
              <211>    486
<removed-apn>
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 9
              gagaagaacc tctacctctc ctgcgtgctg aaggacgaca agcccacact ccagctggag    60
              tccgtggacc ccaagaacta ccccaagaag aagatggaga agcggttcgt gttcaacaag   120
              atcgagatca acaacaagct ggagttcgag agcgcccagt tccccaactg gtacatttcc   180
              acctcccagg ccgagaacat gcccgtcttt ctgggcggaa ccaagggcgg ccaggacatc   240
              accgacttca ccatgcagtt cgtctccagc ggaggaagcg gaggcagcgg agctcccgtg   300
              aggagcctga actgcaccct gagggacagc cagcagaagt ccctggtgat gtccggaccc   360
              tacgaactga aggccctcca tctgcaagga caggatatgg agcagcaggt ggtgttctcc   420
              atgtccttcg tccagggcga agagtccaac gacaagatcc ccgtggccct gggcctgaaa   480
              tagtga                                                              486
              <210>    10
              <211>    397
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 10
              Met Asp Ala Met Lys Arg Gly Leu Cys Cys Val Leu Leu Leu Cys Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Val Phe Val Ser Ala Arg Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Asp
                          20                  25                  30
                                                     Page 13

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Lys Cys Lys Glu Arg Glu Glu Lys Ile Ile Leu Val Ser Ser Ala Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ile Asp Val Arg Pro Cys Pro Leu Asn Pro Asn Glu His Lys Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ile Thr Trp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Ser Lys Thr Pro Val Ser Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Ala Ser Arg Ile His Gln His Lys Glu Lys Leu Trp Phe Val Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Lys Val Glu Asp Ser Gly His Tyr Tyr Cys Val Val Arg Asn Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Tyr Cys Leu Arg Ile Lys Ile Ser Ala Lys Phe Val Glu Asn Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Asn Leu Cys Tyr Asn Ala Gln Ala Ile Phe Lys Gln Lys Leu Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ala Gly Asp Gly Gly Leu Val Cys Pro Tyr Met Glu Phe Phe Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Glu Asn Asn Glu Leu Pro Lys Leu Gln Trp Tyr Lys Asp Cys Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Leu Leu Leu Asp Asn Ile His Phe Ser Gly Val Lys Asp Arg Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Ile Val Met Asn Val Ala Glu Lys His Arg Gly Asn Tyr Thr Cys His
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Ser Tyr Thr Tyr Leu Gly Lys Gln Tyr Pro Ile Thr Arg Val Ile
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Phe Ile Thr Leu Glu Glu Asn Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Lys Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
                                                  Page 14

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Glu Phe Glu Ser Ala Gln Phe Pro Asn Trp Tyr Ile Ser Thr Ser Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Glu Asn Met Pro Val Phe Leu Gly Gly Thr Lys Gly Gly Gln Asp
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Ile Thr Asp Phe Thr Met Gln Phe Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Gly Ala Pro Val Arg Ser Leu Asn Cys Thr Leu Arg Asp Ser Gln
                  290                 295                 300
              Gln Lys Ser Leu Val Met Ser Gly Pro Tyr Glu Leu Lys Ala Leu His
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Gln Gly Gln Asp Met Glu Gln Gln Val Val Phe Ser Met Ser Phe
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Gln Gly Glu Glu Ser Asn Asp Lys Ile Pro Val Ala Leu Gly Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              Lys Glu Lys Asn Leu Tyr Leu Ser Cys Val Leu Lys Asp Asp Lys Pro
                      355                 360                 365
              Thr Leu Gln Leu Glu Ser Val Asp Pro Lys Asn Tyr Pro Lys Lys Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Met Glu Lys Arg Phe Val Phe Asn Lys Ile Glu Ile Asn
              385                 390                 395
              <210>   11
              <211>   1197
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 11
                                                    Page 15

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              atggacgcta tgaagcgggg actgtgctgc gtgctcctgc tgtgcggcgc tgtctttgtc     60
              agcgcccggg actataagga cgatgatgac aaggacaagt gcaaggagcg ggaggagaag    120
              atcatcctgg tgagctccgc caacgagatt gacgtccggc cctgccctct caaccccaac    180
              gagcataagg gcaccatcac ctggtacaaa gacgacagca aaacacccgt ctccaccgag    240
              caagcctccc ggattcacca gcacaaggag aagctctggt tcgtgcccgc taaggtggag    300
<removed-apn>
              gattccggac actactactg tgtggtccgg aactccagct actgcctgag gattaagatc    360
              agcgctaagt tcgtcgagaa cgagcccaac ctctgctaca atgcccaggc catcttcaag   420
              cagaagctcc ctgtggctgg agacggaggc ctggtctgcc cctacatgga gttcttcaag    480
              aacgagaata acgagctgcc taagctgcag tggtacaagg actgcaaacc cctgctcctc    540
              gacaacatcc acttctccgg cgtcaaggac cggctgatcg tcatgaacgt ggccgagaag    600
              cacaggggca actatacctg tcacgccagc tacacctacc tgggaaagca gtatcctatc    660
              accagggtga ttgagttcat cacactcgag gaaaacagcg gcggcagcgg caacaagctg    720
              gagttcgagt ccgcccagtt tcctaactgg tacatctcca caagccaggc cgagaacatg    780
              cctgtcttcc tgggcggcac caaaggcggc caagatatca ccgacttcac catgcagttt    840
              gtgagctccg gaggctccgg aggaagcgga gctcctgtgc ggtccctgaa ttgcaccctg   900
              cgggattccc aacagaagag cctggtgatg tccggcccct acgagctcaa ggccctccat    960
              ctgcaaggcc aggacatgga gcagcaggtg gtcttcagca tgagcttcgt gcagggagag   1020
              gagtccaacg ataagatccc cgtcgctctc ggactcaagg agaagaacct gtacctctcc   1080
              tgcgtgctga aggacgataa gcccaccctc cagctggaat ccgtggaccc caagaactac   1140
              cccaagaaaa aaatggaaaa gcggtttgtc tttaacaaga tcgagattaa ctagtga      1197
              <210>   12
              <211>   539
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 12
              Ser Lys Asn Phe His Leu Arg Pro Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Asn Ile Asn
                                                  Page 16

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ile Val Leu Glu Leu Lys Gly Ser Glu Thr Thr Phe Met Cys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Ala Asp Glu Thr Ala Thr Ile Val Glu Phe Leu Asn Arg Trp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Thr Phe Cys Gln Ser Ile Ile Ser Thr Leu Thr Gly Gly Ser Ser Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Lys Lys Thr Gln Leu Gln Leu Glu His Leu Leu Leu Asp Leu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Ile Leu Asn Gly Ile Asn Asn Tyr Lys Asn Pro Lys Leu Thr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Met Leu Thr Phe Lys Phe Tyr Met Pro Lys Lys Ala Thr Glu Leu Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              His Leu Gln Cys Leu Glu Glu Glu Leu Lys Pro Leu Glu Glu Val Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Leu Ala Gln Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Ser Glu Leu Cys Asp Asp Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Pro Glu Ile Pro His Ala Thr Phe Lys Ala Met Ala Tyr Lys Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Thr Met Leu Asn Cys Glu Cys Lys Arg Gly Phe Arg Arg Ile Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gly Ser Leu Tyr Met Leu Cys Thr Gly Asn Ser Ser His Ser Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Trp Asp Asn Gln Cys Gln Cys Thr Ser Ser Ala Thr Arg Asn Thr Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Gln Val Thr Pro Gln Pro Glu Glu Gln Lys Glu Arg Lys Thr Thr
                                                  Page 17

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Met Gln Ser Pro Met Gln Pro Val Asp Gln Ala Ser Leu Pro Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Cys Arg Glu Pro Pro Pro Trp Glu Asn Glu Ala Thr Glu Arg Ile
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Tyr His Phe Val Val Gly Gln Met Val Tyr Tyr Gln Cys Val Gln Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Arg Ala Leu His Arg Gly Pro Ala Glu Ser Val Cys Lys Met Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              His Gly Lys Thr Arg Trp Thr Gln Pro Gln Leu Ile Cys Thr Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Gly Ser Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                                                  Page 18

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
                            420                 425                 430
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                      515                 520                 525
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  530                 535
              <210>   13
              <211>   1623
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 13
              tccaagaact tccacctgag gcctcgggac ctgatctcca acatcaacgt gatcgtgctg    60
              gaactgaagg gctccgagac aaccttcatg tgcgagtacg ccgacgagac agctaccatc   120
              gtggaatttc tgaaccggtg gatcaccttc tgccagtcca tcatctccac cctgaccggc   180
              ggctcctcca gcaccaagaa aacccagctg cagctggaac atctgctgct ggacctgcag   240
              atgatcctga acggcatcaa caactacaag aaccccaagc tgacccggat gctgaccttc   300
              aagttctaca tgcccaagaa ggccaccgaa ctgaaacatc tgcagtgcct ggaagaagaa   360
                                                    Page 19

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              ctgaagcccc tggaagaggt gctgaacctg gctcagggat ctggcggcgg atctgagctg    420
              tgcgacgacg accctcctga gatccctcac gccaccttca aggccatggc ttacaaagag    480
              ggcaccatgc tgaactgcga gtgcaagaga ggcttccggc ggatcaagtc cggctccctg    540
              tacatgctgt gcaccggcaa ctccagccac tcctcctggg acaaccagtg ccagtgcacc    600
<removed-apn>
              tcctctgcca cccggaacac caccaaacaa gtgacccccc agcccgagga acagaaagag    660
              cgcaagacca ccgagatgca gtcccccatg cagcctgtgg accaggcttc tctgcctggc    720
              cactgcagag agcctccacc ttgggagaac gaggctaccg agagaatcta ccacttcgtc    780
              gtgggccaga tggtgtacta ccagtgcgtg cagggctacc gcgccctgca tagaggacct    840
              gctgagtccg tgtgcaagat gacccacggc aagacccggt ggacccagcc tcagctgatc    900
              tgtacaggcg gcggaggctc cgagcctaag tcctccgata agacccacac ctgtcccccc    960
              tgtcctgccc ctgaactgct gggaggccct tccgtgttcc tgttcccccc aaagcccaag   1020
              gacaccctga tgatctcccg gacccccgaa gtgacctgcg tggtggtgga tgtgtcccac   1080
              gaggaccctg aagtgaagtt caattggtac gtggacggcg tggaagtgca caacgccaag   1140
              accaagccca gagaggaaca gtacaactcc acctaccggg tggtgtccgt gctgaccgtg   1200
              ctgcaccagg attggctgaa tggcaaagag tacaagtgca aggtgtccaa caaggccctg   1260
              ccagccccca tcgaaaagac catctccaag gccaagggcc agccccggga accccaggtg   1320
              tacacactgc cccctagccg ggaagagatg accaagaacc aggtgtccct gacctgtctc   1380
              gtgaagggct tctacccctc cgatatcgcc gtggaatggg agtccaacgg ccagcctgag   1440
              aacaattata agaccacccc ccctgtgctg gactccgacg gctcattctt cctgtacagc   1500
              aagctgacag tggacaagtc ccggtggcag cagggcaacg tgttctcctg ctccgtgatg   1560
              cacgaggccc tgcacaacca ctacacccag aagtccctgt ccctgtctcc cggcaagtga   1620
              tga                                                                 1623
              <210>   14
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                    Page 20

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 14
              Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
              1               5
              <210>   15
<removed-apn>
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 15
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   16
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 16
              Gly Gly
              1
              <210>   17
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 17
              Met Gly
              1
              <210> 18
              <211> 3
                                                  Page 21

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 18
              Met Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1
              <210>   19
              <211>   269
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 19
              Met Ala Glu Val Pro Glu Leu Ala Ser Glu Met Met Ala Tyr Tyr Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Asn Glu Asp Asp Leu Phe Phe Glu Ala Asp Gly Pro Lys Gln Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Cys Ser Phe Gln Asp Leu Asp Leu Cys Pro Leu Asp Gly Gly Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Leu Arg Ile Ser Asp His His Tyr Ser Lys Gly Phe Arg Gln Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Ala Ser Val Val Val Ala Met Asp Lys Leu Arg Lys Met Leu Val Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Cys Pro Gln Thr Phe Gln Glu Asn Asp Leu Ser Thr Phe Phe Pro Phe
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Phe Glu Glu Glu Pro Ile Phe Phe Asp Thr Trp Asp Asn Glu Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Val His Asp Ala Pro Val Arg Ser Leu Asn Cys Thr Leu Arg Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Gln Gln Lys Ser Leu Val Met Ser Gly Pro Tyr Glu Leu Lys Ala
                  130                 135                 140
                                                  Page 22

                                     40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Leu His Leu Gln Gly Gln Asp Met Glu Gln Gln Val Val Phe Ser Met
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Phe Val Gln Gly Glu Glu Ser Asn Asp Lys Ile Pro Val Ala Leu
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Gly Leu Lys Glu Lys Asn Leu Tyr Leu Ser Cys Val Leu Lys Asp Asp
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Pro Thr Leu Gln Leu Glu Ser Val Asp Pro Lys Asn Tyr Pro Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Lys Met Glu Lys Arg Phe Val Phe Asn Lys Ile Glu Ile Asn Asn
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Leu Glu Phe Glu Ser Ala Gln Phe Pro Asn Trp Tyr Ile Ser Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Gln Ala Glu Asn Met Pro Val Phe Leu Gly Gly Thr Lys Gly Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Gln Asp Ile Thr Asp Phe Thr Met Gln Phe Val Ser Ser
                          260                 265
              <210>   20
              <211>   153
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 20
              Met Tyr Arg Met Gln Leu Leu Ser Cys Ile Ala Leu Ser Leu Ala Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Thr Asn Ser Ala Pro Thr Ser Ser Ser Thr Lys Lys Thr Gln Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Leu Glu His Leu Leu Leu Asp Leu Gln Met Ile Leu Asn Gly Ile
                      35                  40                  45
                                                     Page 23

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Asn Pro Lys Leu Thr Arg Met Leu Thr Phe Lys Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr Met Pro Lys Lys Ala Thr Glu Leu Lys His Leu Gln Cys Leu Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Glu Leu Lys Pro Leu Glu Glu Val Leu Asn Leu Ala Gln Ser Lys
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Phe His Leu Arg Pro Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Asn Ile Asn Val Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Leu Glu Leu Lys Gly Ser Glu Thr Thr Phe Met Cys Glu Tyr Ala
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Glu Thr Ala Thr Ile Val Glu Phe Leu Asn Arg Trp Ile Thr Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Cys Gln Ser Ile Ile Ser Thr Leu Thr
              145                 150
              <210>   21
              <211>   918
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 21
              Met Leu Thr Leu Gln Thr Trp Val Val Gln Ala Leu Phe Ile Phe Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Thr Glu Ser Thr Gly Glu Leu Leu Asp Pro Cys Gly Tyr Ile Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Glu Ser Pro Val Val Gln Leu His Ser Asn Phe Thr Ala Val Cys
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Leu Lys Glu Lys Cys Met Asp Tyr Phe His Val Asn Ala Asn Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Val Trp Lys Thr Asn His Phe Thr Ile Pro Lys Glu Gln Tyr Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                    Page 24

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Ile Ile Asn Arg Thr Ala Ser Ser Val Thr Phe Thr Asp Ile Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Asn Ile Gln Leu Thr Cys Asn Ile Leu Thr Phe Gly Gln Leu Glu
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Gln Asn Val Tyr Gly Ile Thr Ile Ile Ser Gly Leu Pro Pro Glu Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Lys Asn Leu Ser Cys Ile Val Asn Glu Gly Lys Lys Met Arg Cys
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Trp Asp Gly Gly Arg Glu Thr His Leu Glu Thr Asn Phe Thr Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Lys Ser Glu Trp Ala Thr His Lys Phe Ala Asp Cys Lys Ala Lys Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Thr Pro Thr Ser Cys Thr Val Asp Tyr Ser Thr Val Tyr Phe Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Ile Glu Val Trp Val Glu Ala Glu Asn Ala Leu Gly Lys Val Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asp His Ile Asn Phe Asp Pro Val Tyr Lys Val Lys Pro Asn Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro His Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Asn Ser Glu Glu Leu Ser Ser Ile Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Lys Leu Thr Trp Thr Asn Pro Ser Ile Lys Ser Val Ile Ile Leu Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr Asn Ile Gln Tyr Arg Thr Lys Asp Ala Ser Thr Trp Ser Gln Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Pro Glu Asp Thr Ala Ser Thr Arg Ser Ser Phe Thr Val Gln Asp
                      275                 280                 285
                                                  Page 25

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Leu Lys Pro Phe Thr Glu Tyr Val Phe Arg Ile Arg Cys Met Lys Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Asp Gly Lys Gly Tyr Trp Ser Asp Trp Ser Glu Glu Ala Ser Gly Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Thr Tyr Glu Asp Arg Pro Ser Lys Ala Pro Ser Phe Trp Tyr Lys Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Pro Ser His Thr Gln Gly Tyr Arg Thr Val Gln Leu Val Trp Lys
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Leu Pro Pro Phe Glu Ala Asn Gly Lys Ile Leu Asp Tyr Glu Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Thr Leu Thr Arg Trp Lys Ser His Leu Gln Asn Tyr Thr Val Asn Ala
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Lys Leu Thr Val Asn Leu Thr Asn Asp Arg Tyr Leu Ala Thr Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Thr Val Arg Asn Leu Val Gly Lys Ser Asp Ala Ala Val Leu Thr Ile
                              405                 410                 415
              Pro Ala Cys Asp Phe Gln Ala Thr His Pro Val Met Asp Leu Lys Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Phe Pro Lys Asp Asn Met Leu Trp Val Glu Trp Thr Thr Pro Arg Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Ser Val Lys Lys Tyr Ile Leu Glu Trp Cys Val Leu Ser Asp Lys Ala
                  450                 455                 460
              Pro Cys Ile Thr Asp Trp Gln Gln Glu Asp Gly Thr Val His Arg Thr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Tyr Leu Arg Gly Asn Leu Ala Glu Ser Lys Cys Tyr Leu Ile Thr Val
                              485                 490                 495
                                                  Page 26

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Thr Pro Val Tyr Ala Asp Gly Pro Gly Ser Pro Glu Ser Ile Lys Ala
                          500                 505                 510
              Tyr Leu Lys Gln Ala Pro Pro Ser Lys Gly Pro Thr Val Arg Thr Lys
                      515                 520                 525
<removed-apn>
              Lys Val Gly Lys Asn Glu Ala Val Leu Glu Trp Asp Gln Leu Pro Val
                  530                 535                 540
              Asp Val Gln Asn Gly Phe Ile Arg Asn Tyr Thr Ile Phe Tyr Arg Thr
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Ile Ile Gly Asn Glu Thr Ala Val Asn Val Asp Ser Ser His Thr Glu
                              565                 570                 575
              Tyr Thr Leu Ser Ser Leu Thr Ser Asp Thr Leu Tyr Met Val Arg Met
                          580                 585                 590
              Ala Ala Tyr Thr Asp Glu Gly Gly Lys Asp Gly Pro Glu Phe Thr Phe
                      595                 600                 605
              Thr Thr Pro Lys Phe Ala Gln Gly Glu Ile Glu Ala Ile Val Val Pro
                  610                 615                 620
              Val Cys Leu Ala Phe Leu Leu Thr Thr Leu Leu Gly Val Leu Phe Cys
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Phe Asn Lys Arg Asp Leu Ile Lys Lys His Ile Trp Pro Asn Val Pro
                              645                 650                 655
              Asp Pro Ser Lys Ser His Ile Ala Gln Trp Ser Pro His Thr Pro Pro
                          660                 665                 670
              Arg His Asn Phe Asn Ser Lys Asp Gln Met Tyr Ser Asp Gly Asn Phe
                      675                 680                 685
              Thr Asp Val Ser Val Val Glu Ile Glu Ala Asn Asp Lys Lys Pro Phe
                  690                 695                 700
                                                  Page 27

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Asp Leu Lys Ser Leu Asp Leu Phe Lys Lys Glu Lys Ile Asn
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Thr Glu Gly His Ser Ser Gly Ile Gly Gly Ser Ser Cys Met Ser Ser
                              725                 730                 735
<removed-apn>
              Ser Arg Pro Ser Ile Ser Ser Ser Asp Glu Asn Glu Ser Ser Gln Asn
                          740                 745                 750
              Thr Ser Ser Thr Val Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Val His Ser Gly Tyr Arg
                      755                 760                 765
              His Gln Val Pro Ser Val Gln Val Phe Ser Arg Ser Glu Ser Thr Gln
                  770                 775                 780
              Pro Leu Leu Asp Ser Glu Glu Arg Pro Glu Asp Leu Gln Leu Val Asp
              785                 790                 795                 800
              His Val Asp Gly Gly Asp Gly Ile Leu Pro Arg Gln Gln Tyr Phe Lys
                              805                 810                 815
              Gln Asn Cys Ser Gln His Glu Ser Ser Pro Asp Ile Ser His Phe Glu
                          820                 825                 830
              Arg Ser Lys Gln Val Ser Ser Val Asn Glu Glu Asp Phe Val Arg Leu
                      835                 840                 845
              Lys Gln Gln Ile Ser Asp His Ile Ser Gln Ser Cys Gly Ser Gly Gln
                  850                 855                 860
              Met Lys Met Phe Gln Glu Val Ser Ala Ala Asp Ala Phe Gly Pro Gly
              865                 870                 875                 880
              Thr Glu Gly Gln Val Glu Arg Phe Glu Thr Val Gly Met Glu Ala Ala
                              885                 890                 895
              Thr Asp Glu Gly Met Pro Lys Ser Tyr Leu Pro Gln Thr Val Arg Gln
                          900                 905                 910
                                                  Page 28

                                     40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Tyr Met Pro Gln
                      915
              <210>   22
              <211>   569
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 22
              Met Lys Val Leu Leu Arg Leu Ile Cys Phe Ile Ala Leu Leu Ile Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Glu Ala Asp Lys Cys Lys Glu Arg Glu Glu Lys Ile Ile Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Ser Ser Ala Asn Glu Ile Asp Val Arg Pro Cys Pro Leu Asn Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Glu His Lys Gly Thr Ile Thr Trp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Ser Lys Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Val Ser Thr Glu Gln Ala Ser Arg Ile His Gln His Lys Glu Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Trp Phe Val Pro Ala Lys Val Glu Asp Ser Gly His Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Val Arg Asn Ser Ser Tyr Cys Leu Arg Ile Lys Ile Ser Ala Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Val Glu Asn Glu Pro Asn Leu Cys Tyr Asn Ala Gln Ala Ile Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Gln Asn Leu Pro Val Ala Gly Asp Gly Gly Leu Val Cys Pro Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Met Glu Phe Phe Lys Asn Glu Asn Asn Glu Leu Pro Lys Leu Gln Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                     Page 29

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Tyr Lys Asp Cys Lys Pro Leu Leu Leu Asp Asn Ile His Phe Ser Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Lys Asp Arg Leu Ile Val Met Asn Val Ala Glu Lys His Arg Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Tyr Thr Cys His Ala Ser Tyr Thr Tyr Leu Gly Lys Gln Tyr Pro
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ile Thr Arg Val Ile Glu Phe Ile Thr Leu Glu Glu Asn Lys Pro Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Pro Val Ile Val Ser Pro Ala Asn Glu Thr Met Glu Val Asp Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gly Ser Gln Ile Gln Leu Ile Cys Asn Val Thr Gly Gln Leu Ser Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Ala Tyr Trp Lys Trp Asn Gly Ser Val Ile Asp Glu Asp Asp Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Val Leu Gly Glu Asp Tyr Tyr Ser Val Glu Asn Pro Ala Asn Lys Arg
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Ser Thr Leu Ile Thr Val Leu Asn Ile Ser Glu Ile Glu Ser Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Tyr Lys His Pro Phe Thr Cys Phe Ala Lys Asn Thr His Gly Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asp Ala Ala Tyr Ile Gln Leu Ile Tyr Pro Val Thr Asn Phe Gln Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              His Met Ile Gly Ile Cys Val Thr Leu Thr Val Ile Ile Val Cys Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Phe Ile Tyr Lys Ile Phe Lys Ile Asp Ile Val Leu Trp Tyr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
                                                  Page 30

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Asp Ser Cys Tyr Asp Phe Leu Pro Ile Lys Ala Ser Asp Gly Lys Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Tyr Asp Ala Tyr Ile Leu Tyr Pro Lys Thr Val Gly Glu Gly Ser Thr
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Asp Cys Asp Ile Phe Val Phe Lys Val Leu Pro Glu Val Leu Glu
<removed-apn>
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Gln Cys Gly Tyr Lys Leu Phe Ile Tyr Gly Arg Asp Asp Tyr Val
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Glu Asp Ile Val Glu Val Ile Asn Glu Asn Val Lys Lys Ser Arg
                      435                 440                 445
              Arg Leu Ile Ile Ile Leu Val Arg Glu Thr Ser Ser Phe Ser Trp Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Gly Ser Ser Glu Glu Gln Ile Ala Met Tyr Asn Ala Leu Val Gln
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asp Gly Ile Lys Val Val Leu Leu Glu Leu Glu Lys Ile Gln Asp Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Glu Lys Met Pro Glu Ser Ile Lys Phe Ile Lys Gln Lys His Gly Ala
                          500                 505                 510
              Ile Arg Trp Ser Gly Asp Phe Thr Gln Gly Pro Gln Ser Ala Lys Thr
                      515                 520                 525
              Arg Phe Trp Lys Asn Val Arg Tyr His Met Pro Val Gln Arg Arg Ser
                  530                 535                 540
              Pro Ser Ser Lys His Gln Leu Leu Ser Pro Ala Thr Lys Glu Lys Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Gln Arg Glu Ala His Val Pro Leu Gly
                              565
                                                    Page 31

                                     40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              <210>   23
              <211>   272
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 23
              Met Asp Ser Tyr Leu Leu Met Trp Gly Leu Leu Thr Phe Ile Met Val
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Pro Gly Cys Gln Ala Glu Leu Cys Asp Asp Asp Pro Pro Glu Ile Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Thr Phe Lys Ala Met Ala Tyr Lys Glu Gly Thr Met Leu Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Cys Glu Cys Lys Arg Gly Phe Arg Arg Ile Lys Ser Gly Ser Leu Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Met Leu Cys Thr Gly Asn Ser Ser His Ser Ser Trp Asp Asn Gln Cys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Cys Thr Ser Ser Ala Thr Arg Asn Thr Thr Lys Gln Val Thr Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Pro Glu Glu Gln Lys Glu Arg Lys Thr Thr Glu Met Gln Ser Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Met Gln Pro Val Asp Gln Ala Ser Leu Pro Gly His Cys Arg Glu Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Pro Trp Glu Asn Glu Ala Thr Glu Arg Ile Tyr His Phe Val Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Gln Met Val Tyr Tyr Gln Cys Val Gln Gly Tyr Arg Ala Leu His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Gly Pro Ala Glu Ser Val Cys Lys Met Thr His Gly Lys Thr Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Trp Thr Gln Pro Gln Leu Ile Cys Thr Gly Glu Met Glu Thr Ser Gln
                          180                 185                 190
                                                     Page 32

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Phe Pro Gly Glu Glu Lys Pro Gln Ala Ser Pro Glu Gly Arg Pro Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Glu Thr Ser Cys Leu Val Thr Thr Thr Asp Phe Gln Ile Gln Thr
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Glu Met Ala Ala Thr Met Glu Thr Ser Ile Phe Thr Thr Glu Tyr Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Ala Val Ala Gly Cys Val Phe Leu Leu Ile Ser Val Leu Leu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Gly Leu Thr Trp Gln Arg Arg Gln Arg Lys Ser Arg Arg Thr Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              <210>   24
              <211>   142
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 24
              Ser Lys Asn Phe His Leu Arg Pro Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Asn Ile Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ile Val Leu Glu Leu Lys Gly Ser Glu Thr Thr Phe Met Cys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Ala Asp Glu Thr Ala Thr Ile Val Glu Phe Leu Asn Arg Trp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Phe Ser Gln Ser Ile Ile Ser Thr Leu Thr Gly Gly Ser Ser Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Lys Lys Thr Gln Leu Gln Leu Glu His Leu Leu Leu Asp Leu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                    Page 33

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Met Ile Leu Asn Gly Ile Asn Asn Tyr Lys Asn Pro Lys Leu Thr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Met Leu Thr Phe Lys Phe Tyr Met Pro Lys Lys Ala Thr Glu Leu Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              His Leu Gln Cys Leu Glu Glu Glu Leu Lys Pro Leu Glu Glu Val Leu
<removed-apn>
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Leu Ala Gln Gly Ser Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              <210>   25
              <211>   539
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 25
              Ser Lys Asn Phe His Leu Arg Pro Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Asn Ile Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ile Val Leu Glu Leu Lys Gly Ser Glu Thr Thr Phe Met Cys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Ala Asp Glu Thr Ala Thr Ile Val Glu Phe Leu Asn Arg Trp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Phe Ser Gln Ser Ile Ile Ser Thr Leu Thr Gly Gly Ser Ser Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Lys Lys Thr Gln Leu Gln Leu Glu His Leu Leu Leu Asp Leu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Ile Leu Asn Gly Ile Asn Asn Tyr Lys Asn Pro Lys Leu Thr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Met Leu Thr Phe Lys Phe Tyr Met Pro Lys Lys Ala Thr Glu Leu Lys
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 34

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              His Leu Gln Cys Leu Glu Glu Glu Leu Lys Pro Leu Glu Glu Val Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Leu Ala Gln Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Ser Glu Leu Cys Asp Asp Asp
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Pro Pro Glu Ile Pro His Ala Thr Phe Lys Ala Met Ala Tyr Lys Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Thr Met Leu Asn Cys Glu Cys Lys Arg Gly Phe Arg Arg Ile Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gly Ser Leu Tyr Met Leu Cys Thr Gly Asn Ser Ser His Ser Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Trp Asp Asn Gln Cys Gln Cys Thr Ser Ser Ala Thr Arg Asn Thr Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Gln Val Thr Pro Gln Pro Glu Glu Gln Lys Glu Arg Lys Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Met Gln Ser Pro Met Gln Pro Val Asp Gln Ala Ser Leu Pro Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Cys Arg Glu Pro Pro Pro Trp Glu Asn Glu Ala Thr Glu Arg Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr His Phe Val Val Gly Gln Met Val Tyr Tyr Gln Cys Val Gln Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Arg Ala Leu His Arg Gly Pro Ala Glu Ser Val Cys Lys Met Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              His Gly Lys Thr Arg Trp Thr Gln Pro Gln Leu Ile Cys Thr Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Gly Gly Ser Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                  Page 35

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                      515                 520                 525
                                                  Page 36

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                  530                 535
              <210>   26
              <211>   311
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 26
              Ser Lys Asn Phe His Leu Arg Pro Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Asn Ile Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ile Val Leu Glu Leu Lys Gly Ser Glu Thr Thr Phe Met Cys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Ala Asp Glu Thr Ala Thr Ile Val Glu Phe Leu Asn Arg Trp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Phe Ser Gln Ser Ile Ile Ser Thr Leu Thr Gly Gly Ser Ser Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Lys Lys Thr Gln Leu Gln Leu Glu His Leu Leu Leu Asp Leu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Ile Leu Asn Gly Ile Asn Asn Tyr Lys Asn Pro Lys Leu Thr Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Met Leu Thr Phe Lys Phe Tyr Met Pro Lys Lys Ala Thr Glu Leu Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              His Leu Gln Cys Leu Glu Glu Glu Leu Lys Pro Leu Glu Glu Val Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Leu Ala Gln Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Ser Glu Leu Cys Asp Asp Asp
                  130                 135                 140
                                                    Page 37

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Pro Pro Glu Ile Pro His Ala Thr Phe Lys Ala Met Ala Tyr Lys Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Thr Met Leu Asn Cys Glu Cys Lys Arg Gly Phe Arg Arg Ile Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gly Ser Leu Tyr Met Leu Cys Thr Gly Asn Ser Ser His Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Trp Asp Asn Gln Cys Gln Cys Thr Ser Ser Ala Thr Arg Asn Thr Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Gln Val Thr Pro Gln Pro Glu Glu Gln Lys Glu Arg Lys Thr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Met Gln Ser Pro Met Gln Pro Val Asp Gln Ala Ser Leu Pro Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Cys Arg Glu Pro Pro Pro Trp Glu Asn Glu Ala Thr Glu Arg Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr His Phe Val Val Gly Gln Met Val Tyr Tyr Gln Cys Val Gln Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Tyr Arg Ala Leu His Arg Gly Pro Ala Glu Ser Val Cys Lys Met Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              His Gly Lys Thr Arg Trp Thr Gln Pro Gln Leu Ile Cys Thr Gly Asp
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys
              305                 310
              <210>   27
              <211>   418
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
                                                  Page 38

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              <400> 27
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe
                      195                 200                 205
                                                  Page 39

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Gly Ser Ile Thr Cys Pro Pro Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-apn>
              Met Ser Val Glu His Ala Asp Ile Trp Val Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
              Ser Arg Glu Arg Tyr Ile Cys Asn Ser Gly Phe Lys Arg Lys Ala Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Ser Ser Leu Thr Glu Cys Val Leu Asn Lys Ala Thr Asn Val Ala
                      275                 280                 285
              His Trp Thr Thr Pro Ser Leu Lys Cys Ile Arg Asp Gly Gly Ser Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Glu Glu Lys Asn Ile Lys Glu Phe Leu Gln Ser Phe Val His Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Gln Met Phe Ile Asn Gly Gly Gly Ser Asn Trp Val Asn Val Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Asp Leu Lys Lys Ile Glu Asp Leu Ile Gln Ser Met His Ile Asp
                          340                 345                 350
              Ala Thr Leu Tyr Thr Glu Ser Asp Val His Pro Ser Cys Lys Val Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Ala Met Lys Cys Phe Leu Leu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Ser Leu Glu Ser
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Asp Ala Ser Ile His Asp Thr Val Glu Asn Leu Ile Ile Leu Ala
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asn Asn Ser Leu Ser Ser Asn Gly Asn Val Thr Glu Ser Gly Cys Lys
                              405                 410                 415
                                                  Page 40

                                    40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Glu Cys
              <210>   28
              <211>   194
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 28
              Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Gly Ser Ile Thr Cys Pro Pro Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Met Ser Val Glu His Ala Asp Ile Trp Val Lys Ser Tyr Ser Leu Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Arg Glu Arg Tyr Ile Cys Asn Ser Gly Phe Lys Arg Lys Ala Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Ser Ser Leu Thr Glu Cys Val Leu Asn Lys Ala Thr Asn Val Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              His Trp Thr Thr Pro Ser Leu Lys Cys Ile Arg Asp Gly Gly Ser Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Glu Glu Lys Asn Ile Lys Glu Phe Leu Gln Ser Phe Val His Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Gln Met Phe Ile Asn Gly Gly Gly Ser Asn Trp Val Asn Val Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Asp Leu Lys Lys Ile Glu Asp Leu Ile Gln Ser Met His Ile Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Thr Leu Tyr Thr Glu Ser Asp Val His Pro Ser Cys Lys Val Thr
                  130                 135                 140
                                                    Page 41

                                  40003059WOFILEDSequenceListing_00178451
<removed-date>
              Ala Met Lys Cys Phe Leu Leu Glu Leu Gln Val Ile Ser Leu Glu Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Asp Ala Ser Ile His Asp Thr Val Glu Asn Leu Ile Ile Leu Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Asn Ser Leu Ser Ser Asn Gly Asn Val Thr Glu Ser Gly Cys Lys
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Cys
                                                  Page 42

