 1:
  \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16616595_l.docx-9 03/2018
                                                             Abstract
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination which comprises
(a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and (b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, for simultaneous, separate or sequential administration for the
treatment of a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent proliferative disease; a
pharmaceutical composition comprising such combination; a method of treating a subject
having a proliferative disease comprising administration of said combination to a subject in
need thereof; use of such combination for the treatment of proliferative disease; and a
commercial package comprising such combination.

 1:
 \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16616595_l.docx-9 03/2018
                            COMBINATION OF P13K INHIBITOR AND C-MET INHIBITOR
                This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the
entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
                The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination which comprises
(a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and
(b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, for simultaneous, separate or sequential administration for the treatment of a
proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent proliferative disease; a pharmaceutical
composition comprising such combination; a method of treating a subject having a proliferative
disease comprising administration of said combination to a subject in need thereof; use of
such combination for the treatment of proliferative disease; and a commercial package
comprising such combination.
Background
                Protein kinases (PKs) are a group of enzymes that regulate diverse, important
biological processes including cell growth, survival and differentiation, organ formation and
morphogenesis, neovascularization, tissue repair and regeneration, among others. Protein
kinases exert their physiological functions through catalyzing the phosphorylation of proteins
(or substrates) and thereby modulating the cellular activities of the substrates in various
biological contexts.
                Protein kinases can be categorized as receptor type and non-receptor type. Receptor
tyrosine kinases (RTKs) have an extracellular portion, a transmembrane domain, and an
intracellular portion, while non-receptor tyrosine kinases are entirely intracellular. RTK
mediated signal transduction is typically initiated by extracellular interaction with a specific
growth factor (ligand), typically followed by receptor dimerization, stimulation of the intrinsic
protein tyrosine kinase activity, and receptor transphosphorylation. Binding sites are thereby
created for intracellular signal transduction molecules and lead to the formation of complexes
with a spectrum of cytoplasmic signaling molecules that facilitate the appropriate cellular
response such as cell division, differentiation, metabolic effects, and changes in the
extracellular microenvironment. The non-receptor type of tyrosine kinases is also composed
of numerous subfamilies, including Src, Btk, Abl, Fak, and Jak.
                c-Met, a proto-oncogene, is a member of a distinct subfamily of heterodimeric receptor
tyrosine kinases which include Met, Ron, and Sea (Birchmeier, C. et al., Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell
Biol. 2003, 4(12):915-925; Christensen, J. G. et al., Cancer Lett. 2005, 225(1):1-26). The only
high affinity ligand for c-Met is the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), also known
                                                            - 1-

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
as scatter factor (SF). Binding of HGF to c-Met induces activation of the receptor via
autophosphorylation resulting in an increase of receptor dependent signaling. Both c-Met
and HGF are widely expressed in a variety of organs, but their expression is normally
confined to the cells of epithelial and mesenchymal origin, respectively. The biological
functions of c-Met (or c-Met signaling pathway) in normal tissues and human malignancies
such as cancer have been well documented (Christensen, J.G. et al., Cancer Lett. 2005,
225(1):1-26; Corso, S. et al., Trends in Mol. Med. 2005, 11(6):284-292).
         HGF and c-Met are each required for normal mammalian development, and
abnormalities reported in both HGF- and c-Met-null mice are consistent with proximity of
embryonic expression and epithelial-mesenchymal transition defects during organ
morphogenesis (Christensen, J.G. et al., Cancer Lett. 2005, 225(1):1-26). Consistent with
these findings, the transduction of signaling and subsequent biological effects of HGF/c-Met
pathway have been shown to be important for epithelial-mesenchymal interaction and
regulation of cell migration, invasion, cell proliferation and survival, angiogenesis,
morphogenesis and organization of three-dimensional tubular structures (e.g. renal tubular
cells, gland formation) during development. The specific consequences of c-Met pathway
activation in a given cell/tissue are highly context-dependent.
         Evidence shows that dysregulated c-Met pathway plays important and sometimes
causative (in the case of genetic alterations) roles in tumor formation, growth, maintenance
and progression (Birchmeier, C. et al., Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell. Biol. 2003, 4(12):915-925;
Boccaccio, C. et al., Nat. Rev. Cancer 2006, 6(8):637-645; Christensen, J.G. et al., Cancer
Lett. 2005, 225(1):1-26). HGF and/or c-Met are overexpressed in significant portions of most
human cancers, and are often associated with poor clinical outcomes such as more
aggressive disease, disease progression, tumor metastasis and shortened patient survival.
Further, patients with high levels of HGF/c-Met proteins are more resistance to
chemotherapy and radiotherapy. In addition to the abnormal HGF/c-Met expression, c-Met
receptor can also be activated in cancer patients through genetic mutations (both germline
and somatic) and gene amplification. Although gene amplification and mutations are the
most common genetic alterations that have been reported in patients, the receptor can also
be activated by deletions, truncations, gene rearrangement, as well as abnormal receptor
processing and defective negative regulatory mechanisms.
         Further, upon activation, cMET activates a diverse number of intracellular signaling
pathways, including but not limited to the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (P13K) / Akt pathway,
ERK 1 / 2, p38, and STAT3. PI3Ks comprise a family of lipid and serine/threonine kinases
                                                  2

 WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
that catalyze the transfer of phosphate to the D-3' position of inositol lipids to produce
phosphoinositol-3-phosphate (PIP), phosphoinositol-3,4-diphosphate (PIP2) and
phosphoinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) that, in turn, act as second messengers in
signaling cascades by docking proteins containing pleckstrin-homology, FYVE, Phox and
other phospholipid-binding domains into a variety of signaling complexes often at the plasma
membrane (Vanhaesebroeck et al., Annu. Rev. Biochem 70:535 (2001); Katso et al., Annu.
Rev. Cell Dev. Biol. 17:615 (2001)). Of the two Class 1 P13Ks, Class 1A PI3Ks are
heterodimers composed of a catalytic p110 subunit (a,     p, 6 isoforms) constitutively
associated with a regulatory subunit that can be p85a, p55a, p50a, p850 or p55y. The
Class 1B sub-class has one family member, a heterodimer composed of a catalytic
p1 1Oy subunit associated with one of two regulatory subunits, p101 or p84 (Fruman et al.,
Annu Rev. Biochem. 67:481 (1998); Suire et al., Curr. Biol. 15:566 (2005)). The modular
domains of the p85/55/50 subunits include Src Homology (SH2) domains that bind
phosphotyrosine residues in a specific sequence context on activated receptor and
cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases, resulting in activation and localization of Class 1A PI3Ks.
Class 1B P13K is activated directly by G protein-coupled receptors that bind a diverse
repertoire of peptide and non-peptide ligands (Stephens et al., Cell 89:105 (1997)); Katso et
al., Annu. Rev. Cell Dev. Biol. 17:615-675 (2001)). The P13K pathway is a crucial regulator
of key cellular processes including proliferation, survival, chemotaxis, cellular trafficking,
motility, metabolism, inflammatory and allergic responses, transcription and translation
(Cantley et al., Cell 64:281 (1991); Escobedo and Williams, Nature 335: 85 (1988); Fantl et
al., Cell., 69: 413 (1992).)
         In spite of significant advances in medicine and numerous treatment options for
patients with cancer, there remains a need for effective and safe therapeutic agents and a
need for new combination therapies that can be administered for the effective long-term
treatment of cancer. It is now found that the combination comprising (a) a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor selected from the group consisting of a compound of
formula (1), a compound of formula (II), and a compound of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor,
particularly 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin
2yl]benzamide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is particularly effective for the
treatment of proliferative disease, particularly c-Met dependent proliferative disease. It is
expected that the anti-proliferative effect of this combination is greater than the maximum
effect that can be achieved with either type of ingredient alone.
                                                  3

 WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
Summary of the Invention
         The present invention pertains to a pharmaceutical combination comprising (a) a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula
(1), a compound of formula (II), and a compound of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for simultaneous, separate or sequential
administration for the treatment of a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent
proliferative disease. The combination of the invention is particularly useful for the treatment
of lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma.
          In a preferred embodiment, the compound of formula (1) is 2-methyl-2-[4-(3-methyl
2-oxo-8-quinolin-3-yl-2,3-dihydro-imidazo[4,5-c]quinolin-1 -yl)-phenyl]-propionitrile
("COMPOUND A") or its monotosylate salt and 8-(6-methoxy-pyridin-3-yl)-3-methyl-1-(4
piperazin-1 -yl-3-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)-1,3-dihydro-imidazo[4,5-c]quinolin-2-one
("COMPOUND B").
         In a preferred embodiment, the compound of formula (II) is 5-(2,6-di-morpholin-4-yl
pyrimidin-4-yl)-4-trifluoromethyl-pyridin-2-ylamine ("COMPOUND C") or its hydrochloride
salt.
         In a preferred embodiment, the compound of formula (Ill) is (S)-Pyrrolidine-1,2
dicarboxylic acid 2-amide 1-({4-methyl-5-[2-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1,1-dimethyl-ethyl)-pyridin-4-yl]
thiazol-2-yl}-amide) ("COMPOUND D") or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In a preferred embodiment, the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor is 2-fluoro-N
methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In one aspect, the present invention relates to a method for treating proliferative
disease comprising administering to subject in need thereof a combination of (a) a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula
(1), a compound of formula (II), and a compound of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a quantity which is therapeutically effective
against said proliferative disease. Preferably, the proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent
proliferative disease.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the
formation of metastases in a subject having cancer comprising administering to a subject in
need thereof a combination of (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the group
                                                 4

WO 2014/028566                                                                  PCT/US2013/054848
consisting of a compound of formula (1), a compound of formula (II), and a compound of
formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a quantity which is
therapeutically effective against said cancer. Preferably, the cancer is a c-Met dependent
cancer.
         In one aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a COMBINATION OF THE
INVENTION for the treatment of a proliferative disease and/or for the preparation of a
medicament for the treatment of a proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the
proliferative disease is cancer. In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is a c
Met dependent proliferative disease.
         In one aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a COMBINATION OF THE
INVENTION for the inhibition of the formation of metastases in a subject having cancer
and/or for the preparation of a medicament for the inhibition of the formation of metastases
in a subject having cancer. In a preferred embodiment, the cancer is a c-Met dependent
cancer.
         In one aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
quantity, which is jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative disease, particularly a
c-Met dependent proliferative disease, of COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION and one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. This pharmaceutical composition may consist of
the therapeutic agents (a) and (b) administered to a subject as a fixed combination in a
single formulation or unit dosage form by any suitable route. Alternatively, the therapeutic
agents, e.g. the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor and the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase
inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, are both administered to a subject as a
non-fixed combination in separate pharmaceutical compositions or formulations or unit
dosage forms and administered either simultaneously, concurrently or sequentially with no
specific time limits.
         In one aspect, the present invention provides a commercial package comprising as
therapeutic agents COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION, together with instructions for the
simultaneous, separate or sequential administration thereof in the treatment of a proliferative
disease, particularly lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma.
Detailed Description of the Figures
         Figure 1 shows effects of combining COMPOUND C and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide doses on proliferation of H4
human glioblastoma tumor models.
                                                  5

 WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
         Figure 2 shows effects of combining COMPOUND C and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide doses on proliferation of
U87-MG human glioblastoma tumor models.
         Figure 3 shows effects of combining COMPOUND C and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide doses on proliferation of
A172 human glioblastoma tumor models.
         Figure 4 shows effects of combining COMPOUND C and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide doses on proliferation of
LN229 human glioblastoma tumor models.
         Figure 5 shows the comparative mean anti-tumor growth effects for the combination
2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide and
COMPOUND D in NCI-H1993 human non-small cell lung cancer xenograft models as
compared to vehicle control and both monotherapies.
Detailed Description
         The present invention pertains to a pharmaceutical combination comprising (a) a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula
(1), a compound of formula (II), and a compound of formula (Ill) or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for simultaneous, separate or sequential
administration for use in the treatment of a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met
dependent proliferative disease. The combination of the invention is particularly useful for
the treatment of lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma.
         The general terms used herein are defined with the following meanings, unless
explicitly stated otherwise:
         The terms "comprising" and "including" are used herein in their open-ended and non
limiting sense unless otherwise noted.
         The terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar references in the context of describing
the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be construed to cover
both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by
context. Where the plural form is used for compounds, salts, and the like, this is taken to
mean also a single compound, salt, or the like.
                                                 6

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
         The term "combination" or "pharmaceutical combination" is defined herein to refer to
either a fixed combination in one dosage unit form, a non-fixed combination or a kit of parts
for the combined administration where the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor and the c
Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be
administered independently at the same time or separately within time intervals that allow
that the therapeutic agents show a cooperative, e.g., synergistic, effect.
         The term "fixed combination" means that the therapeutic agents, e.g. the
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor and the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, are
administered to a subject simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage form.
         The term "non-fixed combination" means that the therapeutic agents, e.g. the
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor and the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, are both administered to a patient as separate
entities or dosage forms either simultaneously, concurrently or sequentially with no specific
time limits, wherein such administration provides therapeutically effective levels of the three
compounds in the body of the subject, e.g., a mammal or human, in need thereof.
         The term "kit of parts" refers to the therapeutic agents (a) and (b) as defined above
that are dosed independently or by use of different fixed combinations with distinguished
amounts of the therapeutic agents (a) and (b), i.e., simultaneously or at different time points.
The parts of the kit of parts can then e.g., be administered simultaneously or chronologically
staggered, that is at different time points and with equal or different time intervals for any
part of the kit of parts. The ratio of the total amounts of the therapeutic agent (a) to the
therapeutic agent (b) to be administered in the combined preparation can be varied, e.g., in
order to cope with the needs of a patient sub-population to be treated or the needs of the
single patient.
         The term "a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor" or "PI3K inhibitor" is defined
herein to refer to a compound which targets, decreases or inhibits phosphatidylinositol 3
kinase. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity has been shown to increase in response to a
number of hormonal and growth factor stimuli, including insulin, platelet-derived growth
factor, insulin-like growth factor, epidermal growth factor, colony-stimulating factor, and
hepatocyte growth factor, and has been implicated in processes related to cellular growth
and transformation.
         The term "c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor" is defined herein to refer to a
compound which targets, decreases, or inhibitor activity of the c-Met receptor tyrosine
kinase.
                                                   7

WO 2014/028566                                                                   PCT/US2013/054848
         The term "c-Met dependent proliferative disease" or "c-Met dependent cancer" refers
to those proliferative diseases having a dysregulation of c-Met and/or the HGF/c-Met
signaling pathway, particularly HGF/ c-Met gene overexpression and amplification, HGF
dependent autocrine and paracrine activation, and/or c-Met receptor genetic mutations (both
germline and somatic). In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is a cancer
having a dysregulation of the c-Met and/or the HGF/ c-MET signaling pathway. The
"dysregulation of c-Met and/or the HGF/c-Met signaling pathway" is meant to include
activation of the c-Met class of receptor tyrosine kinases through various mechanisms
including, but not limited to, HGF-dependent autocrine and paracrine activation, HGF/ c-met
gene overexpression and/or amplification, point mutations, deletions, truncations,
rearrangement, as well as abnormal c-Met receptor processing and defective negative
regulatory mechanisms. In a preferred embodiment, the term "c-Met dependent proliferative
disease" or "c-Met dependent cancer" includes HGF/ c-met gene overexpression and
amplification.
         The term "pharmaceutical composition" is defined herein to refer to a mixture or
solution containing at least one therapeutic agent to be administered to a subject, e.g., a
mammal or human, in order to treat a particular disease or condition affecting the subject
thereof.
         The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" is defined herein to refer to those
compounds, materials, compositions and/or dosage forms, which are, within the scope of
sound medical judgment, suitable for contact with the tissues a subject, e.g., a mammal or
human, without excessive toxicity, irritation allergic response and other problem
complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit / risk ratio.
         The term "treating" or "treatment" as used herein comprises a treatment relieving,
reducing or alleviating at least one symptom in a subject or effecting a delay of progression
of a disease. For example, treatment can be the diminishment of one or several symptoms
of a disorder or complete eradication of a disorder, such as cancer. Within the meaning of
the present invention, the term "treat" also denotes to arrest, delay the onset (i.e., the period
prior to clinical manifestation of a disease) and/or reduce the risk of developing or worsening
a disease.
         The term "jointly therapeutically active" or "joint therapeutic effect" as used herein
means that the therapeutic agents may be given separately (in a chronologically staggered
manner, especially a sequence-specific manner) in such time intervals that they prefer, in
the warm-blooded animal, especially human, to be treated, still show a (preferably
synergistic) interaction (joint therapeutic effect). Whether this is the case can, inter alia, be
                                                  8

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
determined by following the blood levels, showing that both therapeutic agents are present in
the blood of the human to be treated at least during certain time intervals.
          The term "pharmaceutically effective amount" or "clinically effective amount" of a
pharmaceutical combination of therapeutic agents is an amount sufficient to provide an
observable improvement over the baseline clinically observable signs and symptoms of the
proliferative disease treated with the combination.
          The term "synergistic effect" as used herein refers to action of two therapeutic agents
such as, for example, (a) a compound of formula (I), e.g., COMPOUND A or COMPOUND B
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine
kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or (b) a compound of formula
(II), e.g,. COMPOUND C or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and c-Met receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or (c) a compound of
formula (Ill), COMPOUND D or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and c-Met
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof producing an
effect, for example, slowing the symptomatic progression of a proliferative disease,
particularly cancer, or symptoms thereof, which is greater than the simple addition of the
effects of each therapeutic agent administered by themselves. A synergistic effect can be
calculated, for example, using suitable methods such as the Sigmoid-Emax equation
(Holford, N. H. G. and Scheiner, L. B., Clin. Pharmacokinet. 6: 429-453 (1981)), the equation
of Loewe additivity (Loewe, S. and Muischnek, H., Arch. Exp. Pathol Pharmacol. 114: 313
326 (1926)) and the median-effect equation (Chou, T. C. and Talalay, P., Adv. Enzyme
Regul. 22: 27-55 (1984)). Each equation referred to above can be applied to experimental
data to generate a corresponding graph to aid in assessing the effects of the drug
combination. The corresponding graphs associated with the equations referred to above are
the concentration-effect curve, isobologram curve and combination index curve, respectively.
          The term "subject" or "patient" as used herein includes animals, which are capable of
suffering from or afflicted with a proliferative disease or any disorder involving, directly or
indirectly, a tumor. Examples of subjects include mammals, e.g., humans, dogs, cows,
horses, pigs, sheep, goats, cats, mice, rabbits, rats and transgenic non-human animals. In
the preferred embodiment, the subject is a human, e.g., a human suffering from, at risk of
suffering from, or potentially capable of suffering from a proliferative disease.
          The term about" or "approximately" shall have the meaning of within 10%, more
preferably within 5%, of a given value or range.
                                                  9

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
        Combinations of the present invention include a P13K inhibitor selected from the
group consisting of a compound of formula (I), a compound of formula (II), and a compound
of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
        W02006/122806 and W02008/103636 describe imidazoquinoline derivatives, which
have been found to inhibit the activity of P13K and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR).
Specific imidazoquinoline derivatives which are suitable for the present invention, their
preparation and suitable pharmaceutical formulations containing the same are described in
W02006/122806 and W02008/103636 and include compounds of formula (I)
                                             Ni       R2
                        R4)C                         N -- R3
                         R5                 N
                                                    II)R7                1)
                                           (R)
wherein
        R, is naphthyl or phenyl wherein said phenyl is substituted by one or two substituents
        independently selected from the group consisting of Halogen; lower alkyl
        unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, imidazolyl or triazolyl; cycloalkyl;
        amino substituted by one or two substituents independently selected from the group
        consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkyl sulfonyl, lower alkoxy and lower alkoxy lower
        alkylamino; piperazinyl unsubstituted or substituted by one or two substituents
        independently selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl and lower alkyl
        sulfonyl; 2-oxo-pyrrolidinyl; lower alkoxy lower alkyl; imidazolyl; pyrazolyl; and
        triazolyl;
        R2 is O or S;
        R3 is lower alkyl;
        R4 is pyridyl unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy
        or piperazinyl unsubstituted or substituted by lower alkyl; pyrimidinyl unsubstituted or
                                                 10

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
        substituted by lower alkoxy; quinolinyl unsubstituted or substituted by halogen;
        quinoxalinyl; or phenyl substituted with alkoxy
        R 5 is hydrogen or halogen;
        n is 0 or 1;
        R6 is oxido;
        with the proviso that if n=1, the N-atom bearing the radical R6 has a positive charge;
        R7 is hydrogen or amino.
        The radicals and symbols as used in the definition of a compound of formula (I) have
the meanings as disclosed in W02006/122806 which publication is hereby incorporated into
the present application by reference in its entirety.
        A P13K inhibitor compound of formula (I) may be present in the combination in the
form of the free base or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Suitable salts of the
compounds of formula (I) include those formed, for example, as acid addition salts,
preferably with organic or inorganic acids. Suitable inorganic acids are, for example, halogen
acids, such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, or phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids are,
for example, carboxylic, phosphonic, sulfonic or sulfamic acids, for example acetic acid,
pro-pionic acid, octanoic acid, decanoic acid, dodecanoic acid, glycolic acid, lactic acid,
fumaric acid, succinic acid, malonic acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid,
malic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, amino acids, such as glutamic acid or aspartic acid,
maleic acid, hydroxymaleic acid, methylmaleic acid, cyclohexanecarboxylic acid,
adamantanecarboxylic acid, benzoic acid, salicylic acid, 4-aminosalicylic acid, phthalic acid,
phenylacetic acid, mandelic acid, cinnamic acid, methane- or ethane-sulfonic acid, 2
hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, ethane-1,2-disulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, 4
toluenesulfonic acid, 2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 1,5-naphthalene-disulfonic acid, 2- or 3
methylbenzenesulfonic acid, methylsulfuric acid, ethylsulfuric acid, dodecylsulfuric acid, N
cyclohexylsulfamic acid, N-methyl-, N-ethyl- or N-propyl-sulfamic acid, or other organic
protonic acids, such as ascorbic acid.
        Preferred compounds of formula (I) for use in the combination of the present
invention are 2-methyl-2-[4-(3-methyl-2-oxo-8-quinolin-3-yl-2,3-dihydro-imidazo[4,5
c]quinolin-1-yl)-phenyl]-propionitrile ("COMPOUND A") or its monotosylate salt and 8-(6
methoxy-pyridin-3-yl)-3-methyl-1-(4-piperazin-1-yl-3-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)-1,3-dihydro
imidazo[4,5-c]quinolin-2-one ("COMPOUND B"). The synthesis of COMPOUND A and its
monotosylate salt is for instance described in W02006/122806 as Examples 7 and 152-3
                                                  11

WO 2014/028566                                                              PCT/US2013/054848
respectively. The synthesis of COMPOUND B is for instance described in W02006/122806
as Example 86.       In one preferred embodiment, the compound of formula (I) is COMPOUND
A or its monotosylate salt.
         WOO7/084786 describes pyrimidine derivatives, which have been found to inhibit the
activity of P13K. These specific P13K inhibitors are suitable for the combination of the
present invention, their preparation and suitable pharmaceutical formulations containing the
same are described in WOO7/084786 and include compounds of formula (II):
                                     H 2N  W     R3
                                           R4    N     N
                                                    N)
                                                    S(II),
         wherein W is CRw or N, wherein
         Rw is selected from the group consisting of:
                 (1 ) hydrogen,
                 (2) cyano,
                 (3) halogen,
                 (4) methyl,
                 5) trifluoromethyl,
                 (6) sulfonamide;
         R, is selected from the group consisting of:
                 (1 ) hydrogen,
                 (2) cyano,
                 (3) nitro,
                 (4) halogen,
                 (5) substituted and unsubstituted alkyl,
                 (6) substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl,
                                                12

WO 2014/028566                                                           PCT/US2013/054848
               (7) substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl,
               (8) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
               (9) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
               (10) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl,
               (11) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
               (12) -COR1 ,
               (13) -C0 2R12 ,
               (14) -CONR     2 R1b,
               (15) -NR   2 Rl b,
               (16) -NRlCOR1b,
               (17) -NRjaSO 2 R1b,
               (18) -OCOR12 ,
               (19) -OR 12 ,
               (20) -SR 12,
               (21) -SOR 12 ,
               (23) -SO 2NRRlb wherein
      R12 , and Rib are independently selected from the group consisting of:
               (a) hydrogen,
               (b) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
               (c) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
               (d) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
               (e) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl, and
               (f) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
      R2 is selected from the group consisting of:
                                               13

WO 2014/028566                                                            PCT/US2013/054848
               (1) hydrogen,
               (2) cyano,
               (3) nitro,
               (4) halogen,
               (5) hydroxy,
               (6) amino,
               (7) substituted and unsubstituted alkyl,
               (8) -COR 2 , and
               (9) -NR 2aCOR 2b, wherein
      R2 ,, and  R2b are independently selected from the group consisting of:
               (a) hydrogen, and
               (b) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl;
      R3 is selected from the group consisting of:
               (1) hydrogen,
               (2) cyano,
               (3) nitro,
               (4) halogen,
               (5) substituted and unsubstituted alkyl,
               (6) substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl,
               (7) substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl,
               (8) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
               (9) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
               (10) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl,
               (11) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
                                               14

WO 2014/028566                                                              PCT/US2013/054848
                 (12) -COR 3a,
                 (14) -NR 3.R 3 b
                 (13) -NR  3 CR   3 b,
                  (15) -NR 3aSO 2R 3b,
                 (16) -OR 32 ,
                 (17) -SR 3a,
                 (18) -SOR 3a,
                 (19) -S0 2R 3,, wherein
        R3 ,, and  R3b are independently selected from the group consisting of:
                 (a) hydrogen,
                 (b) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
                 (c) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
                 (d) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
                 (e) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl, and
                 (f) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and
        R4 is selected from the group consisting of
                 (1) hydrogen, and
                 (2) halogen.
        The radicals and symbols as used in the definition of a compound of formula (II) have
meanings as disclosed in W007/084786 which publication is hereby incorporated into the
present application by reference in its entirety.
        The P13K inhibitor compound of formula (II) may be present in the combination in the
form of the free base or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Suitable salts of the
compound of formula (II) include but are not limited to the following: acetate, adipate,
alginate, citrate, aspartate, benzoate, benzenesulfonate, bisulfate, butyrate, camphorate,
camphorsulfonate, digluconate, cyclopentanepropionate, dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate,
glucoheptanoate, glycerophosphate, hemi-sulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate, fumarate,
                                                 15

WO 2014/028566                                                                  PCT/US2013/054848
hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate, lactate, maleate,
methanesulfonate, nicotinate, 2 naphth-alenesulfonate, oxalate, pamoate, pectinate,
persulfate, 3 phenylproionate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, succinate, sulfate, tartrate,
thiocyanate, p toluenesulfonate, and undecanoate. Also, the basic nitrogen-containing
groups can be quaternized with such agents as alkyl halides, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl,
and butyl chloride, bromides, and iodides; dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl, diethyl, dibutyl, and
diamyl sulfates, long chain halides such as decyl, lauryl, myristyl, and stearyl chlorides,
bromides and iodides, aralkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides, and others.
         Suitable salts of the compound of formula (II) further include, but are not limited to,
cations based on the alkali and alkaline earth metals, such as sodium, lithium, potassium,
calcium, magnesium, aluminum salts and the like, as well as nontoxic ammonium,
quaternary ammonium, and amine cations, including, but not limited to ammonium,
tetramethylammonium, tetraethylammonium, methylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine,
triethylamine, ethylamine, and the like. Other representative organic amines useful for the
formation of base addition salts include diethylamine, ethylenediamine, ethanolamine,
diethanolamine, piperazine, pyridine, picoline, triethanolamine and the like, and basic amino
acids such as arginine, lysine and ornithine.
         A preferred compound of formula (II) for use in the combination of the present
invention is the P13K inhibitor 5-(2,6-di-morpholin-4-yl-pyrimidin-4-yl)-4-trifluoromethyl
pyridin-2-ylamine (hereinafter "COMPOUND C") or its hydrochloride salt. The synthesis of
COMPOUND C is described in WO 2007/084786 as Example 10, the contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
       W02010/029082 describes specific 2-carboxamide cycloamino urea derivatives, which
have been found to have inhibitory activity for the a -isoform of P13K.     Specific 2
carboxamide cycloamino urea derivatives which are suitable for the combination of the
present invention, their preparation and suitable formulations containing the same are
described in W02010/029082 and include compounds of formula (Ill)
                                 R3     N     HN
                                          S      O
                                                     2      NH2
                                  A
                                      R2
                                               16(11),
                                               16

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
    wherein
    A    represents a heteroaryl selected from the group consisting of:
                                        N
                                                N
                                                     NH
    R1    represents one of the following substituents: (1) unsubstituted or substituted,
          preferably substituted C1-C7 -alkyl, wherein said substituents are independently
          selected from one or more, preferably one to nine of the following moieties:
          deuterium, fluoro, or one to two of the following moieties C3-C5-cycloalkyl; (2)
          optionally substituted C3-C5-cycloalkyl wherein said substituents are
          independently selected from one or more, preferably one to four of the following
          moieties: deuterium, C1-C 4-alkyl (preferably methyl), fluoro, cyano,
          aminocarbonyl; (3) optionally substituted phenyl wherein said substituents are
          independently selected from one or more, preferably one to two of the following
          moieties: deuterium, halo, cyano, C1-C7 -alkyl, C1-C 7-alkylamino, di(C 1 -C7
          alkyl)amino, C1-C 7-alkylaminocarbonyl, di(C 1-C 7-alkyl)aminocarbonyl, C1-C7
          alkoxy; (4) optionally mono- or di- substituted amine; wherein said substituents
          are independently selected from the following moieties: deuterium, C1 -C7 -alkyl
          (which is unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents selected from
          the group of deuterium, fluoro, chloro, hydroxy), phenylsulfonyl (which is
          unsubstituted or substituted by one or more, preferably one, C 1-C7 -alkyl, C1-C7
          alkoxy, di(C 1-C7-alkyl)amino-C 1 -C7 -alkoxy); (5) substituted sulfonyl; wherein said
          substituent is selected from the following moieties: C 1-C 7 -alkyl (which is
          unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group
          of deuterium, fluoro), pyrrolidino, (which is unsubstituted or substituted by one or
          more substituents selected from the group of deuterium, hydroxy, oxo;
          particularly one oxo); (6) fluoro, chloro;
    R2     represents hydrogen;
    R3    represents (1) hydrogen, (2) fluoro, chloro, (3) optionally substituted methyl,
          wherein said substituents are independently selected from one or more,
          preferably one to three of the following moieties: deuterium, fluoro, chloro,
          dimethylamino.
                                               17

WO 2014/028566                                                                  PCT/US2013/054848
          The radicals and symbols as used in the definition of a compound of formula (111)
have the meanings as disclosed in W02010/029082 which publication is hereby
incorporated into the present application by reference in its entirety.
       A preferred compound of the present invention is a compound which is specifically
described in W02010/029082. A very preferred compound of the present invention is (S)
Pyrrolidine-1,2-dicarboxylic acid 2-amide 1-({4-methyl-5-[2-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1,1-dimethyl
ethyl)-pyridin-4-yl]-thiazol-2-yl}-amide) (herein referred to as "COMPOUND D") or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The synthesis of COMPOUND D is described in
W02010/029082 as Example 15.
          The compounds of formula (Ill) may be used in form of the free base or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Suitable salts include those formed, for example,
as acid addition salts, preferably with organic or inorganic acids, from compounds of formula
(Ill) with a basic nitrogen atom.. Suitable inorganic acids are, for example, halogen acids,
such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, or phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids are, e.g.,
carboxylic acids or sulfonic acids, such as fumaric acid or methansulfonic acid.
          Combinations of the present invention further include at least one c-Met receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Examples of suitable c
Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor include, but are not limited to, 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, ARQ197 (tavantinib),
AMG458, GSK1 363089 (XL880 or foretinib), PF2341066 (crizotinib), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
          Preferably, the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor for use in the combination of
the present invention is a compound of formula (IV)
               0
            N
            H
               F                  N
                              N     N                  (IV),
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compound of formula (IV) has a
chemical name of 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin
2yl]benzamide. This compound and the method for synthesis of this compound is disclosed
                                                 18

 WO 2014/028566                                                             PCT/US2013/054848
in Example 7 of International PCT patent application W02008/064157, the contents of which
are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
        The compound of formula (IV) may be used in form of the free base or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Suitable salts of 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6
yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide include mineral or organic acid salts of
basic residues such as amines; alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic
acids; and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention include
the conventional non-toxic salts of the parent compound formed, for example, from non-toxic
inorganic or organic acids. Preferably, the compound of formula (IV) is a salt form disclosed
in PCT patent application W02009/143211, which is hereby incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety. Preferred salt forms of the compound of formula (IV) include the
dihydrochloric acid salt form and the dibenzensulfonic acid salt form of 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4
[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide.
        Suitable c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors further include:
        (i.)    ARQ197 (tavantinib)(developed by Daiichi Sankyo and ArQule) having
                chemical structure:
                                                14     N
        (ii.)   AMG458 (developed by Amgen) having chemical structure:
                                                  1C1
                                   :N
        (iii.)  GSK1 363089 (also known as XL880 or foretinib) (developed by
                GlaxoSmithKline) having chemical structure:
                                                 19

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
                                             F          N.       N
                                                                               ;and
        (iv.)   PF2341066 (also known as crizotinib) (developed by Pfizer) having chemical
                structure:
                                CI
                           CF                      N        N
                                   N
        The structure of the therapeutic agents identified by code nos., generic or trade
names may be taken from the actual edition of the standard compendium "The Merck Index"
or from databases, e.g., Patents International (e.g, IMS World Publications). The
corresponding content thereof is hereby incorporated by reference.
        A pharmaceutical combination comprising (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase
selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula (1), a compound of formula (II),
and a compound of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least
one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, will
be referred to hereinafter as a COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION.
        Unless otherwise specified, or clearly indicated by the text, or not applicable,
reference to therapeutic agents useful in the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION includes
both the free base of the compounds, and all pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the
compounds.
        In one preferred embodiment of the present invention, the combination comprises (a)
a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND A, COMPOUND B, COMPOUND C, or
COMPOUND D or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4
[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
                                               20

 WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
         In another preferred embodiment of the present invention the combination comprises
(a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met inhibitor selected from the group comprising 2-fluoro
N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
         In another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the combination comprises
(a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND D or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and (b) 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin
2yl]benzamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In accordance with the present invention, the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION
is useful for the treatment of a proliferative disease in a subject in need thereof. The
COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION may be used for the treatment of a proliferative
disease in a subject in need thereof by administering to the subject a pharmaceutical
combination comprising (a) an effective amount of a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected
from the group consisting of a compound of formula (1), a compound of formula (II), and a
compound of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) an effective
amount of at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, such as 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4
[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof. Preferably, these therapeutic agents are administered at
therapeutically effective dosages which, when combined, provide a jointly beneficial effect.
The administration may be separate, simultaneous or sequential.
         In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent
proliferative disease.
         The nature of proliferative diseases, particularly c-Met dependent proliferative
diseases, is multifactorial. Under certain circumstances, drugs with different mechanisms of
action may be combined. However, just considering any combination of drugs having
different mode of action does not necessarily lead to combinations with advantageous
effects.
         It has been found that the administration of the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION
may be used to treat a subject having a proliferative disease, particularly lung cancer (e.g.,
non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma. In the present invention, the administration of
the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION results in a more beneficial treatment, e.g,
synergistic or improved anti-proliferative effect, e.g., with regard to the delay of progression
                                                 21

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
of a proliferative disease or with regard to a change in tumor volume, as compared to either
monotherapy.
         In a preferred embodiment, the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION is useful for
the treatment of proliferative diseases having dysregulation of c-Met and/or the HGF/c-Met
signaling pathway. In one embodiment, this proliferative disease is a cancer having
dysregulation of c-Met and/or the HGF/c-Met signaling pathway. In a further embodiment,
this proliferative disease is a cancer having HGF/ c-met gene overexpression and/or
amplification.
         Proliferative diseases, particularly c-Met dependent proliferative diseases, suitable
for treatment with the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION include, but are not limited to
cancers, atherosclerosis, lung fibrosis, renal fibrosis and regeneration, liver diseases,
allergic disorders, inflammatory and autoimmune disorders, cerebrovascular diseases,
cardiovascular diseases, and conditions associated with organ transplantation.
         In one embodiment, the proliferative disease is cancer. The term "cancer" is used
herein to mean a broad spectrum of tumors, including all solid and hematological
malignancies. Examples of such tumors include but are not limited to benign and malignant
tumors of the breast, bladder, cervix, cholangiocarcinoma, colorectum, esophagus, gastric,
head and neck, kidney (e.g., papillary renal cell carcinoma), liver (e.g, hepatocellular
carcinoma), lung (e.g., small-cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer),
nasopharygeal, ovary, pancreas, prostate, thyroid, endometrial, sarcomas of the
musculoskeletal system (e.g., osteosarcaoma, synovial sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma),
sarcomas of soft tissues sarcomas (e.g., MFH/fibrosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, Kaposi's
sarcoma), multiple myeloma, lymphomas, adult T cell leukemia, acute myelogenous
leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, glioblastomas, astrocytomas, melanoma, mesothelioma
and Wilm's tumor and the like.
         In a further embodiment of the present invention, the proliferative disease is a solid
tumor. The term "solid tumor" especially means breast cancer, bladder cancer, ovarian
cancer, colorectal cancer, melanoma, gastric cancer, cervical cancer, lung cancer (e.g.,
small-cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), head and neck cancer, prostate
cancer, or Kaposi's sarcoma. The present combination inhibits the growth of solid tumors
and also liquid tumors.
         In a further embodiment of the present invention, the proliferative disease is lung
cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer), or glioblastoma.
                                                 22

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
         It is understood that the present invention includes further embodiments wherein any
of the above described proliferative disease or cancer is a c-Met dependent proliferative
disease or cancer.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention pertains to the COMBINATION OF
THE INVENTION useful for the treatment of a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met
dependent proliferative disease, that is resistant to treatment with a c-MET receptor tyrosine
kinase inhibitor, particularly 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. As used
herein, the term "resistant" means formerly sensitive tumors which, in the continuous
presence of a c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, either have regrown after shrinking
due to treatment, or have reappeared after being temporarily eliminated due to treatment.
Successful treatment of resistant tumors can engender, e.g., increased sensitivity of a tumor
cell to novel or previously attempted anti-cancer therapy and/or chemotherapeutic agents,
and can result in, e.g., subsequent tumor cell death and prevention from metastasis.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention pertains to a COMBINATION OF THE
INVENTION useful for inhibiting the growth and/or spread of metastases of cancers,
particularly c-Met dependent tumors. The COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION is suitable
for treatment of poor prognosis patients, especially such poor prognosis patients having
metastatic lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention pertains to a pharmaceutical
combination comprising (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or
COMPOUND D or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) the c-Met receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in the
treatment of a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent proliferative disease.
Preferably, the proliferative disease is cancer, most preferably lung cancer (e.g., non-small
cell lung cancer), or glioblastoma.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention pertains to a pharmaceutical
combination comprising (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor
PF2341066 (also known as crizotinib) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use
in the treatment of a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent proliferative
disease. Preferably, the proliferative disease is cancer, most preferably glioblastoma.
                                                23

 WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
         In one aspect, the present invention relates to a method for treating a proliferative
disease comprising administering to subject in need thereof a combination of (a) a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula
(1), a compound of formula (II), a compound of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof in a quantity which is therapeutically effective against proliferative
disease.
         A patient having a proliferative disease, particularly lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell
lung cancer), or glioblastoma, may be separately, simultaneously or sequentially
administered a combination comprising (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the
group consisting of a compound of formula (I), a compound of formula (II), and a compound
of formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the
treatment of said proliferative disease in accordance with the present invention.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to a method for treating a
proliferative disease comprising administering to subject in need thereof a combination of (a)
a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or COMPOUND D or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor
2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a quantity which is jointly therapeutically effective
against said proliferative disease. Preferably, the proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent
proliferative disease. Preferably, the proliferative disease is cancer, most preferably lung
cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer), or glioblastoma.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to a method of treating
proliferative disease comprising administering to subject in need thereof a combination of (a)
a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and (b) the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor PF2341066 (also known as
crizotinib) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a quantity which is jointly
therapeutically effective against said proliferative disease. Preferably, the proliferative
disease is a c-Met dependent proliferative disease. Preferably, the proliferative disease is
cancer, most preferably glioblastoma.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the
formation of metastases in a subject having a cancer comprising administering to a subject
in need thereof a combination of (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase selected from the group
consisting of a compound of formula (1), a compound of formula (II), and a compound of
                                                24

 WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
formula (Ill) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a quantity which is
jointly therapeutically effective against said cancer. Preferably, the cancer is a c-Met
dependent cancer. Suitable cancers are those set forth in the embodiments above and
incorporated herein by reference herein.
         In a preferred embodiment, the present methods and combinations can be used to
treat lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer), or glioblastoma.
         In one aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a COMBINATION OF THE
 INVENTION for the treatment of a proliferative disease and/or for the preparation of a
medicament for the treatment of a proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the
proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment,
the proliferative disease is cancer. Suitable proliferative diseases and/or cancers are those
set forth in the embodiments above and incorporated herein by reference herein.
         In one embodiment, the present invention relates to the use of a phosphatidylinositol
3-kinase inhibitor selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula (1) (e.g.,
COMPOUND A or B), a compound of formula (II) (e.g., COMPOUND C),and a compound of
formula (Ill) (e.g., COMPOUND D) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in
combination with at least one c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a
proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is a c-Met
dependent proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is
cancer, particularly lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer), or glioblastoma.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to the use of a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or COMPOUND D or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with the c-MET receptor tyrosine
kinase inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin
2yl]benzamide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the preparation of a
medicament for the treatment of a proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the
proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment,
the proliferative disease is cancer, particularly lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer),
or glioblastoma.
         In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to the use of a
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor COMPOUND C or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
                                                 25

WO 2014/028566                                                                  PCT/US2013/054848
thereof in combination with the c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor in combination with
the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor PF2341066 (also known as crizotinib) or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the preparation of a medicament for the
treatment of a proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is a
c-Met dependent proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the c-Met dependent
proliferative disease is cancer, particularly glioblastoma.
         In one aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a COMBINATION OF THE
INVENTION for the inhibition of the formation of metastases in a subject having a cancer
and/or for the preparation of a medicament for the inhibition of the formation of metastases
in a subject having a cancer. In a preferred embodiment, the cancer is a c-Met dependent
cancer.
         The administration of a COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION may result not only in a
beneficial effect, e.g. therapeutic effect as compared to monotherapy of the individual
therapeutic agents of the combination, e.g, a synergistic therapeutic effect, e.g. with regard
to alleviating, delaying progression of or inhibiting the symptoms, but also in further
surprising beneficial effects, e.g. fewer side-effects, an improved quality of life or a
decreased morbidity, compared with a monotherapy applying only one of the
pharmaceutically therapeutic agents used in the combination of the invention.
         A further benefit is that lower doses of the therapeutic agents of the COMBINATION
OF THE INVENTION can be used, for example, that the dosages need not only often be
smaller, but are also applied less frequently, or can be used in order to diminish the
incidence of side-effects observed with one of the therapeutic agents alone. This is in
accordance with the desires and requirements of the patients to be treated.
         It can be shown by established test models that a COMBINATION OF THE
INVENTION results in the beneficial effects described herein before. The person skilled in
the art is fully enabled to select a relevant test model to prove such beneficial effects. The
pharmacological activity of a COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION may, for example, be
demonstrated in a clinical study or in an in-vitro test procedure as essentially described
hereinafter.
         Suitable clinical studies are in particular, for example, open label, dose escalation
studies in patients with a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent proliferative
disease, particularly lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma. Such
studies prove in particular the synergism of the therapeutic agents of the combination of the
                                                  26

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
invention. The beneficial effects on c-Met dependent proliferative diseases may be
determined directly through the results of these studies which are known as such to a person
skilled in the art. Such studies may be, in particular, suitable to compare the effects of a
monotherapy using either therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutical combination of the
invention. In one embodiment, the dose of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor
selected from the group consisting of the compound of formula (I) (e.g., COMPOUND A or
B), a compound of formula (II) (e.g., COMPOUND C) and a compound of formula (111)         (e.g,.
COMPOUND D) is escalated until the Maximum Tolerated Dosage is reached, and the c-Met
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, e.g, 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)
imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, is administered with a fixed dose. Alternatively,
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor selected from the group consisting of a compound of
formula (I) (e.g., COMPOUND A or B), a compound of formula (II) (e.g., COMPOUND C) or
compound of formula (III)(e.g., COMPOUND D), may be administered in a fixed dose and
the dose of the c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, e.g., 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, may be escalated. Each
patient may receive doses of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor either daily or
intermittently. The efficacy of the treatment may be determined in such studies, e.g., after
12, 18 or 24 weeks by evaluation of symptom scores every 6 weeks.
         Determining a synergistic interaction between one or more components, the optimum
range for the effect and absolute dose ranges of each component for the effect may be
definitively measured by administration of the components over different w/w ratio ranges
and doses to patients in need of treatment. For humans, the complexity and cost of carrying
out clinical studies on patients may render impractical the use of this form of testing as a
primary model for synergy. However, the observation of synergy in one species can be
predictive of the effect in other species and animal models exist, as described herein, to
measure a synergistic effect and the results of such studies can also be used to predict
effective dose ratio ranges and the absolute doses and plasma concentrations required in
other species by the application of pharmacokinetic/ pharmacodynamic methods.
Established correlations between tumor models and effects seen in man suggest that
synergy in animals may be demonstrated, for example, by xenograft models or in
appropriate cell lines.
         The methods of the present invention may employ combinations of
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors as formulated as pharmaceutical composition
comprising one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.
                                                27

WO 2014/028566                                                                  PCT/US2013/054848
         In one aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
quantity, which is jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative disease, particularly a
c-Met dependent proliferative disease, of COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION and one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. This pharmaceutical composition may consist of
the therapeutic agents (a) and (b) administered to a patient as a fixed combination in a
single formulation or unit dosage form by any suitable route. Alternatively, the therapeutic
agents, e.g. the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor and the c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase
inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, are both administered to a patient as a
non-fixed combination in separate pharmaceutical compositions or formulations or unit
dosage forms and administered either simultaneously, concurrently or sequentially with no
specific time limits.
         In a preferred embodiment, the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions
separately comprising a quantity, which is jointly therapeutically effective against a
proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent proliferative disease, of therapeutic
agent (a) and therapeutic agent (b)which are administered concurrently but separately, or
administered sequentially to a subject in need thereof.
         The pharmaceutical compositions for separate administration of the therapeutic
agents or for the administration of the therapeutic agents in a fixed combination, i.e. a single
galenical composition comprising the COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION, may be
prepared in a manner known per se and are those suitable for enteral, such as oral or rectal,
and parenteral administration to subjects (warm-blooded animals), including humans,
comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one pharmacologically active
therapeutic agent alone, e.g. as indicated above, or in combination with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, especially suitable for enteral or parenteral application.
         The novel pharmaceutical composition contains may contain, from about 0.1 % to
about 99.9%, preferably from about 1 % to about 60 %, of the therapeutic agent(s).
         Pharmaceutical compositions for the combination therapy, including fixed
combinations or non-fixed combinations, for enteral or parenteral administration are, for
example, those in unit dosage forms, such as sugar-coated tablets, tablets, capsules or
suppositories, or ampoules. If not indicated otherwise, these are prepared in a manner
known per se, for example by means of various conventional mixing, comminution,
granulating, sugar-coating, dissolving, lyophilizing processes, or fabrication techniques
readily apparent to those skilled in the art. It will be appreciated that the unit content of a
therapeutic agent contained in an individual dose of each dosage form need not in itself
                                                 28

 WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
constitute an effective amount since the necessary effective amount may be reached by
administration of a plurality of dosage units.
         A unit dosage form containing the combination of agents or individual agents of the
combination of agents may be in the form of micro-tablets enclosed inside a capsule, e.g. a
gelatin capsule. For this, a gelatin capsule as is employed in pharmaceutical formulations
can be used, such as the hard gelatin capsule known as CAPSUGEL, available from Pfizer.
         The unit dosage forms of the present invention may optionally further comprise
additional conventional carriers or excipients used for pharmaceuticals. Examples of such
carriers include, but are not limited to, disintegrants, binders, lubricants, glidants, stabilizers,
and fillers, diluents, colorants, flavours and preservatives. One of ordinary skill in the art
may select one or more of the aforementioned carriers with respect to the particular desired
properties of the dosage form by routine experimentation and without any undue burden.
The amount of each carriers used may vary within ranges conventional in the art. The
following references which are all hereby incorporated by reference disclose techniques and
excipients used to formulate oral dosage forms. See The Handbook of Pharmaceutical
Excipients,   4 th edition, Rowe et al., Eds., American Pharmaceuticals Association (2003); and
Remington: the Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 2 0 th edition, Gennaro, Ed., Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins (2003).
         These optional additional conventional carriers may be incorporated into the oral
dosage form either by incorporating the one or more conventional carriers into the initial
mixture before or during melt granulation or by combining the one or more conventional
carriers with the granules in the oral dosage form. In the latter embodiment, the combined
mixture may be further blended, e.g., through a V-blender, and subsequently compressed or
molded into a tablet, for example a monolithic tablet, encapsulated by a capsule, or filled into
a sachet.
         Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable disintegrants include, but are not limited to,
starches; clays; celluloses; alginates; gums; cross-linked polymers, e.g., cross-linked
polyvinyl pyrrolidone or crospovidone, e.g., POLYPLASDONE XL from International
Specialty Products (Wayne, NJ); cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose or
croscarmellose sodium, e.g., AC-DI-SOL from FMC; and cross-linked calcium
carboxymethylcellulose; soy polysaccharides; and guar gum. The disintegrant may be
present in an amount from about 0% to about 10% by weight of the composition. In one
embodiment, the disintegrant is present in an amount from about 0.1% to about 5% by
weight of composition.
                                                  29

 WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
         Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable binders include, but are not limited to,
starches; celluloses and derivatives thereof, for example, microcrystalline cellulose, e.g.,
AVICEL PH from FMC (Philadelphia, PA), hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxylethyl cellulose
and hydroxylpropylmethyl cellulose METHOCEL from Dow Chemical Corp. (Midland, MI);
sucrose; dextrose; corn syrup; polysaccharides; and gelatin. The binder may be present in
an amount from about 0% to about 50%, e.g., 2-20% by weight of the composition.
         Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable lubricants and pharmaceutically
acceptable glidants include, but are not limited to, colloidal silica, magnesium trisilicate,
starches, talc, tribasic calcium phosphate, magnesium stearate, aluminum stearate, calcium
stearate, magnesium carbonate, magnesium oxide, polyethylene glycol, powdered cellulose
and microcrystalline cellulose. The lubricant may be present in an amount from about 0% to
about 10% by weight of the composition. In one embodiment, the lubricant may be present
in an amount from about 0.1% to about 1.5% by weight of composition. The glidant may be
present in an amount from about 0.1% to about 10% by weight.
         Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable fillers and pharmaceutically acceptable
diluents include, but are not limited to, confectioner's sugar, compressible sugar, dextrates,
dextrin, dextrose, lactose, mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, powdered cellulose, sorbitol,
sucrose and talc. The filler and/or diluent, e.g., may be present in an amount from about 0%
to about 80% by weight of the composition.
         In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a quantity which is
jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative disease, particularly a c-Met dependent
proliferative disease, of COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION and one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, wherein the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor is
selected from the group consisting of COMPOUND A, COMPOUND B, COMPOUND C, and
COMPOUND D or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In a further embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a quantity which
is jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative disease of COMBINATION OF THE
 INVENTION and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, wherein the c-Met
inhibitor is 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin
2yl]benzamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In a further embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a quantity which
is jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative disease of COMBINATION OF THE
 INVENTION and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, wherein the
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor is COMPOUND C, COMPOUND D or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and the c-Met inhibitor is 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
                                                  30

 WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
         In a further embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a quantity which
is jointly therapeutically effective against a proliferative disease of COMBINATION OF THE
 INVENTION and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, wherein the
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor is COMPOUND C, COMPOUND D or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and the c-Met inhibitor is PF2341066 (also known
as crizotinib) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In accordance with the present invention, a therapeutically effective amount of each
of the therapeutic agents of the combination of the invention may be administered
simultaneously or sequentially and in any order, and the components may be administered
separately or as a fixed combination. For example, the method of treating a proliferative
disease according to the invention may comprise (i) administration of the first therapeutic
agent (a) in free or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form, and (ii) administration of a
therapeutic agent (b) in free or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form, simultaneously or
sequentially in any order, in jointly therapeutically effective amounts, preferably in
synergistically effective amounts, e.g. in daily or intermittently dosages corresponding to the
amounts described herein. The individual therapeutic agents of the COMBINATION OF
THE INVENTION may be administered separately at different times during the course of
therapy or concurrently in divided or single combination forms. Furthermore, the term
"administering" also encompasses the use of a pro-drug of a therapeutic agent that convert
in vivo to the therapeutic agent as such. The instant invention is therefore to be understood
as embracing all such regimens of simultaneous or alternating treatment and the term
"administering" is to be interpreted accordingly.
         The effective dosage of each of the therapeutic agents employed in the
COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION may vary depending on the particular compound or
pharmaceutical composition employed, the mode of administration, the condition being
treated, and the severity of the condition being treated. Thus, the dosage regimen of the
combination of the invention is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including the
route of administration and the renal and hepatic function of the patient. A clinician or
physician of ordinary skill can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the
single therapeutic agents required to alleviate, counter or arrest the progress of the
condition.
                                                 31

WO 2014/028566                                                              PCT/US2013/054848
        The effective dosage of each of the therapeutic agents may require more frequent
administration of one of the compound(s) as compared to the other compound(s) in the
combination. Therefore, to permit appropriate dosing, packaged pharmaceutical products
may contain one or more dosage forms that contain the combination of compounds, and one
or more dosage forms that contain one of the combination of compounds, but not the other
compound(s) of the combination.
        When the therapeutic agents, which are employed in the COMBINATION OF THE
INVENTION, are applied in the form as marketed as single drugs, their dosage and mode of
administration can be in accordance with the information provided on the package insert of
the respective marketed drug, if not mentioned herein otherwise.
        The dose of a compound of the formula I, especially COMPOUND A, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to be administered to a subject in need thereof, for
example humans of approximately 70 kg body weight, is preferably from approximately 3
mg to approximately 5 g, more preferably from approximately 10 mg to approximately 1.5 g,
more preferably from approximately 100 mg to about 1200 mg, most preferably from about
100 mg to about 1000 mg per person per day, divided preferably into 1 to 3 single doses
which may, for example, be of the same size.
        The compound of formula II, especially COMPOUND C, is preferably administered
daily at a dose in the range of from about 0.001 to 1000 mg/kg body weight daily and more
preferred from 1.0 to 30 mg/kg body weight. In one preferred embodiment, the dosage
compound of formula I, especially COMPOUND C, is in the range of about 10 mg to about
2000 mg per person per day.
        The dose of a compound of formula Ill, especially COMPOUND D, is preferably
administered daily at a dose in the range of from about 0.05 to about 50 mg per kilogram
body weight of recipient per day; preferably about 0.1-25 mg/kg/day, more preferably from
about 0.5 to 10 mg/kg/day. Thus, for administration to a 70 kg person, the dosage range
would most preferably be about 35-700 mg per day.
        The c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, especially 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, is preferably administered
daily at a dose in the range of from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg of body weight per
day. Thus, for administration to a 70 kg person, the dosage range would most preferably be
about 0.7 mg to 7 g per day, more preferably 50 mg to 300 mg per day.
        The optimal dosage of each therapeutic agent for treatment of a proliferative disease
can be determined empirically for each individual using known methods and will depend
                                                32

WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
upon a variety of factors, including, though not limited to, the degree of advancement of the
disease; the age, body weight, general health, gender and diet of the individual; the time and
route of administration; and other medications the individual is taking. Optimal dosages may
be established using routine testing and procedures that are well known in the art.
        The amount of each therapeutic agent that may be combined with the carrier
materials to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the individual treated
and the particular mode of administration. In some embodiments the unit dosage forms
containing the combination of agents as described herein will contain the amounts of each
agent of the combination that are typically administered when the agents are administered
alone.
        Frequency of dosage may vary depending on the compound used and the particular
condition to be treated. In general, the use of the minimum dosage that is sufficient to
provide effective therapy is preferred. Patients may generally be monitored for therapeutic
effectiveness using assays suitable for the condition being treated, which will be familiar to
those of ordinary skill in the art.
        In one embodiment, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical combination of
the therapeutic agents COMPOUND A or B or a pharmaceuticeutically acceptable salt
thereof and the c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, preferably 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof may be present in the combinations, pharmaceutical compositions
and dosage forms disclosed herein in a ratio in the range of 20:1 to 2:1, more preferably
20:1 to 5:1, respectively daily.
        In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical
combination of the therapeutic agents COMPOUND C or a pharmaceuticeutically acceptable
salt thereof and a c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, preferably 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof are present in a dosage ratio in the range of 1:1 to 1:4 daily, more
preferably 1: 1 or 1:2 daily.
        In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical
combination of the therapeutic agents COMPOUND D or a pharmaceuticeutically acceptable
salt thereof and a c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, preferably 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7
quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof are present in a dosage ratio in the range of 8:1 to 1:1, more
preferably 4:1 to 2:1 to 1:1 respectively daily.
                                                 33

WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
         The optimum ratios, individual and combined dosages, and concentrations of the
drug compounds that yield efficacy without toxicity are based on the kinetics of the
therapeutic agents' availability to target sites, and are determined using methods known to
those of skill in the art.
         Moreover, the present invention provides a commercial package comprising as
therapeutic agents COMBINATION OF THE INVENTION, together with instructions for the
simultaneous, separate or sequential administration thereof in the treatment of a proliferative
disease. In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent
proliferative disease. In a preferred embodiment, the proliferative disease is lung cancer
(e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma.
         The following Examples illustrate the invention described above; they are not,
however, intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. The beneficial effects of the
pharmaceutical combination of the present invention can also be determined by other test
models known as such to the person skilled in the pertinent art.
         Utility of the COMBINATION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION, as described herein,
may be demonstrated in vitro, in animal test methods as well as in clinical studies. For
example in the utility of the compounds of formula (I) in accordance with the present
invention may be demonstrated in accordance with the methods hereinafter described:
Example 1: Combinations with COMPOUND A in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Material and Methods
         The P13K inhibitor (COMPOUND A) and the c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor
2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide are
evaluated in combination in non-small cell lung cancer models. Compound stocks of both
compounds are individually prepared in DMSO. Compounds are serially diluted using a
Tecan dispenser to cover a -1 000x range of concentrations. The highest concentration
used for the experiment are as follows: COMPOUND A = 2.7 pM and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4
[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide = 0.27 pM.    Both single
agent and combinations are tested at multiple concentrations, along with controls and one
self-cross.
Cell culture and viability measurements
                                                  34

WO 2014/028566                                                                    PCT/US2013/054848
         The cell lines used in this study are purchased from American Type Cell Collection,
including human non small cell lung cancer cell lines EBC-1 (which bears c-Met
amplification), NCI- H1993 (which bears c-MET amplified), NCI-H1648 (which bears c-Met
amplification), NCI-H1573 (which bears c-Met amplification and KRAS mutation) and
HCC2935 (EGFR mutation). All cell lines are maintained in their respective culture medium
as specified by the provider.
         For the assessment of combination effects, cells are seeded into 384-well plates at
500 cells/ well and incubated overnight. The contents of the compound master plates are
pre-diluted 1:200 (1 pL compound solution to 200 pL cell RPMI-160 culture medium
containing 10% fetal calf serum) before transferring 5 pL of this pre-dilution to the cell plates
containing 20 pL cell culture medium, to achieve the targeted final compound concentrations
as well as a vehicle (DMSO) concentration of 0.09%.
         Effects of single agents as well as their combination on cell viability is assessed after
72 hours of incubation at 37 'C/5% CO 2 by quantification of cellular ATP levels (CellTiterGlo,
Promega) using 25 pL reagent/well and n=2 replicate plates per condition. The
number/viability of cells at time of compound addition is likewise assessed and used to
estimate the population doubling time of a cell line.
         For untreated and treated levels U and T, inhibition is calculated using the formula
I = 1-T/U, which ranges from 0% to 100% for complete inhibition. The "Growth Inhibition"
GI = 1 - (T-Uo)/Vo when T<Uo and 1 - (T-Uo)/(U-Uo) otherwise, where Uo is the untreated
level at time zero. GI levels of 0, 100%, and 200% correspond to inactive, cytostatic, and
cytotoxic compounds.
Compound activity, synergy, and selectivity calculations
         The single agent activity for each compound is characterized by fitting a sigmoidal
Hill function of the form I = ImaxCa/[Ca+EC 50 ], where C is the concentration, EC50 is the
inflection point, and a is the sigmoidicity. The       IC5 0  crossing point is calculated where the
fitted curve reaches 50% inhibition.
         For combinations, synergy calculations are referred to the Loewe additive model (the
"drug with itself" expectation that        results from adding effective doses).          The Loewe
expectation [Loewe S., Ergebn Physiol 27: 47-187 (1928)) is calculated at each dose pair
Cx,y by finding the inhibition /Loewe such that (Cx//Cx) + (Cy//Cy) = 1, and /Cxy are the effective
concentrations at /Loewe for the fitted single agent curves, using numerical optimization
[Berenbaum MC, J Theor Biol 114: 413-431 (1985)]. The "synergy score" S is calculated
by averaging the difference between Idata and        /Loewe  across all the tested combination dose
                                                  35

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
points, excluding the highest concentration point in the dose matrix, which is most likely to
be dominated by drug off-target effects. The Glmax, is the maximum growth inhibition in the
matrix (excluding the top dose pair), as a measure of overall combination effectiveness.
        Selective synergy is assessed by comparing synergy scores for a combination
across all tested cell lines. The "selectivity score" for that combination in a single cell line is
calculated as SS = abs( S ) * Glmax * (S -p)/a, where p is the median and a is the median
absolute deviation of S across all cell lines. This weighted Z-score highlights combinations
that are exceptionally synergistic in a cell line and that are themselves both effective and
synergistic.
        All calculations are performed using Chalice software (CombinatoRx, Cambridge
MA). In this experiment, the GImax data is interpreted on a scale as follows: (a) GImax = "0"
indicates no inhibition, (b) GImax = approximately "1" indicates 100% inhibition and stasis,
and (c) GImax = 2 indicates 200% inhibition and total eradication or death of the cancer
cells.   Using this procedure, combination effectiveness (GImax), excluding the highest
concentration, is shown as follows:
       MaxGI              EBC-1         H1993           H1648           H1573         HCC2935
   COMPOUND A              1.90          1.33             1.72           1.90            1.36
        In this experiment, the synergy score (SS) is interpreted as follows: (a) SS = "0"
indicates synergy, (b) SS = "0.1" indicates high synergy, and (c) SS = negative value of
0.01 to -0.07" indicates additivity. The selective synergy score that is obtained for the
combination, excluding the highest concentration, is shown as follows:
         SS               EBC-1         H1993           H1648           H1573         HCC2935
   COMPOUND A              0.06          0.07            0.07            0.00           0.04
Example 2: Combinations with COMPOUND C in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
        Following the experimental procedure described in Example 1 above, the efficacy
and synergy of the combination of P13K inhibitor COMPOUND C and the c-MET receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide are evaluated in combination in non-small cell lung cancer
models. Compounds are serially diluted using a Tecan dispenser to cover a -1 000x range
of concentrations. The highest concentration used for the experiment are as follows:
                                                36

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
COMPOUND C = 11 pM and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide = 0.27 pM.    Both single agent and combinations are tested at
multiple concentrations, along with controls and one self-cross.
        All calculations are performed using Chalice software (CombinatoRx, Cambridge
MA).    Using this procedure, combination effectiveness (Glmax), excluding the highest
concentration, is shown as follows:
       MaxGl             EBC-1         H1993           H1648             H1573        HCC2935
   COMPOUND C             1.83          1.67             1.78             1.54           1.37
Further, the selective synergy score for the combination, excluding the highest
concentration, is shown as follows:
         SS              EBC-1         H1993           H1648             H1573        HCC2935
   COMPOUND C             0.07          0.05            -0.01            -0.03          -0.07
Example 3: Combinations with COMPOUND D in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
        Following the experimental procedure described in Example 1 above, the efficacy
and synergy of the combination of P13K inhibitor COMPOUND D and the c-MET receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide are evaluated in combination in non-small cell lung cancer
models. Compounds are serially diluted using a Tecan dispenser to cover a -1 000x range
of concentrations. The highest concentration used for the experiment are as follows:
COMPOUND D = 11 pM and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide = 0.27 pM.    The lowest concentration used for the experiment
are as follows: COMPOUND D = 0.15 pM and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)
imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide = 0.0003 pM.       Both single agent and
combinations are tested at multiple concentrations, along with controls and one self-cross.
        All calculations are performed using Chalice software (CombinatoRx, Cambridge
MA).    Using this procedure, combination effectiveness (Glmax), excluding the highest
concentration, is shown as follows:
       MaxGl             EBC-1         H1993           H1648             H1573        HCC2935
                                               37

WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
   COMPOUND D              1.87         1.21           1.37             0.57           0.77
Further, the selective synergy score for the combination, excluding the highest
concentration, is shown as follows:
                          EBC-1        H1993          H1648            H1573         HCC2935
   COMPOUND D              0.12         0.11           0.16             0.00           0.00
Example 4: Combinations with COMPOUND C in Glioblastoma
Methods
        The P13K inhibitor COMPOUND C and the c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor
2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide are
evaluated in combination in glioblastoma tumor models. COMPOUND C (10 mM) and 2
fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide (10mM)
aredissolved in DMSO, and are stored in aliquots at -20'C.
Cell Culture and Cell Viability Assay
        Human Glioblastoma cell lines, U-87 MG (PTEN mutant and HGF expressing line),
H4 (PTEN mutant and HGF expressing line), A172 (PTEN mutant line with low HGF
expression level) and LN-229 (PTEN wildtype and HGF low) are purchased from American
Type Cell Collection and are maintained in a humidified incubator at 37'C in 5 % CO 2 in
recommended media. All four cell lines express detected MET at the mRNA level.
        The cells are passaged twice a week and the medium is changed every 2 to 3 days.
For cell viability assay, the cells are trypsinized using TryPLE Express and plated (4000
cells/well) on clear-bottom 96-well black plates (Costar, #3904) in triplicate, and are allowed
to attach overnight followed 72 hours of incubation with various concentrations of inhibitor
agents or agent combinations.
        Cell viability is determined by measuring cellular ATP content using the CellTiter
Glo@ (CTG) luminescent cell viability assay (Promega). Each single agent and combination
treatment of cells is compared to controls, or cells treated with an equivalent volume of
medium. An equal volume of the CTG reagents is added to each well at the end of the
compound treatment and luminescence is recorded on an Envision plate reader (Perkin
                                               38

 WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
Elmer). Reduced and enhanched luminescent signal values (responses) are calculated
relative to untreated (control) cells.
Method for calculating the effect of combinations
         To evaluate the anti-proliferative activity of this P13K inhibitor with this cMET inhbitor
in a non-bias way, as well as to identify synergistic effect at all possible concentrations, the
studies are conducted with a "dose matrix." This utilizes all possible permutations of serially
diluted single agent and the "dose matrix, consisted of the following:
     *   COMPOUND C, which is subjected to a 5 dose 2X serial dilution, with a high dose of
         2.4pM and a low dose of approximately 150nM
     *   This c-MET inhibitor , which is subjected to a 5 dose 2X serial dilution, with a high
         dose of 1pM and a low dose of approximately 12nM
The synergistic interaction (analyzed using Chalice software [CombinatoRx, Cambridge MA])
is calculated by comparing the response from a combination to the response of the agent
acting alone, against the drug-with-itself dose-additive reference model. Deviations from
dose additives can be assessed numerically with a Combination Index (CI), which quantifies
the overall strength of combination effect. This calculation (esentially a volume score) is as
follows:
                                 VHSA=-X,Y   InfX InfY (Idata - IHSA)
Additionally, Cl is calculated between the data and the highest single-agent surface,
normalized for single agent dilution factors (Lehar J et al (2009), "Synergistic drug
combinations tend to improve therapeutically relevant selectivity", Nature Biotechnology 27:
659 - 66 (2009).)
Data analysis
         Data evaluation and graph generation are performed using Microsoft Excel software,
and Chalice software.
Results
         The effect of COMPOUND C and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)
imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide is evaluated in the "dose matrix" scheme as
discussed above. All four cells are treated in 96-well format for 2 days with COMPOUND C
and 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide.
Cell viability is measured using the CellTiter-Glo assay and % inhibition data is displayed
                                                 39

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
numerically as 6 X6 dose grid. Figures 1 to 4 herein provide a summary of the results from
the foregoing procedure. Each data point represents averaged data from 3 wells, and the
color spectrum also represents the level of the inhibition. The bolded rectangles highlighted
the region where the combination is more efficacious than the single agents the same dose.
         The percentage of inhibition over the entire dose grid is shown in Figures 1 to 4
herein. COMPOUND C is displaying concentration dependent anti-proliferative activity in all
four cell lines, less active in the one cell line that is PTEN wild type (LN229) . 2-fluoro-N
methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide is displaying only
moderate activities in the two HGF high cell lines (U87 MG and H4), completely inactive in
the other two (Al 72 and LN229). When used together, synergy is observed both H4 and
U87-MG, but not in A172 and LN229, evidenced by enhanced growth inhibition over each of
the single agents in highlighted areas as well as the Isobolograms shown in Figures 1 to 4
herein.
         This data suggests that this combination synergistically inhibits the growth of a
subpopulation of the glioblastoma cell lines, PTEN mutant as well HGF high cell lines
appears to be more sensitive to each of the single agents and the combination results in
more pronounced growth inhibition.
Example 5: Combinations with COMPOUND C in Glioblastoma Xenograft Models
         In this experiment, the U-87 MG human glioblastoma xenograft model is used to
assess the anti-tumor efficacy of the P13K inhibitor COMPOUND C and c-Met inhibitor 2
fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide as
single agents or in combination. U-87 MG tumor cells obtained from the National Cancer
Institute are reported to be homozygous for likely oncogenic variants of CDKN2A, CDKN2C,
CDKN2a, and PTEN; no mutations are detected in MET, PIK3CA, or 58 other genes that are
frequently altered in neoplastic cells; and HGF expressing.
         Mice are treated daily for 21 days with 17.7 and 35.3 mg/kg of the c-Met inhibitor and
32.7 mg/kg COMPOUND C monotherapies, and with the c-Met inhibitor / COMPOUND C
dual therapy at 17.7:32.7. An c-Met inhibitor / COMPOUND C combination at the 58.8:5.4
mg/kg dose ratio was included in the study. The control mice received both vehicles, and a
standard preclinical temozolomide regimen monitored tumor model performance. The oral
treatments began on Day 1 (D1) in nude mice with established subcutaneous tumors. Each
animal was euthanized when its tumor reached the predetermined 2000 mm3 endpoint
volume, or on D60, whichever came first. The study was terminated on D51. Short-term
efficacy was determined from mean and median tumor volume changes on D1 3, the last day
before more than 50% of the mice in any group exited the study. Overall efficacy was
                                                   40

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
determined from the times required for tumors to progress to the volume endpoint, and from
D51 survival and regression rates. This report describes the methods and results of the
U87MG-e326 tumor growth delay experiment.
Mice
         Female nude mice (nu/nu, Charles River) are 10 weeks old, and had a body weight
(BW) range of 15.5-27.3 g, on D1 of the study. The animals are fed ad libitum water
(reverse osmosis, 1 ppm CI) and NIH 31 Modified and Irradiated Lab Diet@ consisting of
18.0% crude protein, 5.0% crude fat, and 5.0% crude fiber. The mice are housed on
irradiated Enrich-o'cobsTM Laboratory Animal Bedding in static microisolators on a 12- hour
light cycle at 20-22  0C (68-72 'F) and 40-60% humidity.
Tumor Implantation and Measurement
         The U-87 MG tumor line is obtained from the American Type Culture Collection and
maintained by serial engraftment in nude mice. A tumor fragment (1 mm3) is implanted
subcutaneously into the right flank of each test mouse. Tumors are calipered in two
dimensions to monitor growth as their mean volume approached the desired 100-150 mm 3
range. Tumor size, in mm3, was calculated from: Tumor Volume = (width 2 x length)/ 2, where
width and length (in mm) are measurements of the tumor. Tumor weight can be estimated
with the assumption that 1 mg is equivalent to 1 mm3 of tumor volume. Fourteen days after
tumor cell implantation, on D1 of the study, mice with individual tumor volumes of 63-196
mm3 are sorted into seven groups, with group mean tumor volumes of 122-127 mm3 .
Test Articles
         The c-Met inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide (di-HCI salt, 84.98% free base) is stored at 4 'C and is added
to deionized water at 2X the final concentration and sonicated until dissolved. An equal
volume of 0.5% methylcellulose and 0.1% Tween@ 80 in deionized water is added to provide
a 5.884 mg/mL dosing solution in 0.25% methylcellulose and 0.05% Tween@ 80 in deionized
water (Vehicle 1). Portions of this solution are diluted with Vehicle 1 to provide 3.53 and
1.765 mg/mL dosing solutions.
         COMPOUND C (HCI salt, 91.85% free base) is stored at -20 'C and is added to 1%
Tween@ 80 in deionized water and sonicated to obtain a uniform suspension at 2X the final
concentration. An equal volume of 1% methylcellulose in deionized water is added, and the
mixture is stirred and sonicated to obtain an opaque colorless 3.266 mg/mL dosing
suspension in 0.5% methylcellulose and 0.5% Tween@ 80 in deionized water (Vehicle 2).
                                                41

 WO 2014/028566                                                             PCT/US2013/054848
The 0.544 mg/mL dosing suspension is obtained by diluting a portion of the first suspension
with Vehicle 2.
        Temozolomide (Temodar@, Schering Corporation, 100 mg capsule, Lot# IRSA001)
is prepared once, by suspension in deionized water, and stored at 4     0C.
Treatment Plan
        Both test agents and the vehicles are administered by oral gavage (p.o.) once daily
for twenty-one consecutive days (qd x 21). In combination therapies, COMPOUND A is
dosed within 60 minutes after the c-Met inhibitor. Temozolomide is administered p.o. once
daily for five consecutive days (qd x 5). In all groups, the dosing volume of 10 mL/kg (0.2
mL/20 g mouse) is scaled to the weight of each animal as determined on the day of dosing,
except on weekends when the previous BW is carried forward.
        Seven groups of nude mice (n = 10/group) are treated as follows. Group 1 mice
receive Vehicles 1 and 2, and served as controls for all analyses. On D7, this group is
inadvertently dosed with an IgG negative control antibody; it was concluded that this error
had no impact on control tumor growth. Groups 2 and 3 receive the c-Met monotherapy
monotherapies at 17.7 and 35.3 mg/kg (equivalent to 15 and 30 mg/kg free base),
respectively. Group 4 received COMPOUND C monotherapy at 32.7 mg/kg (30 mg/kg free
base). Group 5 received 17.7 mg/kg the c-Met inhibitor in combination with 32.7 mg/kg
COMPOUND C. Group 6 received 58.8 mg/kg the c-Met inhibitor in combination with 5.4
mg/kg COMPOUND C (equivalent to 50 and 5 mg/kg free base, respectively). Group 7, the
reference group, received temozolomide monotherapy at 100 mg/kg.
Tumor Growth Inhibition
        Short-term efficacy is determined on D13. Prior to D13, one Group 1 animal with a
tumor doublet is exited when the sum of its tumor volumes progressed to the endpoint. The
last recorded tumor volume for this animal is included in the D13 data. ATV, the difference
in tumor volume between D1 (the start of dosing) and the endpoint day, was determined for
each animal. For each treatment group, the response on the endpoint day was calculated by
one of the following relations:
                                T/C (%) = 100 x AT/AC, for AT > 0
                                T/TO (%) = 100 x AT/TO, for AT < 0,
        where
        AT = (mean tumor volume of the treated group on the endpoint day) - (mean tumor
        volume of the treated group on D1),
                                                 42

WO 2014/028566                                                             PCT/US2013/054848
        AC = (mean tumor volume of the control group on the endpoint day) - (mean tumor
        volume of the control group on D1), and
        TO = mean tumor volume of the treated group on D1.
        A negative T/TO value represents net tumor reduction for a group. A T/C value of
40% or less suggests potential therapeutic activity.
Tumor Growth Delay
        Each animal is euthanized when its neoplasm reached the endpoint volume (2000
mm3), or on the last day of the study (D51). For each animal whose tumor reaches the
endpoint volume, the time to endpoint (TTE) was calculated by the following equation:
                TTE = (logi 0 (endpoint volume) - b)/ m
where TTE is expressed in days, endpoint volume is in mm3, b is the intercept, and m is the
slope of the line obtained by linear regression of a log-transformed tumor growth data set.
The data set is comprised of the first observation that exceeds the study endpoint volume
and the three consecutive observations that immediately precede the attainment of the
endpoint volume. Any animal with a tumor that does not reach the endpoint is assigned a
TTE value equal to the last day of the study. Any animal classified as having died from TR
causes, is assigned a TTE value equal to the day of death. Any animal classified as having
died from NTR causes (other than metastasis) is excluded from TTE calculations.
        Treatment efficacy is determined from tumor growth delay (TGD), which is defined as
the increase in the median TTE for a treatment group compared to the control group:
                                TGD = T - C,
expressed in days, or as a percentage of the median TTE of the control group:
                                % TGD = [(T-C) C]   x 100
where:
T = median TTE for a treatment group,
C = median TTE for the designated control group.
MTV and Criteria for Regression Responses
        Treatment efficacy may also be determined from the tumor volumes of animals
remaining in the study on the last day, and from the number of regression responses. The
MTV(n) is defined as the median tumor volume on D51 in the number of animals remaining,
n, whose tumors had not attained the endpoint volume. Treatment may cause a partial
                                               43

WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
regression (PR) or a complete regression (CR) of the tumor in an animal. A PR indicates that
the tumor volume is 50% or less of its D1 volume for three consecutive measurements
during the course of the study, and equal to or greater than 13.5 mm 3 for one or more of
these three measurements. A CR indicates that the tumor volume is less than 13.5 mm 3 for
three consecutive measurements during the course of the study. Any animal that presented
with a CR response on the last day of the study is additionally classified as a tumor-free
survivor (TFS).
Toxicity
        Animals are weighed on Days 1-5, on each treatment day (except weekends), and
twice weekly thereafter, until the end of the study. Group mean BW nadir determinations
exclude measurements taken after more than 50% of the assessable mice in the group had
exited the study, and also excluded any animal that was classified as an NTR death during
the study. Acceptable toxicity for the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as a group
mean BW loss of less than 15% during the test, and not more than one TR death among ten
animals. Any animal with BW losses exceeding 15% for three consecutive measurements, or
with a BW loss exceeding 20% for one measurement, are euthanized, and classified as a TR
death unless it was the first death in the group. A death is classified as Non-Treatment
Related (NTR) if there was no evidence that the death is related to treatment side effects
and the death occurs more than 14 days after dosing ended. NTR deaths are categorized as
NTRa (due to accident or error), NTRu (due to unknown causes), or NTRm (necropsy
confirmed tumor dissemination by invasion and/or metastasis). To conserve animals while
providing maximum information, the first death in a group was classified as NTRu; such an
NTR death was to be reclassified as TR if two subsequent TR deaths are recorded in the
same group.
Statistical and Graphic Analyses
        All statistical and graphic analyses are performed with Prism 3.03 (GraphPad) for
Windows. The mean tumor volume changes for Groups 1-7 are first compared with analysis
of variance (ANOVA), with Bartlett's test. When Bartlett's test indicates significant
differences among variances (P < 0.0001), the groups are compared with Kruskal-Wallis
analysis, which show significant differences among median tumor volume changes (P <
0.0001). A post hoc Dunn's multiple comparison test compares the drug-treated groups to
control Group 1. These non-parametric tests are repeated once to compare one of the
combination therapy groups to its corresponding monotherapies.
        Survival is analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The logrank (Mantel-Cox) test is
employed to analyze the significance of the difference between the overall survival
                                                44

WO 2014/028566                                                                   PCT/US2013/054848
experiences (survival curves) of two groups. The logrank test analyzes the individual TTEs
for all animals in a group, except those excluded as non-treatment related (NTR) deaths.
The two-tailed statistical analyses are conducted at P = 0.05. Prism summarizes test results
as not significant (ns) at P> 0.05, significant (symbolized by "*) at 0.01 < P       < 0.05, very
significant ("**") at 0.001 < P    0.01, and extremely significant ("***") at P    0.001. Because
tests of statistical significance do not provide an estimate of the magnitude of the difference
between groups, all levels of significance are described as either significant or not significant
within the text of this report.
Results
          Following the above procedure, the following results are obtained in the study:
Grp     n    Treatmen    Dose     T/C     Statistical Median    % TGD      Statistical   Regress.
             t           (mg/kg)  or      Signif.     TTE                  Signif.       (Deaths)
                                  T/TO    (Dunn's)                         (Logrank)
1       10   Veh. 1               --      vs. G1:--   11.7      --         vs. G1:--     0
             Veh. 2                       vs. G2:--                        vs. G2:--     (0)
                                          vs. G4:--                        vs. G4:  -
                                                                           vs. G5:  -
2       10   c-Met       17.7      5%     vs. G1:     33.1      183        vs. G1:       4 PR
             inh.                         <0.01                                          (0)
                                          vs. G2:--                        vs. G2:  -
                                          vs. G4:--                        vs. G4:  -
                                                                           vs. G5:  -
3       10   c-Met       35.3      1%     vs. G1:     35.1      200        vs. G1:       4 PR
             inh.                         <0.001                                         (0)
                                          vs. G2:--                        vs. G2:
                                          vs. G4:--                        ns
                                                                           vs. G4:  -
                                                                           vs. G5:  -
4      9     CMPD. C 32.7          31%    vs. G1: ns  21.0      79         vs. G1:       0
                                          vs. G2:--                                      (1 TR, 1
                                          vs. G4:--                        vs. G2: --    NTR)
                                                                           vs. G4: -
                                                                           vs. G5: -
5      9     c-Met       17.7     -83%    vs. G1:     40.4      245        vs. G1:       6 PR,
             inh.        32.7             <0.001                                         3 CR
             CMPD. C                      vs.                              vs. G2:       (1 NTR)
                                          G2:<0.05                         ns
                                          vs.                              vs. G4:
                                          G4:<0.001
                                                                           vs. G5: -
6       10   c-Met       58.8     -75%    vs. G1:     51.0      336        vs. G1:       3 PR,
             inh.        5.4              <0.001                                         7 CR
             CMPD. C                      vs. G2:--                        vs. G2: --    5 TFS
                                          vs. G4:--                        vs. G4: --    (0)
                                                                           vs. G5:
7       10   Temozol     100      48%     vs. G1:ns   17.7      51         vs. G1:       0
             omide                        vs. G2:--                                      (0)
                                          vs. G4:--                        vs. G2:  -
                                                                           vs. G4:  -
                                                                           vs. G5: -
                                                   45

 WO 2014/028566                                                              PCT/US2013/054848
Study Endpoint = 2000 mm 3 , Short term activity = 13 days, Days in progression 51.
N = number of animals in a group not dead from accidental or unknown causes, or
     euthanized for sampling.
T/C = 100 x (AT/ AC) = % change between D1 and D13 in mean tumor volume of treated
     group compared with control group.
T/To= 100 x (AT/TO) = % change between D1 and D13 in mean tumor volume of treated
     group compared with its initial volume, when AT = 0.
Statistical Significance (Dunn's test) = P value from Kruskal-Wallis Dunn's multiple
     comparison test: ns = not significant = P > 0.05, compared to indicated group
Statistical Significance (Logrank test) = P value from logrank test compared to indicated
     group: ns = not significant; results are deemed significant at P < 0.05.
         The c-Met inhibitor monotherapies at 15 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg resulted in 5% and 1%
T/C respectively. COMPOUND C at 30 mg/kg results in T/C of 31%. Combination of the c
Met inhibitor 15 mg/kg with COMPOUND C at 30 mg/kg achieves tumor regression with
T/TO: -83%, which is significant better than either single agent alone.
         After termination of treatment, percent tumor growth delay (%TGD) is evaluated by
monitor tumor growth and record time to end point (TTE). Vehicle-treated group reached
end point at 11.7 days. The c-Met inhibitor at 15 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg increases median
TTE by 21.4 days (183%TGD) and 23.4 days (200%TGD) respectively. COMPOUND C at
30 mg/kg increased median TTE by 9.3 days (79%TGD). Combination of c-Met inhibitor at
 15 mg/kg with COMPOUND C at 30 mg/kg demonstrated median TTE by 28.7 days, which
is 245% TGD.
Example 6: Combinations with COMPOUND D in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Xenograft Models
         In this experiment, the NCI-H1993 human non-small cell lung carcinoma xenograft
model is used to assess the anti-tumor efficacy of the P13K inhibitor COMPOUND D and c
Met inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin
2yl]benzamide as single agents or in combination. NCI-H1993 tumor cells obtained from the
American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) are derived from a lymph node metastasis of a
patient having a stage 3A lung adenocarcinoma and a history of smoking.
Mice
         Female athymic nude mice (Crl:NU (Ncr)-Foxn1'", Charles River) are 8 weeks old,
and have a body weight (BW) range of 16.1-26.2 g, on D1 of the study. The animals are fed
ad libitum water (reverse osmosis, 1 ppm CI) and NIH 31 Modified and Irradiated Lab Diet@
                                                46

WO 2014/028566                                                               PCT/US2013/054848
consisting of 18.0% crude protein, 5.0% crude fat, and 5.0% crude fiber. The mice are
housed on irradiated Enrich-o'cob    TM Laboratory Animal Bedding in static microisolators on
a 12- hour light cycle at 20-22  0C (68-72 'F) and 40-60% humidity.
Tumor Implantation and Measurement
        The NCI-H1993 tumor line is obtained from the American Type Culture Collection
and maintained at DRSNC in RPMI-1640 medium containing 100 unites/ penicillin G
sodium, 100 pg/mL streptomycin sulfate, 25 pg/mL gentamicin, 10% fetal bovine serum, and
2 mM glutamine. The tumor cells are cultured in tissue culture flasks in a humidified
incubator at 37'C in an atmosphere of 5% CO2 and 95% air.
        The tumor cells used for implimitentation are harvested during log phase growth and
resuspended in cold PBS containing 50% Matrige      TM
                                                       (BD Biosciences). Each mouse is
injected subcutaneously in the right flank with 1 x 107 cells (0.2 mL cell suspension).
Tumors are calipered in two dimensions to monitor growth as their mean volume
approached the desired 200-250 mm 3 range. Tumor size, in mm3, was calculated from:
Tumor Volume = (width2 x length)/ 2, where width and length (in mm) are measurements of
the tumor. Tumor weight can be estimated with the assumption that 1 mg is equivalent to 1
mm3 of tumor volume. Fourteen days after tumor cell implantation, on D1 of the study, mice
with individual tumor volumes of 172-256 mm3 are sorted into groups of ten mice, with group
mean tumor volumes of 206-215 mm 3.
Test Articles
        The c-Met inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide (HCI salt, 84.98% free base) is stored at 4 'C and is added to
a volume of deionized water equal to 1/2 of the final volume and sonicated until dissolved to
obtain a uniform 2X suspension. An equal volume of 0.5% methylcellulose: 0.1% Tween@
80 is added to provide a 1.77 mg/mL solution with final vehicle concentrations of 0.25%
methylcellulose and 0.05% Tween@ 80 in deionized water (Vehicle 1). Fresh solutions are
prepared once daily for the p.m. dosing and stored at room temperature until the a.m.
dosing.
        COMPOUND D is suspended at 3.0 mg/mL in 0.5% methylcellulose in deionized
water. The vehicle is added in portions equal to 1/3 of the final volume. The suspension is
vortexed after each addition, and then finally probe sonicated on ice to prepare a
homogeneous white suspension. A fresh suspension is prepared weekly, stored at 4'C, and
re-suspended prior to dosing.
                                               47

WO 2014/028566                                                              PCT/US2013/054848
        Vehicle 2 is prepared at a final vehicle concentration of 35% D5W (5% dextrose in
water): 5% of 10% Tween@ 80 (0.05% final concentration): 60% 100 mM acetate buffer pH
4.5.
Treatment Plan
        The c-MET inhibitor and the vehicle is each administered via oral gavage (p.o.) twice
daily for the duration of the study (b.i.d. to end). COMPOUND D is administered via oral
gavage (p.o.) once daily for the duration of the study (qd to end).  In combination therapies,
COMPOUND D is dosed within 30 minutes after the c-Met inhibitor. In all groups, the dosing
volume of 10 mL/kg (0.2 mL/20 g mouse) is scaled to the weight of each animal as
determined on the day of dosing, except on weekends when the previous BW is carried
forward.
        The groups of nude mice (n = 10/group) are treated as follows. Group 1 receive
Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 and serve as controls for the study. Group 2 receives 17.7 mg/kg of
the c-MET inhibitor monotherapy twice daily for the duration of the study (b.i.d. to end).
Group 3 receives 30 mg/kg COMPOUND D monotherapy once daily for the duration of the
study (qd to end). Group 4 receives 17.7 mg/kg of the c-MET inhibitor b.i.d. to end in
combination with 30 mg/kg COMPOUND D qd to end.
Tumor Growth Inhibition
        Short-term efficacy is determined on Day 20 (D20). Prior to D20, one animal in
Group 1 and one animal in Group 3 had exited for tumor progression; the final tumor volume
of each is carried forward and included in the group mean volume.
         ATV, the difference in tumor volume between D1 (the start of dosing) and the
endpoint day, was determined for each animal. For each treatment group, the response on
the endpoint day was calculated by one of the following relations:
                                T/C (%) = 100 x AT/AC, for AT > 0
                                T/TO (%) = 100 x AT/TO, for AT < 0,
        where
        AT = (mean tumor volume of the treated group on the endpoint day) - (mean tumor
        volume of the treated group on D1),
        AC = (mean tumor volume of the control group on the endpoint day) - (mean tumor
        volume of the control group on D1), and
        TO = mean tumor volume of the treated group on D1.
                                                 48

WO 2014/028566                                                             PCT/US2013/054848
        A negative T/TO value represents net tumor reduction for a group. A T/C value of
40% or less suggests potential therapeutic activity.
Tumor Growth Delay
        Tumors are calipered twice weekly, and each animal is euthanized when its
neoplasm reached the endpoint volume (600 mm 3), or on the last day of the study (D71),
whichever comes first. The time to endpoint (TTE) for each mouse is calculated by the
following equation:
                TTE = (logi 0 (endpoint volume) - b)/ m
where TTE is expressed in days, endpoint volume is in mm 3 , b is the intercept, and m is the
slope of the line obtained by linear regression of a log-transformed tumor growth data set.
Each data set is comprised of the first observation that exceeds the study endpoint volume
and the three consecutive observations that immediately precede the attainment of the
endpoint volume. Any animal with a tumor that does not reach the endpoint is assigned a
TTE value equal to the last day of the study. Any animal classified as having died from
treatment-related (TR) causes, is assigned a TTE value equal to the day of death. Any
animal classified as having died from non-treatment related (NTR) causes (other than
metastasis) is excluded from TTE calculations.
        Treatment efficacy is determined from tumor growth delay (TGD), which is defined as
the increase in the median TTE for a treatment group compared to the control group:
                                TGD = T - C,
expressed in days, or as a percentage of the median TTE of the control group:
                                % TGD = [(T-C) C]   x 100
where:
T = median TTE for a treatment group,
C = median TTE for the designated control group.
MTV and Criteria for Regression Responses
        Treatment efficacy may also be determined from the tumor volumes of animals
remaining in the study on the last day, and from the number of regression responses. The
MTV(n) is defined as the median tumor volume on D71 in the number of animals remaining,
n, whose tumors had not attained the endpoint volume.
        Treatment may cause a partial regression (PR) or a complete regression (CR) of the
tumor in an animal. A PR indicates that the tumor volume is 50% or less of its D1 volume for
                                               49

WO 2014/028566                                                                  PCT/US2013/054848
three consecutive measurements during the course of the study, and equal to or greater
than 13.5 mm 3 for one or more of these three measurements. A CR indicates that the tumor
volume is less than 13.5 mm 3 for three consecutive measurements during the course of the
study.
Toxicity
         Animals are weighed on Days 1-5, on each treatment day (except weekends), and
twice weekly thereafter, until the end of the study. The maximum group mean body weight
(BW) loss is determined for the interval between D1 and D20 as well as for the entire study.
Group mean BW nadir determinations exclude measurements taken after more than 50% of
the assessable mice in the group have exited the study, and also exclude any animal that
was classified as a non-treatment related (NTR) death during the study. Acceptable toxicity
for the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as a group mean BW loss of less than
15% during the test, and not more than one TR death among ten animals. Any animal with
BW losses exceeding 15% for three consecutive measurements, or with a BW loss
exceeding 20% for one measurement, are euthanized, and classified as a TR death unless it
was the first death in the group. A death is classified as NTR if there was no evidence that
the death is related to treatment side effects and the death occurs more than 14 days after
dosing ended. NTR deaths are categorized as NTRa (due to accident or error), NTRu (due
to unknown causes), or NTRm (necropsy-confirmed tumor dissemination by invasion and/or
metastasis). To conserve animals while providing maximum information, the first death in a
group was classified as NTRu; such an NTR death was to be reclassified as TR if two
subsequent TR deaths are recorded in the same group.
Statistical and Graphic Analyses
         Statistical and graphic analyses are performed with Prism 3.03 (GraphPad) for
Windows. The mean tumor volume changes for all groups are compared with one-way
analysis of variance (ANOVA), with Bartlett's test for equal variance. Because differences
among the variances are significant (P< 0.01), the groups ar compared with Kruskal-Wallis
analysis and Dunn's post hoc multiple comparison test. These latter tests are repeated to
compare the combination with its component monotherapies.
         Survival is analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method based on TTE values. The logrank
test is employed to determine the significance of the difference between the overall survival
experiences (survival curves) of two groups. The two-tailed statistical analyses are
conducted at P = 0.05. Prism summarizes test results as not significant (ns) at P > 0.05,
significant (symbolized by "*) at 0.01 < P    0.05, very significant ("**") at 0.001 < P  0.01,
and extremely significant ("***) at P   0.001. Because tests of statistical significance do not
                                                50

WO 2014/028566                                                                 PCT/US2013/054848
provide an estimate of the magnitude of the difference between groups, all levels of
significance are described as either significant or not significant within the text of this report.
Results
         Following the above procedure, the following results are obtained at the end of the
study as defined above:
Grp    n   Treatment     Median    T-C   %      Statistical T/C    Statistical Mean      Regression
                         TTE             TGD    Signif.     or     Signif.     body      (Deaths)
                                                (Logrank)   T/TO   (Dunn's)    weight
                                                                               Nadir
1      10  Veh. 1       25.0       --    --     vs. G1:--   --     vs. G1:--   --        0
           Veh. 2                               vs. G2: --         vs. G2:--             (0)
                                                vs. G3: --         vs. G3:-
2      9   c-Met        49.2       24.2 97      vs. G1:     15%    vs. G1: ns  --        1 PR
            inhibitor                           0.0002             vs. G2:--             (1 NTR)
                                                vs. G2: --         vs. G3:-
                                                vs. G3: -
3      10  CMPD. D      24.0       -1.1  -4     vs. G1:     117%   vs. G1: ns  --        1 PR
                                                ns                 vs. G2:--             (0)
                                                vs. G2: --         vs. G3:-
                                                vs. G3: -
4      9   c-Met         71.0      46     184   vs. G1:     -17%   vs. G1:     -1.3%     1 PR
            inhibitor                           <0.0001            <0.01       Day 51    (1 TR, 1
           and                                  vs. G2:                                  NTR)
           CMPD. D                              0.0344             vs. G2: ns
                                                vs. G3:
                                                0.006              vs. G3:
     L    L_
           ___                          _   ___                    <0.001
N = number of animals in a group not dead from treatment-related, accidental, or unknown
     causes, or euthanized for sampling
T/C = 100 x (AT/ AC) = % change between D1 and D20 in mean tumor volume of treated
     group compared with control group.
T/To= 100 x (AT/TO) = % change between D1 and D20 in mean tumor volume of treated
     group compared with its initial volume, when AT = 0.
Statistical Significance (Dunn's test) = P value from Kruskal-Wallis Dunn's multiple
     comparison test: ns = not significant = P > 0.05, compared to indicated group
Statistical Significance (Logrank test) = P value from logrank test compared to indicated
     group: ns = not significant; results are deemed significant at P < 0.05.
         The c-Met inhibitor monotherapy at 17.7 mg/kg p.o bid to end does not achieve
significant inhibition relative to control (Group 1) due to variable response and overlapping
change in tumor volume ranges. COMPOUND D monotherapy at 30 mg/kg p.o. qd to end
results in non-significant median tumor growth acceleration. Combination of the c-Met
inhibitor and COMPOUND D results in -17% T/To and significant median activites (P < 0.01,
                                                  51

H:\dar\Introvn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\l 1611366_ .docx-6/10/2016
 Dunnett's test), but does not improve significantly upon c-Met inhibitor monotherapy on
 Day 20.
                Overall, c-Met inhibitor monotherapy increases median TTE by 97% and
significantly extends survival (P<0.001, logrank test), yielding four D71 survivors and one
 PR. Well-tolerated COMPOUND D monotherapy results in non-significantly briefer overall
survival than control (Group 1).
                Combination of the c-Met inhibitor and COMPOUND D increases median TTE by
the maximum possible 184%. The combination group has 8 survivors and 1 partial
regression. The combination improves significantly upon both monotherapies. Figure 5
herein provides a summary of the results.
                In summary, the c-Met inhibitor monotherapy at 17.7 mg/kg b.i.d. to end produces
 15% T/C and non-significant D20 tumor growth inhibition, but yieldes a 97% increase in
median TTE and significant survival extension. COMPOUND D monotherapy at 30 mg/kg
qd to end is not significantly active (inactive). The combination displays favorable drug
interactions by causing tumor reduction on D20 and producing the maximum possible
 184% increase in median TTE. Significant improvements over c-Met inhibitor
monotherapy are not observed on D20; however, the combination significantly extends
survival with respect to both corresponding monotherapies. One death during c-Met
inhibitor monotherapy and 2 deaths during combination therapy are due to individual body
weight losses. As group mean body weight losses is zero or negligible, it is uncertain
whether the c-Met inhibitor monotherapy is at the maximum terminal dose, and whether
the combination exceeds the maximum terminal dose for the model.
                Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers
or steps.
                The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                           - 52 -

H:\dar\Intr ovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\I 1611366_ .docx-6/10/2016
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.              A pharmaceutical combination comprising (a) a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase
                inhibitor selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula (1),
                                                                      N1  R2
                                                           R             N    R
                                                            R5      N      R7               1)
                         wherein
                         R1 is naphthyl or phenyl wherein said phenyl is substituted by one or two
                         substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Halogen;
                         lower alkyl unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, imidazolyl or
                         triazolyl; cycloalkyl; amino substituted by one or two substituents
                         independently selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkyl
                         sulfonyl, lower alkoxy and lower alkoxy lower alkylamino; piperazinyl
                         unsubstituted or substituted by one or two substituents independently selected
                         from the group consisting of lower alkyl and lower alkyl sulfonyl; 2-oxo
                         pyrrolidinyl; lower alkoxy lower alkyl; imidazolyl; pyrazolyl; and triazolyl;
                         R2 is 0 or S;
                         R3 is lower alkyl;
                         R4 is pyridyl unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, lower alkyl, lower
                         alkoxy or piperazinyl unsubstituted or substituted by lower alkyl; pyrimidinyl
                         unsubstituted or substituted by lower alkoxy; quinolinyl unsubstituted or
                         substituted by halogen; quinoxalinyl; or phenyl substituted with alkoxy;
                         R5 is hydrogen or halogen;
                         n is 0 or 1;
                                                               - 53 -

WO 2014/028566                                                            PCT/US2013/054848
             R6 is oxido;
             with the proviso that if n=1, the N-atom bearing the radical R6 has a positive
             charge;
             R7 is hydrogen or amino;
      or a compound of formula (II),
                                          H2NW       R3R
                                              N               R,
                                                 R4  N     N
                                                       N
                                                       0(ii),
             wherein W is CRw or N, wherein
                     Rw is selected from the group consisting of:
                             (1 ) hydrogen,
                             (2) cyano,
                             (3) halogen,
                             (4) methyl,
                             5) trifluoromethyl,
                             (6) sulfonamide;
                     R, is selected from the group consisting of:
                             (1 ) hydrogen,
                             (2) cyano,
                             (3) nitro,
                             (4) halogen,
                             (5) substituted and unsubstituted alkyl,
                             (6) substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl,
                                              54

WO 2014/028566                                                        PCT/US2013/054848
                        (7) substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl,
                        (8) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
                        (9) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
                        (10) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl,
                        (11) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
                        (12) -COR1 ,
                        (13) -C0 2R12 ,
                        (14) -CONR 2 R1b,
                        (15) -NRl2 Rlb,
                        (16) -NRlCOR1b,
                        (17) -NRjaSO 2 R1b,
                        (18) -OCOR12 ,
                        (19) -OR 12,
                        (20) -SR 12 ,
                        (21) -SOR12 ,
                        (23) -SO 2NReRlb wherein
               R12 , and Rib are independently selected from the group consisting of:
                        (a) hydrogen,
                        (b) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
                        (c) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
                        (d) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
                        (e) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl, and
                        (f) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
               R2 is selected from the group consisting of:
                                         55

WO 2014/028566                                                       PCT/US2013/054848
                       (1) hydrogen,
                       (2) cyano,
                       (3) nitro,
                       (4) halogen,
                       (5) hydroxy,
                       (6) amino,
                       (7) substituted and unsubstituted alkyl,
                       (8) -COR 22 , and
                       (9) -NR 2aCOR 2b, wherein
               R2,, and  R2b  are independently selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a) hydrogen, and
                       (b) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl;
               R3 is selected from the group consisting of:
                       (1) hydrogen,
                       (2) cyano,
                       (3) nitro,
                       (4) halogen,
                       (5) substituted and unsubstituted alkyl,
                       (6) substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl,
                       (7) substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl,
                       (8) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
                       (9) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
                       (10) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl,
                       (11) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
                                         56

WO 2014/028566                                                          PCT/US2013/054848
                          (12) -COR 3 a,
                          (14) -NR 3.R 3b
                          (13) -NR   3  CR  3 b,
                           (15) -NR 3aSO 2R 3b,
                          (16) -OR 3 ,
                          (17) -SR 3 a,
                          (18) -SOR 3a,
                          (19) -S0 2R3,, wherein
                  R3,, and  R3b are independently selected from the group consisting of:
                          (a) hydrogen,
                          (b) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
                          (c) substituted and unsubstituted aryl,
                          (d) substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl,
                          (e) substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl, and
                          (f) substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and
                  R4 is selected from the group consisting of
                          (1) hydrogen, and
                          (2) halogen,
    and a compound of formula (Ill)
                          R3        N      N      N
                                       S       O
                                                  2   NH2
                            A
                                 R2
                                             57(11),
                                             57

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
    wherein
    A         represents a heteroaryl selected from the group consisting of:
                                  N-:
         QN         N      N            N
                                                N
                                                     NH
    R1    represents one of the following substituents: (1) unsubstituted or substituted,
          preferably substituted C1-C7 -alkyl, wherein said substituents are independently
          selected from one or more, preferably one to nine of the following moieties:
          deuterium, fluoro, or one to two of the following moieties C3-C5-cycloalkyl; (2)
          optionally substituted C3-C5-cycloalkyl wherein said substituents are
          independently selected from one or more, preferably one to four of the following
          moieties: deuterium, C1-C 4-alkyl (preferably methyl), fluoro, cyano,
          aminocarbonyl; (3) optionally substituted phenyl wherein said substituents are
          independently selected from one or more, preferably one to two of the following
          moieties: deuterium, halo, cyano, C1-C7 -alkyl, C1-C 7-alkylamino, di(C 1 -C7
          alkyl)amino, C1-C 7-alkylaminocarbonyl, di(C 1-C 7-alkyl)aminocarbonyl, C1-C7
          alkoxy; (4) optionally mono- or di- substituted amine; wherein said substituents
          are independently selected from the following moieties: deuterium, C1 -C7 -alkyl
          (which is unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents selected from
          the group of deuterium, fluoro, chloro, hydroxy), phenylsulfonyl (which is
          unsubstituted or substituted by one or more, preferably one, C 1-C7 -alkyl, C1-C7
          alkoxy, di(C 1-C7-alkyl)amino-C 1 -C7 -alkoxy); (5) substituted sulfonyl; wherein said
          substituent is selected from the following moieties: C 1-C 7 -alkyl (which is
          unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group
          of deuterium, fluoro), pyrrolidino, (which is unsubstituted or substituted by one or
          more substituents selected from the group of deuterium, hydroxy, oxo;
          particularly one oxo); (6) fluoro, chloro;
    R2     represents hydrogen;
    R3    represents (1) hydrogen, (2) fluoro, chloro, (3) optionally substituted methyl,
          wherein said substituents are independently selected from one or more,
          preferably one to three of the following moieties: deuterium, fluoro, chloro,
          dimethylamino,
                                               58

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and (b) at least one c-Met receptor
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for
      simultaneous, separate or sequential administration for use in the treatment of a
      proliferative disease.
2.    A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1, wherein the phosphatidylinositol
      3-kinase inhibitor is 2-methyl-2-[4-(3-methyl-2-oxo-8-quinolin-3-yl-2,3-dihydro
      imidazo[4,5-c]quinolin-1-yl)-phenyl]-propionitrile (COMPOUND A), 8-(6-methoxy
      pyridin-3-yl)-3-methyl- 1-(4-piperazin- 1-yl-3-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)-1, 3-dihydro
      imidazo[4,5-c]quinolin-2-one (COMPOUND B), 5-(2,6-di-morpholin-4-yl-pyrimidin-4
      yl)-4-trifluoromethyl-pyridin-2-ylamine (COMPOUND C), and (S)-Pyrrolidine-1,2
      dicarboxylic acid 2-amide 1-({4-methyl-5-[2-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1,1-dimethyl-ethyl)-pyridin
      4-yl]-thiazol-2-yl}-amide) (COMPOUND D) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
      thereof.
3.    A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1, wherein the c-Met receptor
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor is 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin-6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2
      b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide, ARQ197 (tavantinib), AMG458, GSK1363089 (XL880
      or foretinib), PF2341066 (crizotinib), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
4.    A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1, wherein the proliferative disease
      is a c-Met dependent proliferative disease.
5.    A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1, wherein the proliferative disease
      is cancer.
6.    A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1, wherein the proliferative disease
      is a cancer selected from the group consisting of benign and malignant tumors of the
      breast, bladder, cervix, cholangiocarcinoma, colorectum, esophagus, gastric, head
      and neck, kidney, liver, lung, nasopharygeal, ovary, pancreas, prostate, thyroid,
      endometrial, sarcomas of the musculoskeletal system, sarcomas of soft tissues
      sarcomas, multiple myeloma, lymphomas, adult T cell leukemia, acute myelogenous
      leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, glioblastomas, astrocytomas, melanoma,
      mesothelioma and Wilm's tumor and the like.
7.    A pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1 wherein the proliferative disease
      is lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer) or glioblastoma.
                                               59

WO 2014/028566                                                                PCT/US2013/054848
8.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutical combination according to
      any one of claims 1 to 3 and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
9.    A method of treating a proliferative disease which comprises administering to a
      subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1 in a
      quantity which is jointly therapeutically effective against said proliferative disease.
10.   A method of inhibiting the formation of metastases in a subject having a cancer which
      comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective
      amount of a pharmaceutical combination according to claim 1.
11.   A method according to claim 9, wherein the proliferative disease is a c-Met
      dependent proliferative disease.
12.   A method according to claims 9 or 10, wherein the proliferative disease or cancer is a
      cancer selected from the group consisting of benign and malignant tumors of the
      breast, bladder, cervix, cholangiocarcinoma, colorectum, esophagus, gastric, head
      and neck, kidney, liver, lung, nasopharygeal, ovary, pancreas, prostate, thyroid,
      endometrial, sarcomas of the musculoskeletal system, sarcomas of soft tissues
      sarcomas, multiple myeloma, lymphomas, adult T cell leukemia, acute myelogenous
      leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, glioblastomas, astrocytomas, melanoma,
      mesothelioma and Wilm's tumor and the like.
13.   A method according to claims 9 or 10, wherein the treatment comprises
      administering the amount of therapeutic agent (a) and the amount of therapeutic
      agent (b) separately or sequentially.
14.   Use of the combination according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for
      treating a proliferative disease.
15.   A use according to claim 14, wherein the proliferative disease is a c-Met dependent
      proliferative disease.
16.   A use according to claim 14, wherein the proliferative disease is cancer.
17.   A use according to claim 14, wherein the proliferative disease is a cancer selected
      from the group consisting of breast, bladder, cervix, cholangiocarcinoma, colorectum,
      esophagus, gastric, head and neck, kidney, liver, lung, nasopharygeal, ovary,
      pancreas, prostate, thyroid, endometrial, sarcomas of the musculoskeletal system,
      sarcomas of soft tissues sarcomas, multiple myeloma, lymphomas, adult T cell
                                               60

WO 2014/028566                                                              PCT/US2013/054848
      leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, glioblastomas,
      astrocytomas, melanoma, mesothelioma and Wilm's tumor and the like.
18.   A pharmaceutical combination comprising a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor
      selected from the group consisting of 5-(2,6-di-morpholin-4-yl-pyrimidin-4-yl)-4
      trifluoromethyl-pyridin-2-ylamine (COMPOUND C), and (S)-Pyrrolidine-1,2
      dicarboxylic acid 2-amide 1-({4-methyl-5-[2-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1,1-dimethyl-ethyl)-pyridin
      4-yl]-thiazol-2-yl}-amide) (COMPOUND D) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
      thereof and a c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor 2-fluoro-N-methyl-4-[7-quinolin
      6-yl-methyl)-imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-2yl]benzamide or a pharmaceutically
      acceptable salt thereof for use in the treatment of a proliferative disease.
19.   A commercial package comprising a pharmaceutical combination according to claims
      1 to 3 together with instructions for the simultaneous, separate or sequential
      administration thereof in the treatment of a proliferative disease.
                                               61

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
