                                          ABSTRACT
                SMOKING ARTICLE FILTER FOR EASY EXTINGUISHING
 5
            There is provided a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod, a filter and
   tipping material attaching the tobacco rod and the filter. The filter comprises a plug of
   filtration material that defines a furthest downstream end of the smoking article, the
   plug being surrounded by one or more filter wrappers. The tipping material includes
10 a ventilation zone. The tipping material and the filter wrapper or wrappers have a
   combined thickness (t) perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the smoking
   article, and the smoking article, at a location about the plug of filtration material, has
   a diameter    (DSA)  perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the smoking article.
   The diameter     (DSA)  to thickness (t) ratio is less than about 80 and the filtration
15 material extends to the furthest downstream end of the smoking article.
                                                                                    3599911 v1

                                    111
       0
       E
       4                               K
                                                         'I
                                                            N
                               /     -             ~1        /
                                 II              II
                             I                         I
                                                      U
                                                                    II                E
                N     ,~
                                                                                      U
                                                                                   IC
                   I                           j
                                                                                      V
 1-                                          '/1
                                                                   u
                                           I,
ir              I                         I~                                          a,
                                                            4'   1
                                                                                      EQ
                                                                                      U
                     ~
                                                                             LJ
           ~I'<
                         f             I
                                                                                   1N
                                                I'
                                                                       ZI
                                                                                  -o
    0    0        0                      0                     0          0     0
    IN   0                               IC                    4          IN
                         N) eDJQ~UoI~SeJdWo2

                                                         1
                        SMOKING ARTICLE FILTER FOR EASY EXTINGUISHING
            The present invention relates to a filter for a smoking article, and a smoking article
    comprising a filter.
  5         Combustible smoking articles, such as cigarettes, generally comprise shredded
    tobacco (usually in cut filler form) surrounded by a paper wrapper forming a tobacco rod. A
    cigarette is employed by a consumer by lighting one end thereof and burning the shredded
    tobacco rod. The consumer then receives mainstream smoke by drawing on the opposite
    end (mouth end or filter end) of the cigarette. The shredded tobacco can be a single type of
  0 tobacco or a blend of two or more types of tobacco.
            Smoking articles, particularly cigarettes, generally comprise a filter aligned in end-to
    end relationship with the tobacco rod or other aerosol forming substrate. Typically, the filter
    includes a plug of cellulose acetate tow wrapped in a filter wrapper. The filter is generally
    attached to the tobacco rod or substrate by tipping paper which overlies the filter and an
  5 adjacent portion of the tobacco rod.
            It is often desirable to ventilate a filter to dilute the mainstream smoke. Ventilation of
    mainstream smoke can be achieved with a row or rows of perforations in the tipping paper
    about a location along the filter. Where ventilation is provided, porous filter wrappers without
    any perforations are known. In such a case, the ventilation level can be controlled solely by
 .0 the perforations in the tipping paper, and the tipping paper may be pre-perforated before the
    smoking article is assembled.       However, porous filter wrappers tend to be structurally weak
    and may also be difficult to manufacture.
            Generally, a consumer smokes the cigarette until the burning area of the tobacco rod
    reaches the edge of the tipping paper. This means that a small portion of the tobacco (where
25  the tipping paper overlaps the tobacco rod) still remains unburnt and will continue to burn
    unless extinguished. Therefore, the consumer extinguishes the cigarette, typically by holding
    the filter and pressing the lit end of the cigarette against the base of an ashtray or other hard
    non-flammable surface. This disrupts the structure of the lit end and prevents oxygen
    reaching the burning tobacco, and burning usually stops rapidly. However, in the process of
30  extinguishing the cigarette, the consumer's fingers may come into contact with, or close to,
    the lit end of the cigarette or old ash remaining in the ashtray.
            It would therefore be desirable to provide a filter for a smoking article which provides a
    more safe and hygienic way to extinguish the smoking article after smoking.
              According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a smoking article
35  comprising: a tobacco rod; a filter comprising a plug of filtration material that defines a
    furthest downstream end of the smoking article, the plug being surrounded by one or more
    3599896v1

                                                          2
    filter wrappers; and tipping material attaching the tobacco rod and the filter, the tipping
    material including a ventilation zone; wherein the tipping material and the filter wrapper or
    wrappers have a combined thickness (t) perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the
    smoking article; wherein the smoking article, at a location about the plug of filtration material,
  5 has a diameter        (DSA)   perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the smoking article;
    wherein the diameter        (DSA)  to thickness (t) ratio is less than about 80; wherein the filtration
    material extends to the furthest downstream end of the smoking article; wherein the
    ventilation zone comprises perforations through the tipping material; and wherein the
    perforations extend through the one or more filter wrappers.
  0         Analysis of the buckling strength of various cylindrical structures has been performed,
    but this has generally been in the fields of construction and aeronautics, where the
    envisaged compressive loads are very high. In addition, the analysis has generally
    considered cylindrical shells, and little work has involved shells which are filled or partially
    filled with material which may interact with the cylindrical shell. This buckling strength has
  5 not yet been fully assessed for filters for smoking articles, and modelling such an effect is
    notoriously difficult. However, the inventors of the present invention have observed that, for a
    given filter height, the buckling strength or critical load of the smoking article filter may be
    considerably increased by decreasing the ratio of DSA:t relative to standard filter cigarettes.
    This allows the smoking article to be extinguished by a consumer while considerably
 .0 reducing the chance of the filter buckling under the compressive load.
             In addition, the filtration material of the filter plug extends to the furthest downstream
    end, a mouth end, of the smoking article. That is, the mouth end of the filter is filled and does
    not form a cavity, recess or hollow mouth end. This may provide additional strength which
    may further increase the critical load. This may avoid the need for a very thick tipping
25  material or filter wrapper (which may be more difficult to roll around the plug of filtration
    material) while still reducing the chance of buckling during extinguishing. Moreover, typically
    a consumer will want to hold the smoking article at the extreme downstream end during
    extinguishing, in order to minimise the chance of the consumer's fingers coming into contact
    with the lit end of the cigarette or old ash remaining in the ashtray. Because the filtration
30  material extends to the furthest downstream end, the filter will resist collapse caused by the
    radial force (pincer action) of the consumer's fingers on the mouth end. This, in turn provides
    improved stability for the filter during extinguishing.
             By providing a diameter       (DSA) to thickness (t) ratio less than about 80 and providing
    filtration material extending to the mouth end, the critical load of the smoking article filter can
35  be increased. This reduces the chances of the filter buckling during extinguishing which, in
    turn, reduces the chances that the consumer's fingers come into contact with the lit end of
    3599896v1

                                                     3
    the cigarette or old ash remaining in the ashtray. This also reduces the chance of a
    consumer burning his or her fingers during the extinguishing process. For a diameter (DSA)
    to thickness (t) ratio less than about 80, critical loads at least twice as high as in standard
    filter cigarettes have been observed.
  5         The tipping material includes a ventilation zone at a location about the filter. The
    ventilation zone comprises perforations through the tipping material.            The perforations
    extend through the filter wrapper or wrappers. Although the perforations weaken the filter
    structure, certain properties of the filter, such as the level of ventilation, may be selected to
    ensure the critical load of the filter remains sufficiently large to reduce the chance of the filter
  0 buckling during the extinguishing process. One such property is the porosity of the one or
    more filter wrappers.
            In particular, preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have low porosity. Preferably,
    the one or more filter wrappers have a porosity of less than about 1000 Coresta units, more
    preferably less than about 500 Coresta units, and even more preferably less than about 100
  5 Coresta units. The porosity may be as low as 100 Coresta units. In addition, or in the
    alternative, the porosity may be more than about 1 Coresta unit. Such low porosity filter
    wrappers may help to improve the strength of the filter, and may help to increase the critical
    load of the smoking article. This can be particularly beneficial given that perforations extend
    through the tipping paper and one or more filter wrappers.
 !0         The tipping material may be standard pre-perforated tipping material. Preferably,
    however, the tipping material is perforated (for example, using a laser) during the
    manufacturing process according to the desired number, size and position of the
    perforations.
            The amount of ventilation provided by the perforations may be selected to provide the
25  desired level of ventilation and to ensure a desired buckling strength for the filter. Whilst
    some ventilation is necessary, too much ventilation may lower the critical load beyond a
    desired range.
            In a preferred embodiment, the ventilation zone provides at least about 10% ventilation
    of the mainstream smoke. Alternatively, the ventilation zone may provide at least about 20%
30  ventilation of the mainstream smoke.
            In a preferred embodiment, the ventilation zone provides less than about 80%
    ventilation of the mainstream smoke. It has been found that beyond this level of ventilation,
    the critical load of the filter can become lower than desired. Alternatively, the ventilation zone
    may provide less than about 70% ventilation of the mainstream smoke.
35          The number of rows of perforations may be selected to provide the desired level of
    ventilation and to ensure a sufficiently high buckling strength for the filter. One or two rows of
    3599896v1

                                                      4
    perforations are typically provided. However, up to 7 lines of perforations may be provided in
    some embodiments.
            The position of the perforations may be selected to provide the desired level of
    ventilation and to ensure a sufficiently high buckling strength for the filter. Preferably, the
  5 perforations are at least 9 mm from the mouth end (furthest downstream end) of the filter.
    Preferably, the perforations are at least 6 mm from the tobacco rod.
            The size and shape of the perforations may also be selected to provide the desired
    level of ventilation and to ensure a sufficiently high buckling strength for the filter.
            The terms "buckling strength" and "critical load" are used interchangeably in this
  0 specification to refer to the axial compressive load on the smoking article filter at which the
    filter will collapse or buckle.
            In this specification, the terms "upstream" and "downstream" are used to describe
    relative positions between elements of the filter or smoking article in relation to the direction
    of mainstream smoke as it is drawn from a lit end of the smoking article through the filter.
  5 Mainstream smoke flows generally parallel to the length of the smoking article, in the
    longitudinal direction. The transverse direction of the smoking article is perpendicular to the
    longitudinal direction.
            The one or more filter wrappers may comprise any suitable material or combination of
    materials. Examples of suitable materials include, but are not limited to, cellulose based
 .0 materials, paper, cardboard, recon, cellulose based film, and combinations thereof. The one
    or more filter wrappers may be printed, embossed, debossed or otherwise embellished with
    manufacturer or brand logos, trade marks, slogans and other consumer information and
    indicia. Preferably, however, the one or more filter wrappers comprise paper.
            Generally, one filter wrapper is provided around the plug of filtration material, although
25  a greater number of filter wrappers is possible. It may be advantageous for the small
    diameter (DSA) to thickness (t) ratio in the smoking article according to the invention to be
    primarily provided by the one or more filter wrappers, rather than by the tipping material. This
    will prevent the need for particularly thick tipping material. This may allow the ventilation
    zone to be formed in the tipping material straightforwardly. This may also allow the tipping
30  material to be easily curved around the smoking article during manufacture, to attach the
    tobacco rod and filter.
            Accordingly, preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have a bending stiffness of at
    least about 0.08 N in the machine direction of the filter wrapper.
            The one or more filter wrappers may have a bending stiffness less than about 0.2 N in
35  the machine direction of the filter wrapper. The machine direction of the filter wrapper
    preferably corresponds to the transverse direction of the smoking article.
    3599896v1

                                                     5
            Preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have a bending stiffness of at least about
    0.04 N in the cross direction of the filter wrapper.
            The one or more filter wrappers may have a bending stiffness less than about 0.1 N in
    the cross direction of the filter wrapper. The cross direction of the filter wrapper preferably
  5 corresponds to the longitudinal direction of the smoking article.
            The term "bending stiffness" used in this specification refers to the resistance of the
    material to a bending force applied perpendicular to the plain of the material. The bending
    stiffness may be determined by International Organization for Standardization (ISO) test ISO
    5628: 2012.
  0         If more than one filter wrapper is provided, the total bending stiffness in a given
    direction of the one or more filter wrappers is the combined bending stiffness of each of the
    filter wrappers.
            As already discussed, it may be advantageous for the small diameter (DSA) to
    thickness (t) ratio in the smoking article according to the invention to be primarily provided by
  5 the one or more filter wrappers, rather than by the tipping material. Accordingly, preferably,
    the one or more filter wrappers have a basis weight greater than about 50 grams per square
    metre (gm- 2 ). It has been found that this provides a desired critical load. Preferably, the one
    or more filter wrappers have a basis weight less than about 100 gm-2 . It has been noted that
    there is minimal gain in critical load of the filter beyond this value. It is therefore
 .0 advantageous to limit the basis weight to about this value, since the filter wrapper is then
    easier to handle. More preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have a basis weight
    between about 65 gm- 2 and about 85 gm-2. Even more preferably, the one or more filter
    wrappers have a basis weight between about 70 gm-2 and about 80 gm- 2. In preferred
    embodiments, a single filter wrapper is provided and this single filter wrapper has a basis
25  weight as set out above. Alternatively, in some embodiments, multiple filter wrappers may be
    provided, and the combined basis weight of the multiple wrappers may be the basis weight
    as set out above.
            The diameter (DSA) is the total diameter of the plug of filtration material together with
    the tipping material and the filter wrapper or wrappers. The diameter (DSA) is measured at a
30  location about the plug of filtration material so may be thought of as the diameter of the filter
    portion of the smoking article. The diameter (DSA) is measured substantially perpendicular to
    the longitudinal direction of the smoking article and filter. As long as the diameter (DSA) to
    thickness (t) ratio is less than about 80, the diameter (DSA) may have any suitable value.
    However, it may be convenient for the diameter (DSA) to be substantially the same as in
35  conventional smoking articles.
    3599896v1

                                                      6
           Any suitable smoking article diameter (DSA) may be selected. However, preferably the
    diameter (DSA) is between about 7.0 mm and about 8.0 mm, more preferably about 7.8 mm,
    even more preferably about 7.84 mm. The diameter (DSA) may be about 7.0 mm.                  These
    diameters typically correspond to larger sized smoking articles, which may be particularly
  5 susceptible to buckling as the smoking article is extinguished.
           In a preferred embodiment, the diameter (DSA) to thickness (t) ratio is greater than
    about 50. If DSA /t > about 50, the thickness (t) is still sufficiently small that the tipping
    material and the filter wrapper or wrappers may be straightforwardly rolled or curved around
    the plug of filtration material.
  0        The thickness (t) is the combined thickness of the tipping material and the filter
    wrapper or wrappers. The thickness (t) is measured substantially perpendicular to the
    longitudinal direction of the smoking article and filter. As long as the diameter (DSA) to
    thickness (t) ratio is less than about 80, the thickness (t) may have any suitable value.
    However, because it may be convenient for the diameter (DSA) to be substantially the same
 15 as in conventional smoking articles, in such cases the thickness (t) is greater than in
    conventional smoking articles.
           The thickness (t) may be between about 100 pm and about 160 pm.
           Preferably, the filter wrapper or wrappers have a (combined, if more than one wrapper
    is provided) thickness (t1) substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the
 !0 smoking article. The thickness of the tipping material substantially perpendicular to the
    longitudinal direction of the smoking article may be designated t 2.
           Preferably, the filter wrapper or wrappers         have a thickness (t1 ) substantially
    perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the smoking article, wherein t1/t is greater than
    about 0.65.
25         As already discussed, it may be advantageous for the small diameter (DSA) to
    thickness (t) ratio in the smoking article according to the invention to be primarily provided by
    the one or more filter wrappers, rather than by the tipping material.
           The thickness (t1 ) of the one or more filter wrappers may be between about 90 pm and
    about 120 pm, preferably about 100 pm. The thickness (t 2 ) of the tipping material may be
30  between about 30 pm and about 70 pm, preferably about 40 pm.
           In one preferred embodiment, t1/t is about 0.75. For example, if the thickness (t) is
    about 120 pm, t1 may be about 90 pm and t2 may be about 30 pm. In another preferred
    embodiment, t1/t is about 0.71. For example, if the thickness (t) is about 140 pm, t1 may be
    about 100 pm and t2 may be about 40 pm.
35         Preferably, the filter has a height (H) substantially parallel to the longitudinal direction
    of the filter. The height (H) designates the total height of the filter, including the plug of
    3599896v1

                                                        7
    filtration material. That is, if the filter comprises one or more filter segments in addition to the
    plug of filtration material, the height (H) is the total height of all the filter segments and the
    plug of filtration material. If the filter comprises only the plug of filtration material, the height
    (H) is the height of only the plug of filtration material.
  5          Preferably, the filter has a height (H) between about 15 mm and about 40 mm. Even
    more preferably, the filter has a height (H) between about 18 mm and about 27 mm. In one
    embodiment, the filter has a height (H) of about 27 mm. In another embodiment, the filter
    has a height (H) of about 21 mm.
             The filtration material may comprise any suitable material or combination of materials.
  0 The type of filtration material may be selected to provide the desired level of RTD during
    smoking and the desired level of strength during extinguishing. Examples of suitable
    materials include, but are not limited to, cellulose acetate, cellulose, reconstituted cellulose,
    polylactic acid, polyvinyl alcohol, nylon, polyhydroxybutyrate, thermoplastic material, such as
    starch, non-woven materials, longitudinally oriented fibres and randomly oriented fibres,
  5 crepe, PLA fibres, and combinations thereof. One or more of the materials may be formed
    into an open cell structure. All or part of the filter may include activated carbon or other
    sorbent material. The filter may include an adhesive or plasticiser or a combination thereof.
    The filtration material may be compressible. In preferred embodiments, the filtration material
    comprises cellulose acetate.
 .0          The filtration material may have any suitable denier per filament (dpf) and total denier
    (td). Generally, the filtration material selected may have a denier per filament, total denier
    and total density similar to that of filtration materials in conventional smoking articles.
             The tipping material may comprise any suitable material or combination of materials.
    Examples of suitable materials include, but are not limited to, cellulose based materials,
25  paper, cardboard, recon, cellulose based film, and combinations thereof. The tipping
    material may be printed, embossed, debossed or otherwise embellished with manufacturer
    or brand logos, trade marks, slogans and other consumer information and indicia.
    Preferably, however, the tipping material comprises paper.
             Preferably, the smoking article has a filter section having a critical load of at least
30  about 30 Newtons, more preferably at least about 40 Newtons, when subjected to the test of
    unsmoked smoking articles set out below in respect of Figure 1, referred to as Test A.
    Preferably, the smoking article has a filter section having a critical load of less than about 80
    Newtons, more preferably less than about 60 Newtons, when subjected to the test set out
    unsmoked smoking articles below in respect of Figure 1, referred to as Test A.
35           Preferably, the filter comprises filtration material extending along the whole length of
    the filter. Preferably, this is in the form of a single segment filter. That is to say, preferably,
    3599896v1

                                                       8
    the only filter segment in the filter is the plug of filtration material. Preferably, no additional
    filter segments are provided either upstream or downstream of the plug of filtration material.
            Alternatively, as long as the filtration material of the filter plug, extends to the mouth
    end of the smoking article, the filter may include one or more additional filter elements
 5  upstream of the plug of filtration material. Thus, exemplary filter structures that may be used
    include, but are not limited to, a mono filter, a dual filter, a triple filter, a single or multi cavity
    filter, and combinations thereof.
            If the filter comprises a multi component filter comprising a plurality of filter segments,
    the one or more filter wrappers may surround one, some or all of the filter segments.
  0 Preferably, each filter segment comprises a respective filter wrapper and the whole filter is
    surrounded by a further filter wrapper.
            If the filter comprises a multi component filter comprising a plurality of filter segments,
    the tipping material may surround all the filter segments plus the adjacent portion of the
    tobacco rod. Alternatively, the tipping material may surround only a portion of the filter, plus
  5 the adjacent portion of the tobacco rod.
            The tobacco rod may comprise any suitable type or types of tobacco material or
    tobacco substitute, in any suitable form.
            According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a filter for a smoking
    article, the filter comprising: a plug of filtration material that defines a furthest downstream
 .0 end of the filter; one or more filter wrappers surrounding the plug of filtration material;
    wherein the one or more filter wrappers              have a combined wrapper thickness (t1)
    perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter; wherein the filter has a diameter        (DF)
    perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter; wherein the filter diameter           (DF) to
    wrapper thickness (t1) ratio is less than about 135; wherein the filtration material extends to
25  the furthest downstream end of the filter; and wherein the filter comprises perforations
    extending through the one or more filter wrappers.
            By providing a filter diameter    (DF) to wrapper thickness (t1) ratio less than about 135
    and providing filtration material extending to the filter mouth end, the critical load of the
    smoking article filter can be increased. This reduces the chances of the filter buckling during
30  extinguishing which, in turn, reduces the chances that the consumer's fingers come into
    contact with the lit end of the cigarette or old ash remaining in the ashtray. The DFOt1 ratio of
    135 corresponds to a      DSA:t ratio of 100, where the diameter of the filter    (DSA) = 7.84 mm and
    the tipping material thickness (t2 ) = 40 pm.
            As discussed in relation to the first aspect of the invention, the one or more filter
35  wrappers may comprise any suitable material or combination of materials.
    3599896v1

                                                         9
             In a preferred embodiment, the one or more filter wrappers have a bending stiffness of
    at least about 0.08 N in the machine direction of the filter wrapper. The one or more filter
    wrappers may have a bending stiffness less than about 0.2 N in the machine direction of the
    filter wrapper. The machine direction of the filter wrapper preferably corresponds to the
  5 transverse direction of the filter.
             In a preferred embodiment, the one or more filter wrappers have a bending stiffness of
    at least 0.04 N in the cross direction of the filter wrapper. The one or more filter wrappers
    may have a bending stiffness less than about 0.1 N in the cross direction of the filter
    wrapper. The cross direction of the filter wrapper preferably corresponds to the longitudinal
  0 direction of the filter.
            As already discussed in relation to the first aspect of the invention, the total bending
    stiffness in a given direction of the one or more filter wrappers is the combined bending
    stiffness of each of the filter wrappers.
             Preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have a basis weight greater than about 50
 15 grams per square metre (gm- 2). Preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have a basis
    weight less than about 100 gm- 2 . More preferably, the one or more filter wrappers have a
    basis weight between about 65 gm- 2 and about 85 gm-2. Even more preferably, the one or
    more filter wrappers have a basis weight between about 70 gm- 2 and about 80 gm- 2.                   In
    preferred embodiments, a single filter wrapper is provided and this single filter wrapper has a
 !0 basis weight as set out above. Alternatively, in some embodiments, multiple filter wrappers
    may be provided, and the combined basis weight of the multiple wrappers may be the basis
    weight as set out above.
             The filter diameter    (DF) is the total diameter of the plug of filtration material together
    with the filter wrapper or wrappers. The diameter        (DSA)  of the smoking article comprises the
25  diameter      (DF)  of the filter plus the tipping material. The filter diameter     (DF) is measured
    substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter. As long as the filter
    diameter     (DF)  to wrapper thickness (t1) ratio is less than about 135, the filter diameter     (DF)
    may have any suitable value. However, it may be convenient for the filter diameter           (DF) to be
    substantially the same as in conventional smoking articles.
30           In a preferred embodiment, the filter diameter       (DF)  to wrapper thickness (t1) ratio is
    greater than about 70.
             The thickness (t1 ) of the one or more filter wrappers may be between about 90 pm and
    about 120 pm.
             Preferably, the filter has a height (H) substantially parallel to the longitudinal direction
35  of the filter. The height (H) designates the total height of the filter, including the plug of
    filtration material. That is, if the filter comprises one or more filter segments in addition to the
    3599896v1

                                                        10
    plug of filtration material, the height (H) is the total height of all the filter segments and the
    plug of filtration material. If the filter comprises only the plug of filtration material, the height
    (H) is the height of only the plug of filtration material.
             Preferably, the filter has a height (H) between about 15 mm and about 40 mm. Even
  5 more preferably, the filter has a height (H) between about 18 mm and about 27 mm. In one
    embodiment, the filter has a height (H) of about 27 mm. In another embodiment, the filter
    has a height (H) of about 21 mm.
            As discussed in relation to the first aspect of the invention, the filtration material may
    comprise any suitable material or combination of materials. The filtration material may have
  0 any suitable denier per filament (dpf) and total denier (td).
             Preferably, the filter comprises filtration material extending along the whole length of
    the filter. Preferably, this is in the form of a single segment filter. That is to say, preferably,
    the only filter segment in the filter is the plug of filtration material. Preferably, no additional
    filter segments are provided either upstream or downstream of the plug of filtration material.
  5         Alternatively, as long as the filtration material of the filter plug, extends to the mouth
    end of the filter, the filter may include one or more additional filter elements upstream of the
    plug of filtration material.
             Filters according to the present invention may advantageously be used in filter
    cigarettes and other smoking articles in which tobacco material is combusted to form smoke.
 .0         According to a third aspect, the invention is directed to use of a filter, or a method of
    using a filter, in a smoking article to reduce chance of buckling during extinguishing of the
    smoking article, the filter comprising: a plug of filtration material that defines a furthest
    downstream end of the smoking article; one or more filter wrappers surrounding the plug of
    filtration material; wherein the one or more filter wrappers have a combined wrapper
25  thickness (t1) perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter; wherein the filter has a
    diameter       (DF)  perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter; wherein the filter
    diameter      (DF)  to wrapper thickness (t1 ) ratio is less than about 135; wherein the filtration
    material extends to the furthest downstream end of the smoking article; and wherein the filter
    comprises perforations extending through the one or more filter wrappers.
30           Features and advantages described in relation to one aspect of the invention may also
    be applicable to another aspect of the invention.
             The invention will be further described, by way of example only, with reference to the
    accompanying drawings in which:
             Figure 1 illustrates a graph of compression force (N) against compression distance
35  (mm) for five samples of four types of smoking article.
    3599896v1

                                                        11
            The inventors of the present invention have noted that, without ventilation, smoking
    article filters may not buckle. The filters may simply reduce in size steadily with increasing
    compression force. However, when ventilation is provided, the structure of the filter may be
    weakened. Unfortunately, this weakened filter structure may buckle during extinguishing.
  5 This may mean that the consumer's fingers come into contact with, or close to, the lit end of
    the cigarette or old ash remaining in the ashtray.
            However, as discussed previously, the inventors of the present invention have
    observed that, for a given filter height, the buckling strength or critical load of the smoking
    article filter may be considerably increased by decreasing the ratio of            DSA:t   relative to
  0 standard filter cigarettes. This allows the smoking article to be extinguished by a consumer
    while considerably reducing the chance of the filter buckling under the compressive load.
            The relationship between DSA:t and critical load was tested using a force gauge
    obtained from Alluris GmbH & Co KG, Freiburg, Germany. Unsmoked filters were tested by
    first removing the tobacco rod and upstream portion of the tipping paper surrounding the
  5 tobacco rod, and then applying the required force in Newtons (N) to compress the filter by a
    preselected distance in millimetres (mm) at a particular compression speed (mm min-').
    Smoked filters were tested by first removing any unburnt tobacco and tipping paper
    upstream of the filter, and then applying the required force in Newtons (N) to compress the
    filter by a preselected distance in millimetres (mm) at a particular compression speed (mm
 .0 min-'). The values of compression force and compression distance were recorded (in this
    case for a compression speed of 100 mm min-').
            Figure 1 is a graph of compression force (N) against compression distance (mm) for
    five samples of four types of smoking article. The four types of (unsmoked) smoking article
    filters tested (using the above described apparatus) were:
25          *   Filter Type A: Cigarette filters having a diameter  (DSA) to thickness (t) ratio of about
                98 (DSA = 7.84 mm, t = 80 pm (t1 = 40 PM, t 2 = 40 pm)). The filter height (H) is 27
                mm and the basis weight of the filter wrapper is about 26 gm-2. Data for these filters
                are shown in dotted lines.
            " Filter Type B: Filters according to the invention, having a diameter               (DSA)  to
30              thickness (t) ratio of about 56 (DSA = 7.84 mm, t = 140 pm (t1   = 100 PM, t2 = 40 pm))
                and 80% ventilation. The filter height (H) is 27 mm and the basis weight of the filter
               wrapper is about 78 gm-2. Data for these filters are shown in thick solid lines.
            * Filter Type C: Filters according to the invention, having a diameter               (DSA)  to
                thickness (t) ratio of about 56  (DSA = 7.84 mm, t = 140 pm (t   = 100 PM, t2 = 40 pm))
35              and 10% ventilation. The filter height (H) is 27 mm and the basis weight of the filter
               wrapper is about 78 gm-2. Data for these filters are shown in thin solid lines.
    3599896v1

                                                       12
            * Filter Type D: Cigarette filters having a diameter   (DSA) to thickness (t) ratio of about
               44 (DSA = 7.84 mm, t = 180 pm (t1 = 140 Pm, t 2 = 40 pm)). The filter height (H) is 27
               mm and the basis weight of the filter wrapper is about 110 gm2 . Data for these
               filters are shown in dashed lines.
  5
            As can be seen most clearly from the dashed lines for Filter Type D, as the
    compression distance increases, at a particular point, the required compression force drops
    suddenly. This is the moment of buckling. So, the maximum compression force reached at
    the point of buckling corresponds to the critical load.
  0         For the five samples of Filter Type A (dotted lines), the mean critical load was found to
    be 22.46 N. For the five samples of the filters according to the invention, with 80%
    ventilation, (Filter Type B, thick solid lines), the mean critical load was found to be 45.94 N.
    For the five samples of the filters according to the invention, with 10% ventilation, (Filter
    Type C thin solid lines), the mean critical load was found to be 52.92 N. For the five samples
  5 of Filter Type D (dashed lines), the mean critical load was found to be 85.22 N. Thus, Figure
    1 shows that, as the      DSA /t ratio decreases (from 98 to 56 to 44), the critical load of the filter
    increases. This in turn reduces the chances of buckling. The filters according to the invention
    represent a balance between a sufficiently high critical load, while still using filter wrappers
    which are relatively easy to handle.
 .0         Interestingly, it has also been noted by the inventors that the approximate value of the
    critical load for Filter Type C (a filter according to the invention, having a diameter       (DSA)  to
    thickness (t) ratio of about 56, with 10% ventilation) after smoking is of the order of 20 N or
    slightly greater. To simulate the smoking of a smoking article, the smoking article is
    subjected to a standard smoking test under ISO conditions (35 ml puffs lasting 2 seconds
25  each, with puffs occurring once every 60 seconds) as set out in ISO 4387:2000. In the ISO
    test method, the smoking article is smoked with the ventilation zone fully uncovered. Such a
    value of critical load may be advantageous, since the force exerted by a consumer during
    the extinguishing process may be up to about this value. Thus, this may represent a
    particularly advantageous balance between a sufficiently high critical load, while still using
30  filter wrappers which are relatively easy to handle.
            Figure 1 also shows that there is a difference in critical load depending on the level of
    ventilation. Two types of filter according to the invention were tested (using the above
    mentioned apparatus): one with 10% ventilation and the other with 80% ventilation. As
    already mentioned, for the filter according to the invention having 10% ventilation, the mean
35  critical load was found to be 52.92 N. For the filter according to the invention having 80%
    3599896v1

                                                 13
  ventilation, the mean critical load was found to be 45.94 N. Thus, the critical load decreases
  with increased levels of ventilation.
         Thus, the smoking articles and filters according to the invention provide for: reduced
  chances of buckling during extinguishing; a filter plug wrap which has sufficiently high critical
5 load but is also thin enough to be relatively easy to handle, and critical loads during
  extinguishing which may correspond to an upper limit of forces typically exerted by
  consumer during extinguishing.
         In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar terms
  are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or apparatus
0 that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but may well
  include other elements not listed.
         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
  an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
  general knowledge.
5        This application is a divisional application from Australian Application 2014292509.
  The full disclosure of AU 2014292509 is incorporated herein by reference.
  3599896v1

                                                       14
CLAIMS
1.          A filter for a smoking article, the filter comprising:
            a plug of filtration material that defines a furthest downstream end of the filter;
            one or more filter wrappers surrounding the plug of filtration material;
            wherein the one or more filter wrappers have a combined wrapper thickness (t1)
perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter;
            wherein the filter has a diameter       (DF)  perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of
the filter;
            wherein the filter diameter   (DF) to wrapper thickness (t1) ratio is less than about 135;
            wherein the filtration material extends to the furthest downstream end of the filter;
and
            wherein the filter comprises perforations extending through the one or more filter
wrappers.
2.        A filter according to claim 1, wherein the one or more filter wrappers have a porosity
of less than about 1000 Coresta units.
3.        A filter according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the one or more filter wrappers have
a porosity of less than about 500 Coresta units.
4.          A filter according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the one or more filter wrappers
have a basis weight between about 50 grams per square metre and about 100 grams per
square metre.
5.          A filter according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the filter diameter     (DF) to wrapper
thickness (t1) ratio is greater than about 70.
6.        Use of a filter in a smoking article to reduce chance of buckling during extinguishing
of the smoking article, the filter comprising:
          a plug of filtration material that defines a furthest downstream end of the smoking
article;
          one or more filter wrappers surrounding the plug of filtration material;
          wherein the one or more filter wrappers have a combined wrapper thickness (t1)
perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter;
          wherein the filter has a diameter     (DF)  perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the
filter;
3599985v1

                                              15
        wherein the filter diameter (DF) to wrapper thickness (t1 ) ratio is less than about 135;
        wherein the filtration material extends to the furthest downstream end of the
smoking article; and
        wherein the filter comprises perforations extending through the one or more filter
wrappers.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
