Abstract
An electric skateboard comprising: a deck; a front truck and a rear truck; a pair of wheels
rotatably connected to each truck, wherein one or both pairs of wheels are driven by
sensored motors; a communications module configured to receive control instructions from a
wireless remote control and to transmit data to one or more external devices; a controller in
communication with the communication module and the motors; and a battery supplying
power to the motors, communications module and controller.

            1/9
                              100
              2                     6
                                      10
        3            Figure 1
      4
   24                         100
                                  6
          2
                                         10
              Figure 2
   4
22

                                               1
                                ELECTRIC SKATEBOARDS
Field
[0001] The present invention relates to electric skateboards.
Background
[0002] Electric skateboards are becoming an increasingly popular commuting option, in
response to widespread efforts in tackling traffic congestion and reducing pollution.
Additionally, specially designed all-terrain or off-road electric models are becoming
increasingly popular for recreational activities and action sports.
[0003] However, conventional electric skateboards are typically either heavy and bulky,
or underpowered and therefore unsuitable for riding on more challenging terrain.
Further, conventional skateboards typically have fixed configurations that limit the user's
ability to adapt their skateboards according to changing needs. For example, a typical
user may wish to use their skateboard for daily commuting, to practising carving and
also for all-terrain riding.
[0004] In this context, there is a need for improved electric skateboards.
Summary
[0005] According to the present invention, there is provided an electric skateboard
comprising:
        a deck;
        a front truck and a rear truck;
        a pair of wheels rotatably connected to each truck, wherein one or both pairs of
wheels are driven by sensored motors;
        a communications module configured to receive control instructions from a
wireless remote control and to transmit data to one or more external devices;
        a controller in communication with the communication module and the motors;
and
        a battery supplying power to the motors, communications module and controller.
[0006] At least one truck may comprise two brushless sensored motors, each connected
via a drive belt to a drive gear of each of the driven wheels.

                                               2
[0007] The electric skateboard may be convertible by a user between a street setup and
an all-terrain setup by swapping between street wheels and all-terrain wheels, wherein
each wheel is mounted on an axle that is configured to receive standard skateboard
bearings, and wherein hubs of the street wheels and the all-terrain wheels are
configured to fit standard skateboard bearings.
[0008] The one or more external devices may comprise the wireless remote control,
wherein the controller comprises a processor for computing one or more skateboard
parameters from sensed data received from the communications module, wherein the
computed skateboard parameters comprise skateboard speed, distance, acceleration,
direction, range, duration of use, or a combination thereof, and wherein the controller
transmits the computed skateboard parameter(s) to the wireless remote control for
display thereon.
[0009] The communications module, controller and battery may be integrated into the
deck.
Embodiments
[0010] In some embodiments of the present invention, there is provided an electric
skateboard comprising:
        a deck;
        a front truck and a rear truck;
        a pair of wheels rotatably connected to each truck, wherein one or both pairs of
        wheels are driven by sensored motors;
        a communications module configured to receive control instructions from a
        wireless remote control and to transmit data to one or more external devices;
        a controller in communication with the communication module and the motors;
        and
        a battery supplying power to the motors, communications module and controller.
[0011] At least one truck may comprise two brushless sensored motors, each connected
via a drive belt to a drive gear of each of the driven wheels.
[0012] The electric skateboard may comprise four brushless sensored motors, each
connected via a drive belt to a drive gear of each of the driven wheels.

                                             3
[0013] Each sensored motor may comprise a hub motor.
[0014] The electric skateboard may comprise four sensored hub motors, one driving
each wheel.
[0015] The electric skateboard may be convertible by a user between a street setup and
an all-terrain setup by swapping between street wheels and all-terrain wheels.
[0016] Each wheel may be mounted on an axle that is configured to receive standard
skateboard bearings, and hubs of the street wheels and the all-terrain wheels may be
configured to fit standard skateboard bearings.
[0017] The communications module may comprise Bluetooth connectivity.
[0018] The one or more external devices may comprise the wireless remote control.
[0019] The communications module may transmit sensed data from one or all the
motors to the one or more external devices, wherein the sensed data is used to compute
skateboard speed, distance, acceleration, direction, range, duration of use, or a
combination thereof.
[0020] The controller may comprise a processor for computing one or more skateboard
parameters from sensed data received from the communications module, wherein the
controller transmits the computed parameter(s) to the one or more external devices, and
wherein the computed parameters comprise skateboard speed, distance, acceleration,
direction, range, duration of use, or a combination thereof.
[0021] Computation of skateboard speed, distance and/or acceleration may take into
account motor revolutions per minute (RPM), wheel size, drive gear size, or
combinations thereof.
[0022] The communications module may transmit battery level data, total battery
voltage, individual battery cell voltage, cell current draw, individual motor RPM,
individual motor current draw or combinations thereof to the one or more external
devices.

                                            4
[0023] The wireless remote control may comprise a display screen for displaying sensed
data transmitted from the communications module and/or parameters computed from
the sensed data.
[0024] The wireless remote control may comprise a user interface for receiving user
settings including wheel size, drive gear size, display preferences, or combinations
thereof.
[0025] The communications module may transmit sensed data to a mobile computing
device comprising a smartphone, a tablet or a laptop.
[0026] The communications module, controller and battery may be integrated into the
deck. The deck may be manufactured of carbon fibre.
[0027] The electric skateboard may further comprise a battery holder on an underside of
the deck, configured to removably receive the battery.
[0028] The combined rating of the motors may be 3000 watts, and the skateboard may
be capable of speeds of about 35 kph.
[0029] The skateboard may be capable of being driven up slopes with gradients of up to
about 25%.
[0030] In other embodiments of the present invention, there is provided a kit of parts
comprising:
       the electric skateboard as described; and
       a wireless remote control configured to pair with the controller.
[0031] The kit of parts may comprise a set of street wheels and a set of all-terrain
wheels.
[0032] The kit of parts of may comprise one or more replacement batteries configured to
be removably received in a battery holder on an underside of the skateboard deck.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0033] Embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example only with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
       Figure 1 is a perspective view of an electric skateboard fitted with all-terrain

                                                5
wheels according to one embodiment;
         Figure 2 is a perspective view of the electric skateboard of Figure 1 fitted with
street wheels according to one embodiment;
         Figure 3 is a side elevation view of the electric skateboard of Figure 1;
         Figure 4 is a perspective view of the underside of the skateboard of Figure 1;
         Figure 5 is a detailed view of the rear truck of the skateboard of Figure 1,
illustrating the motor-driven wheels;
         Figure 6 is a detailed view of a skateboard truck with motor-driven wheels
according to another embodiment;
         Figure 7a is a perspective view of a wireless remote control for controlling the
electric skateboard according to one embodiment;
         Figures 7b and 7c are example user interfaces of the wireless remote control
illustrating remote diagnostics displays for the battery and motor respectively;
         Figure 8 is a bottom view of an electric skateboard according to another
embodiment;
         Figure 9 is a perspective view of the skateboard of Figure 8 with battery
detached;
         Figure 10 shows side elevation views of the skateboard of Figure 8, fitted with
different types of batteries;
         Figure 11 is a perspective view of a wheel assembly for the electric skateboard
according to another embodiment; and
         Figure 12 is an exploded view of the wheel assembly of Figure 11.
Description of Embodiments
[0034] Referring to the drawings, an electric skateboard 100 according to one
embodiment comprises a deck 2, a front truck 4 and a rear truck 6 attached to the deck,
and a pair of wheels 22 or 24 rotatably connected to each truck 4, 6. The wheels of at
least one of the pairs of wheels are driven by sensored motors.
[0035] For example, in the embodiment illustrated in Figure 5, at least one truck
comprises two brushless sensored motors 10a, 10b, each motor connected via a drive
belt 12 to a drive gear 34 of the wheel. As illustrated in the drawings, the motors 10 are
on the rear truck 6; however it will be appreciated that it could be the front truck 4 or both
trucks that is/are driven instead, ie the skateboard may comprises four motors in a four
wheel drive configuration.

                                             6
[0036] In another embodiment, as illustrated in Figures 11 and 12, the sensored motors
may comprise hub motors 52 mounted within wheel 60. In some embodiments, the
skateboard may comprise four sensored hub motors in a four-wheel drive configuration.
The wheel assembly 50 may comprise a hub motor 52 mounted to each wheel 60 via
axle 54 and hub adaptor 58. The axle 54 may be fastened to wheel 24 by axle mount 56.
Use of a hub motor instead of belt-driven motors may improve aesthetics, reduce
resistance from the drive system so that the skateboard may be manually kicked, and
increase durability due to lack of the drive belt. The hub motors 52 may be directly
driven or may comprise internal gears.
[0037] The skateboard 100 further comprises a communications module 14 that is
configured to receive control instructions from a user via a wireless remote control 16,
and also to transmit data to one or more external devices. In some embodiments, the
external device is the wireless remote control 16. Additionally or alternatively, the
communications module 14 transmits data to a mobile device such as a smartphone, a
tablet or a laptop.
[0038] The skateboard also comprises a controller 18 that is in communication with the
communication module 14 and the motors 10, and a battery 20 that supplies power to
the motors 10, communications module 14 and controller 18. As illustrated in Figures 4
and 9, the communications module 14, controller 18 and battery 20 are preferably
positioned on an underside of the deck 2.
[0039] Figure 5 shows one embodiment of the rear truck 6 and driven wheels, with each
motor 1Oa, 1Ob positioned above and rearward of the wheels 24. Each motor 1Oa, 1Ob
is a brushless sensored motor driving a single wheel. The motors are attached in parallel
to the wheel axles 36, and drive the wheels via drive belts 12. Belt covers 13 may be
provided to protect the belts 12.
[0040] Figure 6 illustrates another embodiment of the rear truck 6, with the wheels
removed to show motors 10a, 10b mounted on motor plates 38. In this embodiment, the
motors 10 are positioned above and inwardly of the wheels to protect the motors in use.
Horizontally extending mounting slot 39 allows for the distance between motor 10 and
axle 36 to be adjusted depending on the size of the drive gear 34 and/or belt 12, to
thereby allow for different sized wheels to be easily fitted, as described in more detail
below.

                                              7
[0041] In preferred embodiments, the combined power rating of the motors 10a, 10b is
3000 watts, and the skateboard 100 may be capable of top speeds of about 35 kph. It is
envisaged that in some embodiments, eg when fitted with 97 mm wheels, the
skateboard may have a top speed of about 42 kph. Additionally, the motors are
preferably capable of driving the skateboard (with maximum user load of about 100 kg)
up slopes with gradients of up to about 25%.
[0042] In preferred embodiments, the communications module 14 transmits sensed data
from one or both the motors 10a, 10b to one or more external devices. The
communications module 14 may comprise Bluetooth connectivity or any other suitable
wireless connectivity to communicate with the remote control 16 and/or other external
devices. The speed of the skateboard may therefore the computed accurately and in
real time from the rotational speed of the motor, if the sizes of the driven wheel and
associated drive gear are known. Accordingly, these measurements may be input by the
user, during initial setup and after switching wheels. In some embodiments, this
computation is performed on board the skateboard by the controller 18, and the speed
data may be output to the external device in real time. In other embodiments,
computation may be performed by the external device from sensed motor data
transmitted via the communication module 14. The sensed data may additionally or
alternatively be used to compute and display and/or record other parameters such as
the distance travelled, acceleration, direction, range, duration of use, or a combination
thereof.
[0043] Preferably, the charge level of battery 20 is also transmitted to the remote control
16 and displayed to the user in real time. The skateboard 100 may additionally comprise
other sensors such as global positioning system (GPS) sensors, temperature sensors,
weight sensors, cameras, etc, and the data captured may likewise be transmitted via the
communication module 14 to the external device.
[0044] In some embodiments, vital data about the electronic performance of the
skateboard 100 may be transmitted to the remote control 16 and/or other external
device. For example, performance data of battery 20, such as total battery voltage,
individual cell voltage and current draw, etc, may be transmitted, stored, and/or
displayed on the remote control 16 or other external device, as illustrated in Figure 7b. In
another example, performance data of each motor 10, such as individual motor RPM
and individual motor current draw, may be transmitted, stored, and/or displayed on the

                                             8
remote control 16, as illustrated in Figure 7c. This data may be accessed by technicians
in order to more quickly and conveniently diagnose issues or fine tune performance. In
preferred embodiments, this data is stored on and accessible from the remote control 16
and/or other external device, so issues can be diagnosed by a technician without having
to view the actual skateboard.
[0045] While riding the skateboard, the user transmits control instructions in real time to
the controller 18 via the wireless remote control 16. Control instructions may include
activation or deactivation of the motors 10, speed levels, direction of travel (ie forward or
reverse), instructions to brake, or combinations thereof. The remote control 16
comprises a user interface, for example, buttons 28, a touch screen, a joystick, trigger
device, etc., for receiving user input. The user interface may also be used to enter other
settings such as the current skateboard wheel size, current skateboard gear size,
display preferences, etc.
[0046] In preferred embodiments, the remote control 16 comprises a display screen 26,
such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) screen, for displaying data to the user. Additional
or alternative user display interfaces may include coloured light emitting diodes (LEDs),
speakers, haptic feedback, or combinations thereof.
[0047] Data may also be transferred to other external devices such as a smartphone, a
tablet, a laptop, etc. For example, the mobile device may run a mobile application that
may be used to collect, display and store usage data about the skateboard 100, such as
the distance travelled, tracked or saved trips, top speeds, etc. The mobile app may also
be used to track and/or display the number of users in a specified area, for example, the
app may provide a map visualisation of the number and location of connected users at a
given time. The collected usage data may be stored at a cloud database server that may
be accessed by the user and/or skateboard manufacturers, suppliers, marketers, sports
organisations, etc. The mobile app may provide one or more application programming
interfaces (APIs) to interface with other mobile and/or web applications or data stores,
such as social networking applications, online advertising applications, e-commerce
applications, etc.
[0048] In a preferred embodiment as shown in Figures 1 and 2, the skateboard 100 is
convertible by the user between a street setup and an all-terrain setup by simply
swapping between street wheels 22 and all-terrain wheels 24, and their associated drive

                                              9
gears. Each wheel is mounted on an axle 36 that is configured to receive standard "608"
skateboard bearings, and the hubs of the street wheels 22 and the all-terrain wheels 24
are configured to fit the standard "608" bearings. This configuration also allows the user
to easily replace worn out wheels without having to remove or modify the trucks 4, 6 or
the motors 10.
[0049] In one embodiment, the method for converting the rear drive truck 6 between a
street setup as shown in Figure 2 and an all-terrain setup as shown in Figure 1
comprises removing belt covers 13 in order to detach the street wheels 22 and street
drive belts 12 from the truck. The all-terrain drive gears 34 and drive belts 12 may then
be installed. This may involve adjusting the distance between motor 10 and the axle 36,
by adjusting the position of the motor 10 along mounting slot 39 on motor plate 38. The
all-terrain wheels 24 may then be installed on the drive gears 34, and the belt covers 13
replaced. The wheels on the non-driven truck may be converted by simply replacing the
street wheels 22 with the all-terrain wheels 24. Preferably, converting the all-terrain
setup to the street setup involves equivalent methods steps.
[0050] In some embodiments, as illustrated in Figures 1 to 6, the communications
module 14, controller 16 and battery 20 are integrated into the deck 2, preferably on an
underside of the deck. The deck is preferably moulded of carbon fibre in a custom-made
mould that allows the electronic components to be integrally built into the deck 2. This
enables the electric skateboard to be substantially weather-resistant and/or water
resistant in some embodiments. Figure 6 shows the underside of the carbon fibre deck
according to one embodiment, comprising a heat sink 30, power charging socket 42,
and user interface components such a power button, LED indicators, etc. The specific
selection and arrangement of electronic components within the specially designed deck
2 allows for a slimline and streamlined build (as shown more clearly in Figure 3). There
are no protruding or hanging components below the deck that would be susceptible to
damage or obstruct movement when riding on uneven terrain.
[0051] In other embodiments, as illustrated in Figures 8 to 10, the electric skateboard 10
may comprise a battery holder 32, configured to removably receive the battery 20.
Preferably, the battery holder 32 is positioned on the underside of the deck 2, to attach
the battery on the underside of the deck. As shown in Figures 9 and 10, the battery
holder 32 may be configured to receive different batteries eg having different capacities.
It will be appreciated that this feature allows for the user to quickly and conveniently

                                              10
replace depleted batteries while on the go. The other electronic components such as the
communications module 14 and controller 16 may be attached underneath the deck 2,
for example, within a case that is integral with the battery holder 32 as shown in Figure
9. Alternatively, the communications module 14 and controller 16 components may be
integrally built into the deck 2.
[0052] Similarly to the embodiment of Figures 1 to 6, the battery 20, battery holder 32
and electronic components are selected, arranged and configured to provide a slimline
build, even with a large capacity 7 Ah battery, as shown in Figure 10. The specific
design additionally results in a lightweight and portable skateboard 100, weighing
preferably less than about 10 kg.
[0053] Preferred embodiments of the electric skateboard 100 driven by 3000 watt
motors may provide up to about a 20 km range on a fully charged battery. In some
cases, for example with a street setup at a relatively steady speed and on relatively flat
terrain, the skateboard may provide up to about a 50 km range.
[0054] The present invention may alternatively be provided as a kit of parts comprising
the electric skateboard 100 and a wireless remote control 6 configured to pair with the
controller. The kit may also comprise one or more sets of replacement wheels, for
example a set of street wheels and a set of all-terrain wheels. In some embodiments,
where the battery 20 is removably mounted via battery holder 32, the kit may
alternatively or additionally comprise additional batteries.
[0055] Embodiments of the present invention provide electric skateboards that are
useful for adapting to changing needs of the user, eg a skateboard that may be switched
quickly and easily between a street setup for daily commuting, and an all-terrain setup
for recreation.
[0056] For the purpose of this specification, the word "comprising" means "including but
not limited to", and the word "comprises" has a corresponding meaning.
[0057] It is to be understood that other specific arrangements of parts, example devices,
systems, and environments may be used and structural and functional modifications
may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Also, while the
terms "above", "below", "top", "bottom", "front", "back", "rear", "side", "vertical", "lateral",
and the like may be used in this specification to describe various example features and

                                               11
elements of the invention, these terms are used herein as a matter of convenience; eg,
based on the example orientations shown in the figures. Nothing in this specification
should be construed as requiring a specific three dimensional orientation of structures in
order to fall within the scope of this invention.
[0058] The above embodiments have been described by way of example only and
modifications are possible within the scope of the claims that follow.

                                               12
CLAIMS
1.       An electric skateboard comprising:
                a deck;
                a front truck and a rear truck;
                a pair of wheels rotatably connected to each truck, wherein one or both
        pairs of wheels are driven by sensored motors;
                a communications module configured to receive control instructions from
        a wireless remote control and to transmit data to one or more external devices;
                a controller in communication with the communication module and the
        motors; and
                a battery supplying power to the motors, communications module and
        controller.
2.       The electric skateboard of claim 1, wherein at least one truck comprises two
brushless sensored motors, each connected via a drive belt to a drive gear of each of
the driven wheels.
3.       The electric skateboard claim 1 or 2, convertible by a user between a street
setup and an all-terrain setup by swapping between street wheels and all-terrain
wheels, wherein each wheel is mounted on an axle that is configured to receive
standard skateboard bearings, and wherein hubs of the street wheels and the all
terrain wheels are configured to fit standard skateboard bearings.
4.       The electric skateboard of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or
more external devices comprises the wireless remote control, wherein the controller
comprises a processor for computing one or more skateboard parameters from sensed
data received from the communications module, wherein the computed skateboard
parameters comprise skateboard speed, distance, acceleration, direction, range,
duration of use, or a combination thereof, and wherein the controller transmits the
computed skateboard parameter(s) to the wireless remote control for display thereon.
5.       The electric skateboard of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
communications module, controller and battery are integrated into the deck.

                                1/9
<removed-date>
                                                  100
                                 2                          6
                                                                10
<removed-apn>
                                       Figure 1
                        4
                   24                             100
                                                        6
                            2
                                                                     10
                                 Figure 2
                   4
              22

                                     2/9
<removed-date>
                                                                    100
                                           2
<removed-apn>                 14       18         20
                       4                                  6
              24
                                                                          24
                                Figure 3
                                    2
                                                                          24
                                                                    6
                                                               20
                                                         18
                   4
                                                    14
                                                    Figure 4

                                           3/9
<removed-date>
                                                                   12
                                                         6
                                                                                   24
<removed-apn>
              12
                                                                         13
                   Figure 5
                                                             10b
                               13
                                                 10a
                   42
                                                             39         38
                                                   10b                             36
                                                                              34
                                     10a
                   30                                               40
                              Figure 6

            <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
               26
                                            4/9
Figure 7a
                         16
              28

                               5/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          26
              Figure 7b              Figure 7c

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
            <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
    52
                         50
      4
                              24
                                             8/9
                                   56
Figure 11

                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            50
56
     60
          54                                4                   9/9
                                                        56
               58
                                52
                    Figure 12
                                       60

