                                        ABSTRACT
              Embodiments   of the present disclosure describe      an underwater optical
communication and illumination system employing a blue-light laser diode directly encoded
with spectrally efficient orthogonal frequency division multiplex quadrature amplitude
modulation (QAM-OFDM) data. A broadband light source may be utilized to provide both
illumination to an underwater field of interest and underwater optical communication away
from the field of interest.
                                              13

 SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UNDERWATER ILLUMINATION, SURVEY, AND
                        WIRELESS OPTICAL COMMUNICATIONS
                                        BACKGROUND
[0001]        Underwater human activities such as oceanography studies, offshore oil
exploration, sea floor surveying and environmental monitoring have increased significantly.
As a result, there is a growing need for reliable illumination and high data-rate underwater
wireless communication (UWOC) systems.            Traditionally, visible light sources have been
separate from underwater communication systems.           A variety of illumination devices are
known, including for example, incandescent and LED sources.             Acoustic communication
systems are also well known. However, the bandwidth of an underwater acoustic channel is
limited to hundreds of kHz because of strong frequency dependent attenuation of sound in
seawater. The slow propagation of sound waves causes large time delay in acoustic
communication systems. In addition, radio frequency (RF) communication is severely limited
due to the conductivity of seawater at radio frequencies.
                                           SUMMARY
[0002]         Optical-based UWOC systems have gained interest from military and academic
research communities and have been proposed as an alternative or complementary solution to
acoustic and RF underwater communication links over short and moderate distances (less
than    100m).      Technological  advances     in  visible light    emitters,  receivers, digital
communications and signal processing now exploit the low absorption of seawater in the
blue-green (400-550 nm) region of the visible light window of electromagnetic spectrum. A
goal of an optical-based UWOC system is to provide high data-rates to transmit large data
capacity for versatile applications such as underwater oil pipe inspection, remotely operated
vehicle (ROV) and sensor networks.
[0003]         The underwater propagation of light is governed by attenuation which is a
combined     effect of absorption and scattering        mechanisms. Because of the aquatic
environment is optically very challenging, the effect of multiple scattering especially in turbid
littoral waters strongly degrades bit error rate (BER) performance of the on-off keying (OOK)
based high data-rate UWOC systems.
[0004]        In general, embodiments of the present disclosure describe an underwater vision
(illumination) and wireless optical communication system employing GaN based light source
                                                  1

for giga-bit-per-second data rate over long distance (5-20 meters and beyond). In some
embodiments, a broadband light is composed of multiple wavelengths laser, for white-light
illumination and communications. In other embodiments of the present disclosure, a UWOC
system utilizing a violet or blue laser combined with phosphor material in the transmitter
module to generate white light, can be used for both underwater vision and communications.
The phosphor material used for white light generation refers to a kind of color conversion
material that can be excited by violet or blue laser and generate blue, green, yellow or red
color. By mixing those colors, white light with different color rendering index and color
temperature can be achieved.
[0005]        Embodiments of the present disclosure further describe various spectral-efficient
techniques, such as orthogonal-frequency division multiplexing, and spectral multiplexing
techniques, including wavelength division multiplexing, as well as low light detection
methods for long distance underwater communications.
[0006]        Embodiments of the present invention include a light source used in conjunction
with discrete optics to provide point-to-point underwater data communication and also to
illuminate an underwater environment by providing visible light useful, for example, to
conduct underwater exploration or other activities.
[0007]        The details of one or more examples are set forth in the description below. Other
features, objects, and advantages will be apparent from the description and from the claims.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0008]        This written disclosure describes illustrative embodiments that are non-limiting
and non-exhaustive. In the drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, like numerals
describe substantially similar components throughout the several views. Like numerals
having different letter suffixes represent different instances        of substantially   similar
components. The drawings illustrate generally, by way of example, but not by way of
limitation, various embodiments discussed in the present document.
[0009]        Reference is made to illustrative embodiments that are depicted in the figures, in
which:
[0010]        FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic of a laser diode (LD) based UWOC system in
accordance with one or more embodiment of the present invention.
                                                2

[0011]        FIG. 2 illustrates a conceptual block diagram of a 16-QAM-OFDM data
generation and underwater transmission system suitable for use with the embodiments of
FIG. 1.
[0012]        FIG. 3 is a table summarizing the related parameters of the 16-QAM-OFDM
data streams delivered by a TO-9 packaged blue LD, including symbol length, subcarrier
frequency and subcarrier frequency interval under different transmitted data rates.
[0013]        FIG. 4 illustrates the operation of the 16-QAM-OFDM data which was directly
encoded onto the TO-9 packaged blue LD after offsetting by a DC bias current.
[0014]        FIG.    5A    illustrates a   graphical  view   of light-current-voltage    (LIV)
characteristics of the TO-9 packaged LD.
[0015]        FIG. 5B illustrates a graphical view of lasing spectra versus wavelength at 250C
under different bias currents.
[0016]        FIG. 6 illustrates the small-signal modulation response at different bias currents
of the blue laser diode.
[0017]        FIG. 7A illustrates a graphical view of measured BER versus laser bias current.
[0018]        FIG. 7B illustrates a graphical view of a constellation diagram at 70 mA.
[0019]        FIG. 8A illustrates a graphical view of measured BER of the 16-QAM-OFDM
data versus modulation bandwidth.
[0020]        FIG. 8B illustrates a graphical view of measured electrical signal to noise ratios
(SNRs) of the received 16-QAM-OFDM data as a function of subcarrier index.
[0021]        FIG. 8C illustrates a graphical view of a constellation map of 1.2-GHz 16
QAM-OFDM signals transmitted over the 5.4-m underwater channel.
[0022]        FIG. 9 illustrates a graphical view of measured BER versus link distance for the
1.2-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM signals.
[0023]        FIG. 10 illustrates a compact integrated underwater illumination, survey and
optical communication system in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present
disclosure.

                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0024]        The invention of the present disclosure relates to a laser diode-based underwater
illumination and wireless optical communication (LD-UWOC) system. In one embodiment,
a LD-UWOC system yields a data rate of 1.5 Gbps over a 20-meters underwater channel
based on a simple non-return-to-zero on-off-keying (NRZ-OOK) modulation scheme.               In
another embodiment, a 16-quadrature amplitude modulation - orthogonal frequency division
multiplexed (QAM-OFDM) based LD-UWOC system, yields a data rate of 4.8 Gbit/s over a
5.4-m transmission distance. For a NRZ-OOK based LD-WUOC system, a high-speed
UWOC link offered a data rate up to 2 Gbps over a 12-meter-long, and 1.5 Gbps over a
recorded 20-meter-long underwater channel. The measured bit-error rate (BER) are 2.8 x 10-5,
and 3.Ox1O-3, respectively, satisfying forward error correction (FEC) criterion. For a 16
QAM-OFDM based LD-UWOC system, an error vector magnitude (EVM) and signal-to
noise ratio (SNR) of 16.5% and 15.63 dB, respectively, were measured with a corresponding
BER is 2.6x10-3. In addition, experimental results reveal that the scattering has minimal
effect on BER performance of the transmitted 1.2-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM signals for a link
distance of up to 5.4-m in clear water. Therefore, longer underwater transmission is possible
by simply increasing the power of the laser diode.
[0025]        In embodiments of the present disclosure, blue-light laser diodes were used as
the illumination source and a Si avalanche photodetector was used in conjunction with
discrete optics without the need of a diffuser. The data was encoded using a cost-effective
modulation technique, i.e. the non-return-to-zero on-off-keying (NRZ-OOK) modulation, and
a spectral-efficient modulation technique, i.e. the orthogonal frequency division multiplexed
quadrature    amplitude modulation     (QAM-OFDM)        for high-speed      point-to-point data
communication underwater.
[0026]        Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is a method of encoding
digital data on multiple carrier frequencies.     OFDM is a frequency-division multiplexing
scheme used as a digital multi-carrier modulation method. A large number of closely spaced
orthogonal sub-carrier signals are used to carry data on several parallel data streams or
channels. Each sub-carrier is modulated with a conventional modulation scheme (such as
quadrature amplitude modulation or phase-shift keying) at a low symbol rate, maintaining
total data rates similar to conventional single-carrier modulation schemes in the same
bandwidth.
                                                4

[0027]        Embodiments      of the present disclosure further   describe an underwater
illumination and wireless optical communication system based on direct modulation of GaN
based LDs utilizing the on-off-keying (OOK) or other spectral-efficient modulation
techniques, such as the orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) technique.
Embodiments further describe a focused (point-to-point) high-speed communication link.
[0028]        In embodiments of the present disclosure, GaN-based violet-blue laser diodes
(LDs) are used as a high power light source and high speed underwater data communication.
By combining phosphor materials in the UWOC system, white light can be generated to serve
as light source for vision application at the same time.
[0029]        FIG. 1 is a schematic of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure
with a laser diode (LD) based UWOC system employing a 450 nm laser diode 10 in the
transmitter module 12 and a Si avalanche photodetector 14 in the receiver module 16. The
data stream is amplified by amplifier 18 before combining at bias-tee 20 with DC bias
provided by the DC power supply 22 to drive laser diode 10 (Thorlabs LP450-SF15, output
power of 15mW biasing at 137mA). A pair of plano-convex lenses 24, 26 are used in both
transmission module 12 and receiver module 16. Lenses 24, 26 (Thorlabs LA1951-a) have
25.4 mm diameter and 25.4 mm focal length to produce a parallel free-space beam. The laser
beam passes through the water channel 30 and is received by photodetector 14 (Menlo
Systems APD210) having an active diameter of 0.5 mm, a responsivity of 5A/W at 450 nm
and a noise equivalent power (NEP) of 0.4pW/Hz       12
[0030]        One embodiment of the present disclosure describes a high-speed UWOC link
offering a data rate up to 2 Gbps over a 12-meter-long, and 1.5 Gbps over a recorded 20
meter-long underwater channel has been achieved. To demonstrate the UWOC system based
on OOK modulation scheme, a pattern generator was used to generate the pseudorandom
binary sequence (PRBS) 210-1 data stream in the transmitter module 12, and the data stream
is amplified by the 28 dB driver amplifier before connecting with the 15 GHz broadband
bias-tee. The bit-error rate (BER) for the UWOC system at 2 Gbps over a 9-m, at 2 Gbps over
a 12-m, and at 1.5 Gbps over a 20-m underwater channel was measured to be 1.2x10-6,
2.8x10~5, and 3.0x10-3 , respectively, all passing the forward error correction (FEC) limit.
Open eye diagrams and measured FEC compliant BER for a data rate of up to 2 Gbps were
successfully achieved for a 9-meter as well as a 12-meter UWOC link.
[0031]        Another embodiment of the present disclosure describes underwater wireless
optical transmission at 4.8 Gbit/s over 5.4-m link using high-spectral efficient 16-QAM
OFDM modulation scheme. For testing the underwater wireless optical transmission system
                                                 -5

using the high-spectral efficient 16-QAM-OFDM modulation scheme, an arbitrary waveform
generator (AWG) was used for signal generation and a digital serial analyzer (DSA) was used
for analyzing the received signal. The          16-QAM-OFDM        signals with corresponding
subcarriers were generated by an offline MATLAB program and sampled by an arbitrary
waveform generator with a sampling rate of 24 GS a/s.
[0032] A conceptual block diagram of the 16-QAM-OFDM data generation and underwater
transmission system is illustrated in FIG. 2. Binary bit sequence 40 is divided into parallel
low-speed data blocks via serial to parallel module 42 and mapped into QAM symbols via
symbol mapping module 44. Inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) module 46 converts the
QAM symbols into temporal OFDM signals with a FFT size of 512 and provides a parallel
signal to parallel to serial module 48. A cyclic prefix (CP) of 1/32 is added via cyclic prefix
module 50 to mitigate inter-symbol interference (ISI) in the transmission link. FIG. 3 is a
table summarizing the related parameters of the 16-QAM-OFDM data streams delivered by
the TO-9 packaged blue LD, including symbol length, subcarrier frequency and subcarrier
frequency interval under different transmitted data rates.
[0033]        After digital-to-analog conversion (DAC) at module 52, the QAM-OFDM
signals are electrically pre-amplified and directly encode the TO-9 packaged blue LD. In one
embodiment, the QAM-OFDM signals were pre-amplified with a 26-dB broadband amplifier
(Picosecond Pulse Labs, 5865) and then superimposed on the DC bias current using the RF
connector of the built-in Bias-tee within the diode mount (Thorlabs LDM91P), which directly
encodes the TO-9 packaged blue LD. The DC bias point of the TO-9 packaged blue LD was
optimized for achieving largest peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) of the modulated QAM
OFDM data stream. Electrical-to-optical domain conversion was performed according to the
power-to-current response of the blue LD, leading to the optical 16-QAM-OFDM data stream
with its maximal/minimal power levels determined by the maximal/minimal current levels.
FIG. 4 illustrates the operation of the 16-QAM-OFDM data which was directly encoded onto
the TO-9 packaged blue LD after offsetting by a DC bias current.
[0034]        The collimated laser beam with an estimated divergence angle of 5.60 is then
transmitted through water channel 60 filled with fresh tap water, similar to a clear ocean
water type. A 15 mW (11.8 dBm) output power LD 54 would be sufficient to overcome the
attenuation in clear ocean waters. The water tank with 0.6-mx0.3-mx0.3-m dimensions is
made of glass. The physical light propagation distance was extended up to 5.4-m by using
reflective mirrors installed at both ends of the tank. With using a 50-mm focal length lens, the
output signal from the water channel was focused into a high sensitivity APD 62 with an
                                                 6

active diameter of 0.5-mm, and a responsivity of ~ 5 A/W at 450 nm. The power level of
transmitted laser light was controlled via neutral density filters.
[0035]         After optical-electrical conversion, the received analog waveform is captured by
digital serial analyzer 64 with a sampling rate of 100 GSa/s and converted to digital signals.
After the removal of the cyclic prefix at module 66 and further processing by serial to parallel
module 68, the received OFDM signals are passed to FFT module 70, which converts to
frequency-domain subcarriers and re-maps back to QAM symbols via symbol demapping
module 72. Finally, parallel-to-serial module 74 is employed to convert the QAM symbols
into serial on-off keying data 76. Constellation diagram, error vector magnitude (EVM),
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and bit error rate (BER) were measured and used to evaluate the
performance of this underwater wireless optical communication system. All measurements
were taken under normal room illumination and no optical interference filter was used to
suppress the ambient light.
[0036]         The light-current-voltage (LIV) characteristics of the TO-9 packaged and fiber
pigtailed blue LD is illustrated in FIG. 5A. The threshold current and differential quantum
efficiency was 3mmA and 0.27 W/A, respectively. FIG. 5B illustrates lasing spectra versus
wavelength at 250C under different bias currents.         Bias currents were measured using an
Ocean Optics HR4000 Spectrometer. The nominal spectral width of the blue LD was 0.9nm.
The peak emitting wavelength was observed around 448.4 nm with the blue LD biased at 40
mA and was slightly red-shifted with increasing the bias current. The optimum wavelength
of operation in an underwater optical link would depend on the water turbidity which varies
widely between geographic locations.
[0037]         The overall frequency response of the system including laser driver 54,
underwater channel 60, and APD 62 was evaluated to determine the maximum allowable
modulation bandwidth for encoding the OFDM signals. FIG. 6 represents the small-signal
modulation response at different bias currents of the blue LD 54, which was measured by
using a vector network analyzer.         When the bias current was increased, no significant
extension in LD modulation bandwidth is observed due to the combined bandwidth
limitations of the LD driver 54 and the 1-GHz cut-off frequency of the APD 62. The
decreased throughput intensity at high frequency region was also due to bandwidth
constraints.   As a result, these limitations set an upper limitation on the allowable OFDM
bandwidth. The maximum -3 dB bandwidth occurred around 1.1 GHz, as indicated by the
dash line in the figure.
                                                 7

[0038]        The performance of the blue LD 54 with 1-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM data at
different bias currents was initially evaluated in free-space. Both the laser bias current and the
amplitude of modulating signal was adjusted to evaluate the optimized operating condition.
At low bias operation, the clipping of modulating signal degrades the BER of encoded 16
QAM-OFDM data.          In addition, overly driving the blue LD decreased the throughput
response and ultimately degraded the high-frequency subcarrier power of the 16-QAM
OFDM data, resulting in an increased transmitted BER. The highest data rate was achieved
when the bias current of blue LD and the peak-to-peak voltage of modulating signal was set
to Vbias  = 5.01 V (Ibias = 70 mA) and Vpp     = 0.4 V, respectively.
[0039]        FIG. 7A and FIG. 7B illustrate BER performance of the blue LD 54 delivered
1-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM data as a function of laser bias current and the constellation diagram
at 70 mA. FIG. 7A illustrates measured BER versus laser bias current. FIG. 7B illustrates a
constellation diagram at 70 mA.
[0040]        To implement the underwater 16-QAM-OFDM transmission, the bias current of
the blue LD 54 was maintained at the optimized operating condition of 70 mA. To evaluate
the overall     16-QAM-OFDM         transmission   performance     over the    5.4-m   underwater
communication channel, the measured BER, SNR and constellation plot are shown in FIG.
8A, FIG. 8B and FIG. 8C.
[0041]        FIG. 8A illustrates the measured BER of the 16-QAM-OFDM data versus
modulation bandwidth. As illustrated, increasing the data bandwidth from 0.8 to 1.2 GHz
enlarged the transmission capacity of the TO-9 packaged and fiber-pigtailed blue LD from
3.2 Gbit/s to 4.8 Gbit/s at the expense of degraded BER from 6.8x10~ to 2.6x10- . Further
                                                                                     3
increasing the data bandwidth to 1.3 GHz lead to an increased BER of 4.8x10 -, which was
slightly above the FEC required BER of 3.8x 10- . Therefore, to meet the FEC criterion, the
acceptable bandwidth for the carried 16-QAM-OFDM was 1.2 GHz and the corresponding
data rate was 4.8 Gbit/s.
[0042]        FIG. 8B illustrates the measured electrical signal to noise ratios (SNRs) of the
received 16-QAM-OFDM data as a function of subcarrier index. The measured SNR profile
exhibited a negative slope and followed the overall frequency response depicted in FIG. 3.
The SNR maintained high values at small subcarrier indices (low frequencies) and was
inversely proportional to the subcarrier index. The average SNR at 70 mA was around 15.6
dB, which was higher than that of 15.19 dB required by the FEC decoding.
                                                 8

[0043]         FIG. 8C illustrates the constellation map of 1.2-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM signals
transmitted over the 5.4-m underwater channel. As shown in the figure, a clear constellation
diagram can be obtained.
[0044]         Scattering effects, such as the temporal pulse spread (inter-symbol interference),
were also evaluated in relation to overall system performance. FIG. 9 illustrates the measured
BER versus link distance for the 1.2-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM signals. The aim of this
evaluation was to evaluate if the BER performance deteriorated as a function of link distance.
It should be noted that the receiving optical power was kept constant by using a variable
attenuator as the link distance was increased from 0.6 to 5.4 m. As shown in FIG. 9, a
relatively flat BER was observed.
[0045]         This example of a UWOC system required good pointing accuracy between the
transmitter and receiver because the transmitter beam is collimated with a very small
diameter.    Expanding the transmitter beam to reduce the pointing accuracy requirement
would result in a weaker beam at the receiver that would reduce the performance at longer
ranges. In more turbid waters, scattering increases because of high concentration of organic
and inorganic particulates and can cause significant temporal dispersion which can be thought
of as a form of inter-symbol interference that will reduce the pointing accuracy because the
beam will spread out leading to low SNR and poor BER. However, experimental results
show that the scattering has no effect on BER performance of 1.2-GHz 16-QAM-OFDM
signals during 5.4-m clear water communication link. For a 4.8 Gbit/s UWOC system, both
the measured EVM of 16.5 % and BER of 2.6x 10- 3 pass the FEC criterion.
[0046]         FIG. 10 depicts a compact integrated underwater illumination, survey and
optical communication system of the present invention. A power supply 70, control circuit
72, laser diode module 74, and focusing optics 76 can be embedded in the water-proof
housing 78. The laser diode module 74 can have an integrated receiver unit for vision, and
distance ranging measurement. The control circuit 72 integrates the functionalities of power
stabilization, signal amplification and bias-tee combination to drive the laser diode unit 74.
Phosphor material can be combined within the focusing optics to enable white light
generation.
[0047]         In other embodiments of the present disclosure, the transmitter module could be
of different degree of coherency, such as edge-emitting laser, vertical-cavity surface emitting
laser, and superluminescent diode. The transmitter module could be in standalone form or
array form to increase the optical output power. In embodiments of the present disclosure, a
                                                  9

single-mode 450 nm laser diode yielded favorable performance as compared to a multimode
405 nm violet laser.
[0048]        The transmitting medium includes, but is not limited to, water, oil, and other
organic liquid. The laser wavelength can cover a wide range of wavelength tailored to the
specific low absorption and scattering nature of the transmitting medium.
[0049]        In other     embodiments,    the photodetector   can   be an amplified     biased
photodetector, or a biased photodetector, or a UV-enhanced biased photodetector. The
photodetector can be a photodetector based on, but not limited to, Si, or GaAs, or GaN or
other III/V materials.
[0050]        In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the receiver module can include
one or multiple photodetectors. A UWOC system, when utilizing multiple laser diodes in the
transmitter module and/or multiple photodetectors in the receiver module, may achieve a
higher data rate (5 Gbit/s or above) and longer transmission distance (20 meters and above)
when using an optical multi-input multi-output (MIMO) technique. A UWOC system, when
utilizing multiple laser diodes in the transmitter module and/or multiple photodetectors in the
receiver module, may achieve a higher data rate (5 Gbit/s or above) using wavelength
division multiplexing (WDM) technique.
[0051]        In other embodiments of the present disclosure, a UWOC system utilizing
multiple laser diodes, including at least two of violet, blue, green, yellow, and red emitting
laser diodes, may generate white light for both vision and communications underwater.
[0052]        In still other embodiments of the present disclosure, a UWOC system utilizing a
violet or blue laser combined with phosphor material in the transmitter module to generate
white light, can be used for both underwater vision and communications.         The phosphor
material used for white light generation refers to a kind of color conversion material that can
be excited by violet or blue laser and generate blue, green, yellow or red color. By mixing
those colors, white light with different color rendering index and color temperature can be
achieved.
                                                10

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
CLAIMS:
1.             A method       of providing    an   underwater    illumination source    and   data
communication system, the method comprising:
               generating a signal to drive one or more laser diodes to provide an illumination
field of sufficient intensity and duration to illuminate an underwater field of interest during an
underwater activity;
               using an underwater vision system to view underwater structures within the field
of interest that are illuminated with the one or more laser diodes; and
               utilizing the one or more laser diodes in an optical communications system to
convey information within or away from the underwater field of interest while continuing to
illuminate the underwater field of interest and view the underwater structures with the
underwater vision system, said utilizing including:
               optically directing at least some of the light from said one or more laser diodes
        toward a remote underwater location; and
               at said remote underwater location, receiving said at least some of the optically
        directed light and further processing received light into an information signal to yield
        an optically-delivered data stream during said underwater activity.
2.             The method of claim 1, wherein the illumination field of interest includes an
underwater vehicle, a diver, a sea floor or sea structure.
3.             The method of claim 2, wherein said optically directing includes focusing a light
beam and directing a focused light beam toward the remote underwater location.
4.             The method of claim 3, wherein the focused light beam defines a plurality of
parallel beams.
5.             The method of claim 4, wherein said receiving including directing the light
beam onto a silicon-based avalanche photodiode.
                                                  11

6.            The method of claim 1, wherein said optical communication systems includes a
spectrally efficient modulation scheme.
7.            The method of claim 6, wherein the modulation scheme includes QAM-OFDM.
8.            The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more laser diodes includes a
plurality of violet or blue light lasers and a phosphor material is used to color convert light
from the plurality of violet or blue light lasers into white light.
9.            An underwater light system comprising:
              a transmitter module receiving a data stream and controlling a light source to
provide an optical signal;
              a transmitter lens for focusing and directing the optical signal toward a remote
underwater location; and
              a receiver module at the remote location for receiving and processing the optical
signal to yield a data stream while said light source simultaneously illuminates a field of
interest with light of sufficient intensity and duration to conduct an underwater activity
proximate to the light source using an underwater vision system to view structures
illuminated by the light source.
10.           The light system of claim 9, wherein the receiving module includes a receiver
lens for focusing the optical signal toward a silicon avalanche photodiode.
11.           The light system of claim 9, wherein the light source is housed on an underwater
vehicle or structure or diver.
12.           The light system of claim 9, wherein the light source includes a plurality of
violet to blue light lasers.
13.           The light system of claim 9, wherein the transmitter module process the data
stream with a spectrally efficient modulation scheme to increase a data delivery rate.
                                                  11)

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
