ll:\dar\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\12171789_l.docx-25 112016
                                                             Abstract
                  The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination comprising (1) a
first agent which is a CDK inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (2) a
 second agent which is a mTOR inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

 1:
  \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16296666_l.docx-15 012018
                                                              COMBINATION THERAPY
                 This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire
content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                                Field of the Invention
                 The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination comprising a CDK
inhibitor and a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor for the treatment of cancer;
the uses of such combinations in the treatment of cancer; and to a method of treating warm
blooded animals including humans suffering cancer comprising administering to said animal in
need of such treatment an effective dose of a CDK inhibitor and a mTOR inhibitor.
                                                             Background of the Invention
CDK inhibitors
                 Tumor development is closely associated with genetic alteration and deregulation of
CDKs and their regulators, suggesting that inhibitors of CDKs may be useful anti-cancer
therapeutics. Indeed, early results suggest that transformed and normal cells differ in their
requirement for, e.g., cyclin D/CDK4/6 and that it may be possible to develop novel
antineoplastic agents devoid of the general host toxicity observed with conventional cytotoxic
and cytostatic drugs.
                 The function of CDKs is to phosphorylate and thus activate or deactivate certain
proteins, including e.g. retinoblastoma proteins, lamins, histone H1, and components of the
mitotic spindle. The catalytic step mediated by CDKs involves a phospho-transfer reaction
from ATP to the macromolecular enzyme substrate. Several groups of compounds (reviewed
in e.g. Fischer, P. M. Curr. Opin. Drug Discovery Dev. 2001, 4, 623-634) have been found to
possess anti-proliferative properties by virtue of CDK-specific ATP antagonism.
                 At a molecular level mediation of CDK/cyclin complex activity requires a series of
stimulatory and inhibitory phosphorylation, or dephosphorylation, events. CDK
phosphorylation is performed by a group of CDK activating kinases (CAKs) and/or kinases
such as weel, Myt1 and Mik1. Dephosphorylation is performed by phosphatases such as
cdc25(a & c), pp2a, or KAP.
                 CDK/cyclin complex activity may be further regulated by two families of endogenous
cellular proteinaceous inhibitors: the Kip/Cip family, or the INK family. The INK proteins
specifically bind CDK4 and CDK6. p16ink4 (also known as MTS1) is a potential tumour
suppressor gene that is mutated, or deleted, in a large number of primary cancers. The
Kip/Cip family contains proteins such as p2lCiplWaf1, p27Kip1 and p57kip2, where p21 is
induced by p53 and is able to inactivate the CDK2/cyclin(E/A) complex. Atypically low levels
of p27
                                                                          -1 -

      WO 2014/085318                                                          PCT/US2013/071659
expression have been observed in breast, colon and prostate cancers. Conversely over
expression of cyclin E in solid tumours has been shown to correlate with poor patient prognosis.
Over expression of cyclin D1 has been associated with oesophageal, breast, squamous, and
non-small cell lung carcinomas.
         The pivotal roles of CDKs, and their associated proteins, in co-ordinating and driving the
cell cycle in proliferating cells have been outlined above. Some of the biochemical pathways in
which CDKs play a key role have also been described. The development of monotherapies for
the treatment of proliferative disorders, such as cancers, using therapeutics targeted generically
at CDKs, or at specific CDKs, is therefore potentially highly desirable.    Thus, there is a
continued need to find new therapeutic agents to treat human diseases.
mTOR Inhibitors
         mTOR is a kinase protein predominantly found in the cytoplasm of the cell. It acts as a
central regulator of many biological processes related to cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and cell
metabolism. mTOR exerts its effects primarily by turning on and off the cell's translational
machinery, which includes the ribosomes, and is responsible for protein synthesis. mTOR is a
key intracellular point of convergence for a number of cellular signaling pathways. mTOR
performs its regulatory function in response to activating or inhibitory signals transmitted through
these pathways, which are located upstream from mTOR in the cell. These diverse signaling
pathways are activated by a variety of growth factors (including vascular endothelial growth
factors (VEGFs), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin
like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)), hormones (estrogen, progesterone), and the presence or absence
of nutrients (glucose, amino acids) or oxygen. One or more of these signaling pathways may be
abnormally activated in patients with many different types of cancer, resulting in deregulated cell
proliferation, tumor angiogenesis, and abnormal cell metabolism.
         In spite of numerous treatment options for cancer patients, there remains a need for
effective and safe therapeutic agents and a need for their preferential use in combination
therapy.
                                      Summary of the Invention
         The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination comprising (1) a first
agent which is a CDK inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (2) a second
agent that inhibits mTOR, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. More specifically, it
                                                   2

       WO 2014/085318                                                       PCT/US2013/071659
relates to the treatment of solid tumors and hematological malignancies using the combination.
This invention also relates to the use of the combination thereof, in the management of
hyperproliferative diseases like cancer, e.g., ER+ breast cancer, rhabdoid tumor.
         Such combination may be for simultaneous, separate or sequential use for the treatment
of a cancer.
         In one embodiment, the CDK inhibitor is CDK4/6 inhibitor.
         The CDK4/6 inhibitor can be, for example,
         Compound A, described by Formula A below:
        NN
   HN >N         N     0
   N
     N
     H                        (A)
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt(s) thereof.
In another embodiment, the mTOR inhibitor is everolimus (hereinafter referred as Compound B)
which has the chemical name
((1 R,9S,12S,15R,16E,18R,19R,21R,23S,24E,26E,28E,30S,32S,35R)-1,18- dihydroxy-12-{(1 R)
2-[(1S,3R,4R)-4-(2-hydroxyethoxy)-3-methoxycyclohexyl]-1 -methylethyl}-1 9,30-dimethoxy
15,17,21,23,29,35-hexamethyl-1 1,36-dioxa-4-aza-tricyclo[30.3.1.04,9] hexatriaconta-1 6,24,
26,28-tetraene-2,3,10,14,20-pentaone) and described by the following structure:
                                                 3

      WO 2014/085318                                                        PCT/US2013/071659
         The present invention further relates to the above pharmaceutical combination(s) for use
in the treatment of a cancer.
         The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment of a cancer
comprising administering the above pharmaceutical combination(s) in jointly therapeutically
effective amount, to a warm-blooded animal, preferably a human, in need thereof.
         In accordance with the present invention, the compounds in the pharmaceutical
combination(s) may be administered either as a single pharmaceutical composition, as separate
compositions, or sequentially.
         The present invention further relates to a kit comprising the pharmaceutical combination.
                                Detailed Description of the Figures
         Figures 1-4 show combination studies in two ER+ breast cancer cell lines, T-47D and
MCF-7, and two rhabdoid tumor cell lines A204 and G401. Synergy scores for this combination
indicate that in all cases co-treatment of Compound A and Compound B led to synergistic
growth inhibition.
         Figure 5 shows the effect of Compound A and Compound B combination in MCF7 tumor
xenograft model in vivo.
                               Detailed Description of the Invention
         The following general definitions are provided to better understand the invention:
                                                   4

      WO 2014/085318                                                         PCT/US2013/071659
         "Combination" refers to either a fixed combination in one dosage unit form, or a non
fixed combination (or kit of parts) for the combined administration where a compound and a
combination partner (e.g. another drug as explained below, also referred to as "therapeutic
agent" or "co-agent") may be administered independently at the same time or separately within
time intervals, especially where these time intervals allow that the combination partners show a
cooperative, e.g. synergistic effect. The term "combined administration" or the like as utilized
herein are meant to encompass administration of the selected combination partner to a single
subject in need thereof (e.g. a patient), and are intended to include treatment regimens in which
the agents are not necessarily administered by the same route of administration or at the same
time. The term "fixed combination" means that the active ingredients, e.g. a compound of
formula A and a combination partner, are both administered to a patient simultaneously in the
form of a single entity or dosage. The terms "non-fixed combination" or "kit of parts" mean that
the active ingredients, e.g. a compound of formula A and a combination partner, are both
administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously, concurrently or sequentially
with no specific time limits, wherein such administration provides therapeutically effective levels
of the two compounds in the body of the patient.
          "Treatment" includes prophylactic and therapeutic treatment (including but not limited to
palliative, curing, symptom-alleviating, symptom-reducing) as well as the delay of progression of
a cancer disease or disorder. The term "prophylactic" means the prevention of the onset or
recurrence of a cancer. The term "delay of progression" as used herein means administration of
the combination to patients being in a pre-stage or in an early phase of the cancer to be treated,
a pre-form of the corresponding cancer is diagnosed and/or in a patient diagnosed with a
condition under which it is likely that a corresponding cancer will develop.
          "Pharmaceutical preparation" or "pharmaceutical composition" refers to a mixture or
solution containing at least one therapeutic agent to be administered to a warm-bloodeded, e.g.,
a human.
         "Co-administer", "co-administration" or "combined administration" or the like are meant to
encompass administration of the selected therapeutic agents to a single patient, and are
intended to include treatment regimens in which the agents are not necessarily administered by
the same route of administration or at the same time.
          "Pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to those compounds, materials, compositions
and/or dosage forms, which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for
contact with the tissues of mammals, especially humans, without excessive toxicity, irritation,
                                                  5

      WO 2014/085318                                                          PCT/US2013/071659
allergic response and other problem complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk
ratio.
        "Therapeutically effective" preferably relates to an amount of a therapeutic agent that is
therapeutically or in a broader sense also prophylactically effective against the progression of a
cancer.
        "Jointly therapeutically effective" means that the therapeutic agents may be given
separately (in a chronologically staggered manner, especially a sequence-specific manner) in
such time intervals that they prefer, in the warm-blooded animal, especially human, to be
treated, still show a (preferably synergistic) interaction. Whether this is the case can, inter alia,
be determined by following the blood levels, showing that both compounds are present in the
blood of the human to be treated at least during certain time intervals.
        "Single pharmaceutical composition" refers to a single carrier or vehicle formulated to
deliver effective amounts of both therapeutic agents to a patient. The single vehicle is designed
to deliver an effective amount of each of the agents, along with any pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers or excipients. In some embodiments, the vehicle is a tablet, capsule, pill, or a patch. In
other embodiments, the vehicle is a solution or a suspension.
        "Dose range" refers to an upper and a lower limit of an acceptable variation of the
amount of therapeutic agent specified. Typically, a dose of the agent in any amount within the
specified range can be administered to patients undergoing treatment.
        "Subject", "patient", or "warm-blooded animal" is intended to include animals. Examples
of subjects include mammals, e.g., humans, dogs, cows, horses, pigs, sheep, goats, cats, mice,
rabbits, rats, and transgenic non-human animals. In certain embodiments, the subject is a
human, e.g., a human suffering from, at risk of suffering from, or potentially capable of suffering
from a brain tumor disease. Particularly preferred, the subject or warm-blooded animal is
human.
        The terms "about" or "approximately" usually means within 20%, more preferably within
10%, and most preferably still within 5% of a given value or range. Alternatively, especially in
biological systems, the term "about" means within about a log (i.e., an order of magnitude)
preferably within a factor of two of a given value.
        The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination comprising (1) a CDK
inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and (2) a mTOR inhibitor or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Such combination may be for simultaneous, separate or sequential use for the treatment
of a cancer.
                                                    6

       WO 2014/085318                                                    PCT/US2013/071659
         In one embodiment, the CDK inhibitor is CDK4/6 inhibitor.
        The CDK4/6 inhibitor can be, for example,
        Compound A, described by Formula A below:
   HN      N     N    0
 N
   (N)
    N
    H                        (A)
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt(s) thereof.
        The mTOR inhibitor, in one embodiment, is everolimus (hereinafter referred as
Compound B) which has the chemical name
((1 R,9S,12S,15R,16E,18R,19R,21R,23S,24E,26E,28E,30S,32S,35R)-1,18- dihydroxy-12-{(1 R)
2-[(1 S,3R,4R)-4-(2-hydroxyethoxy)-3-methoxycyclohexyl]-1 -methylethyl}-1 9,30-dimethoxy
15,17,21,23,29,35-hexamethyl-1 1,36-dioxa-4-aza-tricyclo[30.3.1.04,9] hexatriaconta-1 6,24,
26,28-tetraene-2,3,10,14,20-pentaone) and described by the following structure:
                                                7

      WO 2014/085318                                                         PCT/US2013/071659
       The present invention further relates to the above pharmaceutical combination(s) for use
in the treatment of a cancer.
       The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment of a cancer comprising
administering the above pharmaceutical combination(s) in jointly therapeutically effective
amount, to a warm-blooded animal, preferably a human, in need thereof.
       In accordance with the present invention, the compounds in the pharmaceutical
combination(s) may be administered either as a single pharmaceutical composition, as separate
compositions, or sequentially.
       The present invention further relates to a kit comprising the pharmaceutical combination.
       The Compounds A and B can be synthesized by one skilled in the art. Specifically,
Compound A is disclosed as Example 74 of W02010/020675.
         Comprised are likewise the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, the corresponding
racemates, diastereoisomers, enantiomers, tautomers, as well as the corresponding crystal
modifications of above disclosed compounds where present, e.g. solvates, hydrates and
polymorphs, which are disclosed therein. The compounds used as active ingredients in the
combinations of the present invention can be prepared and administered as described in the
cited documents, respectively. Also within the scope of this invention is the combination of
more than two separate active ingredients as set forth above, i.e., a pharmaceutical combination
within the scope of this invention could include three active ingredients or more.
                                                  8

      WO 2014/085318                                                            PCT/US2013/071659
         It is believed that the combination(s) of the present invention possesses beneficial
therapeutic properties, e.g. synergistic interaction, strong in vitro or in vivo anti-proliferative
activity and/or strong in vitro or in vivo antitumor response, which render it particularly useful for
the treatment of cancer.
         Suitable cancers that can be treated with the combination of the present invention
include, but are not limited to, sarcoma, lymphomas, cancer of the lung, bronchus, prostate,
breast (including sporadic breast cancers and sufferers of Cowden disease), pancreas,
gastrointestine, colon, rectum, colon, colorectal adenoma, thyroid, liver, intrahepatic bile duct,
hepatocellular, adrenal gland, stomach, gastric, glioma, glioblastoma, endometrial, melanoma,
kidney, renal pelvis, urinary bladder, uterine corpus, cervix, vagina, ovary, multiple myeloma,
esophagus, a leukaemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia,
lymphocytic leukemia, myeloid leukemia, brain, a carcinoma of the brain, oral cavity and
pharynx, larynx, small intestine, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, melanoma, villous colon adenoma, a
neoplasia, a neoplasia of epithelial character, a mammary carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
squamous cell carcinoma, actinic keratosis, tumor diseases (including solid tumors), a tumor of
the neck or head, polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, myelofibrosis with myeloid
metaplasia, and Waldenstroem disease. Where a cancer, a tumor, a tumor disease, sarcoma,
or a cancer are mentioned, also metastasis in the original organ or tissue and/or in any other
location are implied alternatively or in addition, whatever the location of the tumor and/or
metastasis.
         In a particular embodiment, the cancer is breast cancer. In particular, the cancer is a
breast cancer having either hormone receptor positive, a mutation in the PIK3CA, or a
combination thereof. More specifically, the cancer is estrogen receptor positive (+) breast
cancer.
         In a further embodiment, the cancer is a hormone receptor positive (+) breast cancer
resistant to treatment with hormone therapy (e.g., estrogen or progesterone). A cancer
"resistant to treatment with hormone therapy" refers to a cancer or tumor that either fails to
respond favorably to treatment with prior hormone therapy, or alternatively, recurs or relapses
after responding favorably to hormone therapy. The cancer or tumor may be resistant or
refractory at the beginning of treatment or it may become resistant or refractory during
treatment.
         In another embodiment, the cancer is rhabdoid tumor, particularly malignant rhabdoid
tumor.
                                                    9

      WO 2014/085318                                                            PCT/US2013/071659
         It is one objective of this invention to provide a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
quantity, which is jointly therapeutically effective at targeting or preventing a cancer, of each
therapeutic agent of the invention.
         In accordance with the present invention, agents in the composition of the present
invention may be administered together in a single pharmaceutical composition, separately in
two or more separate unit dosage forms, or sequentially. The unit dosage form may also be a
fixed combination.
         The pharmaceutical compositions for separate administration of agents or for the
administration in a fixed combination (i.e., a single galenical composition comprising at least two
therapeutic agents according to the invention may be prepared in a manner known per se and
are those suitable for enteral, such as oral or rectal, topical, and parenteral administration to
subjects, including mammals (warm-blooded animals) such as humans, comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of at least one pharmacologically active combination partner
alone, e.g., as indicated above, or in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers or diluents, especially suitable for enteral or parenteral application. Suitable
pharmaceutical compositions contain, e.g., from about 0.1% to about 99.9%, preferably from
about 1% to about 60%, of the active ingredient(s).
         Pharmaceutical compositions for the combination therapy for enteral or parenteral
administration are, e.g., those in unit dosage forms, such as sugar-coated tablets, tablets,
capsules or suppositories, ampoules, injectable solutions or injectable suspensions. Topical
administration is e.g. to the skin or the eye, e.g. in the form of lotions, gels, ointments or creams,
or in a nasal or a suppository form. If not indicated otherwise, these are prepared in a manner
known per se, e.g., by means of conventional mixing, granulating, sugar-coating, dissolving or
lyophilizing processes. It will be appreciated that the unit content of each agent contained in an
individual dose of each dosage form need not in itself constitute an effective amount since the
necessary effective amount can be reached by administration of a plurality of dosage units.
         Pharmaceutical compositions may comprise one or more pharmaceutical acceptable
carriers or diluents and may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing one or both
combination partners with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. Examples of
pharmaceutically acceptable diluents include, but are not limited to, lactose, dextrose, mannitol,
and/or glycerol, and/or lubricants and/or polyethylene glycol. Examples of pharmaceutically
acceptable acceptable binders include, but are not limited to, magnesium aluminum silicate,
starches, such as corn, wheat or rice starch, gelatin, methylcellulose, sodium
carboxymethylcellulose and/or polyvinylpyrrolidone, and, if desired, pharmaceutically acceptable
                                                     10

      WO 2014/085318                                                            PCT/US2013/071659
disintegrators include, but are not limited to, starches, agar, alginic acid or a salt thereof, such
as sodium alginate, and/or effervescent mixtures, or adsorbents, dyes, flavorings and
sweeteners. It is also possible to use the compounds of the present invention in the form of
parenterally administrable compositions or in the form of infusion solutions. The pharmaceutical
compositions may be sterilized and/or may comprise excipients, for example preservatives,
stabilizers, wetting compounds and/or emulsifiers, solubilisers, salts for regulating the osmotic
pressure and/or buffers.
         In particular, a therapeutically effective amount of each of the combination partner of the
combination of the invention may be administered simultaneously or sequentially and in any
order, and the components may be administered separately or as a fixed combination. For
example, the method of preventing or treating a cancer according to the invention may
comprise: (i) administration of the first agent in free or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form;
and (ii) administration of a second agent in free or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form,
simultaneously or sequentially in any order, in jointly therapeutically effective amounts,
preferably in synergistically effective amounts, e.g., in daily or intermittently dosages
corresponding to the amounts described herein. The individual combination partners of the
combination of the invention may be administered separately at different times during the
course of therapy or concurrently in divided or single combination forms. Furthermore, the term
administering also encompasses the use of a pro-drug of a combination partner that convert in
vivo to the combination partner as such. The instant invention is therefore to be understood as
embracing all such regimens of simultaneous or alternating treatment and the term
"administering" is to be interpreted accordingly.
         The effective dosage of each of combination partner agents employed in the
combination of the invention may vary depending on the particular compound or pharmaceutical
composition employed, the mode of administration, the condition being treated, the severity of
the condition being treated. Thus, the dosage regimen of the combination of the invention is
selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type, species, age, weight, sex and
medical condition of the patient; the severity of the condition to be treated; the route of
administration; the renal and hepatic function of the patient; and the particular compound
employed. A physician, clinician or veterinarian of ordinary skill can readily determine and
prescribe the effective amount of the drug required to prevent, counter or arrest the progress of
the condition. Optimal precision in achieving concentration of drug within the range that yields
efficacy requires a regimen based on the kinetics of the drug's availability to target sites. This
involves a consideration of the distribution, equilibrium, and elimination of a drug.
                                                    11

      WO 2014/085318                                                            PCT/US2013/071659
         A further benefit is that lower doses of the active ingredients of the combination of the
invention can be used, e.g., that the dosages need not only often be smaller but are also
applied less frequently, or can be used in order to diminish the incidence of side effects. This is
in accordance with the desires and requirements of the patients to be treated.
         The combination of the agents can be combined in the same pharmaceutical preparation
or in the form of combined preparations "kit of parts" in the sense that the combination partners
can be dosed independently or by use of different fixed combinations with distinguished
amounts of the combination partners, i.e., simultaneously or at different time points. The parts
of the kit of parts can then, e.g., be administered simultaneously or chronologically staggered,
that is at different time points and with equal or different time intervals for any part of the kit of
parts.
         The present invention further relates to a kit comprising a first compound that is
Compound A or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, a second compound that is
Compound B or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and a package insert or other
labeling including directions for treating a cancer.
         The following Examples illustrate the invention described above; they are not, however,
intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. The beneficial effects of the
pharmaceutical combination of the present invention can also be determined by other test
models known as such to the person skilled in the pertinent art.
Example 1
         The following experimental procedure is performed to demonstrate the efficacy and anti
proliferative activity of Compound A and Compound B in combination in the treatment of ER+
breast cancer or rhabdoid tumor.
         T-47D and MCF-7 are two ER+ breast cancer cell lines.
         A204 and G401T-47D are two rhabdoid tumor cell lines.
                  Shown are surface plots of growth inhibitory effects (inhibition) and synergy
measurements (ADD excess/Loewe excess) for combinations between Compound A and
Compound B. In the "inhibition" plots leftmost columns and bottom rows show growth inhibition
by Compound A and Compound B, as single agents respectively. Combinations of the two
compounds are in matrix format, with each point in the grid containing the concentration of the
single agents given on the corresponding point on the X and Y axis. The percentage of growth
inhibition achieved for each point is given numerically within the small boxes, and depicted
                                                   12

     WO 2014/085318                                                           PCT/US2013/071659
graphically with colors. In the "excess" plots, excess inhibition of growth at each combination
point is shown numerically and graphically with larger numbers and lighter colors indicating
greater synergistic activity. Numbers at or near 0 represent additivity and numbers below 0
represent regions of antagonism. All calculations and graphical depictions have been previously
described in Lehar et al. (Lehar J, Krueger AS, Avery W, et al (2009) Synergistic drug
combinations tend to improve therapeutically relevant selectivity. Nat Biotechnol 27, 659-66.).
         The results from Example 1 are shown in Figures 1-4. Synergy scores for this
combination indicate that in all cases co-treatment of Compound A and Compound B led to
synergistic growth inhibition.
Example 2
         MCF-7 cells were purchased from American Type Culture Collection (ATCC). They were
tested free of mycoplasma and viral contamination in the IMPACT VIII PCR assay panel
(RADIL, MU Research Animal Diagnostic Laboratory, Columbia, MO). They were cultured in
EMEM medium (ATCC# 30-2003) containing 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum, and were
at passage 18 for this experiment. Female, nude mice from Harlan (Hsd:Athymic Nude
Foxn1nu) were used in this xenograft study. Mice received 17b-estradiol pellets (0.18 mg/pellet,
90-day release) (Innovative research of America Catalog # NE-121) implanted between the
shoulder blades three days before cell implantation. Tumor volume and body weight were
monitored throughout the experiment.
         In this MCF7 experiment, Compound A monotherapy at 75 mg/kg yielded T/TO of -9%.
Compound B monotherapy at 5 mg/kg achieved T/TO of -21%. The combination of Compound A
and Compound B achieved T/TO of -49%. Mean body weight loss was less than 8% in all the
aforementioned groups. The results indicate that the combination of Compound A and
Compound B exhibit additional benefit over either monotherapy against the ER+, PIK3CA
mutant breast tumor model, MCF7, in vivo. The data support the testing of Compound A and
Compound B in the relevant clinical setting.
         The results from Example 2 are shown in Figures 5.
                                                  13

ll:\dar\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\12171789_l.docx-25 112016
                  Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
 otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
 understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
 not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                  The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
 it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
 admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it)
or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.
                                                             - 13A -

H:\dar\Inte o n\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\12171789_1.docx-25/11/2016
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.            A method of treating ER+ breast cancer using a combination comprising a first
              agent that is a cyclin dependent kinase 4 or cyclin dependent kinase 6 (CDK4/6)
               inhibitor and a second agent that is an mTOR inhibitor.
2.            The method of claim 1, wherein the agents are administered simultaneously,
              separately or sequentially.
3.            The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the CDK inhibitor is CDK4/6 inhibitor.
4.            The method of claim 3, wherein the CDK4/6 inhibitor is Compound A, described by
               Formula A below:
                                                            N-            N
                                                        HN     N N        0
                                                     N
                                                          N
                                                          N
                                                          H                 (A)
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
5.            The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the mTOR inhibitor is everolimus.
6.            A method of treating malignant rhabdoid tumor using a combination comprising a
              first agent that is a cyclin dependent kinase 4 or cyclin dependent kinase 6
               (CDK4/6) inhibitor and a second agent that is an mTOR inhibitor.
7.            The method of claim 6, wherein the agents are administered simultaneously,
              separately or sequentially.
8.            The method of claim 6 or 7, wherein the CDK inhibitor is CDK4/6 inhibitor.
9.            The method of claim 8, wherein the CDK4/6 inhibitor is Compound A, described by
               Formula A below:
                                                                   - 14 -

H:\dar\Inte o n\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\12171789_1.docx-25/11/2016
                                                            N           N
                                                        HN    N N       0
                                                        N
                                                          N
                                                          H               (A)
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
10.           The method of claim 6 or 7, wherein the mTOR inhibitor is everolimus.
                                                                  - 15-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
