  Abstract
  An apparatus configured to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least one
  component of the smokeable material, wherein the apparatus comprises a region of
5 insulation having a core region which is evacuated to a lower pressure than an
  exterior of the insulation.

                                              -1
   Heat insulated apparatus for heating smokable material
   Field
   The invention relates to heating smokeable material.
 5 Background
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
   common general knowledge in the field.
10 Smoking articles such as cigarettes and cigars burn tobacco during use to create
   tobacco smoke. Attempts have been made to provide alternatives to these smoking
   articles by creating products which release compounds without creating tobacco
   smoke. Examples of such products are so-called heat-not-burn products which
   release compounds by heating, but not burning, tobacco.
15
   Summary
   According to the invention, there is provided an apparatus configured to heat
   smokeable material to volatilize at least one component of the smokeable material,
   wherein the apparatus comprises a region of insulation having a core region which
20 is evacuated to a lower pressure than an exterior of the insulation.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
   claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
25 sense of "including, but not limited to".
   The insulation may be located between a smokeable material heating chamber and
   an exterior of the apparatus to reduce heat loss from heated smokeable material.
30 The insulation may be located co-axially around the heating chamber.

                                              -2
   The smokeable material heating chamber may comprise a substantially tubular
   heating chamber and the insulation may be located around a longitudinal surface of
   the tubular heating chamber.
 5 The insulation may comprise a substantially tubular body of insulation located
   around the heating chamber.
   The smokeable material heating chamber may be located between the insulation and
   a heater.
10
   A heater may be located between the smokeable material heating chamber and the
   insulation.
   The insulation may be located externally of the heater.
15
   The heater may be located co-axially around the heating chamber and the insulation
   may be located co-axially around the heater.
   The insulation may comprise an infra-red radiation-reflective material to reduce the
20 propagation of the infra-red radiation through the insulation.
   The insulation may comprise an exterior wall which encloses the core region.
   An internal surface of the wall may comprise an infra-red radiation-reflective
25 coating to reflect infra-red radiation within the core region.
   The wall may comprise a layer of stainless steel having a thickness of at least
   approximately 100 microns.
30 Wall sections either side of the core region may be connected by a joining wall
   section which follows an indirect path between the sections either side of the core
   region.

                                              -3
   A pressure in the core region may be between approximately 0.1 and approximately
   0.001 mbar.
   A heat transfer coefficient of the insulation may be between approximately 1.10
 5 W/(m 2K) and approximately 1.40 W/(m 2K) when a temperature of the insulation is
   in a range of from 100 degrees Celsius to 250 degrees Celsius, such as in a range
   from 150 degrees Celsius to 250 degrees Celsius.
   The core region may comprise a porous material.
10
   Wall sections either side of the core region may converge to a sealed gas outlet.
   Said wall sections may converge in an end region of the insulation.
15 A thickness of the insulation may be less than approximately 1mm.
   A thickness of the insulation may be less than approximately 0.1mm.
   A thickness of the insulation may be between approximately 1mm and 0.001mm.
20
   The apparatus may be configured to heat the smokeable material using an
   electrically-powered heater.
   The apparatus may be configured to heat the smokeable material without
25 combusting the smokeable material.
   According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided an apparatus configured
   to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least one component of the smokeable
   material, comprising an infra-red heater.
30
   The infra-red heater may comprise a halogen infra-red heater.

                                               -4
   For exemplary purposes only, embodiments of the invention are described below
   with reference to the accompanying figures in which:
   Brief description of the figures
 5 Figure 1 is a perspective, partially cut-away illustration of an apparatus configured
   to heat smokeable material to release aromatic compounds and/or nicotine from the
   smokeable material;
   figure 2 is a perspective, partially cut-away illustration of an apparatus configured to
   heat smokeable material, in which the smokeable material is provided around an
10 elongate ceramic heater divided into radial heating sections;
   figure 3 is an exploded, partially cut-away view of an apparatus configured to heat
   smokeable material, in which the smokeable material is provided around an elongate
   ceramic heater divided into radial heating sections;
   figure 4 is a perspective, partially cut-away illustration of an apparatus configured to
15 heat smokeable material, in which the smokeable material is provided around an
   elongate infra-red heater;
   figure 5 is an exploded, partially cut-away illustration of an apparatus configured to
   heat smokeable material, in which the smokeable material is provided around an
   elongate infra-red heater;
20 figure 6 is a schematic illustration of part of an apparatus configured to heat
   smokeable material, in which the smokeable material is provided around a plurality
   of longitudinal, elongate heating sections spaced around a central longitudinal axis;
   figure 7 is a perspective illustration of part of an apparatus configured to heat
   smokeable material, in which the regions of smokeable material are provided
25 between pairs of upstanding heating plates;
   figure 8 is a perspective illustration of the apparatus shown in figure 7, in which an
   external housing is additionally illustrated;
   figure 9 is an exploded view of part of an apparatus configured to heat smokeable
   material, in which the regions of smokeable material are provided between pairs of
30 upstanding heating plates;
   figure 10 is a flow diagram showing a method of activating heating regions and
   opening and closing heating chamber valves during puffing;

                                               -5
   figure 11 is a schematic illustration of a gaseous flow through an apparatus
   configured to heat smokeable material;
   figure 12 is a graphical illustration of a heating pattern which can be used to heat
   smokeable material using a heater;
 5 figure 13 is a schematic illustration of a smokeable material compressor configured
   to compress smokeable material during heating;
   figure 14 is a schematic illustration of a smokeable material expander configured to
   expand smokeable material during puffing;
   figure 15 is a flow diagram showing a method of compressing smokeable material
10 during heating and expanding the smokeable material for puffing;
   figure 16 is a schematic, cross-sectional illustration of a section of vacuum
   insulation configured to insulate heated smokeable material from heat loss;
   figure 17 is another schematic, cross-sectional illustration of a section of vacuum
   insulation configured to insulate heated smokeable material from heat loss;
15 figure 18 is a schematic, cross-sectional illustration of a heat resistive thermal bridge
   which follows an indirect path from a higher temperature insulation wall to a lower
   temperature insulation wall;
   figure 19 is a schematic, cross-sectional illustration of a heat shield and a heat
   transparent window which are moveable relative to a body of smokeable material to
20 selectively allow thermal energy to be transmitted to different sections of the
   smokeable material through the window;
   figure 20 is schematic, cross sectional illustration of part of an apparatus configured
   to heat smokeable material, in which a heating chamber is hermetically salable by
   check valves;
25 figure 21 is a schematic, cross sectional illustration of an apparatus configured to
   heat smokeable material, in which a heater is located externally of a heating chamber
   and internally of thermal insulation; and
   figure 22 is a schematic, cross sectional illustration of a partial section of deep
   vacuum insulation configured to thermally insulate an apparatus configured to heat
30 smokable material.

                                              -6
   Detailed description
   As used herein, the term 'smokeable material' includes any material that provides
   volatilized components upon heating and includes any tobacco-containing material
   and may, for example, include one or more of tobacco, tobacco derivatives,
 5 expanded tobacco, reconstituted tobacco or tobacco substitutes.
   An apparatus I for heating smokeable material comprises an energy source 2, a
   heater 3 and a heating chamber 4. The energy source 2 may comprise a battery such
   as a Li-ion battery, Ni battery, Alkaline battery and/or the like, and is electrically
10 coupled to the heater 3 to supply electrical energy to the heater 3 when required.
   The heating chamber 4 is configured to receive smokeable material 5 so that the
   smokeable material 5 can be heated in the heating chamber 4. For example, the
   heating chamber 4 may be located adjacent to the heater 3 so that thermal energy
   from the heater 3 heats the smokeable material 5 therein to volatilize aromatic
15 compounds and nicotine in the smokeable material 5 without burning the
   smokeable material 5.   A mouthpiece 6 is    provided through which a user of the
   apparatus I can inhale the volatilized compounds during use of the apparatus 1.
   The smokeable material 5 may comprise a tobacco blend.
20 As shown in figure 1, the heater 3 may comprise a substantially cylindrical, elongate
   heater 3 and the heating chamber 4 is located around a circumferential, longitudinal
   surface of the heater 3. The heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5 therefore
   comprise co-axial layers around the heater 3.    However, as will be evident from the
   discussion below, other shapes and configurations of the heater 3 and heating
25 chamber 4 can alternatively be used.
   A housing 7 may contain components of the apparatus I such as the energy source
   2 and heater 3. As shown in figure 1, the housing 7 may comprise an approximately
   cylindrical tube with the energy source 2 located towards its first end 8 and the
30 heater 3 and heating chamber 4 located towards its opposite, second end 9.        The
   energy source 2 and heater 3 extend along the longitudinal axis of the housing 7.
   For example, as shown in figure 1, the energy source 2 and heater 3 can be aligned
   along the central longitudinal axis of the housing 7 in an end-to-end arrangement so

                                             -7
   that an end face of the energy source 2 faces an end face of the heater 3. The
   length of the housing 7 may be approximately 130mm, the length of energy source
   may be approximately 59mm, and the length of the heater 3 and heating region 4
   may be approximately 50mm. The diameter of the housing 7 may be between
 5 approximately 15mm and approximately 18mm. For example, the diameter of the
   housing's first end 8 may be 18mm whilst the diameter of the mouthpiece 6 at the
   housing's second end 9 may be 15mm. The diameter of the heater 3 may be
   between approximately 2.0mm and approximately 6.0mm. The diameter of the
   heater 3 may, for example, be between approximately 4.0mm and approximately
10 4.5mm or between approximately 2.0mm and approximately 3.0mm. Heater
   diameters outside these ranges may alternatively be used. The depth of the heating
   chamber 4 may be approximately 5mm and the heating chamber 4 may have an
   exterior diameter of approximately 10mm at its outwardly-facing surface. The
   diameter of the energy source 2 may be between approximately 14.0mm and
15 approximately 15.0mm, such as 14.6mm.
   Heat insulation may be provided between the energy source 2 and the heater 3 to
   prevent direct transfer of heat from one to the other. The mouthpiece 6 can be
   located at the second end 9 of the housing 7, adjacent the heating chamber 4 and
20 smokeable material 5. The housing 7 is suitable for being gripped by a user during
   use of the apparatus I so that the user can inhale volatilized smokeable material
   compounds from the mouthpiece 6 of the apparatus 1.
   Referring to figures 2 and 3, the heater 3 may comprise a ceramics heater 3. The
25 ceramics heater 3 may, for example, comprise base ceramics of alumina and/or
   silicon nitride which are laminated and sintered. Alternatively, referring to figures 4
   and 5, the heater 3 may comprise an infra-red (IR)  heater 3 such as a halogen-IR
   lamp 3. The IR heater 3 may have a low mass and therefore its use can help to
   reduce the overall mass of the apparatus 1. For example, the mass of the IR heater
30 may be 20% to 30% less than the mass of a ceramics heater 3 having an equivalent
   heating power output. The IR heater 3 also has low thermal inertia and therefore is
   able to heat the smokeable material 5 very rapidly in response to an activation

   stimulus. The IR heater 3 may be configured to emit IR electromagnetic radiation
   of between approximately 700nm and 4.5 gm in wavelength.
   As indicated above and shown in figure 1, the heater 3 may be located in a central
 5 region of the housing 7 and the heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5 may be
   located around the longitudinal surface of the heater 3. In this arrangement,
   thermal energy emitted by the heater 3 travels in a radial direction outwards from
   the longitudinal surface of the heater 3 into the heating chamber 4 and the
   smokeable material 5.
10
   The heater 3 may optionally comprise a plurality of individual heating regions 10.
   The heating regions 10 may be operable independently of one another so that
   different regions 10 can be activated at different times to heat the smokeable
   material 5. The heating regions 10 may be arranged in the heater 3 in any geometric
15 arrangement. However, in the examples shown in the figures, the heating regions
   10 are geometrically arranged in the heater 3 so that different ones of the heating
   regions 10 are arranged to predominately and independently heat different regions
   of the smokeable material 5.
20 For example, referring to figure 2, the heater 3 may comprise a plurality of axially
   aligned heating regions 10. The regions 10 may each comprise an individual
   element of the heater 3.   The heating regions 10 may, for example, all be aligned
   with each other along a longitudinal axis of the heater 3, thus providing a plurality
   of independent heating zones along the length of the heater 3. Each heating region
25 10 may comprise a heating cylinder 10 having a finite length which is significantly
   less than the length of the heater 3 as a whole. The arrangement and features of the
   cylinders 10 are discussed below in terms of heating disks, where each disk has a
   depth which is equivalent to cylinder length. The heating disks 10 are arranged with
   their radial surfaces facing one another along the length of the heater 3.  The radial
30 surfaces of each disk 10 may touch the radial surfaces of its neighbouring disks 10.
   Alternatively, a heat insulating or heat reflecting layer may be present between the
   radial surfaces of the disks 10 so that thermal energy emitted from each one of the
   disks 10 does not substantially heat the neighbouring disks 10 and instead travels

                                              -9
   predominately outwards from the circumferential surface of the disk 10 into the
   heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5. Each disk 10 may have substantially
   the same dimensions as the other disks 10.
 5 In this way, when a particular one of the heating regions 10 is activated, it supplies
   thermal energy to the smokeable material 5 located radially around the heating
   region 10 without substantially heating the remainder of the smokeable material 5.
   For example, referring to figure 2, the heated region of smokeable material 5 may
   comprise a ring of smokeable material 5 located around the heating disk 10 which
10 has been activated. The smokeable material 5 can therefore be heated in
   independent sections, for example rings, where each section corresponds to
   smokeable material 5 located directly around a particular one of the heating regions
   10 and has a mass and volume which is significantly less than the body of
   smokeable material 5 as a whole.
15
   Additionally or alternatively, referring to figure 6, the heater 3 may comprise a
   plurality of elongate, longitudinally extending heating regions 10 positioned at
   different locations around the central longitudinal axis of the heater 3. Although
   shown as being of different lengths in figure 6, the longitudinally extending heating
20 regions 10 may be of substantially the same length so that each extends along
   substantially the whole length of the heater 3. Each heating region 10 may
   comprise, for example, an individual IR heating element 10 such as an IR heating
   filament 10. Optionally, a body of heat insulation or heat reflective material may be
   provided along the central longitudinal axis of the heater 3 so that thermal energy
25 emitted by each heating region 10 travels predominately outwards from the heater 3
   into the heating chamber 4 and thus heats the smokeable material 5. The distance
   between the central longitudinal axis of the heater 3 and each of the heating regions
   10 may be substantially equal. The heating regions 10 may optionally be contained
   in a substantially infra-red and/or heat transparent tube, or other housing, which
30 forms a longitudinal surface of the heater 3. The heating regions 10 may be fixed in
   position relative to the other heating regions 10 inside the tube.

                                             - 10
   In this way, when a particular one of the heating regions 10 is activated, it supplies
   thermal energy to the smokeable material 5 located adjacent to the heating region 10
   without substantially heating the remainder of the smokeable material 5. The
   heated section of smokeable material 5 may comprise a longitudinal section of
 5 smokeable material 5 which lies parallel and directly adjacent to the longitudinal
   heating region 10. Therefore, as with the previous example, the smokeable material
   5 can be heated in independent sections.
   As will be described further below, the heating regions 10 can each be individually
10 and selectively activated.
   The smokeable material 5 may be comprised in a cartridge 11 which can be inserted
   into the heating chamber 4. For example, as shown in figure 1, the cartridge 11 can
   comprise a smokeable material tube 11 which can be inserted around the heater 3 so
15 that the internal surface of the smokeable material tube 11 faces the longitudinal
   surface of the heater 3. The smokeable material tube 11 may be hollow. The
   diameter of the hollow centre of the tube 11 may be substantially equal to, or
   slightly larger than, the diameter of the heater 3 so that the tube 11 is a close fit
   around the heater 3. The length of the cartridge 11 may be approximately equal to
20 the length of the heater 3 so that the heater 3 can heat the cartridge 11 along its
   whole length.
   The housing 7 of the apparatus I may comprise an opening through which the
   cartridge 11 can be inserted into the heating chamber 4. The opening may, for
25 example, comprise a ring-shaped opening located at the housing's second end 9 so
   that the cartridge 11 can be slid into the opening and pushed directly into the
   heating chamber 4. The opening is preferably closed during use of the apparatus I
   to heat the smokeable material 5. Alternatively, a section of the housing 7 at the
   second end 9 is removable from the apparatus I so that the smokeable material 5
30 can be inserted into the heating chamber 4. An example of this is shown in figure
   9. The apparatus I may optionally be equipped with a user-operable smokeable
   material ejection unit, such as an internal mechanism configured to slide used
   smokeable material 5 off and/or away from the heater 3. The used smokeable

                                              - 11
   material 5 may, for example, be pushed back through the opening in the housing 7.
   A new cartridge 11 can then be inserted as required.
   In an alternative configuration of heater 3, the heater 3 comprises a spirally shaped
 5 heater 3. The spirally shaped heater 3 may be configured to screw into the
   smokeable material cartridge 11 and may comprise adjacent, axially-aligned heating
   regions 10 so as to operate in substantially the same manner as described for the
   linear, elongate heater 3 described above.
10 In an alternative configuration of heater 3 and heating chamber 4, the heater 3
   comprises a substantially elongate tube, which may be cylindrical, and the heating
   chamber 4 is located inside the tube 3 rather than around the heater's outside. The
   heater 3 may comprise a plurality of axially-aligned heating sections, which may each
   comprise a heating ring configured to heat smokeable material 5 located radially
15 inwardly from the ring. In this way, the heater 3 is configured to independently
   heat separate sections of smokeable material 5 in the heating chamber 4 in a manner
   similar to the heater 3 described above in relation to figure 2. The heat is applied
   radially inwardly to the smokeable material 5, rather than radially outwardly as
   previously described. An example is shown in figure 21.
20
   Alternatively, referring to figures 7, 8 and 9, a different geometrical configuration of
   heater 3 and smokeable material 5 can be used. More particularly, the heater 3 can
   comprise a plurality of heating regions 10 which extend directly into an elongate
   heating chamber 4 which is divided into sections by the heating regions 10. During
25 use, the heating regions 10 extend directly into an elongate smokeable material
   cartridge 11 or other substantially solid body of smokeable material 5. The
   smokeable material 5 in the heating chamber 4 is thereby divided into discrete
   sections separated from each other by the spaced-apart heating regions 10. The
   heater 3, heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5 may extend together along a
30 central, longitudinal axis of the housing 7. As shown in figures 7 and 9, the heating
   regions 10 may each comprise a projection 10, such as an upstanding heating plate
   10, which extends into the body of smokeable material 5. The projections 10 are
   discussed below in the context of heating plates 10. The principal plane of the

                                              - 12
   heating plates 10 may be substantially perpendicular to the principal longitudinal
   axis of the body of smokeable material 5 and heating chamber 4 and/or housing 7.
   The heating plates 10 may be parallel to one another, as shown in figures 7 and 9.
   Each section of smokeable material 5 is bounded by a main heating surface of a pair
 5 of heating plates 10 located either side of the smokeable material section, so that
   activation of one or both of the heating plates 10 will cause thermal energy to be
   transferred directly into the smokeable material 5. The heating surfaces may be
   embossed to increase the surface area of the heating plate 10 against the smokeable
   material 5. Optionally, each heating plate 10 may comprise a thermally reflective
10 layer which divides the plate 10 into two halves along its principal plane. Each half
   of the plate 10 can thus constitute a separate heating region 10 and may be
   independently activated to heat only the section of smokeable material 5 which lies
   directly against that half of the plate 10, rather than the smokeable material 5 on
   both sides of the plate 10. Adjacent plates 10, or facing portions thereof, may be
15 activated to heat a section of smokeable material 5, which is located between the
   adjacent plates, from substantially opposite sides of the section of smokeable
   material 5.
   The elongate smokeable material cartridge or body 11 can be installed between, and
20 removed from, the heating chamber 4 and heating plates 10 by removing a section
   of the housing 7 at the housing's second end 9, as previously described. The
   heating regions 10 can be individually and selectively activated to heat different
   sections of the smokeable material 5 as required.
25 In this way, when a particular one or pair of the heating regions 10 is activated, it
   supplies thermal energy to the smokeable material 5 located directly adjacent to the
   heating region(s) 10 without substantially heating the remainder of the smokeable
   material 5. The heated section of smokeable material 5 may comprise a radial
   section of smokeable material 5 located between the heating regions 10, as shown in
30 figures 7 to 9.
   The apparatus I may comprise a controller 12, such as a microcontroller 12, which
   is configured to control operation of the apparatus 1. The controller 12 is

                                             - 13
   electronically connected to the other components of the apparatus 1 such as the
   energy source 2 and heater 3 so that it can control their operation by sending and
   receiving signals. The controller 12 is, in particular, configured to control activation
   of the heater 3 to heat the smokeable material 5. For example, the controller 12
 5 may be configured to activate the heater 3, which may comprise selectively
   activating one or more heating regions 10, in response to a user drawing on the
   mouthpiece 6 of the apparatus 1. In this regard, the controller 12 may be in
   communication with a puff sensor 13 via a suitable communicative coupling. The
   puff sensor 13 is configured to detect when a puff occurs at the mouthpiece 6 and,
10 in response, is configured to send a signal to the controller 12 indicative of the puff.
   An electronic signal may be used. The controller 12 may respond to the signal from
   the puff sensor 13 by activating the heater 3 and thereby heating the smokeable
   material 5. The use of a puff sensor 13 to activate the heater 3 is not, however,
   essential and other means for providing a stimulus to activate the heater 3 can
15 alternatively be used. For example, the controller 12 may activate the heater 3 in
   response to another type of activation stimulus such as actuation of a user-operable
   actuator. The volatilized compounds released during heating can then be inhaled by
   the user through the mouthpiece 6. The controller 12 can be located at any suitable
   position within the housing 7. An example position is between the energy source 2
20 and the heater 3/heating chamber 4, as illustrated in figure 3.
   If the heater 3 comprises two or more heating regions 10 as described above, the
   controller 12 may be configured to activate the heating regions 10 in a
   predetermined order or pattern. For example, the controller 12 may be configured
25 to activate the heating regions 10 sequentially along or around the heating chamber
   4. Each activation of a heating region 10 may be in response to detection of a puff
   by the puff sensor 13 or may be triggered in an alternative way, as described further
   below.
30 Referring to figure 10, an example heating method may comprise a first step SI in
   which an activation stimulus such as a first puff is detected followed by a second
   step S2 in which a first section of smokeable material 5 is heated in response to the
   first puff or other activation stimulus. In a third step S3, hermetically salable inlet

                                              - 14
   and outlet valves 24 may be opened to allow air to be drawn through the heating
   chamber 4 and out of the apparatus I through the mouthpiece 6. In a fourth step,
   the valves 24 are closed. These valves 24 are described in more detail below with
   respect to figure 20. In fifth S5, sixth S6, seventh S7 and eighth S8 steps, a second
 5 section of smokeable material 5 may be heated in response to a second activation
   stimulus such as a second puff, with a corresponding opening and closing of the
   heating chamber inlet and outlet valves 24. In ninth S9, tenth S10, eleventh SII and
   twelfth S12 steps, a third section of the smokeable material 5 may be heated in
   response to a third activation stimulus such as a third puff with a corresponding
10 opening and closing of the heating chamber inlet and outlet valves 24, and so on.
   As referred to above, means other than a puff sensor 13 could alternatively be used.
   For example, a user of the apparatus I may actuate a control switch to indicate that
   he/she is taking a new puff. In this way, a fresh section of smokeable material 5
   may be heated to volatilize nicotine and aromatic compounds for each new puff.
15 The number of heating regions 10 and/or independently heatable sections of
   smokeable material 5 may correspond to the number of puffs for which the
   cartridge 11 is intended to be used. Alternatively, each independently heatable
   smokeable material section 5 may be heated by its corresponding heating region(s)
   10 for a plurality of puffs such as two, three or four puffs, so that a fresh section of
20 smokeable material 5 is heated only after a plurality of puffs have been taken whilst
   heating the previous smokeable material section.
   Instead of activating each heating region 10 in response to an individual puff, the
   heating regions 10 may alternatively be activated sequentially, one after the other, in
25 response to a single, initial puff at the mouthpiece 6. For example, the heating
   regions 10 may be activated at regular, predetermined intervals over the expected
   inhalation period for a particular smokeable material cartridge 11.   The inhalation
   period may, for example, be between approximately one and approximately four
   minutes. Therefore, at least the fifth and ninth steps S5, S9 shown in figure 10 are
30 optional. Each heating region 10 may be activated for a predetermined period
   corresponding to the duration of the single or plurality of puffs for which the
   corresponding independently heatable smokeable material section 5 is intended to
   be heated. Once all of the heating regions 10 have been activated for a particular

                                              - 15
   cartridge 11, the controller 12 may be configured to indicate to the user that the
   cartridge 11 should be changed. The controller 12 may, for example, activate an
   indicator light at the external surface of the housing 7.
 5 It will be appreciated that activating individual heating regions 10 in order rather
   than activating the entire heater 3 means that the energy required to heat the
   smokeable material 5 is reduced over what would be required if the heater 3 were
   activated fully over the entire inhalation period of a cartridge 11. Therefore, the
   maximum required power output of the energy source 2 is also reduced. This
10 means that a smaller and lighter energy source 2 can be installed in the apparatus 1.
   The controller 12 may be configured to de-activate the heater 3, or reduce the
   power being supplied to the heater 3, in between puffs. This saves energy and
   extends the life of the energy source 2. For example, upon the apparatus I being
15 switched on by a user or in response to some other stimulus, such as detection of a
   user placing their mouth against the mouthpiece 6, the controller 12 may be
   configured to cause the heater 3, or next heating region 10 to be used to heat the
   smokeable material 5, to be partially activated so that it heats up in preparation to
   volatilize components of the smokeable material 5. The partial activation does not
20 heat the smokeable material 5 to a sufficient temperature to volatilize nicotine. A
   suitable temperature could be below 120'C, such as 100'C or below. An example is
   a temperature between 60'C and 100'C, such as a temperature between 80'C and
   100'C. The temperature may be less than 100'C. In response to detection of a puff
   by the puff sensor 13, the controller 12 can then cause the heater 3 or heating
25 region 10 in question to heat the smokeable material 5 further in order to rapidly
   volatilize the nicotine and other aromatic compounds for inhalation by the user. If
   the smokeable material 5 comprises tobacco, a suitable temperature for volatilizing
   the nicotine and other aromatic compounds may be 100'C or above, such as 120'C
   or above. An example is a temperature between 100'C and 250'C, such as between
30 100'C and 220'C, between 100'C and 200'C, between 150'C and 250'C or between
   130'C and 180'C. The temperature may be more than 100'C. An example full
   activation temperature is 150'C, although other values such as 250'C are also
   possible. A super-capacitor can optionally be used to provide the peak current used

                                             - 16
   to heat the smokeable material 5 to the volatization temperature. An example of a
   suitable heating pattern is shown in figure 12, in which the peaks may respectively
   represent the full activation of different heating regions 10. As can be seen, the
   smokeable material 5 is maintained at the volatization temperature for the
 5 approximate period of the puff which, in this example, is two seconds.
   Three example operational modes of the heater 3 are described below.
   In a first operational mode, during full activation of a particular heating region 10,
10 all other heating regions 10 of the heater are deactivated. Therefore, when a new
   heating region 10 is activated, the previous heating region is deactivated. Power is
   supplied only to the activated region 10.
   Alternatively, in a second operational mode, during full activation of a particular
15 heating region 10, one or more of the other heating regions 10 may be partially
   activated. Partial activation of the one or more other heating regions 10 may
   comprise heating the other heating region(s) 10 to a temperature which is sufficient
   to substantially prevent condensation of components such as nicotine volatized
   from the smokeable material 5 in the heating chamber 4. The temperature of the
20 heating regions 10 which are partially activated is less than the temperature of the
   heating region 10 which is fully activated. The smokeable material 10 located
   adjacent the partially activated regions 10 is not heated to a temperature sufficient
   to volatize components of the smokeable material 5.
25 Alternatively, in a third operational mode, once a particular heating region 10 has
   been activated, it remains fully activated until the heater 3 is switched off.
   Therefore, the power supplied to the heater 3 incrementally increases as more of the
   heating regions 10 are activated during inhalation from the cartridge 11. As with
   the second mode previously described, the continuing activation of the heating
30 regions 10 substantially prevent condensation of components such as nicotine
   volatized from the smokeable material 5 in the heating chamber 4.

                                              - 17
   The apparatus 1 may comprise a heat shield 3a, which is located between the heater
   3 and the heating chamber 4/smokeable material 5. The heat shield 3a is configured
   to substantially prevent thermal energy from flowing through the heat shield 3a and
   therefore can be used to selectively prevent the smokeable material 5 from being
 5 heated even when the heater 3 is activated and emitting thermal energy. Referring
   to figure 19, the heat shield 3a may, for example, comprise a cylindrical layer of heat
   reflective material which is located co-axially around the heater 3.   Alternatively, if
   the heater 3 is located around the heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5 as
   previously described, the heat shield 3a may comprise a cylindrical layer of heat
10 reflective material which is located co-axially around the heating chamber 4 and co
   axially inside of the heater 3. The heat shield 3a may additionally or alternatively
   comprise a heat-insulating layer configured to insulate the heater 3 from the
   smokeable material 5. The heat shield 3a comprises a substantially heat-transparent
   window 3b which allows thermal energy to propagate through the window 3b and
15 into the heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5. Therefore, the section of
   smokeable material 5 which is aligned with the window 3b is heated whilst the
   remainder of the smokeable material 5 is not. The heat shield 3a and window 3b
   may be rotatable or otherwise moveable with respect to the smokeable material 5 so
   that different sections of the smokeable material 5 can be selectively and
20 individually heated by rotating or moving the heat shield 3a and window 3b. The
   effect is similar to the effect provided by selectively and individually activating the
   heating regions 10 referred to above. For example, the heat shield 3a and window
   3b may be rotated or otherwise moved incrementally in response to a signal from
   the puff detector 13. Additionally or alternatively, the heat shield 3a and window 3b
25 may be rotated or otherwise moved incrementally in response to a predetermined
   heating period having elapsed. Movement or rotation of the heat shield 3a and
   window 3b may be controlled by electronic signals from the controller 12. The
   relative rotation or other movement of the heat shield 3a/window 3b and
   smokeable material 5 may be driven by a stepper motor 3c under the control of the
30 controller 12. This is illustrated in figure 19. Alternatively, the heat shield 3a and
   window 3b may be manually rotated using a user control such as an actuator on the
   housing 7. The heat shield 3a does not need to be cylindrical and may comprise

                                             -  18
   optionally comprise one or more suitably positioned longitudinally extending
   elements and or/plates.
   It will be appreciated that a similar result can be obtained by rotating or moving the
 5 smokeable material 5 relative to the heater 3, heat shield 3a and window 3b. For
   example, the heating chamber 4 may be rotatable around the heater 3. If this is the
   case, the above description relating to movement of the heat shield 3a can be
   applied instead to movement of the heating chamber 4 relative to the heat shield 3a.
10 The heat shield 3a may comprise a coating on the longitudinal surface of the heater
   3. In this case, an area of the heater's surface is left uncoated to form the heat
   transparent window 3b. The heater 3 can be rotated or otherwise moved, for
   example under the control of the controller 12 or user controls, to cause different
   sections of the smokeable material 5 to be heated. Alternatively, the heat shield 3a
15 and window 3b may comprise a separate shield 3a which is rotatable or otherwise
   moveable relative to both the heater 3 and the smokeable material 5 under the
   control of the controller 12 or other user controls.
   Referring to figure 6, the apparatus I may comprise air inlets 14 which allow
20 external air to be drawn into the housing 7 and through the heated smokeable
   material 5 during puffing. The air inlets 14 may comprise apertures 14 in the
   housing 7 and may be located upstream from the smokeable material 5 and heating
   chamber 4 towards the first end 8 of the housing 7. This is shown in figure 1.
   Another example is shown in figure 11.      Air drawn in through the inlets 14 travels
25 through the heated smokeable material 5 and therein is enriched with smokeable
   material vapours, such as aroma vapours, before being inhaled by the user at the
   mouthpiece 6.    Optionally, as shown in figure 11, the apparatus I may comprise a
   heat exchanger 15 configured to warm the air before it enters the smokeable
   material 5 and/or to cool the air before it is drawn through the mouthpiece 6.     For
30 example, the heat exchanger 15 may be configured to use heat extracted from the air
   entering the mouthpiece 6 to warm new air before it enters the smokeable material
   5.

                                            - 19
   The apparatus 1 may comprise a smokeable material compressor 16 configured to
   cause the smokeable material 5 to compress upon activation of the compressor 16.
   The apparatus I can also comprise a smokeable material expander 17 configured to
   cause the smokeable material 5 to expand upon activation of the expander 17. The
 5 compressor 16 and expander 17 may, in practice, be implemented as the same unit
   as will be explained below. The smokeable material compressor 16 and expander 17
   may optionally operate under the control of the controller 12. In this case, the
   controller 12 is configured to send a signal, such as an electrical signal, to the
   compressor 16 or expander 17 which causes the compressor 16 or expander 17 to
10 respectively compress or expand the smokeable material 5. Alternatively, the
   compressor 16 and expander 17 may be actuated by a user of the apparatus I using
   a manual control on the housing 7 to compress or expand the smokeable material 5
   as required.
15 The compressor 16 is principally configured to compress the smokeable material 5
   and thereby increase its density during heating. Compression of the smokeable
   material increases the thermal conductivity of the body of smokeable material 5 and
   therefore provides a more rapid heating and consequent rapid volatization of
   nicotine and other aromatic compounds. This is preferable because it allows the
20 nicotine and aromatics to be inhaled by the user without substantial delay in
   response to detection of a puff. Therefore, the controller 12 may activate the
   compressor 16 to compress the smokeable material 5 for a predetermined heating
   period, for example one second, in response to detection of a puff. The
   compressor 16 may be configured to reduce its compression of the smokeable
25 material 5, for example under the control of the controller 12, after the
   predetermined heating period. Alternatively, the compression may be reduced or
   automatically ended in response to the smokeable material 5 reaching a
   predetermined threshold temperature.     A suitable threshold temperature may be in
   the range of approximately 100C to 250'C, such as between 100C and 220'C,
30 between 150'C and 250'C, between 100 C and 200C or between 130'C and 180'C.
   The threshold temperature may be above 100C, such as a value above 120'C, and
   may be user selectable.  A temperature sensor may be used to detect the
   temperature of the smokeable material 5.

                                             - 20
   The expander 17 is principally configured to expand the smokeable material 5 and
   thereby decrease its density during puffing. The arrangement of smokeable material
   5 in the heating chamber 4 becomes more loose when the smokeable material 5 has
   been expanded and this aids the gaseous flow, for example air from the inlets 14,
 5 through the smokeable material 5. The air is therefore more able to carry the
   volatilized nicotine and aromatics to the mouthpiece 6 for inhalation. The
   controller 12 may activate the expander 17 to expand the smokeable material 5
   immediately following the compression period referred to above so that air can be
   drawn more freely through the smokeable material 5. Actuation of the expander 17
10 may be accompanied by a user-audible sound or other indication to indicate to the
   user that the smokeable material 5 has been heated and that puffing can commence.
   Referring to figures 13 and 14, the compressor 16 and expander 17 may comprise a
   spring-actuated driving rod which is configured to compress the smokeable material
15 5 in the heating chamber 4 when the spring is released from compression. This is
   schematically illustrated in figures 13 and 14, although it will be appreciated that
   other implementations could be used. For example, the compressor 16 may
   comprise a ring, having a thickness approximately equal to the tubular-shaped
   heating chamber 4 described above, which is driven by a spring or other means into
20 the heating chamber 4 to compress the smokeable material 5. Alternatively, the
   compressor 16 may be comprised as part of the heater 3 so that the heater 3 itself is
   configured to compress and expand the smokeable material 5 under the control of
   the controller 12. For example, where the heater 3 comprises upstanding heating
   plates 10 of the type previously described, the plates 10 may be independently
25 moveable in a longitudinal direction of the heater 3 to expand or compress the
   sections of smokeable material 5 which are located adjacent to them. A method of
   compressing and expanding the smokeable material 5 is shown in figure 15.
   Thermal insulation 18 may be provided between the smokeable material 5 and an
30 external surface 19 of the housing 7 to reduce heat loss from the apparatus I and
   therefore improve the efficiency with which the smokeable material 5 is heated. For
   example, referring to figure 1, a wall of the housing 7 may comprise a layer of
   insulation 18 which extends around the outside of the heating chamber 4. The

                                              -21
   insulation layer 18 may comprise a substantially tubular length of insulation 18
   located co-axially around the heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5. This is
   shown in figure 1. Another example is shown in figure 21. It will be appreciated
   that the insulation 18 could also be comprised as part of the smokeable material
 5 cartridge 11, in which it would be located co-axially around the outside of the
   smokeable material 5.
   Referring to figure 16, the insulation 18 may comprise vacuum insulation 18. For
   example, the insulation 18 may comprise a layer which is bounded by a wall material
10 19 such as a metallic material. An internal region or core 20 of the insulation 18
   may comprise an open-cell porous material, for example comprising polymers,
   aerogels or other suitable material, which is evacuated to a low pressure. The
   pressure in the internal region 20 may be in the range of 0.1 to 0.001 mbar. The
   wall 19 of the insulation 18 is sufficiently strong to withstand the force exerted
15 against it due to the pressure differential between the core 20 and external surfaces
   of the wall 19, thereby preventing the insulation 18 from collapsing. The wall 19
   may, for example, comprise a stainless steel wall 19 having a thickness of
   approximately 100gm. The thermal conductivity of the insulation 18 may be in the
   range of 0.004 to 0.005 W/mK. The heat transfer coefficient of the insulation 18
20 may be between approximately 1.10 W/(m 2 K) and approximately 1.40 W/(m 2K)
   within a temperature range of between 100'C and 250'C, such as between
   approximately 150 degrees Celsius and approximately 250 degrees Celsius. The
   gaseous conductivity of the insulation 18 is negligible. A reflective coating may be
   applied to the internal surfaces of the wall material 19 to minimize heat losses due
25 to radiation propagating through the insulation 18. The coating may, for example,
   comprise an aluminium IR reflective coating having a thickness of between
   approximately 0.3gm and 1.0gm. The evacuated state of the internal core region 20
   means that the insulation 18 functions even when the thickness of the core region
   20 is very small. The insulating properties are substantially unaffected by its
30 thickness. This helps to reduce the overall size of the apparatus 1.
   As shown in figure 16, the wall 19 may comprise an inwardly-facing section 21 and
   an outwardly-facing section 22. The inwardly-facing section 21 substantially faces

                                              - 22
   the smokeable material 5 and heating chamber 4. The outwardly-facing section 22
   substantially faces the exterior of the housing 7. During operation of the apparatus
   1, the inwardly-facing section 21 may be warmer due to the thermal energy
   originating from the heater 3, whilst the outwardly-facing section 22 is cooler due to
 5 the effect of the insulation 18. The inwardly-facing section 21 and the outwardly
   facing section 22 may, for example, comprise substantially parallel longitudinally
   extending walls 19 which are at least as long as the heater 3. The internal surface of
   the outwardly-facing wall section 22, i.e. the surface facing the evacuated core
   region 20, may comprise a coating for absorbing gas in the core 20. A suitable
10 coating is a titanium oxide film.
   The thermal insulation 18 may comprise hyper-deep vacuum insulation such as an
   Insulon@ Shaped-Vacuum Thermal Barrier as described in US 7,374,063. The
   overall thickness of such insulation 18 may be extremely small. An example
15 thickness is between approximately 1mm and approximately 1 tm, such as
   approximately 0.1mm, although other larger or smaller thicknesses are also possible.
   The thermally insulating properties of the insulation 18 are substantially unaffected
   by its thickness and therefore thin insulation 18 can be used without any substantial
   additional heat loss from the apparatus 1. The very small thickness of the thermal
20 insulation 18 may allow the size of the housing 7 and apparatus 1 as a whole to be
   reduced beyond the sizes previously discussed and may allow the thickness, for
   example the diameter, of the apparatus I to be approximately equal to smoking
   articles such as cigarettes, cigars and cigarillos. The weight of the apparatus I may
   also be reduced, providing similar benefits to the size reductions discussed above.
25
   Although the thermal insulation 18 described previously may comprise a gas
   absorbing material to maintain or aid with creation of the vacuum in the core region
   20, a gas absorbing material is not used in the deep-vacuum insulation 18. The
   absence of the gas absorbing material aids with keeping the thickness of the
30 insulation 18 very low and thus helps to reduce the overall size of the apparatus 1.
   The geometry of the hyper-deep insulation 18 allows the vacuum in the insulation
   to be deeper than the vacuum used to extract molecules from the core region 20 of

                                             - 23
   the insulation 18 during manufacture. For example, the deep vacuum inside the
   insulation 18 may be deeper than that of the vacuum-furnace chamber in which it is
   created. The vacuum inside the insulation 18 may, for example, be of the order 10'
   Torr. Referring to figure 22, an end of the core region 20 of the deep-vacuum
 5 insulation 18 may taper as the outwardly facing section 22 and inwardly facing
   section 21 converge to an outlet 25 through which gas in the core region 20 may be
   evacuated to create a deep vacuum during manufacture of the insulation 18. Figure
   22 illustrates the outwardly facing section 22 converging towards the inwardly facing
   section 21 but a converse arrangement, in which the inwardly facing section 21
10 converges to the outwardly facing section 22, could alternatively be used. The
   converging end of the insulating wall 19 is configured to guide gas molecules in the
   core region 20 out of the outlet 25 and thereby create a deep vacuum in the core 20.
   The outlet 25 is salable so as to maintain a deep vacuum in the core region 20 after
   the region 20 has been evacuated. The outlet 25 can be sealed, for example, by
15 creating a brazed seal at the outlet 25 by heating brazing material at the outlet 25
   after gas has been evacuated from the core 20. Alternative sealing techniques could
   be used.
   In order to evacuate the core region 20, the insulation 18 may be placed in a low
20 pressure, substantially evacuated environment such as a vacuum furnace chamber so
   that gas molecules in the core region 20 flow into the low pressure environment
   outside the insulation 18. When the pressure inside the core region 20 becomes
   low, the tapered geometry of the core region 20, and in particular the converging
   sections 21, 22 referred to above, becomes influential in guiding remaining gas
25 molecules out the core 20 via the outlet 25. Specifically, when the gas pressure in
   the core region 20 is low, the guiding effect of the converging inwardly and
   outwardly facing sections 21, 22 is effective to channel the remaining gas molecules
   inside the core 20 towards the outlet 25 and make the probability of gas exiting the
   core 20 higher than the probability of gas entering the core 20 from the external,
30 low pressure environment. In this way, the geometry of the core 20 allows the
   pressure inside the core 20 to be reduced below the pressure of the environment
   outside the insulation 18.

                                               - 24
   Optionally, as previously described, one or more low emissivity coatings may be
   present on the internal surfaces of the inwardly and outwardly facing sections 21, 22
   of the wall 19 in order to substantially prevent heat losses by radiation.
 5 Although the shape of the insulation 18 is generally described herein as substantially
   cylindrical or similar, the thermal insulation 18 could be another shape, for example
   in order to accommodate and insulate a different configuration of the apparatus I
   such as different shapes and sizes of heating chamber 4, heater 3, housing 7 or
   energy source 2. For example, the size and shape of deep-vacuum insulation 18
10 such as an Insulon@ Shaped-Vacuum Thermal Barrier referred to above is
   substantially unlimited by its manufacturing process. Suitable materials for forming
   the converging structure described above include ceramics, metals, metalloids and
   combinations of these.
15 Referring to the schematic illustration in figure 17, a thermal bridge 23 may connect
   the inwardly-facing wall section 21 to the outwardly-facing wall section 22 at one or
   more edges of the insulation 18 in order to completely encompass and contain the
   low pressure core 20. The thermal bridge 23 may comprise a wall 19 formed of the
   same material as the inwardly and outwardly-facing sections 21, 22. A suitable
20 material is stainless steel, as previously discussed. The thermal bridge 23 has a
   greater thermal conductivity than the insulating core 20 and therefore may
   undesirably conduct heat out of the apparatus I and, in doing so, reduce the
   efficiency with which the smokeable material 5 is heated.
25 To reduce heat losses due to the thermal bridge 23, the thermal bridge 23 may be
   extended to increase its resistance to heat flow from the inwardly-facing section 21
   to the outwardly-facing section 22. This is schematically illustrated in figure 18.
   For example, the thermal bridge 23 may follow an indirect path between the
   inwardly-facing section 21 of wall 19 and the outwardly-facing section 22 of wall 19.
30 This may be facilitated by providing the insulation 18 over a longitudinal distance
   which is longer than the lengths of the heater 3, heating chamber 4 and smokeable
   material 5 so that the thermal bridge 23 can gradually extend from the inwardly
   facing section 21 to the outwardly-facing section 22 along the indirect path, thereby

                                            - 25
   reducing the thickness of the core 20 to zero, at a longitudinal location in the
   housing 7 where the heater 3, heating chamber 4 and smokeable material 5 are not
   present.
 5 Referring to figure 20, as previously discussed, the heating chamber 4 insulated by
   the insulation 18 may comprise inlet and outlet valves 24 which hermetically seal the
   heating chamber 4 when closed. The valves 24 can thereby prevent air from
   undesirably entering and exiting the chamber 4 and can prevent smokeable material
   flavours from exiting the chamber 4. The inlet and outlet values 24 may, for
10 example, be provided in the insulation 18.    For example, between puffs, the valves
   24 may be closed by the controller 12 so that all volatilized substances remain
   contained inside the chamber 4 in-between puffs. The partial pressure of the
   volatized substances between puffs reaches the saturated vapour pressure and the
   amount of evaporated substances therefore depends only on the temperature in the
15 heating chamber 4. This helps to ensure that the delivery of volatilized nicotine and
   aromatic compounds remains constant from puff to puff. During puffing, the
   controller 12 is configured to open the valves 24 so that air can flow through the
   chamber 4 to carry volatilized smokeable material components to the mouthpiece 6.
   A membrane can be located in the valves 24 to ensure that no oxygen enters the
20 chamber 4. The valves 24 may be breath-actuated so that the valves 24 open in
   response to detection of a puff at the mouthpiece 6. The valves 24 may close in
   response to a detection that a puff has ended. Alternatively, the valves 24 may close
   following the elapse of a predetermined period after their opening. The
   predetermined period may be timed by the controller 12.      Optionally, a mechanical
25 or other suitable opening/closing means may be present so that the valves 24 open
   and close automatically.   For example, the gaseous movement caused by a user
   puffing on the mouthpiece 6 may be used to open and close the valves 24.
   Therefore, the use of the controller 12 is not necessarily required to actuate the
   valves 24.
30
   The mass of the smokeable material 5 which is heated by the heater 3, for example
   by each heating region 10, may be in the range of 0.2 to 1.0g. The temperature to
   which the smokeable material 5 is heated may be user controllable, for example to

                                             - 26
   any temperature within the temperature range of 100'C to 250'C, such as any
   temperature within the range of 150'C to 250'C and the other volatizing
   temperature ranges previously described. The mass of the apparatus I as a whole
   may be in the range of 70 to 12 5g. A battery 2 with a capacity of 1000 to 3000mAh
 5 and voltage of 3.7V can be used. The heating regions 10 may be configured to
   individually and selectively heat between approximately 10 and 40 sections of
   smokeable material 5 for a single cartridge 11.
   It will be appreciated that any of the alternatives described above can be used singly
10 or in combination. For example, as discussed above, the heater 3 may be located
   around the outside of the smokeable material 5 rather than the smokeable material 5
   being located around the heater 3. The heater 3 may therefore circumscribe the
   smokeable material 5 to apply heat to the smokeable material 5 in a substantially
   radially inward direction.
15
   In order to address various issues and advance the art, the entirety of this disclosure
   shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed invention(s)
   may be practiced and provide for superior apparatus. The advantages and features
   of the disclosure are of a representative sample of embodiments only, and are not
20 exhaustive and/or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and
   teach the claimed features. It is to be understood that advantages, embodiments,
   examples, functions, features, structures, and/or other aspects of the disclosure are
   not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or
   limitations on equivalents to the claims, and that other embodiments may be utilised
25 and modifications may be made without departing from the scope and/or spirit of
   the disclosure. Various embodiments may suitably comprise, consist of, or consist
   essentially of, various combinations of the disclosed elements, components,
   features, parts, steps, means, etc. In addition, the disclosure includes other
   inventions not presently claimed, but which may be claimed in future.
30

                                           - 27
   Claims
    1.    An apparatus configured to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least
   one component of the smokeable material, wherein the apparatus comprises a
 5 region of insulation having a core region which is evacuated to a lower pressure
   than an exterior of the insulation, wherein the core region comprises a deep
   vacuum.
   2.     An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the vacuum is a hyper deep
10 vacuum.
   3.     An apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the insulation is
   located between a smokeable material heating chamber and an exterior of the
   apparatus to reduce heat loss from heated smokeable material.
15
   4.     An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the insulation is located co
   axially around the heating chamber.
   5.     An apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the smokeable
20 material heating chamber comprises a substantially tubular heating chamber and
   the insulation is located around a longitudinal surface of the tubular heating
   chamber.
   6.     An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the insulation comprises a
25 substantially tubular body of insulation located around the heating chamber.
   7.     An apparatus according to any of claims 3 to 6, wherein the smokeable
   material heating chamber is located between the insulation and a heater.
30 8.     An apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein a heater is located
   between the smokeable material heating chamber and the insulation.

                                           - 28
   9.      An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the insulation is located
   externally of the heater.
   10.     An apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the heater is
 5 located co-axially around the heating chamber and the insulation is located co
   axially around the heater.
   11.     An apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the insulation
   comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective material to reduce the propagation of
10 infra-red radiation through the insulation.
   12.     An apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the insulation
   comprises an exterior wall which encloses the core region.
15 13.     An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein an internal surface of the
   wall comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective coating to reflect infra-red
   radiation within the core region.
   14.     An apparatus according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the wall
20 comprises a layer of stainless steel having a thickness of at least approximately
   100 microns.
   15.     An apparatus according to any of claims 12 to 14, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region are connected by a joining wall section which
25 follows an indirect path between the wall sections either side of the core region.
   16.     An apparatus according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region converge to a sealed gas outlet.
30 17.     An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said wall sections converge
   in an end region of the insulation.

                                           - 29
    18.   An apparatus according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein a thickness of
   the insulation is less than approximately 1mm.
    19.   An apparatus according claim 16 or claim 17, wherein a thickness of the
 5 insulation is less than approximately 0.1mm.
   20.    An apparatus according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein a thickness of
   the insulation is between approximately 1mm and 0.001mm.
10 21.    An apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 20, wherein a heat transfer
   coefficient of the insulation is between approximately 1. 10 W/(m 2K) and
   approximately 1.40 W/(m 2 K) when a temperature of the insulation is in a range
   of from 100 degrees Celsius to 250 degrees Celsius.
15 22.    An apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 21, wherein the core region
   comprises a porous material.
   23.    An apparatus according to any of claims I to 22, wherein the apparatus is
   configured to heat the smokeable material using an electrically-powered heater.
20
   24.    An apparatus according to any of claims I to 23, wherein the apparatus is
   configured to heat the smokeable material without combusting the smokeable
   material.
25 25.    An apparatus configured to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least
   one component of the smokeable material, wherein the apparatus comprises a
   region of insulation having a core region which is evacuated to a lower pressure
   than an exterior of the insulation, wherein a thickness of the insulation is less
   than approximately 1mm.
30
   26.    An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the thickness of the
   insulation is less than approximately 0.1mm.

                                           - 30
   27.     An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the thickness of the
   insulation is between approximately 1mm and 0.001mm.
   28.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 27, wherein the insulation
 5 is located between a smokeable material heating chamber and an exterior of the
   apparatus to reduce heat loss from heated smokeable material.
   29.     An apparatus according to claim 28, wherein the insulation is located co
   axially around the heating chamber.
10
   30.     An apparatus according to claim 28 or claim 29, wherein the smokeable
   material heating chamber comprises a substantially tubular heating chamber and
   the insulation is located around a longitudinal surface of the tubular heating
   chamber.
15
   31.     An apparatus according to claim 30, wherein the insulation comprises a
   substantially tubular body of insulation located around the heating chamber.
   32.     An apparatus according to any of claims 28 to 31, wherein the smokeable
20 material heating chamber is located between the insulation and a heater.
   33.     An apparatus according to claim 28 or claim 29, wherein a heater is
   located between the smokeable material heating chamber and the insulation.
25 34.     An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the insulation is located
   externally of the heater.
   35.     An apparatus according to claim 33 or claim 34, wherein the heater is
   located co-axially around the heating chamber and the insulation is located co
30 axially around the heater.

                                           -31
   36.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 35, wherein the insulation
   comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective material to reduce the propagation of
   infra-red radiation through the insulation.
 5 37.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 36, wherein the core region
   comprises a deep vacuum.
   38.     An apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the vacuum is a hyper deep
   vacuum.
10
   39.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 38, wherein the insulation
   comprises an exterior wall which encloses the core region.
   40.     An apparatus according to claim 39, wherein an internal surface of the
15 wall comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective coating to reflect infra-red
   radiation within the core region.
   41.     An apparatus according to claim 39 or claim 40, wherein the wall
   comprises a layer of stainless steel having a thickness of at least approximately
20 100 microns.
   42.     An apparatus according to any of claims 39 to 41, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region are connected by a joining wall section which
   follows an indirect path between the wall sections either side of the core region.
25
   43.     An apparatus according to claim 39 or claim 40, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region converge to a sealed gas outlet.
   44.     An apparatus according to claim 43, wherein said wall sections converge
30 in an end region of the insulation.

                                           - 32
   45.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 44, wherein a pressure in
   the core region is between approximately 0.1 and approximately 0.001 mbar.
   46.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 44, wherein a pressure in
 5 the core region is of the order 10- Torr.
   47.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 46, wherein a heat transfer
   coefficient of the insulation is between approximately 1.10 W/(m 2 K) and
   approximately 1.40 W/(m 2 K) when a temperature of the insulation is in a range
10 of from 100 degrees Celsius to 250 degrees Celsius.
   48.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 47, wherein the core region
   comprises a porous material.
15 49.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 48, wherein the apparatus is
   configured to heat the smokeable material using an electrically-powered heater.
   50.     An apparatus according to any of claims 25 to 49, wherein the apparatus is
   configured to heat the smokeable material without combusting the smokeable
20 material.
   51.     An apparatus configured to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least
   one component of the smokeable material, wherein the apparatus comprises a
   region of insulation having a core region which is evacuated to a lower pressure
25 than an exterior of the insulation and comprising a smokeable material heating
   chamber, the smokeable material heating chamber comprising a substantially
   tubular heating chamber which is open at both ends, the smokeable material
   heating chamber being constructed and arranged to removably receive smokeable
   material which is insertable by a user into the smokeable material heating
30 chamber and removable from the smokeable material heating chamber by the user
   after use.

                                              - 33
   52.     An apparatus according to claim 51, comprising a housing which has at
   least one air inlet, the at least one air inlet being located upstream of the
   smokeable material heating chamber, whereby in use air can enter the at least one
   air inlet, enter into the smokeable material heating chamber at a first end, pass
 5 through the smokeable material heating chamber and exit the smokeable material
   heating chamber at a second end.
   53.     An apparatus according to claim 51 or claim 52, wherein the insulation is
   located between the smokeable material heating chamber and an exterior of the
10 apparatus to reduce heat loss from heated smokeable material.
   54.     An apparatus according to claim 53, wherein the insulation is located co
   axially around the heating chamber.
15 55.     An apparatus according to claim 53 or claim 54, wherein the insulation is
   located around a longitudinal surface of the tubular heating chamber.
   56.     An apparatus according to claim 55, wherein the insulation comprises a
   substantially tubular body of insulation located around the heating chamber.
20
   57.     An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 56, wherein the smokeable
   material heating chamber is located between the insulation and a heater.
   58.     An apparatus according to claim 53 or claim 54, wherein a heater is
25 located between the smokeable material heating chamber and the insulation.
   59.     An apparatus according to claim 58, wherein the insulation is located
   externally of the heater.
30 60.     An apparatus according to claim 58 or claim 59, wherein the heater is
   located co-axially around the heating chamber and the insulation is located co
   axially around the heater.

                                           - 34
   61.     An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 60, wherein the insulation
   comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective material to reduce the propagation of
   infra-red radiation through the insulation.
 5 62.     An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 61, wherein the core region
   comprises a deep vacuum.
   63.     An apparatus according to claim 62, wherein the vacuum is a hyper deep
   vacuum.
10
   64.     An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 63, wherein the insulation
   comprises an exterior wall which encloses the core region.
   65.     An apparatus according to claim 64, wherein an internal surface of the
15 wall comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective coating to reflect infra-red
   radiation within the core region.
   66.     An apparatus according to claim 64 or claim 65, wherein the wall
   comprises a layer of stainless steel having a thickness of at least approximately
20 100 microns.
   67.     An apparatus according to any of claims 64 to 66, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region are connected by a joining wall section which
   follows an indirect path between the wall sections either side of the core region.
25
   68.     An apparatus according to claim 64 or claim 65, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region converge to a sealed gas outlet.
   69.     An apparatus according to claim 68, wherein said wall sections converge
30 in an end region of the insulation.

                                           - 35
   70.    An apparatus according to claim 68 or claim 69, wherein a thickness of
   the insulation is less than approximately 1mm.
   71.    An apparatus according claim 68 or claim 69, wherein a thickness of the
 5 insulation is less than approximately 0.1mm.
   72.    An apparatus according to claim 68 or claim 69, wherein a thickness of
   the insulation is between approximately 1mm and 0.001mm.
10 73.    An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 72, wherein a pressure in
   the core region is between approximately 0.1 and approximately 0.00 1 mbar.
   74.    An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 72, wherein a pressure in
   the core region is of the order 10- Torr.
15
   75.    An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 74, wherein a heat transfer
   coefficient of the insulation is between approximately 1. 10 W/(m 2K) and
   approximately 1.40 W/(m 2K) when a temperature of the insulation is in a range
   of from 100 degrees Celsius to 250 degrees Celsius.
20
   76.    An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 75, wherein the core region
   comprises a porous material.
   77.    An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 76, wherein the apparatus is
25 configured to heat the smokeable material using an electrically-powered heater.
   78.    An apparatus according to any of claims 51 to 77, wherein the apparatus is
   configured to heat the smokeable material without combusting the smokeable
   material.
30
   79.    An apparatus configured to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least
   one component of the smokeable material, wherein the apparatus comprises a

                                           - 36
   region of insulation having a core region which is evacuated to a lower pressure
   than an exterior of the insulation, a wall of the region of insulation which defines
   the core region having a coating for absorbing gas in the core region.
 5 80.     An apparatus according to claim 79, wherein the coating for absorbing gas
   in the core region comprises titanium oxide.
   81.     An apparatus according to claim 79 or claim 80, wherein the insulation is
   located between a smokeable material heating chamber and an exterior of the
10 apparatus to reduce heat loss from heated smokeable material.
   82.     An apparatus according to claim 81, wherein the insulation is located co
   axially around the heating chamber.
15 83.     An apparatus according to claim 81 or claim 82, wherein the smokeable
   material heating chamber comprises a substantially tubular heating chamber and
   the insulation is located around a longitudinal surface of the tubular heating
   chamber.
20 84.     An apparatus according to claim 83, wherein the insulation comprises a
   substantially tubular body of insulation located around the heating chamber.
   85.     An apparatus according to any of claims 81 to 84, wherein the smokeable
   material heating chamber is located between the insulation and a heater.
25
   86.     An apparatus according to claim 81 or claim 82, wherein a heater is
   located between the smokeable material heating chamber and the insulation.
   87.     An apparatus according to claim 86, wherein the insulation is located
30 externally of the heater.

                                           - 37
   88.     An apparatus according to claim 86 or claim 87, wherein the heater is
   located co-axially around the heating chamber and the insulation is located co
   axially around the heater.
 5 89.     An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 88, wherein the insulation
   comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective material to reduce the propagation of
   infra-red radiation through the insulation.
   90.     An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 89, wherein the core region
10 comprises a deep vacuum.
   91.     An apparatus according to claim 90, wherein the vacuum is a hyper deep
   vacuum.
15 92.     An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 91, wherein the insulation
   comprises an exterior wall which encloses the core region.
   93.     An apparatus according to claim 92, wherein an internal surface of the
   wall comprises an infra-red radiation-reflective coating to reflect infra-red
20 radiation within the core region.
   94.     An apparatus according to claim 92 or claim 93, wherein the wall
   comprises a layer of stainless steel having a thickness of at least approximately
   100 microns.
25
   95.     An apparatus according to any of claims 92 to 94, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region are connected by a joining wall section which
   follows an indirect path between the wall sections either side of the core region.
30 96.     An apparatus according to claim 92 or claim 93, wherein wall sections
   either side of the core region converge to a sealed gas outlet.

                                           - 38
   97.     An apparatus according to claim 96, wherein said wall sections converge
   in an end region of the insulation.
   98.     An apparatus according to claim 96 or claim 97, wherein a thickness of
 5 the insulation is less than approximately 1mm.
   99.     An apparatus according claim 96 or claim 97, wherein a thickness of the
   insulation is less than approximately 0.1mm.
10  100.   An apparatus according to claim 96 or claim 97, wherein a thickness of
   the insulation is between approximately 1mm and 0.001mm.
    101.   An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 100, wherein a pressure in
   the core region is between approximately 0.1 and approximately 0.001 mbar.
15
    102.   An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 100, wherein a pressure in
   the core region is of the order 10- Torr.
    103.   An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 102, wherein a heat transfer
20 coefficient of the insulation is between approximately 1.10 W/(m 2 K) and
   approximately 1.40 W/(m 2 K) when a temperature of the insulation is in a range
   of from 100 degrees Celsius to 250 degrees Celsius.
    104.   An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 103, wherein the core
25 region comprises a porous material.
    105.   An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 104, wherein the apparatus
   is configured to heat the smokeable material using an electrically-powered
   heater.
30

                                             - 39
    106.   An apparatus according to any of claims 79 to 105, wherein the apparatus
   is configured to heat the smokeable material without combusting the smokeable
   material.
 5  107.   An apparatus configured to heat smokeable material to volatilize at least
   one component of the smokeable material, the apparatus comprising:
           a housing;
           a smokeable material heating chamber within the housing, the heating
   chamber being hollow tubular and constructed and arranged to removably receive
10 smokeable material which is insertable by a user into the smokeable material
   heating chamber and removable from the smokeable material heating chamber by
   the user after use;
           at least one heater within the housing, the at least one heater being
   constructed and arranged to heat smokeable material received in use in the
15 smokeable material heating chamber so as to volatilize at least one component of
   the smokeable material without combusting the smokeable material;
           insulation having a core that is evacuated to a lower pressure than an
   exterior of the insulation;
           a controller configured to control activation of the at least one heater; and
20         the housing having at least one air inlet, the at least one air inlet being
   located upstream of the smokeable material heating chamber, whereby in use air
   can enter the at least one air inlet, enter into the smokeable material heating
   chamber at a first end, pass through the smokeable material heating chamber and
   exit the smokeable material heating chamber at a second end;
25         wherein the heater is located between the smokeable material heating
   chamber and the insulation; and,
           wherein the insulation is located between the at least one heater and the
   housing.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
