Abstract
The Invention is related to increasing of early strength and final strengths of cements classified
under EN and ASTM as Portland or CEM cements and also related to all clinker employing cements
and to any kinds which employ calcium sulphates for set optimization and is for composing of new
cements by only assessing new methods for production and is for composing of new cements by
only assessing new methods to formation and inclusion of calcium sulphate resources which are
used for set optimization. A new calcium sulphate resource is obtained by employing lower heats
and this input is arranged to different dehydration levels at which they can be most efficient for the
selected use. These different dehydration levels are called intermediate phases of dehydrate or
hemihydrates or called as monohydrate. The Invention clarifies a well defined reactivity power
concept which was not defined by the existing scientific basis. As a result, cements which have much
higher early strengths than the known could be produced.

    WO 2014/129992                                                               PCT/TR2014/000037
    Lower Heat Processed Calcium Sulphates For Early Strength Cements And General Use
 The Invention is related to a specific method of inclusion of calcium sulfates as the main tool of
 set optimization for cements under standards EN or ASTM and all cements involving clinkers, for
 attaining exceptional increase in their early strength and also increase in final strengths. New
 cement product are obtained. Second set of products are new type of gypsums that can be used
 for all uses where known gypsum are used. And thirdly, by using the new calcium sulphates, it is
 obtaining of high strength pozzolan lime binders. To begin with the first aspect; Although the
 activity mechanisms are not clarified fully yet, it is assumed or thought that the calcium sulfates
 effect the strength development (increase) of cements by affecting the micro structures of the
calcium silicate hydrates. What is required in general is introduction of sufficient amount and form
(kind) of calcium sulfates for balancing the reactivity of the aluminate phases. In this manner,
earlier hydration of silicate phases would be provided and the porosity of the system be decreased.
Cement minerals reactions are related to four minerals; Calcium silicate minerals (C 3 S and C2S),
Calcium aluminate / Ferite minerals (C3A ve C4AF) and reactions with additional sulfate ions are
to be mentioned. Hydration of sulfates are required basically for limiting formation of ettrengite
around C3 A and C 4AF hydration process and prevent cutting of their relation with water. In this
manner their reactivity is being reduced (delayed) and permit more of silicate phases attain earlier
strength and thus reduce the porosity of the system. Calcium salts provide speeding of calcium
silicate phases to gain strengths by reducing the concentration of Ca(OH) 2 in the liquid phase of
the cement paste and prevents its sedimentation by getting separated from the solution. If an
appropriate sulfate hydration could not be provided, following the exhausting of sulfates, the
aluminate concentration shall be increasing due to the ongoing hydrations of C3 A and C4AF .The
monosulfate in the hardening paste, when combined with sulfate ions, shall be converting to
ettrengite and expansion by volume and cracks occurs. Since the solubility of hemihydrates is
more, the formation of ettrengite in early stages of hydration gets faster while against this,
formation of C3A slows down. With the decrease of solubility of aluminates in the sulfate bearing
conditions, the heat released becomes to decrease down and this stage is the one where sulfates are
exhausted and the early strengths are formed or determined. Aluminate phases contribute to early
strengths and directly effects final strengths. In the sequence of the time, the main strength
developing factor are silicate phases, C2 S shall be developing in time but C3S hydration rate is
apparently higher and provides faster      strength formation. Although, the discussion is more
concentrated on calcium silicates, it is known that other phases are also important. If verification
and disclosing of the existing knowledge be continued on; Calcium sulfates' effects on cement
hydration is concentrated on false set and instant set discussions. The prevailing application is
                                                1

     WO 2014/129992                                                                PCT/TR2014/000037
  inclusion of 3-5 % of natural gypsum stones or natural anhydrites and gypsum existing together in
  nature to the clinkers at defined stage of their grinding process by providing cooling precautions to
  keep dehydration level at desired amount where some content of hemihydrates and even soluble
  anhydrite shall be forming which are considered as a part of planning which is thought as
  controllable. The main measure criteria of the effect have become to be the S03 quantity (content).
  An. industrial process which received a general acceptance is available also; The calcium sulfate
  optimization studies consists one the main research areas of the cement sector and involves design
  of the desired early and final strenghts, rheology,      workability, set time etc. in nearest to the
  existing needs. These are similar continuous studies at thousands of cement factories. The paralel
  and interground obtaining of calcium sulphate resources along with clinker grinding is complex.
  It is planned that, forming hemihydrates and soluble anhydrites in the hot circumstances of
  grinding are providing easier soluble sulfates to control the preliminary (early) activities of the
  aluminates. If suitable arrangements to control water sprays, which are for cooling, could not be
  obtained false set, early cement hydration, loss in rheology and flowability shall take place and
  strengths losses might also occur. The formation of 40-50 % hemihydrates and soluble anhydrites
  are accepted as an optimum range. The aim is to attain the calcium sulfate content that shall
  regulate optimum strengths and drying shrinkage (and expansion), otherwise excess of S03 causes
  excess expansions. The cement standarts brought limits to         maximum quantity (content) of S03
  .Although mainly tied to SO3 content, solubility factor is of importance as one of underlying
  factors about the general acceptances. The hemihydrates and soluble anhydrites has             higher
  solubility and they should be used for this reason. Solubility is also accepted as a measure of
  reactivity. There is no clear-cut opinion regarding the activity power. On the other hand, there are
  some expressions that, although hemihydrates and soluble anhydrites are more soluble, they are
  having less hydration activity compared to natural gypsum stones, ie the latter provides sulfate
5 ions faster than    hemihydrates. As was mentioned, the hydration process          which involves the
  calcium sulphates also could not be explained fully. The Invention attempts to contribute to these
  deficiencies by approaching from observing of behaviors of calcium sulphates themselves as an
  important considered factor. At each dehydration level, a different calcium sulfate type is being
  obtained and is having different activity or behavior. le the mineral simply mentioned as gypsum,
0 shall provide different clinker calcium sulfate reactions (interactions) for each phase, like humid
  gypsum stones, dry (2.0 mol. water) gypsum, 1.9, 1.8,1.7,,, molecular water gypsum stones.
  According to existing explanations, the hemihydrates are defined by reducing molecular water to
  0.5-0.8 . Should we consider the ones over this range as dehydrates while they are showing
  different characteristics? There are no particles which are not dehydrated in the existing industrial
5 practice. Although we can assume that the clinker can be cooled to some extend and than be
  ground, the existing scale mills shall still drive the heat to undesired levels. Some mills which do
  not create excess heat also are available. Still the basic factor is to decide which phase of gypsum
                                                    2

     WO 2014/129992                                                                  PCT/TR2014/000037
   stones or anhydrites be chosen for grinding. The invention is providing explanations and new
   products and new methods. to       solve and explain the related matters. The Invention's cements
   provides high early strengths in 1st day which are equivalent or higher to 2 nd day strengths of
   known factory cements. Even without requiring ultra fineness, at same fineness the very high
   early strength (ultra) cements    can be obtained. In many of the applications, the final strengths
   are     also carried to higher levels. The     Invention attains     all these by only. arranging the
   introduction of- calcium sulfates. With this property, the Invention can be applied to all the
   known cements and to cements that shall be using calcium sulphates in the future also.
 3 The early strength development factor for cements of nowadays, is becoming to have a crucial
   importance. This area is a critical optimizations area which is to consider expansion, shrinkage,
   hydration temperature, competability to chemical additives etc. Primarily due to construction of
   high    rise buildings, a dependable and sustainable moulding, pouring, de moulding cycles is
   required and due to needs of fast production track and mould using of precast sector's systems,
   having a comfortable flowability, workability and placing, having sufficient work time but
   providing this without critical expansion or shrinkage and provide exceptional 1 st,2"d and           3 rd
   day compressive strengths and continue these in 7th and    1 4 '0 days  also are needed increasingly in
   the cement / concrete market. There are different sequences (processes) which requires speed
   beginning from demoulding to supply transport. The invention proves clearly that calcium sulfates
 ) have relation with these speed demanding processes. In the literature there are some statement by
   few researchers that calcium sulfates may effect early strengths but these are not practically
   classified or explained for needs of industrial     application. When we continue the          practical
   approach, beneath early developing of strengths, contribution to environmental factors are also
   obvious. With this approach, by reducing the clinker use to some extent, and using higher calcium
 5 sulfate contents, the way for attaining highest early strengths is being obtained. According to
   Inventions findings with these approach, Invention's external humidity dried but 2.0 molecular
   water bearing gypsum in combination with natural anhydrites grinding seems to be favorable.
   When existing literature is      employed for explaining the        matters, some valid     aspects are
   determined; When       we examine hydration process of calcium sulfates with water only, it is
 0 known that hemihydrates and soluble anhydrites are at least three times more soluble but this
   capability begins to change while heat begins to approach to 500c and over 500c the comparative
   solubility of hemihydrate to dehydrate diminishes. The initiation of heat increase the diffusion
   rate and    rate of reaction also increases. When the heat of mix water exceeds 1000c, reaction
   cannot proceed and solubility rates of hemihydrates and dehydrate becomes to be equal. We think
15 that this gypsum hydration information involves valid thesis to carry to cement hydration. If
   sufficient   calcium sulphates enough to prevent a permanent instant set, which in practice are
   being supplied by hemihydrates are available, it is clear that an healthy hydration process had
                                                    3

    WO 2014/129992                                                                          PCT/TR2014/000037
  begun. One must be careful that this should not be in an excess not to cause                      false   set or
  formation of excess ettrengite         problems. Knowledge          mentions that hemihydrate and soluble
  anhydrate gets dissolved in the first 60 minutes. On the other hand, high heat calcined anhydrite
  begins to dissolve after   6 0 th  minute and natural anhydrite after    2 4 th hour. Ie, a good distribution of
  works (jobs) could be            provided. Further, if Inventions calcium sulfates are                employed,
  hemihydrates shall be required in far less amounts. Ie, we can think that with increase of cement
  hydration heat, sufficient solubility are attained. According to some researchers, at the end, the
  solubility of gypsum stones and anhydrites are equal in the sense that both of them dissolves but
  anhydrites    dissolves slower and their hydration activity are lower (both rates are thought in
  parallel) and anhydrite provides 26.5 % more of CaSO4 at the end. If we compile the matter, the
  below explanation can be obtained; In first times (in first 60 minutes) since hemihydrates shall
  dissolve first, it might be feasible to employ some hemihydrates to prevent instant set. But, if
  instant set is not present and if your gypsum is providing sufficient solubility, hemihydrates might
  not be needed. If high heat calcined anhydrates are present in the calcium sulfate system, it is
  known that they shall be soluble after      6 0 th minute. The Invention puts dehydrate gypsum stones to
  main role and defines them according to their dehydration levels. Dehydrate gypsums also, with
  effect of hydration heat, shall be dissolving beginning from first hours with increased dissolution
  rhte due to this heat and be        sufficient (capable) to complete the process solely in many cases.
  The assigned anhydrites quantity which shall be dissolving after                 24 h  hour shall be aiding to
  later stages of early strength formation where calcium sulphates needs are apparent also and as
  such, employs good role for completion of later stages of early strength formation. As a result,
  the main role in hydration driving is on dehydrate and hemihydrate and natural anhydrite has
  partial roles. Another     important      finding of the Invention is that monohydrate            gypsums has
  capabilities to substitute dehydrate        gypsums for hydrations that. shall also provide high early
5 strengths. Further, monohydrates are more economical                solutions by substituting hemihydrates
  when such use are -employed. As such, the Invention's findings and existing                     knowledge are
  being considered and interpreted to be combined for support of explanations, As expressed by
  many cement chemist Scientists, the area of effect of calcium sulfates to strengths is a complex
  area. Although the calcium sulphates might affect                 the hydration rate, the more         probable
0 fundamentally is strength changes (differences)                observed are for differences          in binding
  capabilities of hydrates that are -formed. The invention explains how use of calcium sulfates
  methods     directly effects cement hydration and effects development of strengths. The existing
  scientific    insufficiency       or grayness about        activity   power is being clarified. Gypsum,
  hemihydrate and anhydrate are being processed (obtained) according to known applications.
5 According to be Invention, the gypsum concept is special an area defined insufficiently. This
  random gypsum (or hydrated calcium sulfate) concept were consisting of many gypsums which
  changed characteristics and having various kinds that are out of control and sustainability in
                                                        4

     WO 2014/129992                                                                PCT/TR2014/000037
  definition and this makes the matter complex and difficult to be explained. Although some
  sufficient compressive strength under these conditions also are obtained, they are never close to
  Invention's results. In the same manner, the hemihydrates also can be defined according to their
  molecular water levels left and they also have differences. For arranging optimum             gypsum
  content studies, the main difficulty is that you are against countless gypsums. For this reason, the
  matter has been left to practical approaches till to this time.
  The calcium sulfate resources simply defined as gypsum stones and are evaluated              basically
  according to their SO3 level and solubility and impurities and their other properties were not
  evaluated in depth forms the core of the Invention which specifies different behaviors according
  to different dehydration levels and based         on these explains how new cements products be
  obtained. According to Invention, the effect of calcium sulfates to cement hydration and high
  strength development is crucial. This is provided by dehydrates, monohydrate and hemihydrates.
  When especially     1 " and 2 "d day compressive strengths are considered, strengths obtained by
  dehydrates, monohydrates and hemihydrates dehydrated in acertain manner, cannot be attained by
  other known gypsum stones. In context of the Invention, many experiments has been performed.
  In these experiments, as aggregates, the 0-5 mm size random quarry calcium carbonate stones has
  been used. In all experiments cement dosage        has been 450 kg/ m 3 and water cement ratio 0.37
  0.40 has been employed. Cements and clinkers from different- factories has been tested. To
  explain results with concrete examples; When a 42.5 R cement of certain factory is compared
  with Invention's cement made with clinker of that specific cement as ground to same fineness,
  the 2 nd day compressive strengths in the previous were 20-22 Mpa while the latter attained 29
  32 Mpa. No chemicals or grinding aids has been employed at their formation. When Invention's
  cements in tests are explained; The external humidity dried and not dehydrated gypsum stones are
5 them being ground and blended. Effect of every dehydration level is being felt; Heat at which
  dehydration was realized were considerably lower than the known practices, different lower heat
  levels has been tested. Many dehydration stages has been tested and worked in parallel with heat
  factor. These aspects shall be explained in the following sections. Different factories' clinkers has
  been employed and much higher early strengths than that of their own ready to use 42.5 R
0 cements. The Invention's cements attained comparatively apparently high 1 st day strengths that
  might go to 25 -Mpa samples. With Invention's cements the 2 nd day of factory 42.5 R cement's
  strengths are being attained or surpassed in many samples only in the 1" day. It is obvious that
  this capability shall provide cost decrease and speed increase           for all   uses. Later dates
  compressive strengths also has been measured and although the difference is being diminishing it
5 was clear that the. Invention cements yielded clearly higher compressive strengths. These, which
  could be called as main intermediate phases, the other intermediate phases also attains higher
                                                    5

     WO 2014/129992                                                                PCT/TR2014/000037
   results compared to factory cements although not as much as the previous and all are favorable
   to the factory brands.
   The Invention finds out that external (initial) humidy of the gypsum stone raw* material            has
   crucial effect on the reaction quality of the final calcium sulphate input to be blended with the
   clinker. When ground        after drying of the external humidity, the   reaction capability of the
   gypsum (calcium sulphate source) considerably increases. The external humidity should be
   decreased to zero preferably or at least to around 1 % prior to grinding process for obtaining a
   capable calcium sulphate source. At each increase of humidity by 0.2 %, by weight, a measurable
 ) decrease in compressive strength has been observed. The natural gypsum raw material were
   ground to the same finess to that of Portland cement 42.5 R brands. The Invention claims that,
   drying and dhydration of molecular water in a dense and high heat mill and dehydration of
   molecular water of already dried gypsum stones in a less heat mill circumstance yields different
   products, the    latter being more beneficial for hydration of the cement process. Reducing or
 5 deriving out of the external humidity prior to grindings      being a very a favorable     instrument,
   further dehydration in a controllable manner yields also different products. A 1 % by weight
   loss of molecular water is positive, further stages are also studied in detail. After 2-2.5 % loss a
   gray area is arrived, where strengths might show a decrease.
 J The fundemental approach of the Invention is based on evaluation of different calcium sulphate
   resources according to their reactivity power which are attained depending on their dehydration
   level under lower heat conditions. Findings are verified with XRD measurements. Experiments
   are performed with employment of lower optimum calcium sulfate              'and SO3 rates while this
   permits to obtain higher first day and early compressive strengths. These calcium sulfate products
?5 are produced by heating gypsum stones under different heats and heating periods and ground to
   3500-4000 blaine at a fixed grinding time. The samples were heated under 1050c generally and
   their external humidity were derived and ground. Depending on batch quantity, aggregate particle
   size, mixing conditions the chosen grinding process, heat formation and circumstance caused 2.
   %-2.5 % molecular water loss by weight (loss of 10-13 of molecular water) from             the   dried,
30 humidy free dehydrate. The XRD measurements of these products yielded 16%-25%                        of
   hemihydrates proportion. The cement which are reaching to highest early compressive strengths
   are obtained by calcium sulphate product, as above, which have 21%-26 % hemihydrates. This
   XRD reading hemihydrates rater were over the calculative             water loss results      measured
    physically. At an additional 0.70 % dehydration level, this XRD reading and physical calculation
35  difference continued on in a decreasing manner. The compressive strengths obtained with cement
    using this phase product were higher than that of market Portland cements but less than the
    previous case of Invention's cement. A further step of dehydration by weight of 0.5 %-0.7, the
                                                   6

     WO 2014/129992                                                                PCT/TR2014/000037
  getting closer XRD reading and physical calculation difference increases again and these calcium
  sulphate    product using cement yields higher strenghts than the previous which are       very close
  the first case     (with 5-10 % only). The XRD measure hemihydrates rate is 33% -35 %. The
  optimum      calcium sulphate inclusion rate also increased by 4-5 %. At following             further
  dehydration levels, the XRD readings and calculation values gets again closer and hemihydrates
  rate has been read at 40 % -50 % range. With these calcium sulphate                products, previous
  compressive could not be attained again. The highest compressive strengths are obtained with
  products at which first high XRD reading difference has been registered where hemihydrates rate
  was 21%- 26% range and second high difference range was 30-34 % hemihydrates forming
  phase. These products are named by us as dehydrate intermediate phases or intermediate phases of
  dehydrate. A second range of gypsum stone originated calcium sulfate resource is when XRD
  hemihydrates rate begins to get close to 60% range. Here also, the hemihydrates XRD reading is
  in excess of that of calculation result on physical molecular water     loss. The marginal difference
  is smaller than that of the first mentioned dehydrate case. This point is what we call as 1.20
  molecular water dehydrate phase towards monohydrate phase. Monohydrate phase (molecular
  waterl.00) as named by us, is suitable for forming high compressive strength cement in a notable
  manner and hemihydrate as per XRD is around 70 % and is still higher than physical water loss,
  although difference is in decreasing trend. When hemihydrate phase is beginning to be formed at
  around XRD readings of 78% hemihydrate (hemihydrates 0.90 molecular water) begins to get
  close to physical loss and when readings come to % 80 range they become equal to each other.
  This point is what we        nominate as 0.80 molecular water hemhydrate phase. Till this point
  optimum minimum inclusion rate of calcium sulphate resources as per the Invention was in the
  same range but following this point, inclusion rates has dropped down. In a different manner,
  front this point on XRD reading hemihydrate rates are         lower than that of physical water lost
5 calculation. When we came to          0.5 molecular water hemihydrate, this     difference in reading
   becomes more apperrent. Hemihydrates is 89 %, soluble anhydrite 6 % and dehydrate 2 %. When
   dehydration is continued on at the same heat level, 47 % soluble anhydrite is formed, hemihydrate
   lowers down to 28 % and dehydrate climbs to 23 % . This is a similar structure to that of natural
   anhydrite stones. It a point that XRD reading difference becomes minimal. When the              same
0  dehydration level is repeated with 170%c, similar proportioned formation is obtained for the 0.5
   molecular water hemihydrate. But since water loss is higher, it is obvious that reading difference
   gets   bigger    comparatively.    When the matter is considered against       strenght development
   capability, the first instant and high jump in reading difference are the products to obtain highest
   strenghts. Then follows a low area till the second jump point where good result are again began
5 to be obtained. Following this point there are high strength obtaining products. After a point
   XRD reading difference disappear and XRD shows less hemihydrates than the physical molecular
   water loss. With these also good results could be obtained. But after a jump point where this
                                                    7

    WO 2014/129992                                                                  PCT/TR2014/000037
  difference becomes apparent, (over dehydrated) products does not yield good products. Products,
  whose external humidity are dried and a further dehydration of 1.5 % -2.0 % has been realized
  and nominated as 1.75-1.80 molecular water product and 3.0 % -3.5 % dehydrated around 1.63
  molecular water products are the most efficient and economic options. This is followed by
  further dehydrated products beginning from 1.20 molecular water and down. With a detailed
  scientific study, all theoretical options and phases could be worked out. It is important to notice
  that, the 40-50 hemihydrate rate which is deemed optimum at the prevailing practice is remain at
  the no efficient range.
  When dehydration heat,dehydration level, heating process time, granular size distribution of
  heated material be considered, preliminary finding was that, at 90-1200c range products those
  reactivity power were high being obtained. But, for larger scale operations the comparatively
  lower heat 90-100 0c operations might require excess of time and yield much more hemihydrates
  proportion at XRD compared to that of 105 0c-120 0c processed ones and as such they cannot be
  effective in cement hydration process. At low heats industrial process forming becomes very
  difficult and results might not be appropriate also. For very high dehydration levels also similar
  problems occurs. For product which require sulightly less dehydration higher heats up to 1350c
  gives good results. For high level of dehydrations this heat might be excessive also. Heat increase
  after 1 % of dehydration level control difficulties might occur. Heating process is performed in
  longer times generally and heats mentioned becomes as product heats. Even in case of drying of
  external humidity only, excess heat levels prevents formation of the needed molecular structure.
  Lower heat and longer process period provides the formation of the needed molecular structure.
  With any of the products which were obtained at high 170 0c heat level were successful like lower
  heat processed products. At the higher heat processed products, for the same fixed grinding time,
5 partide size gets more finer due to scattering of particular crystal, structure and unit volume gets
  bigger. Over 135 0c, this effects are observed and gets more clear as heat level increase. According
  to existing literature, this kind of structurally broken products shall have higher reactivity, as
  reactivity is measured paralel or with the heat level of the reaction. But these products cannot
  obtain the high compressive strength levels which are obtained by non scattered (fracturaed)
0 structure products. The Invention assign a reactivity power concept. If explained with experiment
  performed; the of calcium sulphate         products obtained under 105c either in dehydrate or
  hemihydrates      class, all are in same unit volume and weight. But at further dehydration
  fracturation of crystals begins and volume increases. At 135 0c operations some fracturation might
  begin earlier manner and increasing as dehydration level increases. At higher heats of 1700c, this
5 becomes more apperrent. The          products which were      ground      firstly and than dehydrated
  followingly, might show structural change and volumetric increase compared to gypsum stone
  aggregate first dehydrated to a level and than be ground. This is result of expansions, surface
                                                   8

     WO 2014/129992                                                                 PCT/TR2014/000037
  enlargement, and      fracturation Regarding particular size. Another       observation is that, when
  humid gypsum stones are ground at the some time period of the dried gypsum stones, a much
  finer particular size distribution is obtained. For attaining the similar distribution, a grinding time
  which is 20-25 % less is required. This is due to grinding Characteristics of humid stones and due
  crystal fracturation of humid product, Although at drying of humid stones under lower heats
  only drying of external humidity is aimed and planned, some                unavoidable hemihydrates
  formation occurs. For example if drying of external humidity of 2.5 % is done with 90 0c heat at
  a very long time, an hemihydrates level reaching to 40% might be obtained and the desired
  intermediate calcium sulphate phase might not be attained. When 105 0c is choosen this gets
  quarenteed and desined reactivity power shall be obtained and hemihydrates level shall be at
  twenties. Exact same operation be done under 1350c, the hemihydrate level shall reach to 25 %.
  range and the reactivity power is very close to the previous. At over 140 0c even at only drying
  purpose operations the volumetric increase and reactivity power loss becomes apparent. The heat
  of grinding operation should paralely be calculated. For grinding operation, the elimination or
  decrease of external humidity is important and least obtaining 1-1.5 % humidity level shall be of
  a minimum necessity. It is preferrable not to develop very high heats of            grinding and keep
  dehydratation level at grinding phase in range of 2 %-3%. As such, needed reactivity powered
  products be obtained. The Inventions- calcium         sulphate resources    can be used for attaining
  highest early compressive strength development with low inclusion rates to clinker or at higher
  rates for economical and environmental reasons.
  Invention's calcium sulphate resources obtained under 105 0c heat as a 45-50 % dehydrated one
  and as a 60-70 % one were analyzed under TGA /DTA analysis. As expected; the                     higher
  dehydrated ones passes form (phase) changes at shorter time and at lower heats (123 0 c-133 0c) and
5 the second form change occurs at similar heats like 1900c for both. The weight loss mostly occurs
  till 200 0 c be reached and this loss begins mainly from 900c-I 100c on. These are comparatively
  faster proceses and are in coincidence with Invention's findings
  The Ankara region (G51basi-Bala- Kochisar) 4-8 % impurity bearing gypsum stones which are
  also being used by many cement factories has been used in experiments and the Denizli region 7
0 8 % impurity gypsum stones has been employed as control. Each gypsum kind were ground to
  similar fineness to that of cements. The clinkers of Nuh Cement Factory at Hereke has been
  employed but other clinkers has been also employed as controls (Limak/Ankara,Akgansa,
  Denizli) and general character of the findings were verified. Each gypsum phase formed, ie
  each dehydration level of calcium sulfate has been tested for finding optimum contents to attain
5 highest early strengths. It was found out that, these optimums were quite sensitive to alterations
  and even at ±3% measurable changes in strengths were occurring. In case of use of a sole
                                                    9

     WO 2014/129992                                                               PCT/TR2014/000037
   gypsum source, these optimum content rates were found as 10-30 % lower than that of fabricated
   cements. These cements could not obtain their nominated strength values with low gypsum
   inclusion, while Invention's cements can work with a wider range of calcium sulphate resources
   inclusion   rate. The minimum optimum rate of inclusion of natural gypsum stones treated and
   ground as per the Invention were 3.75 % in general for most of the dehydrate weightage (high
   dehydrate content products, in some cases this was 3.85 %. For hemihydrate weightage products
   inclusion rate to clinker was 3.40-3.45 % and in some cases 3.30-3.35 %. These figures puts the
   prevailing S0 3 content    knowledge to a questionable position. Although early       strengths were
   considered more importance, the samples which could not attain final strengths of fabricated
 3 cements were not considered.
   The Invention defines all the calcium sulphate resources according to their dehydration levels
   and according to the molecular water left as the result of dehydration heating and grinding, Heat
   level is a low heat range but heat level also can be specified along with molecular water. As such,
   dehydrates begin from 2.0 molecular water and are down to 1.20 to 1.00 molecular range. This
   range, we nominate as monohydrate range, which is and efficient phase also for calcium sulphate
   needs of clinkers. Below this are hemihydrates      . We also nominate     hemihydrates with their
   molecular waters. Similar to dehydrates, there are many intermediate hemihydate phases also.
   Efficient range for cement are 0.70 -0.90 range generally.
   Due to cost considerations and / or environmental considerations, it might be preferable to
   include higher    percents of gypsums to clinker. The Invention's cements are capable in this.
   Higher inclusion similar to that of many factoric like 5 % is possible with a very slight decrease in
   early strengts. Further, inclusion of natural anhydrites to the calcium sulphates portion is possible
   as some simple samples are given followingly; With 3.5 % dehydrate + 0.75 natural anhydrite I
   st day 24 Mpa, 2 "dday 28 Mpa ( E 4.25 %), 3.25 % dehydrate +1.5 % natural anhydrite 1st day 21
5  Mpa,  2 "dday  27 mpa ( E % 4.75), % 3.3. dehydrate + 1.3 % natural anhydrite 1 st day 21, 2 nd
   day 26 Mpa can be stated. Inclusion of hemihydrate phases creates other opportunities like 0.75 %
   0.70 molecular water hemihydrates+ 2.45 % dehydrate+1.65 % natural anhydrite I st day 21 and
   2   day 30 Mpa (Y 4.85 %), 0.75 % hemihydrates with 0.80 molecular water +2.35 % dehydrate +
   1.95 % natural anhydrite yields 1st day 22 and         2nd day 30.5 Mpa (F 5.05 %). The use of
0  hemihydrates of the Invention as majority CaSO4 source with natural anhydrites also produces
   good results; % 3.2 0.70 molecular water hemihydrate +0.9 % natural anhydrite gives 1st day 21
   and second day 29 Mpa (E 4.1 %) Many better alternatives can be obtained. Beneath natural
   anhydrites the    anhydrites     produced under high heat also gives favorable      aid.   These are
   products calcined at 450 0c-500 0c and 850 0c-100 0c and variations of them treated with alum or
5  borax or others to become to be Keene Cement, Martins Cements and the like, Invention finds
                                                   10

     WO 2014/129992                                                                PCT/TR2014/000037
   out that use of these products solely or in combination with other calcium sulphate resources
   produces very high early strength cements. Eg; 3.5 % dehydrate + 0.75 % 4500 c-550 0c calcined
   anhydrite gives 1 " day 20.5 Mpa and 2 "dday 28 Mpa (E 4.25 % ), 3.35 % dehydrate+ 1 % same
   anhydrite 1" day 24 Mpa and 2 "dday 30 Mpa (E 4.35 %) Higher calcium sulphate inclusion also
   is possible, Eg; 3 % dehydrate + 2 % calcined anhydrite gives 2 nd day 29.5 Mpa (FE 5.0 %). The
   sole use of same anhydrate as 5 % fields 30.5 Mpa 2 nd strength. By inclusion of Inventions
   hemihydrates or monohydrates        different early strength cements can be obtained. All the
   Invention's cements mentioned till now, either obtain at least same final strengths obtained by
   same class same clinker factory cements or are higher many times and in some cases slightly
   lower. In short, the Invention provides considerably high early strengths with high final strengths
   also. While providing this major step, the Invention finds also ways for higher calcium sulphate
   inclusion to clinkers.
   When calcium sulphate contents are considered, the anhydrite has 26.5 % more CaSo 4 compared
 5 to the dehydrate and with use of the latter, 3.75 % optimum inclusion of a gypsum stone source
   with 7% impurity is registered, which means 2.48 % CaSO4, and in an extreme example the same
   source but calcined anhydrite is included as 5% which means 4.65% CaSO4. The inclusion of
   CaSO4 can be doubled. Variation in S03 level also is parallel and varies in between 1.15 %to 2.46
   %, ie difference is more than twice. The Invention proves that SO3 inclusion content (ratio) is not
 J the main actor to determine the level of S03 in total with that of included in the clinker. As a major
   factor of set management. The lowest rate is care taking as the one providing the highest early
   strength and this level is lower than the known practices.. Not same but very close to this, high
   compressive early strengths can be obtained with inclusion of double content of S03 . As a result,
   we can say that there is not exact correlation between S0 3 level and early strength gaining. The
 5 existing knowledge which specifies S03 content to be formed as 0.6 of molecular mass of A12 03 ,
   seems to be remained non based in general . The existing solubility- reactivity or reactivity power
   explanations also are remained insufficient. Invention finds that major effect is provided with
   chosen phases of calcium sulphates in arranging the cement hydration process. le, the Invention
   specifies and explains the sources of activity powers of calcium sulphate resources. The literature
 0 based on or effected from the prevailing industrial practices seem to be reconsidered again. It is
   also obvious that considerable decreases seems in SO3 levels, stops the expansions also. The
   basic factor for set management is not matter of S03 management but managing the intermediate
   phase character of the gypsum stone to attain the highest reactivity power which is measured by
   the compressive strenght provided by that phase,
15
    When the matter of inclusion of other constituents to the clinker is considered, the ground
   calcareous (calcite) minerals (calcium carbonates) in range of 5 % takes the first attention. The
                                                   11

     WO 2014/129992                                                              PCT/TR2014/000037
  effect as such     on compressive strengths has been tested        on Invention's cements also by
  employing (-) 10 microns calcite and 3 to 5 % range has been found appropriate. By employing 4
  % ie by substituting 4 % of the Invention's cements by 4-% and by using 3.75 % of Invention's
  dehydrate cement it was found out that the existing compressive strengths has been improved
  further and 1" day was 5 % , 2 "dday 3 %, 4 th day 3 % and 28 th day was 5-8 % additionally
  stronger. On the other side, since it has correcting effect on negative environmental and cost
  conditions, it was found as a net gain. For inclusions exceeding 6 % positive effect begins to
  diminish clearly. For cements including anhydrites beneath the major calcium sulphate dehydrates
  of the Invention, the results were parallel. But when hemihydrates were included to the calcium
  sulphates portion, different observation begin to emerge. When hemihydrate 0.80 was included as
  10 % to dehydrate (substituted) the      compressive strengths were decreasing. In case of 4 % of
  micronized calcite inclusion this decrease became more apparent. Or, when 0.90 % hemihydrate
  0.80 + 2.0 % dehydrate +2.4 % natural anhydrate bearing calcium sulphate bearing cement
  formulation, when included with 4 % similar filler, the 21.9 Mpa 1 st day strength dropped to 19.7
  and 27 mpa 2 "dday to 26.5 Mpa. Anhydrate inclusion slows a bit this negative trend. This is an
  interesting and     important case, while it was seen that inclusion of hemihydrate does not
  contribute much, it is shown also that fine (-10 micron) calcium carbonate to and it has a reaction
  during hydration. The probable reason is, it causes the calcium hydroxide in the cement paste to
  increase their concentration and get separated from the solution and get settled. Although the
  same effect prevails in a diminishing manner with the increase of hemihydrate rate to an extend,
  the diminishing negative effect      could be explained by excess loading of calcium        sulphate
  becomes able to make some extend of a stabilization and arrangement. This findings could have
  implication to the prevailing industrial practices which uses excessive hemihydrate along with 5
  %ground calcareous stone generally. Inclusion of anhydrites decrease the negative effect. All the
5 experiments mentioned till now, has been implemented by employing clinker                of various
  factories and    although    values were     differing; obviously the   compressive early strengths
  obtained with Inventions application were higher clearly for all the cases.
  Invention's cements attains their very high early compressive strengths in moderate hydration
0 heat creating conditions and expansion and shrinkage. The set beginning and end are normal in
  limits to known cements. In the cements where S03 level are lower than known also, expansions
  are easily in limits. Although critically reduced SO3 is introduced, the high and critical expansion
  expected by the existing knowledge do not take place. These are important advantages. Indeed,
  standards do limit the SO3 maximum level. All the effects created by inclusion of activators,
5 water cutters (reducers), chemical additives pozzolanas, fillers etc are tested on the inventions
  cements and no further effect to that of known cements were obtained, as was expected. The
  cement particle size effect studies are parallel to this. The effects on strengths interground
                                                   12

     WO 2014/129992                                                              PCT/TR2014/000037
   gypsum getting very fine size and constituting the finest part of'that gypsum were compared
   with the ground separately to the cement size gypsum yields better strengths. As such Invention
   is remedying     another deficiency    of existing system also. When clinkers are ground finer,
   parallel results to that of known cements       obtained and higher strengths were obtained. Water
   requirement of the new cements were lower than the brand factory cements. This also aided to
   decrease porosity and increased strengh
   When examined from industrial view, it is clear that the targets and methods can be realized by
   employing the known industrial methods. The first necessity is that heat level should not be high
   to cause fast or excess dehydration of gypsum stones. Many kinds of heating processes can be
   employed, including the flash heating. For an appropriate heating, a/ homogeneous particle size
   shall be preferable, where particle size of the mix shall not be mixed as very big size and very
   small particles. The ground and cool gypsum resources can be blended with cooled clinker with
   any of the dozing, weighing, mechanical missing methods. In special mills which donot create
   excess heat, the interblending can be realized. But in this choice one must be aware that gypsum
   particle size shall be much finer to form finest portions of the cement mix. If particle size is
   important, separate grinding shall be needed. Even the gypsum stones shall be ground separately,
   the mill is to be organized not to cause excess fast dehydration. Since the gypsum portion of
   cements are in range of 3-6 %, large scale mills would not be required. Economical operations can
   be arranged by providing gypsum needed in ground form from specifically scaled, special plants
   and in cooler form. Intergrinding where clinkers are sufficiently cooled can-also be employed.
   Clinkers and calcium sulphate (gypsum) portions can be supplied in two components to be mixed
   in concrete readymix plants. As a result, a set of most flexible alternatives can be designed for
   choosing the most appropriate.
5
   The Invention is in capability practically to solve the mixed up practices mostly based on its own
   practices only by explaining, revising the underlaying previous knowladge. The planning         and
   calculations becomes to be practically and easily managed. Further, the Invention's findings are
   explanatory to structures and phases and behaviors of calcium sulphates, it becomes       easier to
0  employ them in uses or industries other than the cement sector by just bringing solutions founded
   over basic findings.
   The new calcium sulphate resources of the Invention can be employed for another use, as a
   second stage of the Invention; Strengthening of the pozzolan- quicklime binders. The Inventor
5- have another. Invention related to direct use of quicklime in an         increased proportion with
   pozzolan (s) for obtaining of economic and environmental friendly pozzo lime binders which
   yield early strengths    practical to be used in many application and final strenghts that shall be
                                                    13

     WO 2014/129992                                                               PCT/TR2014/000037
   sufficient for many of applications which does not require structural strengths, like mortars,
   fillers, low rise simple buildings, block making , lean concrete, etc. Early strenght are quite
   sufficient. These are high content pozzolan(s) involving binders. A very typical sample is tras
   76.5 % + quicklime 22 % + 1.5 % Inventions's               new   calcium   sulphate involving % 87
   hemihydrate and having molecular water of 0.80 range. Strenghts are 10.7 Mpa at         07 'hday and
   15.3 Mpa at 28h day. Another version at 0.90 molecular water attains to 12.1 7 day and 17 Mpa
   for 28th dy. When polycarboxilate type extender/ water cutter be used 7h day is 14.2 Mpa and
   28th day 23.5 Mpa. With and of NaOfH activator 28" day goes to 25 Mpa. These are very high
   figures sufficient enough to make a product as market usable. One can casily remember that, most
 J of the structural works till 30 years age were performed with 22.5 Mpa concretes. The UN Habitat
   states that 50-60 % of the works in which Portland cements are used does not require the
   structural strengths given by those cements. While this is the case, the Portland cement industry,
   solely, is responsible for 7-8 % of the world's C02 emission. It should be noted that new calcium
   sulphates can be used for many of the pozzo quicklime/ pozzo-lime             cements also in many
 5 different formulae.
   The other use of Invention's calcium sulfates are in the area of calcium sulphate binders. They
   can be used for any work where market type hemihydrates are used. The usable ones are more
   hemihydrates content involving ones beginning from monohydrate range. Their difference from
 3 market products are that they are requiring more water for their hydration, being in a more
   aggressive characters (fast setting-high heat). This shall provide obtainament of more product by
   use of more water. The porosity enlarges the product volume and less of calcium sulphase base
   products be used. These are durable and strong products like market hemihydrates. It is possible
   to obtain stranger products by involving of suitable water cutter additives to decrease porosity
    and increase density. Further, since these products were not dehydrated to the extent of 0.5-0.55
    molecular water of the marketed products, it is obvious that less energy shall be used for the
    same quantity of product and less raw material for same volume be needed. When products
    dehydrated at 1700c to same dehydration are considered; they are not as useful. The applicaple
   new products are more stronger. They can be used for substituting alpha gypsum and type II
30  high heat dehydrated anhydrates partially of fully. With these new calcium sulphate binders all
    the applications that could be performed by the known calcium sulphate ducts can be performed
    (casting, sheets, screed, render, etc...). All the known techniques of production can be applicable
    to the new, products also.
                                                      14

     WO 2014/129992                                                           PCT/TR2014/000037
                                             CLAIMS
  1.  As the prevailing method of inclusion of gypsum stones to the clinker at its grinding
      phase while it is cooling also, gypsum enters into a complex dehydration sequence
      where a preassumed ratio of it converts to hemihydrates and soluble anhydrites, it is
      cements that shall yield higher early and final strengths by inclusion of calcium sulphate
      resources which have a specific dehydration level and method and it consists of a new
      method of calcium sulphate inclusion to other cement components            by inclusion of
      gypsum stones whom are dehydrated at planned rates by employing a specific heat
      level in range of 90-145 0c and inclusion at an        optimum rate to clinker and other
      components as the sole or main calcium sulphate resource.
  2.  As per Claim 1, it is dehydration of gypsum stones at lower heats compared to known
      gypsum calcinations (Dehydration) at 904c-120 0c and more efficiently at 105 0 c-120 0c
      and to 135 0c-145 0c for more      rapid processes and use these      products which gain
      different characteristics than the known calcium sulphate resources as the main calcium
      sulphate resource in cements production.
  3. For obtaining the gypsums as per Claims 1 and 2, instead of intergrinding with still
     cooling clinker, it is, separate grinding in mills that shall not create further excess heat
     and/ or in smaller scale mills or intergrinding with cooled clinker.
  4. It is classification of gypsums dehydrated as per Claims 1-3 according to their remained
     molecular waters like 2.0 molecular water,             1.90,1.85,1.70,1.50,   1.00,0.80,0.50
     molecular water and define their characteristics and function in connection to their
5    defined molecular water level.
  5. As the prevailing industrial applications and the scientific acceptances measures the
     reactivity power and efficiencies of calcium sulphate resources according to their SO3
     content, and solubility and as solubility is accepted to be parallel to hydration rate and
0    to reactivity parameters and as such, hemihydrates and soluble anhydrite level which are
     reaching to 40 %-50% is assumed as an optimum in the prevailing intergrinding system
     of gypsum inclusion, it is high early strength         and final strength gaining cements
     produced with inclusion of calcium sulphate resources whom are dehydrated at specific
                                                15

       WO 2014/129992                                                      PCT/TR2014/000037
       level and heat with specific method and in determination of the fact that dehydrates
       gain high solubility in sequence of heat of hydration, it is use gypsums with high
       weightage of dehydrate contents obtained as per claims 1-4 and measuring of their
       reactivity power directly by measuring the early and final       compressive strengths
       attained by them.
   6. It is, every gypsum as per Claims 1-5 gains different properties and functions according
       to each of their dehydration levels and their optimization rates and their selection are
       performed according to these properties measured mainly          with reactivity power
 >     measurement as per Claim 4.
   7.   For gypsums as per Claims 1-6, it is, arranging the hemihydrate rate (content) in range
       of 10 %-25% as general and in rage of 21-26 % hemihydrates content for strongest
       results and in 30-34 % range as a second scientific option, higher contents      causing
       strength decrease.
   8. As hemihydrates are defined with 0.5 molecular water in the existing practice, for
       obtaining different activity powers and functions as per 1-6, it is arranging them in
       different dehydration levels in range of 0.50-1.0 molecular water like 0.70 or 0.80
       molecular water.
   9. It is use of the hemihydrate weightage gypsums as per Claim 8 processed like the ones
       as per Claims 1-7 as sole or majority source in cement hydration process.
5  10. For obtaining the cements as per Claims 1-9 , it is to determine the highest reactivity
       power calcium sulphates resource       which are 1.75-1.20 and 1.63 Molecular water
       dehydrates, 1.20 tO 1.00 molecular water monohydrates and 0.70 to 1.00 hemihydrates
       with the raw materials of this Invention.
0  11.  For comparative higher earlier compressive strength cements and for inclusion of
       higher    contents of calcium sulfates, it is use of dehydrate majority forming
       formulations of calcium sulphate sources compared to hemihydrates as per Claims 1-10.
                                                16

       WO 2014/129992                                                         PCT/TR2014/000037
   12. For optimization of cement hydration with use of lower CaS0 4 and S03 inclusion, it is
       employing of gypsums as per 1-11 down to 1.2 % S0 3. content.
   13. It is increasing the S03 content up to 2.8% in cements as per claims 1-11.
 5
   14. For reducing expansion values lower than to that of known cements, it is use of
       methods as per Claims 1-13.
   15. It is naming or specifying the 1.0 molecular water gypsums among gypsums as per
 0     Claims 1-14 as "monohydrate".
   16. For obtaining results similar to Claims 1-15, it is use of gypsums and /or anhydrites
       calcined at heats 450 0c-550 0c-and / or 850Uc-1000 0c in ground form as cement hydration
       stabilizer or optimizer.
 5
   17. It is strengthening of calcium sulphate resources as per Claim 16 by including and
       treating them with alum, borax etc.
   18. It is    use of calcium sulphate resources as      per    Claims 16 and 17 solely or in
 o     combination with calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-15.
   19. It is performing of dehydration processes under lower heat a per Claims 1-15 with any
       of all the known calcinations methods.
25 20. It is performing of dehydration as per Claims 1-19 by employing flash heat methods.
   21. For dehydration processes as per Claims 1-20, it is employing of homogeneous heat
       distribution and particle size distribution which involves closer particle sizes.
30 22. For blending of calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-21 with clinkers, it is
       employing of the known dosing and mixing methods including mechanical mixing or
       blending and grinding along with clinker with special arrangements for cooler
       conditions.
                                                 17

      WO 2014/129992                                                             PCT/TR2014/000037
  23. For decreasing porosity formation in cements as per Claim 1-22, it is grinding of
       calcium sulphate resources to the planned particle size. Which is nearer to ground
       clinker size and coarser than the ground gypsum in the intergrinding.
5 24. For increasing and arranging the properties of the cements as per Claims 1-23, it is
       employing of grinding aids, water reducers, activators, all kinds of chemical and
       mineral additives, and pozzolans.
  25. For further improving the compressive strength of cements as per Claims 1-24, it is
)      inclusion of micronized calcite (CaC0 3) or similar mineral or industrial fillers to the
       mix at rates not exceeding 6%,
  26. While the positive effect of filler as per Claim 25 becomes negative in case of use of
       hemihydrates majority calcium Sulphates, it is not employing calcite (CaCO3) fillers in
       such case.
  27. For increasing calcium sulphate portion inclusion to the cements as per Claims 1-26, it
       is inclusion of natural anhydrites also with them.
> 28. For decreasing the negative effect as per Claim 26, it is inclusion of natural anhydrites.
  29. While the phase combinations of gypsums as per Claims are being determined by employing the
      Rietvelt X Ray Dates method, the molecular water lost is not being measured in paralel to this
      measurement, it is calcium sulpate resources dehydrated at lower heats to a planned dehydration
5     level and it consists of determination method of the fact that these two readings are having
      differences which are being apperent (higher) at intermediate phase (and reactivity power)
      change points (peaks) which are specified by the invention as a clear measurement of reactivity
      power determination method beneath direct measure of reactivity power.
0 30. Over 135C range dehydration causes surface area enlargement expansions and fracturations of
      gypsum stone crystals and against the prevailing knowledge reactivity power of these products
      falls down, so it is use of calcium sulphate resources dehydrated at lower heats especially for
      higher dehydration rates exceeding 3-4% by weight.
                                                  18

      WO 2014/129992                                                               PCT/TR2014/000037
  31. It is including the dehydration created at grinding process to the overall dehydration calculations
      and it is arranging grinding media suitable.
  32. While it is assumed by prevailing applications that formation of 40-50% of hemihydrates are
5     optimum, it is cements as per claims 1-31 Which are employing low heat dehydration and high
      reactivity calcium sulphates and it consists of employing hemihydrates rates under 35% and over
      60% where the above 40-50% is found as negative.
  33. For practical and sustainable calcium sulphate optimization process and calculations and
0     for arranging different cements, it is use of cements and methods as per Claims 1-32.
  34. It is production of Cements as per Claims 1-33 as single mix or in two components.
  35. It is employing of Invention's findings as per Claims 1-34 in set optimization of all
5      classes of cements and binders which includes calcium sulphate resources as their
       component.
  36. It is a method for production of new cements binders by employing claims 1-35.
0 37. It is      use of calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-36 in all the areas. where
       calcium sulphates are used.
  38. It is use of calcium sulphates as per claims 1-37 having molecular water less than 1.00
      in activation and strengthening of pozzolan(s) - lime binder cements.
                                                    19

WO 2014/129992                                                                      PCT/TR2014/000037
                                          AMENDED CLAIMS
                    received by the International Bureau on 29 May 2015
                                               CLAIMS
1. It is activation and set optimization method for all clinker involving cements to obtain high
   early strengths by adopting a new and highly reactive calcium sulphate inclusion system to
   clinker and other ingredients of the cements and it consists of dehydration calcinationn) of
   calcium sulphate dehydrates (gypsums) at an heat level under 145 0c as a general rule and
   arrenge their dehydration level as to form hemihydrates content less than 35% in the total
   calcium sulphates that shall be used in cement production.
2. As per claim 1,it is obtaining of higher reactivity new calcium sulphates for cement hydration
   to produce higher early strength gaining cements and consists of employing heat levels 90'c
   135 0r or 105*c-120 0c for calcining (dehydration) of calcium sulphate dehydrates.
3. Although risky due to particle excess expansion and fracturation, it is Employment of heats up
   to 1450o for more speed requiring and less dehydration percentage requiring calcining
   processes as per Claims 1-2.
4. As determined that calcium sulphate dehydrates also gain high solubility under the heat of
   hydration, As per claims 1-3, it is obtaining of non blended portion of higher early strength
   cements by involving a new calcium sulphate system as per Claims 1-3 and it consists of
   calcination/dehydration of calcium sulphate dehydrates as to form an hemihydrates level of
   21-26 % or 30-35% in the calcium sulphate resource that shall be blended with Clinker and
   other ingredients.
5. For preventing the chaotic and excess hemihydrates forming of existing intergrinding
   methods, it is separate grinding of calcium sulphate dehydrates and blending with any dosing
   method to the cooled down clinker and is inclusion of dehydration level (content) which
   occures during grinding to the total calculation of dehydration as per Claims 1-4,
6. As per Claims 1-5, it is measuring of dehydration level by formation of hemihydrates contents
   in the total new calcium sulphate resource or by the loss of their molecular water rate.
7. Although not as economic and feasible, it is use of high level hemihydrates bearing (0.5-1.0
   molecular water in general and 0.70-0.90 molecular water more specific) new calcium
    sulphate resources processed under heats as per claims I and 2, for the purposes of Claims 1
    6 in comparatively smaller inclusion rates.
                                                    20
                                AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

WO 2014/129992                                                                       PCT/TR2014/000037
8. Since ultra fineness of gypsum was found as a negative factor by us due to excess porosity
    created ,It is grinding of calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-7 to cement fineness and
     blending to the cooled enough clinker,
9. It is formation of new calcium sulphate resources which gains the same reactivity
     characteristics gained as per claims 1-6 by forming an intergrinding process to this end and/or
     it is employing of flash or other calcining methods to attain the same.
10, It is inclusion. of higher homihydrate contented, 0.5-1.0 Molecular water, calcium sulphate
     resources as per Claims 1-9 in activation of pozzolanic materials.
11. It is employing of the methods as per Claims 1-10 for production of all the cements according
     to EN, (CEM) ASTM or other Country standarts and standarts for white cements, high
     alumina cement, high sulphate resistance cements, slag cements and all other cements, and
     their mixes thereto.
11. It is activation of pozzolan-lime cements by including new calcium sulphate resources as per
     claim 10, with higher hemihydrate content by including 1%-2% by weight to the mix
13. It is use of ground quicklime for higher strength development in pozzo-lime binders as per
     Claim 12.
14. It is use of micronized calcareous fillers for increasing of strengths of cements as per Claims
      1-13 up to 6%
15. Since it causes detonation of compressive strengths, It is prevention of use of micronized
     calcareous filler in high level hemihydrates bearing calcium sulphate resources using cements
     as per Claim 7 or it is blending them with natural anhydrites as a remedy .
16. It is use of chemical and mineral additives, fillers, activators, pozzolans and others for
     improving properties of cements and binders as per Claims 1-14.
 17. It is combined use of various combinations of lower hemihydrates contented calcium
     sulphates,, higher     hemihydrate contented     calcium sulphates, natural and/or industrial
     anhydrites as calcium sulphate resources for cements as per Claims 1-16, as calcium sulphate
     resources.
                                                     21
                                  AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

  WO 2014/129992                                                                        PCT/TR2014/000037
18, For cement and new calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-17, instead of measuring
    reactivity by solubility or $03 level, it is measurement of reactivity by direct measure of
    compressive strength attained by the use of a specific calcium sulphate system and is
    employment of a wide range of S03 in the cement/binder content from 1,2% to 2.8%.
19. As per Claim 6, it is classification of calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-3 according
    to their remained molecular water like 2.0, 1.85, 1.70, 1.50, 1.00, 0,80, 0.50 and nominate
    their reactivity in paralel to their given molecular water and nominate the 1.00 molecular
     water as motohydrate.
20. It is substitution of high heat calcined anhydrites, calcined at heats 450*c-550 0c and /or 8500c
     I000 0c in ground form in to calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-19 at any rate and is
     strengthening of these calcium sulphates with alum, borax, etc.
21. It is employment of any grinding, intergrinding, blending, sizing, crushing, sieving, dosing,
     mixing, conveying, stocking etc. methods in consideration and for attaining the ultimate
     conditions defined as per Claims 1.3. and 5
22. It is a method of determination of reactivity climax by comparing XRD readings and
     molecular water loss readings during dehydration of calcium sulphate dehydrates and
     nominate the inconsistency points between XRD hemihydrates formation and molecular water
      loss that should be attained against the said hemihydrate formation as the reactivity peak or
     down points for the new calcium sulphate resources as per Claims 1-5.
 23. It is production of cements as per claims 1-22 as a single mix or in two or more components.
 24. It is employing of methods as per Claims 1-23 for producing any calcium sulphate bearing
      cements, binders or materials.
                                                      22
                                  AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A method of attending a strength enhanced cement comprising a plurality of gypsums
as calcium sulfate resources in ground form, said method comprising the dehydrating calcium
sulfate resources under a temperature in the range from 90'C to 145'C.
2.       The method according to claim 1, comprising dehydrating the calcium sulfate
resources under a temperature in the range from 105'C to 135'C.
3.       The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, comprising employing dosing and mixing
methods to mix a clinker with dehydrated calcium sulfate resources wherein the dosing and
mixing methods comprise mechanical mixing or blending.
4.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, comprising:
         preparing the dehydration of calcium sulfate resources in an independent dehydration
and grinding operation; and
         dehydrating the calcium sulfate resources to form a hemihydrates level of less than
35% or higher than 60%.
5.       The method according to claim 3, comprising dehydrating the calcium sulfate
resources to form a hemihydrates level of less than 35% or higher than 60%.
6.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the strength enhanced
cement is attained by employing one or more calcining method(s).
7.       The method according to claim 6, wherein the one or more calcining methods
 comprise any one or more of:
         flash heating,
         grinding,
         lower heat creating controlled intergrinding,
         blending,
         sizing,
         crushing,
         sieving,

        dosing,
        mixing,
        conveying, and/or
        stocking.
8.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, comprising:
        arranging a gypsum raw material particle size to small size with low variation;
        deriving the external humidity of the gypsum;
        dehydrating the gypsum under heat to achieve a specific desired dehydration levels to
be used as single source of set optimization;
        grinding the gypsum into powder wherein the dehydration also occurs to attain a total
desired dehydration level;
        blending the gypsum into a cooled ground clinker.
9.      The method according to claim 8, wherein grinding the gypsum to powder comprises
dehydrating the gypsum to reduce the external humidity of the gypsum raw material to less
than 1.5% prior to grinding the gypsum into powder.
10.     The method according to claim 8 or 9 wherein the gypsum raw material used as a
calcium sulfate resource is provided as an industrial or natural anhydrites or as a mixture.
11.     A method of attaining a strength enhanced cement comprising a plurality of gypsums
as calcium sulfate resources and a plurality of pozzolan-lime, said method comprising
dehydrating calcium sulfate resources under a temperature in the range from 90'C to 145'C.
12.     The method according to claim 8, comprising dehydrating the calcium sulfate
resources under a temperature in the range from 105'C to 135'C.
 13.    The method according to claim 8 or claim 9 when used in any method of preparing
cement which employs market type hemihydrates, whereby the step of dehydrating the
gypsums as calcium sulfate resources is performed instead of a step of dehydrating said
market type hemihydrates.

