ABSTRACT
        Screening members, screening assemblies, methods for fabricating screening
members and assemblies and methods for screening materials are provided for
vibratory screening machines that incorporate the use of injection molded materials.
Use of injection molded screen elements provide, inter alia, for: varying screening
surface configurations; fast and relatively simple screen assembly fabrication; and a
combination of outstanding screen assembly mechanical and electrical properties,
including toughness, wear and chemical resistance.       Embodiments of the present
invention use a thermoplastic injection molded material.
                                          121

       INJECTION MOLDED SCREENING APPARATUSES AND METHODS
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent
 5 Application Serial Nos. 61/652,039 filed May 25, 2012, and 61/714,882 filed October
   17, 2012.
   FIELD
10         The present disclosure relates generally to material screening.          More
   particularly,  the  present disclosure relates to    screening members,      screening
   assemblies, methods for fabricating screening members and assemblies and methods
   for screening materials.
15 BACKGROUND
           Material   screening includes the use of vibratory screening machines.
   Vibratory screening machines provide the capability to excite an installed screen such
   that materials placed upon the screen may be separated to a desired level. Oversized
   materials are separated from undersized materials.     Over time, screens wear and
20 require replacement. As such, screens are designed to be replaceable.
           Replacement screen assemblies must be securely fastened to a vibratory
   screening machine and are subjected to large vibratory forces. Replacement screens
   may be attached to a vibratory screening machine by tensioning members,
   compression members or clamping members.
25         Replacement screen assemblies are typically made of metal or a thermoset
   polymer. The material and configuration of the replacement screens are specific to a
   screening application. For example, due to their relative durability and capacity for
                                             1

   fine screening, metal screens are frequently used for wet applications in the oil and
   gas industry. Traditional thermoset polymer type screens (e.g., molded polyurethane
   screens), however, are not as durable and would likely not withstand the rough
   conditions of such wet applications and are frequently utilized in dry applications,
 5 such as applications in the mining industry.
            Fabricating thermoset polymer type screens is relatively complicated, time
   consuming and prone to errors. Typical thermoset type polymer screens that are used
   with vibratory screening machines are fabricated by combining separate liquids (e.g.,
   polyester, polyether and a curative) that chemically react and then allowing the
10 mixture to cure over a period of time in a mold. When fabricating screens with fine
   openings, e.g., approximately 43 microns to approximately 100 microns, this process
   can be extremely difficult and time consuming. Indeed, to create fine openings in a
   screen, the channels in the molds that the liquid travels through have to be very small
   (e.g., on the order of 43 microns) and all too often the liquid does not reach all the
15 cavities in the mold. As a result, complicated procedures are often implemented that
   require close attention to pressures and temperatures.     Since a relatively large single
   screen (e.g., two feet by three feet or larger) is made in a mold, one flaw (e.g., a hole,
   i.e., a place where the liquid did not reach) will ruin the entire screen.     Thermoset
   polymer screens are typically fabricated by molding an entire screen assembly
20 structure as one large screening piece and the screen assembly may have openings
   ranging from approximately 43 microns to approximately 4000 microns in size. The
   screening surface of conventional thermoset polymer screens normally have a uniform
   flat configuration.
            Thermoset polymer screens are relatively flexible and are often secured to a
25 vibratory screening machine using tensioning members that pull the side edges of the
                                                 2

   thermoset polymer screen away from each other and secure a bottom surface of the
   thermoset polymer screen against a surface of a vibratory screening machine.         To
   prevent deformation when being tensioned, thermoset polymer assemblies may be
   molded with aramid fibers that run in the tensioning direction (see, e.g., U.S. Patent
 5 No. 4,819,809). If a compression force were applied to the side edges of the typical
   thermoset polymer screens it would buckle or crimp, thereby rendering the screening
   surface relatively ineffective.
            In contrast to thermoset polymer screens, metal screens are rigid and may be
   compressed or tensioned onto a vibratory screening machine.              Metal screen
10 assemblies are often fabricated from multiple metal components. The manufacture of
   metal screen assemblies typically includes: fabricating a screening material, often
   three layers of a woven wire mesh; fabricating an apertured metal backing plate; and
   bonding the screening material to apertured metal backing plate. The layers of wire
   cloth may be finely woven with openings in the range of approximately 30 microns to
15 approximately 4000 microns.       The entire screening surface of conventional metal
   assemblies is normally a relatively uniform flat configuration or a relatively uniform
   corrugated configuration.
            Critical to screening performance of screen assemblies (thermoset polymer
   assemblies and metal type assemblies) for vibratory screening machines are the size
20 of the openings in the screening surface, structural stability and durability of the
   screening surface, structural stability of the entire unit, chemical properties of the
   components of the unit and ability of the unit to perform in various temperatures and
   environments. Drawbacks to conventional metal assemblies include lack of structure
   stability and durability of the screening surface formed by the woven wire mesh
25 layers, blinding (plugging of screening openings by particles) of the screening
                                               3

   surface, weight of the overall structure, time and cost associated with the fabrication
   or purchase of each of the component members, and assembly time and costs.
   Because wire cloth is often outsourced by screen manufacturers, and is frequently
   purchased from weavers or wholesalers, quality control can be extremely difficult and
 5 there are frequently problems with wire cloth. Flawed wire cloth may result in screen
   performance problems and constant monitoring and testing is required.
           One of the biggest problems with conventional metal assemblies is blinding.
   A new metal screen may initially have a relatively large open screening area but over
   time, as the screen is exposed to particles, screening openings plug (i.e., blind) and the
10 open screening area, and effectiveness of the screen itself, is reduced relatively
   quickly. For example, a 140 mesh screen assembly (having three layers of screen
   cloth) may have an initial open screening area of 20-24%. As the screen is used,
   however, the open screening area may be reduced by 50% or more.
           Conventional metal screen assemblies also lose large amounts of open
15 screening area because of their construction, which includes adhesives, backing
   plates, plastic sheets bonding layers of wire cloth together, etc.
           Another major problem with conventional metal assemblies is screen life.
   Conventional metal assemblies don't typically fail because they get worn down but
   instead fail due to fatigue. That is, the wires of the woven wire cloth often actually
20 break due to the up and down motion they are subject to during vibratory loading.
           Drawbacks to conventional thermoset polymer screens also include lack of
   structure stability and durability. Additional drawbacks include inability to withstand
   compression type loading and inability to withstand high temperatures (e.g., typically
   a thermoset polymer type screen will begin to fail or experience performance
25 problems at temperatures above 130'F, especially screens with fine openings, e.g.,
                                                4

   approximately 43 microns to approximately 100 microns).             Further, as discussed
   above, fabrication is complicated, time consuming and prone to errors.          Also, the
   molds used to fabricate thermoset polymer screens are expensive and any flaw or the
   slightest damage thereto will ruin the entire mold and require replacement, which may
 5 result in costly downtime in the manufacturing process.
            Another drawback to both conventional metal and thermoset polymer screens
   is the limitation of screen surface configurations that are available. Existing screening
   surfaces are fabricated with      relatively uniform opening sizes throughout and a
   relatively uniform surface configuration throughout, whether the screening surface is
10 flat or undulating.
            The conventional polymer type screens referenced in U.S. Provisional
   Application No. 61/652,039 (also referred to therein as traditional polymer screens,
   existing polymer screens, typical polymer screens or simply polymer screens) refer to
   the conventional thermoset polymer screens described in U.S. Provisional Patent
15 Application Serial No. 61/714,882 and the conventional thermoset polymer screens
   described herein (also referred to herein and in U.S. Provisional Patent Application
   Serial No. 61/714,882 as traditional thermoset polymer screens, existing thermoset
   polymer screens, typical thermoset polymer screens or simply thermoset screens).
   Accordingly, the conventional polymer type screens referenced in U.S. Provisional
20 Application No. 61/652,039 are the same conventional thermoset polymer screens
   reference herein, and in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/714,882,
   and may be fabricated with extremely small screening openings (as described herein
   and in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/714,882) but have all the
   drawbacks (as described herein and in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
25 61/714,882) regarding conventional thermoset polymer screens, including lack of
                                                5

   structural stability and durability, inability to withstand compression type loading,
   inability to withstand high temperatures and complicated, time consuming, error
   prone fabrication methods.
            There is a need for versatile and improved screening members, screening
 5 assemblies, methods for fabricating screening members and assemblies and methods
   for screening materials for vibratory screening machines that incorporate the use of
   injection molded materials (e.g., thermoplastics) having improved mechanical and
   chemical properties.
10 SUMMARY
            The present disclosure is an improvement over existing screen assemblies and
   methods for screening and fabricating screen assemblies and parts thereof.        The
   present invention provides extremely versatile and improved screening members,
   screening assemblies, methods for fabricating screening members and assemblies and
15 methods for screening materials for vibratory screening machines that incorporate the
   use of injection molded materials having improved properties, including mechanical
   and chemical properties.       In certain embodiments of the present invention a
   thermoplastic is used as the injection molded material. The present invention is not
   limited to thermoplastic injection molded materials and in embodiments of the present
20 invention other materials may be used that have similar mechanical and/or chemical
   properties. In embodiments of the present invention, multiple injection molded screen
   elements are securely attached to subgrid structures.       The subgrids are fastened
   together to form the screen assembly structure, which has a screening surface
   including multiple screen elements. Use of injection molded screen elements with the
25 various embodiments described herein provide, inter alia, for: varying screening
   surface configurations; fast and relatively simple screen assembly fabrication; and a
                                                6

   combination of outstanding screen assembly mechanical, chemical and electrical
   properties, including toughness, wear and chemical resistance.
           Embodiments of the present invention include screen assemblies that are
   configured to have relatively large open screening areas while having structurally
 5 stable small screening openings for fine vibratory screening applications.            In
   embodiments of the present invention, the screening openings are very small (e.g., as
   small as approximately 43 microns) and the screen elements are large enough (e.g.,
   one inch by one inch, one inch by two inches, two inches by three inches, etc.) to
   make it practical to assemble a complete screen assembly screening surface (e.g., two
10 feet by three feet, three feet by four feet, etc.). Fabricating small screening openings
   for fine screening applications requires injection molding very small structural
   members that actually form the screening openings. These structural members are
   injection molded to be formed integrally with the screen element structure.
   Importantly, the structural members are small enough (e.g., in certain applications
15 they may be on the order of approximately 43 microns in screening surface width) to
   provide an effective overall open screening area and form part of the entire screen
   element structure that is large enough (e.g., two inches by three inches) to make it
   practical to assemble a relatively large complete screening surface (e.g., two feet by
   three feet) therefrom.
20         In one embodiment of the present invention a thermoplastic material is
   injection molded to form screening elements.         Previously thermoplastics have not
   been used with the fabrication of vibratory screens with fine size openings (e.g.,
   approximately 43 microns to approximately 1000 microns) because it would be
   extremely difficult, if not impossible, to thermoplastic injection mold a single
25 relatively large vibratory screening structure having fine openings and obtain the open
                                                7

   screening area necessary for competitive performance in vibratory                screening
   applications.
           According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, a screen assembly is
   provided that: is structurally stable and can be subjected to various loading conditions,
 5 including compression, tensioning and clamping; can withstand large vibrational
   forces; includes multiple injection molded screen elements that, due to their relatively
   small size, can be fabricated with extremely small opening sizes (having dimensions
   as small as approximately 43 microns); eliminates the need for wirecloth; is
   lightweight; is recyclable; is simple and easy to assemble; can be fabricated in
10 multiple different configurations, including having various screen opening sizes
   throughout the screen and having various screening surface configurations, e.g.,
   various combinations of flat and undulating sections; and can be fabricated with
   application-specific materials and nanomaterials.     Still further, each screen assembly
   may be customized to a specific application and can be simply and easily fabricated
15 with various opening sizes and configurations depending on the specifications
   provided by an end user. Embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied to
   various applications, including wet and dry applications and may be applied across
   various industries. The present invention is not limited to the oil and gas industry and
   the mining industry, it may be utilized in any industry that requires separation of
20 materials using vibratory screenings machines, including pulp and paper, chemical,
   pharmaceuticals and others.
           In an example embodiment of the present invention, a screen assembly is
   provided that substantially improves screening of materials using a thermoplastic
   injection molded screen element. Multiple thermoplastic polymer injection molded
25 screen elements are securely attached to subgrid structures. The subgrids are fastened
                                                8

   together to form the screen assembly structure, which has a screening surface
   including multiple screen elements. Each screen element and each subgrid may have
   different shapes and configurations.      Thermoplastic injection molding individual
   screen elements allows for precise fabrication of screening openings, which may have
 5 dimensions as small as approximately 43 microns. The grid framework may be
   substantially rigid and may provide durability against damage or deformation under
   the substantial vibratory load burdens it is subjected to when secured to a vibratory
   screening machine. Moreover, the subgrids, when assembled to form the complete
   screen assembly, are strong enough not only to withstand the vibratory loading, but
10 also the forces required to secure the screen assembly to the vibratory screening
   machine, including large compression loads, tension loads and/or clamping loads.
   Still further, the openings in the subgrids structurally support the screen elements and
   transfer vibrations from the vibratory screening machine to the elements forming the
   screening openings thereby optimizing screening performance. The screen elements,
15 subgrids    and/or any other component of the           screen assembly may include
   nanomaterials and/or glass fibers that, in addition to other benefits, provide durability
   and strength.
            According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a screen
   assembly is provided having a screen element including a screen element screening
20 surface with a series of screening openings and a subgrid including multiple elongated
   structural members forming a grid framework having grid openings.             The screen
   element spans at least one of the grid openings and is attached to a top surface of the
   subgrid.    Multiple independent subgrids are secured together to form the screen
   assembly and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
25 having multiple screen element screening surfaces.         The screen element includes
                                               9

   substantially parallel end portions and substantially parallel side edge portions
   substantially perpendicular to the end portions. The screen element further includes a
   first screen element support member and a second screen element support member
   orthogonal to the first screen element support member.       The first screen element
 5 support member extends between the end portions and is approximately parallel to the
   side edge portions. The second screen element support member extends between the
   side edge portions and is approximately parallel to the end portions.       The screen
   element includes a first series reinforcement members substantially parallel to the side
   edge portions and a second series of reinforcement members substantially parallel to
10 the end portions.     The screen element screening surface includes screen surface
   elements forming the screening openings. The end portions, side edge portions, first
   and second support members and first and second series of reinforcement members
   structurally stabilize screen surface elements and screening openings.      The screen
   element is formed as a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
15          The screening openings may be rectangular, square, circular, and oval or any
   other shape. The screen surface elements may run parallel to the end portions and
   form the screening openings. The screen surface elements may also run perpendicular
   to the end portions and form the screen openings.          Different combinations of
   rectangular, square, circular and oval screening openings (or other shapes) may be
20 incorporated together and depending on the shape utilized may run parallel and/or
   perpendicular to the end portions.
            The screen surface elements may run parallel to the end portions and may be
   elongated members forming the screening openings. The screening openings may be
   elongated slots having a distance of approximately 43 microns to approximately 4000
25 microns between inner surfaces of adjacent screen surface elements. In certain
                                              10

   embodiments, the screen openings may have a distance of approximately 70 microns
   to approximately 180 microns between inner surfaces of adjacent screen surface
   elements.   In other embodiments, the screening openings may have a distance of
   approximately 43 microns to approximately 106 microns between inner surfaces of
 5 adjacent screen surface elements.      In embodiments of the present invention, the
   screening openings may have a width and a length, the width may be about 0.043 mm
   to about 4 mm and the length may be about 0.086 mm to about 43 mm. In certain
   embodiments, the width to length ratio may be approximately 1:2 to approximately
   1:1000.
10          Multiple subgrids of varying sizes may be combined to form a screen
   assembly support structure for screen elements. Alternatively, a single subgrid may
   be thermoplastic injection molded, or otherwise constructed, to form the entire screen
   assembly support structure for multiple individual screen elements.
           In embodiments that use multiple subgrids, a first subgrid may include a first
15 base member having a first fastener that mates with a second fastener of a second base
   member of a second subgrid, the first and second fasteners securing the first and
   second subgrids together. The first fastener may be a clip and the second fastener
   may be a clip aperture, wherein the clip snaps into the clip aperture and securely
   attaches the first and second subgrids together.
20         The first and second screen element support members and the screen element
   end portions may include a screen element attachment arrangement configured to
   mate with a subgrid attachment arrangement. The subgrid attachment arrangement
   may include elongated attachment members and the screen element attachment
   arrangement     may include    attachment apertures that mate with the elongated
25 attachment members securely attaching the screen element to the subgrid. A portion
                                              11

   of the elongated attachment members may be configured to extend through the screen
   element attachment apertures and slightly above the screen element screening surface.
   The attachment apertures may include a tapered bore or may simply include an
   aperture without any tapering.     The portion of the elongated attachment members
 5 above the screening element screening surface may be melted and may fill the tapered
   bore, fastening the screen element to the subgrid. Alternatively, the portion of the
   elongated attachment members that extends through and above the aperture in
   screening element screening surface may be melted such that it forms a bead on the
   screening element screening surface and fastens the screen element to the subgrid.
10         The elongated structural members may include substantially parallel subgrid
   end members and substantially parallel         subgrid side members substantially
   perpendicular to the subgrid end members. The elongated structural members may
   further include a first subgrid support member and a second subgrid support member
   orthogonal to the first subgrid support member. The first subgrid support member
15 may extend between the subgrid end members and may be approximately parallel to
   the subgrid side members. The second subgrid support member may extend between
   the subgrid side members and may be approximately parallel to the subgrid end
   members, and substantially perpendicular to the subgrid edge members.
           The grid framework may include a first and a second grid framework forming
20 a first and a second grid opening. The screen elements may include a first and a
   second screen element. The subgrid may have a ridge portion and a base portion.
   The first and second grid frameworks may include first and second angular surfaces
   that peak at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the peak portion to the
   base portion. The first and second screen elements may span the first and second
25 angular surfaces, respectively.
                                             12

           According to an example embodiment of the present invention, a screen
   assembly is provided having a screen element including a screen element screening
   surface with a series of screening openings and a subgrid including multiple elongated
   structural members forming a grid framework having grid openings.           The screen
 5 element spans at least one grid opening and is secured to a top surface of the subgrid.
   Multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly and the screen
   assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface comprised of multiple
   screen element screening surfaces.       The screen element is a single thermoplastic
   injection molded piece.
10         The screen element may include substantially parallel end portions and
   substantially parallel side edge portions substantially perpendicular to the end
   portions.   The screen element may further include a first screen element support
   member and a second screen element support member orthogonal to the first screen
   element support member.       The first screen element support member may extend
15 between the end portions and may be approximately parallel to the side edge portions.
   The second screen element support member may extend between the side edge
   portions and may be approximately parallel to the end portions. The screen element
   may include a first series reinforcement members substantially parallel to the side
   edge portions and a second series of reinforcement members substantially parallel to
20 the end portions. The screen element may include elongated screen surface elements
   running parallel to the end portions and forming the screening openings.       The end
   portions, side edge portions, first and second support members, first and second series
   of reinforcement members may structurally stabilize the screen surface elements and
   the screening openings.
                                               13

           The first and second series of reinforcement members may have a thickness
   less than a thickness of the end portions, side edge portions and the first and second
   screen element support members. The end portions and the side edge portions and the
   first and second screen element support members may form four rectangular areas.
 5 The first series of reinforcement members and the second series of reinforcement
   members may form multiple rectangular support grids within each of the four
   rectangular areas. The screening openings may have a width of approximately 43
   microns to approximately 4000 microns between inner surfaces of each of the screen
   surface elements. In certain embodiments, the screening openings may have a width
10 of approximately 70 microns to approximately 180 microns between inner surfaces of
   each of the screen surface elements. In other embodiments, the screening openings
   may have a width of approximately 43 microns to approximately 106 microns
   between inner surfaces of each of the screen surface elements. In embodiments of the
   present invention, the screening openings may have a width of about 0.043 mm to
15 about 4 mm and length of about 0.086 mm to about 43 mm. In certain embodiments,
   the width to length ratio may be approximately 1:2 to approximately 1:1000.
   The screen elements may be flexible.
           The subgrid end members, the subgrid side members and the first and second
   subgrid support members may form eight rectangular grid openings. A first screen
20 element may span four of the grid openings and a second screen element may span the
   other four openings.
           A central portion of the screening element screening surface may slightly flex
   when subject to a load. The subgrid may be substantially rigid. The subgrid may
   also be a single thermoplastic injection molded piece. At least one of the subgrid end
25 members and the subgrid side members may include fasteners configured to mate
                                              14

   with fasteners of other subgrids, which fasteners may be clips and clip apertures that
   snap into place and securely attach the subgrids together.
            The subgrid may include:       substantially parallel triangular end pieces,
   triangular middle pieces substantially parallel to the triangular end pieces, a first and
 5 second mid support substantially perpendicular to the triangular end pieces and
   extending between the triangular end pieces, a first and second base support
   substantially perpendicular to the triangular end pieces and extending the between the
   triangular end pieces and a central ridge substantially perpendicular to the triangular
   end pieces and extending the between the triangular end pieces.      A first edge of the
10 triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, and the first mid support, the first
   base support and the central ridge may form a first top surface of the subgrid having a
   first series of grid openings. A second edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular
   middle pieces, and the second mid support, the second base support and the central
   ridge may form a second top surface of the subgrid having a second series of grid
15 openings. The first top surface may slope down from the central ridge to the first base
   support and the second top surface may slope down from the central ridge to the
   second base support. A first and a second screen element may span the first series
   and second series of grid openings, respectively. The first edges of the triangular end
   pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the first mid support, the first base support and
20 the central ridge may include a first subgrid attachment arrangement configured to
   securely mate with a first screen element attachment arrangement of the first screen
   element. The second edges of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces,
   the second mid support, the second base support and the central ridge may include a
   second subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with a second
25 screen element attachment arrangement of the second screen element. The first and
                                               15

   second subgrid attachment arrangements may include elongated attachment members
   and the first and second screen element attachment arrangements may include
   attachment apertures that mate with the elongated attachment members thereby
   securely attaching the first and second screen elements to the first and second
 5 subgrids, respectively.  A portion of the elongated attachment members may extend
   through the screen element attachment apertures and slightly above a first and second
   screen element screening surface.
           The first and second screen elements each may include substantially parallel
   end portions and substantially parallel side edge portions substantially perpendicular
10 to the end portions. The first and second screen elements may each include a first
   screen element support member and a second screen element support member
   orthogonal to the first screen element support member, the first screen element
   support member extending between the end portions and being approximately parallel
   to the side edge portions, the second screen element support member extending
15 between the side edge portions and may be approximately parallel to the end portions.
   The first and second screen elements may each include a first series reinforcement
   members substantially parallel to the to the side edge portions and a second series of
   reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end portions.        The first and
   second screen elements may each include elongated screen surface elements running
20 parallel to the end portions and forming the screening openings. The end portions,
   side edge portions, first and second support members, first and second series of
   reinforcement members may structurally stabilize screen surface elements and
   screening openings.
                                              16

            One of the first and second base supports may include fasteners that secure the
   multiple subgrids together, which fasteners may be clips and clip apertures that snap
   into place and securely attach subgrids together.
            The screen assembly may include a first, a second, a third and a fourth screen
 5 element. The first series of grid openings may be eight openings formed by the first
   edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, and the first mid
   support, the first base support and the central ridge.      The second series of grid
   openings may be eight openings formed by the second edge of the triangular end
   pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the second mid support, the second base support
10 and the central ridge. The first screen element may span four of the grid openings of
   the first series of grid openings and the second screen element may span the other four
   openings of the first series of grid openings. The third screen element may span four
   of the grid openings of the second series of grid openings and the fourth screen
   element may span the other four openings of the second series of grid openings. A
15 central portion of the first, second, third and fourth screening element screening
   surfaces may slightly flex when subject to a load. The subgrid may be substantially
   rigid and may be a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
            According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a screen
   assembly is providing having a screen element including a screen element screening
20 surface with screening openings and a subgrid including a grid framework with grid
   openings. The screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a surface of
   the subgrid. Multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly and
   the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface that includes
   multiple screen element screening surfaces. The screen element is a thermoplastic
25 injection molded piece.
                                               17

           The screen assembly may also include a first thermoplastic injection molded
   screen element and a second thermoplastic injection molded screen element and the
   grid framework may include a first and second grid framework forming a first grid
   opening and a second grid opening. The subgrid may include a ridge portion and a
 5 base portion, the first and second grid frameworks including first and second angular
   surfaces that peak at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the peak portion
   to the base portion.    The first and second screen elements may span the first and
   second angular surfaces, respectively.    The first and second angular surfaces may
   include a subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with a screen
10 element attachment arrangement.      The subgrid attachment arrangement may include
   elongated attachment members and the screen element attachment arrangement may
   include apertures that mate with the elongated attachment members thereby securely
   attaching the screen elements to the subgrid.
           The subgrid may be substantially rigid and may be a single thermoplastic
15 injection molded piece. A section of the base portion may include a first and a second
   fastener that secure the subgrid to a third and a fourth fastener of another subgrid.
   The first and third fasteners may be clips and the second and fourth fasteners may be
   clip apertures. The clips may snap into clip apertures and securely attach the subgrid
   and the another subgrid together.
20         The subgrids may form a concave structure and the continuous screen
   assembly screening surface may be concave. The subgrids may form a flat structure
   and the continuous screen assembly screening surface may be flat. The subgrids may
   form a convex structure and the continuous screen assembly screening surface may be
   convex.
                                              18

           The screen assembly may be configured to form a predetermined concave
   shape when subjected to a compression force by a compression assembly of a
   vibratory screening machine against at least one side member of the vibratory screen
   assembly when placed in the vibratory screening machine.           The predetermined
 5 concave shape may be determined in accordance with a shape of a surface of the
   vibratory screening machine. The screen assembly may have a mating surface mating
   the screen assembly to a surface of the vibratory screening machine, which mating
   surface may be rubber, metal (e.g., steel, aluminum, etc.), a composite material, a
   plastic material or any other suitable material. The screen assembly may include a
10 mating surface configured to interface with a mating surface of a vibratory screening
   machine such that the screen assembly is guided into a fixed position on the vibratory
   screening machine. The mating surface may be formed in a portion of at least one
   subgrid. The screen assembly mating surface may be a notch formed in a comer of
   the screen assembly or a notch formed approximately in the middle of a side edge of
15 the screen assembly. The screen assembly may have an arched surface configured to
   mate with a concave surface of the vibratory screening machine. The screen assembly
   may have a substantially rigid structure that does not substantially deflect when
   secured to the vibratory screening machine.      The screen assembly may include a
   screen assembly mating surface configured such that it forms a predetermined
20 concave shape when subjected to a compression force by a member of a vibratory
   screening machine. The screen assembly mating surface may be shaped such that it
   interfaces with a mating surface of the vibratory screening machine such that the
   screen assembly may be guided into a predetermined location on the vibratory
   screening machine. The screen assembly may include a load bar attached to an edge
25 surface of the subgrid of the screen assembly, the load bar may be configured to
                                             19

   distribute a load across a surface of the screen assembly. The screen assembly may be
   configured to form a predetermined concave shape when subjected to a compression
   force by a compression member of a vibratory screening machine against the load bar
   of the vibratory screen assembly. The screen assembly may have a concave shape
 5 and may be configured to deflect and form a predetermined concave shape when
   subjected to a compression force by a member of a vibratory screening machine.
            A first set of the subgrids may be formed into center support frame assemblies
   having a first fastener arrangement. A second set of the subgrids may be formed into
   a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement. A third set
10 of the subgrids may be formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
   third fastener arrangement.      The first, second, and third fastener arrangements may
   secure the first and second end support frames to the center support assemblies. A
   side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly may form a first end of the
   screen assembly. A side edge surface of the second end support frame arrangement
15 may form a second end of the screen assembly. An end surface of each of the first
   and second end support frame assemblies and center support frame assemblies may
   cumulatively form a first and a second side surface of the complete screen assembly.
   The first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly may be substantially parallel
   and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly may be substantially
20 parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen assembly.
   The side surfaces of the screen assembly may include fasteners configured to engage
   at least one of a binder bar and a load distribution bar. The subgrids may include side
   surfaces such that when individual subgrids are secured together to form the first and
   second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly that the
25 first and second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly
                                                 20

   each form a concave shape. The subgrids may include side surfaces shaped such that
   when individual subgrids are secured together to form the first and second end
   support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly that the first and
   second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly each
 5 form a convex shape.
           The screen elements may be affixed to the subgrids by at least one of a
   mechanical arrangement, an adhesive, heat staking and ultrasonic welding.
           According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a screen
   element is provided having: a screen element screening surface with screen surface
10 elements forming a series of screening openings; a pair of substantially parallel end
   portions; a pair of substantially parallel side edge portions substantially perpendicular
   to the end portions; a first screen element support member; a second screen element
   support member orthogonal to the first screen element support member, the first
   screen element support member extending between the end portions and being
15 approximately parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element support
   member extending between the side edge portions and being approximately parallel to
   the end portions and substantially perpendicular to the side edge portions; a first series
   of reinforcement members substantially parallel to the side edge portions; and a
   second series of reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end portions.
20 The screen surface elements run parallel to the end portions. The end portions, side
   edge portions, first and second support members, first and second series of
   reinforcement members structurally stabilize screen surface elements and screening
   openings, and the screen element is a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
           According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a screen
25 element is provided having a screen element screening surface with screen surface
                                                21

   elements forming a series of screening openings; a pair of substantially parallel end
   portions; and a pair of substantially parallel side edge portions substantially
   perpendicular to the end portions.     The screen element is a thermoplastic injection
   molded piece.
 5         The screen element may also have a first screen element support member; a
   second screen element support member orthogonal to the first screen element support
   member, the first screen element support member extending between the end portions
   and being approximately parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element
   support member extending between the side edge portions and being approximately
10 parallel to the end portions; a first series of reinforcement members substantially
   parallel to the side edge portions; and a second series of reinforcement members
   substantially parallel to the end portions. The screen surface elements may run
   parallel to the end portions. In certain embodiments, the screen surface elements may
   also be configured to run perpendicular to the end portions. The end portions, side
15 edge portions, first and second support members, first and second series of
   reinforcement members may structurally stabilize screen surface elements and
   screening openings.
           The screen element may also have a screen element attachment arrangement
   molded integrally with the screen element and configured to mate with a subgrid
20 attachment arrangement.      Multiple subgrids may form a screen assembly and the
   screen assembly may have a continuous screen assembly screening surface that
   includes multiple screen element screening surfaces.
           According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a method for
   fabricating a screen assembly for screening materials is provided that includes:
25 determining screen assembly performance specifications for the screen assembly;
                                              22

   determining a screening opening requirement for a screen element based on the screen
   assembly performance specifications, the screen element including a screen element
   screening surface having screening openings; determining a screen configuration
   based on the screen assembly performance specifications, the screen configuration
 5 including having the screen elements arranged in at least one of flat configuration and
   a nonflat configuration; injection molding the screen elements with a thermoplastic
   material; fabricating a subgrid configured to support the screen elements, the subgrid
   having a grid framework with grid openings wherein at least one screen element spans
   at least one grid opening and is secured to a top surface of the subgrid, the top surface
10 of each subgrid including at least one of a flat surface and a nonflat surface that
   receives the screen elements; attaching the screen elements to the subgrids; attaching
   multiple subgrid assemblies together to form end screen frames and center screen
   frames; attaching the end screen frames to the center screen frames to form a screen
   frame structure; attaching a first binder bar to a first end of the screen frame structure;
15 and attaching a second binder bar to a second end of the screen frame structure to
   form the screen assembly, the screen assembly having a continuous screen assembly
   screening surface comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces.
            The screen assembly performance specifications may include at least one of
   dimensions, material requirements, open screening area, cut point, and capacity
20 requirements for a screening application. A handle may be attached to the binder bar.
   A tag may be attached to the binder bar, which tag may include a performance
   description of the screen assembly. At least one of the screen element and the subgrid
   may be a single thermoplastic injection molded piece. The thermoplastic material
   may include a nanomaterial.       The subgrid may include at least one base member
25 having fasteners that mate with fasteners of other base members of other subgrids and
                                               23

   secure the subgrids together. The fasteners may be clips and clip apertures that snap
   into place and securely attach the subgrids together.
           According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a method for
   fabricating a screen assembly for screening materials is provided by injection molding
 5 a screen element with a thermoplastic material, the screen element including a screen
   element screening surface having screening openings; fabricating a subgrid that
   supports the screen element, the subgrid having a grid framework with grid openings,
   the screen element spanning at least one grid opening; securing the screen element to
   a top surface of the subgrid; and attaching multiple subgrid assemblies together to
10 form the screen assembly, the screen assembly having a continuous screen assembly
   screening surface made of multiple screen element screening surfaces. The method
   may also include attaching a first binder bar to a first end of the screen assembly and
   attaching a second binder bar to a second end of the screen assembly. The first and
   second binder bars may bind the subgrids together. The binder bar may be configured
15 to distribute a load across the first and second ends of the screen assembly.       The
   thermoplastic material may include a nanomaterial.
           According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a method for
   screening a material is provided by attaching a screen assembly to a vibratory
   screening machine, the screen assembly including a screen element having a series of
20 screening openings forming a screen element screening surface and a subgrid
   including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid framework having
   grid openings. Screen elements span grid openings and are secured to a top surface of
   the subgrid. Multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly. The
   screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface comprised of
25 multiple screen element screening surfaces.          The screen element is a single
                                              24

   thermoplastic injection molded piece.    The material is screened using the screen
   assembly.
           According to an example embodiment of the present disclosure, a method for
   screening a material is provided including attaching a screen assembly to a vibratory
 5 screening machine and forming a top screening surface of the screen assembly into a
   concave shape.   The screen assembly includes a screen element having a series of
   screening openings forming a screen element screening surface and a subgrid
   including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid framework having
   grid openings. Screen elements span grid openings and are secured to a top surface of
10 the subgrid. Multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly and
   the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface comprised of
   multiple screen element screening surfaces.        The screen element is a single
   thermoplastic injection molded piece.    The material is screened using the screen
   assembly.
15         Example embodiments of the present disclosure are described in more detail
   below with reference to the appended Figures.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
20 Figure 1 is an isometric view of a screen assembly, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 1A is an enlarged view of a break out portion of the screen assembly shown in
   Figure 1.
   Figure 1B is a bottom isometric view the screen assembly shown in Figure 1.
25 Figure 2 is an isometric top view of a screen element, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
                                             25

   Figure 2A is a top view of the screen element shown in Figure 2.
   Figure 2B is a bottom isometric view of the screen element shown in Figure 2.
   Figure 2C is a bottom view of the screen element shown in Figure 2.
   Figure 2D is an enlarged top view of a break out portion of the screen element shown
 5 in Figure 2.
   Figure 3 is a top isometric view of an end subgrid, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 3A is a bottom isometric view of the end subgrid shown in Figure 3.
   Figure 4 is a top isometric view of a center subgrid, according to an exemplary
10 embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 4A is a bottom isometric view of the center subgrid shown in Figure 4.
   Figure 5 is a top isometric view of a binder bar, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 5A is a bottom isometric view of the binder bar shown in Figure 5.
15 Figure 6 is an isometric view of a screen subassembly, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 6A is an exploded view of the subassembly shown in Figure 6.
   Figure 7 is a top view of the screen assembly shown in Figure 1.
    Figure 7A is an enlarged cross-section of Section A-A of the screen assembly shown
20 in Figure 7.
   Figure 8 is a top isometric view of a screen assembly partially covered with screen
   elements, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 9 is an exploded isometric view of the screen assembly shown in Figure 1.
                                             26

   Figure 10 is an exploded isometric view of an end subgrid showing screen elements
   prior to attachment to the end subgrid, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   present invention.
   Figure 1OA is an isometric view of the end subgrid shown in Figure 10 having the
 5 screen elements attached thereto.
   Figure 1OB is a top view of the end subgrid shown in Figure 10A.
   Figure 1OC is a cross-section of Section B-B of the end subgrid shown in Figure 1OA.
   Figure 11 is an exploded isometric view of a center subgrid showing screen elements
   prior to attachment to the center subgrid, according to an exemplary embodiment of
10 the present invention.
   Figure 11 A is an isometric view of the center subgrid shown in Figure 11 having the
   screen elements attached thereto.
   Figure 12 is an isometric view of a vibratory screening machine having screen
   assemblies with concave screening surfaces installed thereon, according to an
15 exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 12A is an enlarged isometric view of the discharge end of the vibratory
   screening machine shown in Figure 12.
   Figure 12B is a front view of the vibratory screening machine shown in Figure 12.
   Figure 13 is an isometric view of a vibratory screening machine with a single
20 screening surface having screen assemblies with concave screening surfaces installed
   thereon, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 13A is a front view of the vibratory screening machine shown in Figure 13.
   Figure 14 is a front view of a vibratory screening machine having two separate
   concave screening surfaces with preformed screen assemblies installed upon the
                                              27

   vibratory screening machine, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention.
   Figure 15 is a front view of a vibratory screening machine having a single screening
   surface with a preformed screen assembly installed upon the vibratory screening
 5 machine, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 16 is an isometric view of an end support frame subassembly, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 16A is an exploded isometric view of the end support frame subassembly
   shown in Figure 16.
10 Figure 17 is an isometric view of a center support frame subassembly, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 17A is an exploded isometric view of the center support frame subassembly
   shown in Figure 17.
   Figure 18 is an exploded isometric view of a screen assembly, according to an
15 exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 19 is a top isometric view of a flat screen assembly, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 20 is a top isometric view of a convex screen assembly, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
20 Figure 21 is an isometric view of a screen assembly having pyramidal shaped
   subgrids, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 21A is an enlarged view of section D of the screen assembly shown in Figure
   21.
   Figure 22 is a top isometric view of a pyramidal shaped end subgrid, according to an
25 exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
                                               28

   Figure 22A is a bottom isometric view of the pyramidal shaped end subgrid shown in
   Figure 22.
   Figure 23 is a top isometric view of a pyramidal shaped center subgrid, according to
   an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
 5 Figure 23A is a bottom isometric view of the pyramidal shaped center subgrid shown
   in Figure 23.
   Figure 24 is an isometric view of a pyramidal shaped subassembly, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 24A is an exploded isometric view of the pyramidal shaped subassembly
10 shown in Figure 24.
   Figure 24B is an exploded isometric view of a pyramidal shaped end subgrid showing
   screen elements prior to attachment to the pyramidal shaped end subgrid.
   Figure 24C is an isometric view of the pyramidal shaped end subgrid shown in Figure
   24B having the screen elements attached thereto.
15 Figure 24D is an exploded isometric view of a pyramidal shaped center subgrid
   showing screen elements prior to attachment to the pyramidal shaped center subgrid,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 24E is an isometric view of the pyramidal shaped center subgrid shown in
   Figure 24D having the screen elements attached thereto.
20 Figure 25 is a top view of a screen assembly having pyramidal shaped subgrids,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 25A is a cross-section view of Section C-C of the screen assembly shown in
   Figure 25.
   Figure 25B is an enlarged view of Section C-C shown in Figure 25A.
                                              29

   Figure 26 is an exploded isometric view of a screen assembly having pyramidal
   shaped and flat subassemblies, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention.
   Figure 27 is an isometric view of a vibratory screening machine with two screening
 5 surfaces having assemblies with concave screening surfaces installed thereon wherein
   the screen assemblies include pyramidal shaped and flat subassemblies, according to
   an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 28 is a top isometric view of a screen assembly having pyramidal shaped and
   flat subgrids without screen elements, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
10 present invention.
   Figure 29 is a top isometric view of the screen assembly shown in Figure 28 where
   the subgrids are partially covered with screen elements.
   Figure 30 is a front view of a vibratory screening machine with two screening
   surfaces having assemblies with concave screening surfaces installed thereon where
15 the screen assemblies include pyramidal shaped and flat subgrids, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 31 is a front view of a vibratory screening machine with a single screen surface
   having an assembly with a concave screening surface installed thereon where the
   screen assembly includes pyramidal shaped and flat subgrids, according to an
20 exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 32 is a front view of a vibratory screening machine with two screening
   surfaces having preformed screen assemblies with flat screening surfaces installed
   thereon where the screen assemblies include pyramidal shaped and flat subgrids,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
                                               30

   Figure 33 is a front view of a vibratory screening machine with a single screening
   surface having a preformed screen assembly with a flat screening surface installed
   thereon where the screen assembly includes pyramidal shaped and flat subgrids,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
 5 Figure 34 is an isometric view of the end subgrid shown in Figure 3 having a single
   screen element partially attached thereto, according to an exemplary embodiment of
   the present invention.
   Figure 35 is an enlarged view of break out Section E of the end subgrid shown in
   Figure 34.
10 Figure 36 is an isometric view of a screen assembly having pyramidal shaped
   subgrids in a portion of the screen assembly, according to an exemplary embodiment
   of the present invention.
   Figure 37 is a flow chart of a screen assembly fabrication, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
15 Figure 38 is a flow chart of a screen assembly fabrication, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 39 an isometric view of a vibratory screening machine having a single screen
   assembly with a flat screening surface installed thereon with a portion of the vibratory
   machine cut away showing the screen assembly, according to an exemplary
20 embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 40 is an isometric top view of an individual screen element, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 40A is an isometric top view of a screen element pyramid, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
                                             31

   Figure 40B is an isometric top view of four of the screen element pyramids shown in
   Figure 40A.
   Figure 40C is an isometric top view of an inverted screen element pyramid, according
   to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
 5 Figure 40D is a front view of the screen element shown in Figure 40C.
   Figure 40E is an isometric top view of a screen element structure, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 40F is a front view of the screen element structure shown in Figure 40E.
   Figures 41 to 43 are front cross-sectional profile views of screen elements, according
10 to exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
   Figure 44 is an isometric top view of a prescreening structure with prescreen
   assemblies according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 44A is an isometric top view of the prescreen assembly shown in Figure 44,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
15
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Like reference characters denote like parts in several drawings.
           Embodiments of the present invention provide a screen assembly that includes
   injection molded screen elements that are mated to a subgrid. Multiple subgrids are
20 securely fastened to each other to form the vibratory screen assembly, which has a
   continuous screening surface and is configured for use on a vibratory screening
   machine.   The entire screen assembly structure is configured to withstand rigorous
   loading conditions encountered when mounted and operated on a vibratory screening
   machine.   Injection molded screen elements provide for many advantages in screen
25 assembly    manufacturing    and   vibratory   screening    applications.  In   certain
                                              32

   embodiments of the present invention, screen elements are injection molded using a
   thermoplastic material.
           Embodiments of the present invention provide injection molded screen
   elements that are of a practical size and configuration for manufacture of vibratory
 5 screen assemblies and for use in vibratory screening applications. Several important
   considerations have been taken into account in the configuration of individual screen
   elements. Screen elements are provided that: are of an optimal size (large enough for
   efficient assembly of a complete screen assembly structure yet small enough to
   injection mold (micromold in certain embodiments) extremely small structures
10 forming screening openings while avoiding freezing (i.e., material hardening in a
   mold before completely filling the mold)); have optimal open screening area (the
   structures forming the openings and supporting the openings are of a minimal size to
   increase the overall open area used for screening while maintaining, in certain
   embodiments, very small screening openings necessary to properly separate materials
15 to a specified standard); have durability and strength, can operate in a variety of
   temperature ranges; are chemically resistant; are structural stable; are highly versatile
   in screen assembly manufacturing processes; and are configurable in customizable
   configurations for specific applications.
           Embodiments of the present invention provide screen elements that are
20 fabricated using extremely precise injection molding. The larger the screen element
   the easier it is to assemble a complete vibratory screening assembly. Simply put, the
   fewer pieces there are to put together. However, the larger the screen element the
   more difficult it is to injection mold extremely small structures, i.e. the structures
   forming the screening openings. It is important to minimize the size of the structures
25 forming the screening openings so as to maximize the number of screening openings
                                              33

   on an individual screen element and thereby optimize the open screening area for the
   screening element and thus the overall screen assembly.         In certain embodiments,
   screen elements are provided that are large enough (e.g., one inch by one inch, one
   inch by two inches, two inches by three inches, etc.) to make it practical to assemble a
 5 complete screen assembly screening surface (e.g., two feet by three feet, three feet by
   four feet, etc.). The relatively "small size" (e.g., one inch by one inch, one inch by
   two inches, two inches by three inches, etc.) is fairly large when micromolding
   extremely small structural members (e.g., structural members as small as 43 microns).
   The larger the size of the overall screen element and the smaller the size of the
10 individual structural members forming the screening openings the more prone the
   injection molding process is to errors such as freezing. Thus, the size of the screen
   elements must be practical for screen assembly manufacture while at the same time
   small enough to eliminate problems such as freezing when micromolding extremely
   small structures. Sizes of screening elements may very based on the material being
15 injection molded, the size of the screening openings required and the overall open
   screening area desired.
           Open screening area is a critical feature of vibratory screen assemblies. The
   average usable open screening area (i.e., actual open area after taking into account the
   structural steel of support members and bonding materials) for traditional 100 mesh to
20 200 mesh wire screen assemblies may be in the range of 16%. Specific embodiments
   of the present invention (e.g., screening assemblies with constructions described
   herein and having 100 mesh to 200 mesh screen openings) provide screen assemblies
   in the same range having a similar actual open screening areas. Traditional screens,
   however, blind fairly quickly in the field which results in the actual opening screening
25 area being reduced fairly quickly. It is not uncommon for traditional metal screens to
                                              34

   blind within the first 24 hours of use and to have the actual open screening area
   reduced by 50%. Traditional wire assemblies also frequently fail as a result of wires
   being subjected to vibratory forces which place bending loads of the wires. Injection
   molded screen assemblies, according to embodiments of the present invention, in
 5 contrast, are not subject to extensive blinding (thereby maintaining a relatively
   constant actual open screening area) and rarely fail because of the structural stability
   and configuration of the screen assembly, including the screen elements and subgrid
   structures.  In fact, screen assemblies according to embodiments of the present
   invention have extremely long lives and may last for long periods of time under
10 heaving loading.    Screen assemblies according to the present invention have been
   tested for months under rigorous conditions with out failure or blinding whereas
   traditional wire assemblies were tested under the same conditions and blinded and
   failed within days.    As more fully discussed herein, traditional thermoset type
   assemblies could not be used in such applications.
15         In embodiments of the present invention a thermoplastic is used to injection
   mold screen elements.     As opposed to thermoset type polymers, which frequently
   include liquid materials that chemically react and cure under temperature, use of
   thermoplastics is often simpler and may be provided, e.g., by melting a homogeneous
   material (often in the form of solid pellets) and then injection molding the melted
20 material. Not only are the physical properties of thermoplastics optimal for vibratory
   screening applications but the use of thermoplastic liquids provides for easier
   manufacturing processes, especially when micromolding parts as described herein.
   The use of thermoplastic materials in the present invention provides for excellent
   flexure and bending fatigue strength and is ideal for parts subjected to intermittent
25 heavy loading or constant heavy loading as is encountered with vibratory screens used
                                             35

   on vibratory screening machines. Because vibratory screening machines are subject
   to motion, the low coefficient of friction of the thermoplastic injection molded
   materials provides for optimal wear characteristics.     Indeed, the wear resistance of
   certain thermoplastics is superior to many metals. Further, use of thermoplastics as
 5 described herein provides an optimal material when making "snap-fits" due to its
   toughness and elongation characteristics. The use of thermoplastics in embodiments
   of the present invention also provides for resistance to stress cracking, aging and
   extreme weathering. The heat deflection temperature of thermoplastics is in the range
   of 200'F. With the addition of glass fibers, this will increase to approximately 250'F
10 to approximately 300'F or greater and increase rigidity, as measured by Flexural
   Modulus, from approximately 400,000 PSI to over approximately 1,000,000 PSI. All
   of these properties are ideal for the environment encountered when using vibratory
   screens on vibratory screening machines under the demanding conditions encounter in
   the field.
15         Figure 1 illustrates a screen assembly 10 for use with vibratory screening
   machines.    Screen assembly 10 is shown having multiple screen elements 16 (See,
   e.g., Figures 2 and 2A-2D) mounted on subgrid structures. The subgrid structures
   include multiple independent end subgrid units 14 (See, e.g., Figure 3) and multiple
   independent center subgrid units 18 (See, e.g., Figure 4) that are secured together to
20 form a grid framework having grid openings 50. Each screen element 16 spans four
   grid openings 50. Although screen element 16 is shown as a unit covering four grid
   openings, screen elements may be provided in larger or smaller sized units.         For
   example, a screen element may be provided that is approximately one-fourth the size
   of screen element 16 such that it would span a single grid opening 50. Alternatively,
25 a screen element may be provided that is approximately twice the size of screen
                                             36

   element 16 such that it would span all eight grid openings of subgrid 14 or 18.
   Subgrids may also be provided in different sizes. For example, subgrid units may be
   provided that have two grid openings per unit or one large subgrid may be provided
   for the overall structure, i.e., a single subgrid structure for the entire screen assembly.
 5 In Figure 1, multiple independent subgrids 14 and 18 are secured together to form the
   screen assembly 10. Screen assembly 10 has a continuous screen assembly screening
   surface 11 that includes multiple screen element screening surfaces 13. Each screen
   element 16 is a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
           Figure 1A is an enlarged view of a portion of the screen assembly 10 having
10 multiple end subgrids 14 and center subgrids 18.            As discussed below, the end
   subgrids 14 and center subgrids 18 may be secured together to form the screen
   assembly. Screen elements 16 are shown attached to the end subgrids 14 and center
   subgrids 18. The size of the screen assembly may be altered by attaching more or less
   subgrids together to form the screen assembly.             When installed in a vibratory
15 screening machine, material may be fed onto the screen assembly 10. See, e.g.,
   Figures 12, 12A, 12B, 13, 13A, 14 and 15.        Material smaller than the screen openings
   of the screen element 16, passes through the openings in screening element 16 and
   through the grid openings 50 thereby separating the material from that which is too
   big to pass through the screen openings of the screen elements 16.
20         Figure 1B shows a bottom view of the screen assembly 10 such that the grid
   openings 50 may be seen below the screen elements. Binder bars 12 are attached to
   sides of the grid framework. Binder bars 12 may be attached to lock subassemblies
   together creating the grid framework.        Binder bars 12 may include fasteners that
   attach to fasteners on side members 38 of subgrid units (14 and 18) or fasteners on
25 base member 64 of pyramidal subgrid units (58 and 60). Binder bars 12 may be
                                                37

   provided to increase the stability of the grid framework and may distribute
   compression loads if the screen assembly is mounted to a vibratory screening machine
   using compression, e.g., using compression assemblies as described in U.S. Patent
   No. 7,578,394 and U.S. Patent Application No. 12/460,200. Binder bars may also be
 5 provided that include U-shaped members or finger receiving apertures,               for
   undermount or overmount tensioning onto a vibratory screening machine, e.g., see
   mounting structures described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,332,101 and 6,669,027.         The
   screen elements and subgrids are securely attached together, as described herein, such
   that, even under tensioning, the screen assembly screening surface and screen
10 assembly maintain their structural integrity.
           The screen assembly shown in Figure 1 is slightly concave, i.e., the bottom
   and top surfaces of the screen assembly have a slight curvature. Subgrids 14 and 18
   are fabricated such that when they are assembled together this predetermined
   curvature is achieved. Alternatively, a screen assembly may be flat or convex (see,
15 e.g., Figures 19 and 20). As shown in Figures 12, 12A, 13, and 13A, screen assembly
   10 may be installed upon a vibratory screening machine having one or more screening
   surfaces. In one embodiment, screen assembly 10 may be installed upon a vibratory
   screening machine by placing screen assembly 10 on the vibratory screening machine
   such that the binder bars contact end or side members of the vibratory screening
20 machine.    Compression force is then applied to binder bar 12.        Binder bars 12
   distribute the load from the compression force to the screen assembly. The screen
   assembly 10 may be configured such that it flexes and deforms into a predetermined
   concave shape when compression force is applied to binder bar 12. The amount of
   deformation and range of concavity may vary according to use, compression forced
25 applied, and shape of the bed support of the vibratory screening machine.
                                              38

   Compressing screen assembly 10 into a concave shape when installed in a vibratory
   screening machine provides many benefits, e.g., easy and simple installation and
   removal, capturing and centering of materials to be screened, etc. Further benefits are
   enumerated in U.S. Patent No. 7,578,394.     Centering of material streams on screen
 5 assembly 10 prevents the material from exiting the screening surface and potentially
   contaminating previously segregated materials and/or creating maintenance concerns.
   For larger material flow volumes, screen assembly 10 may be placed in greater
   compression, thereby increasing the amount of arc of the screen assembly 10. The
   greater the amount of arc in screen assembly 10 allows for greater retaining capability
10 of material by screen assembly 10 and prevention of over spilling of material off
   edges of the screen assembly 10.     Screen assembly 10 may also be configured to
   deform into a convex shape under compression or remain substantially flat under
   compression or clamping. Incorporating binder bars 12 into the screen assembly 10
   allows for a compression load from a vibratory screening machine to be distributed
15 across the screen assembly 10. Screen assembly 10 may include guide notches in the
   binder bars 12 to help guide the screen assembly 10 into place when installed upon a
   vibratory screening machine having guides. Alternatively, the screen assembly may
   be installed upon a vibratory screening machine without binder bars 12.         In the
   alternative embodiment, guide notches may be included in subgrid units. US Patent
20 Application No. 12/460,200 is incorporated herein by reference and any embodiments
   disclosed therein may be incorporated into embodiments of the present invention
   described herein.
           Figure 2 shows a screen element 16 having substantially parallel screen
   element end portions 20 and substantially parallel screen element side portions 22 that
25 are substantially perpendicular to the screen element end portions 20.      The screen
                                             39

   element screening surface 13 includes surface elements 84 running parallel to the
   screen element end portions 20 and forming screening openings 86. See Figure 2D.
   Surface elements 84 have a thickness T, which may vary depending on the screening
   application and configuration of the screening openings 86.             T may be, e.g.,
 5 approximately 43 microns to approximately 100 microns depending on the open
   screening area desired and the width W of screening openings 86.          The screening
   openings 86 are elongated slots having a length L and a width W, which may be
   varied for a chosen configuration. The width may be a distance of approximately 43
   microns to approximately 2000 microns between inner surfaces of each screen surface
10 element 84. The screening openings are not required to be rectangular but may be
   thermoplastic injection molded to any shape suitable to a particular screening
   application, including approximately square, circular and/or oval.        For increased
   stability, the screen surface elements 84 may include integral fiber materials which
   may run substantially parallel to end portions 20. The fiber may be an aramid fiber
15 (or individual filaments thereof), a naturally occurring fiber or other material having a
   relatively high tensile strength. U.S. Patent No. 4,819,809 and U.S. Patent Application
   No. 12/763,046 are incorporated herein by reference and, as appropriate, the
   embodiments disclosed therein may be incorporated into the screen assemblies
   disclosed herein.
20          The screen element 16 may include attachment apertures 24 configured such
   that elongated attachment members 44 of a subgrid may pass through the attachment
   apertures 24. The attachment apertures 24 may include a tapered bore that may be
   filled when a portion of the elongated attachment member 44 above the screening
   element screening surface is melted fastening screen element 16 to the subgrid.
25 Alternatively, the attachment apertures 24 may be configured without a tapered bore
                                               40

   allowing formation of a bead on the screening element screening surface when a
   portion of an elongated attachment member 44 above a screening element screening
   surface is melted fastening the screen element to the subgrid. Screen element 16 may
   be a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.      Screen element 16 may also be
 5 multiple thermoplastic injection molded pieces, each configured to span one or more
   grid openings.   Utilizing small thermoplastic injection molded screen elements 16,
   which are attached to a grid framework as described herein, provides for substantial
   advantages over prior screen assemblies.      Thermoplastic injection molding screen
   elements 16 allow for screening openings 86 to have widths W as small as
10 approximately 43 microns.        This allows for precise and effective      screening.
   Arranging the screen elements 16 on subgrids, which may also be thermoplastic
   injection molded, allows for easy construction of complete screen assemblies with
   very fine screening openings.    Arranging the screen elements 16 on subgrids also
   allows for substantial variations in overall size and/or configuration of the screen
15 assembly 10, which may be varied by including more or less subgrids or subgrids
   having different shapes. Moreover, a screen assembly may be constructed having a
   variety of screening opening sizes or a gradient of screening opening sizes simply by
   incorporating screen elements 16 with the different size screening openings onto
   subgrids and joining the subgrids in the desired configuration.
20          Figure 2B and Figure 2C show a bottom of the screen element 16 having a
   first screen element support member 28 extending between the end portions 20 and
   being substantially perpendicular to the end portions 20. FIG 2B also shows a second
   screen element support member 30 orthogonal to the first screen element support
   member 28 extending between the side edge portions 22 being approximately parallel
25 to the end portions 20 and substantially perpendicular to the side portions 22. The
                                              41

   screen element may further include a first series reinforcement members 32
   substantially parallel to the side edge portions 22 and a second series of reinforcement
   members 34 substantially parallel to the end portions 20. The end portions 20, the
   side edge portions 22, the first screen element support member 28, the second screen
 5 element support member 30, the first series reinforcement members 32, and the
   second series of reinforcement members 34 structurally stabilize the screen surface
   elements    84 and screening openings 86          during different loadings,    including
   distribution of a compression force and/or vibratory loading conditions.
           Figure 3 and Figure 3A illustrate an end subgrid 14 unit. The end subgrid
10 unit 14 includes parallel subgrid end members 36 and parallel subgrid side members
   38 substantially perpendicular to the subgrid end members 36. The end subgrid unit
   14 has fasteners along one subgrid end member 36 and along the subgrid side
   members 38. The fasteners may be clips 42 and clip apertures 40 such that multiple
   subgrid units 14 may be securely attached together. The subgrid units may be secured
15 together along their respective side members 38 by passing the clip 42 into the clip
   aperture 40 until extended members of the clip 42 extend beyond clip aperture 40 and
   subgrid side member 38. As the clip 42 is pushed into the clip aperture 40, the clip's
   extended members will be forced together until a clipping portion of each extended
   member is beyond the subgrid side member 38 allowing the clipping portions to
20 engage an interior portion of the subgrid side member 38. When the clipping portions
   are engaged into the clip aperture, subgrid side members of two independent subgrids
   will be side by side and secured together. The subgrids may be separated by applying
   a force to the clip's extended members such that the extended members are moved
   together allowing for the clipping portions to pass out of the clip aperture.
25 Alternatively, the clips 42 and clip apertures 40 may be used to secure subgrid end
                                                42

   member 36 to a subgrid end member of another subgrid, such as a center subgrid (Fig.
   4).   The end subgrid may have a subgrid end member 36 that does not have any
   fasteners.   Although the fasteners shown in drawings are clips and clip apertures,
   alternative fasters and alternative forms of clips and apertures may be used, including
 5 other mechanical arrangements, adhesives, etc.
           Constructing the grid framework from subgrids, which may be substantially
   rigid, creates a strong and durable grid framework and screen assembly 10. Screen
   assembly 10 is constructed so that it can withstand heavy loading without damage to
   the screening surface and supporting structure. For example, the pyramidal shaped
10 grid frameworks shown in Figures 22 and 23 provide a very strong pyramid base
   framework that supports individual screen elements capable of very fine screening,
   having screening openings as small as 43 microns.         Unlike the pyramidal screen
   assembly embodiment of the present invention described herein, existing corrugated
   or pyramid type wire mesh screen assemblies are highly susceptible to damage and/or
15 deformation under heavy loading. Thus, unlike current screens, the present invention
   provides for screen assemblies having very small and very precise screening openings
   while simultaneously providing substantial structural stability and resistance to
   damage thereby maintaining precision screening under a variety of load burdens.
   Constructing the grid framework from subgrids also allows for substantial variation in
20 the size, shape, and/or configuration of the screen assembly by simply altering the
   number and/or type of subgrids used to construct the grid framework.
           End subgrid unit 14 includes a first subgrid support member 46 running
   parallel to subgrid side members 38 and a second subgrid support member 48
   orthogonal to the first subgrid support member 46 and perpendicular to the subgrid
25 side members 38.      Elongated attachment members 44 may be configured such that
                                              43

   they mate with the screen element attachment apertures 24. Screen element 16 may
   be secured to the subgrid 14 via mating the elongated attachment members 44 with
   screen element attachment apertures 24. A portion of elongated attachment member
   44 may extend slightly above the screen element screening surface when the screen
 5 element 16 is attached to the end subgrid 14.        The screen element attachment
   apertures 24 may include a tapered bore such that a portion of the elongated
   attachment members 44 extending above the screen element screening surface may be
   melted and fill the tapered bore. Alternatively, screen element attachment apertures
   24 may be without a tapered bore and the portion of the elongated attachment
10 members extending above the screening surface of the screening element 16 may be
   configured to form a bead on the screening surface when melted. See Figures 34 and
   35.   Once attached, the screen element 16 will span at least one grid opening 50.
   Materials passing through the screening openings 86 will pass through grid opening
   50.   The arrangement of elongated attachment members 44 and the corresponding
15 arrangement    of screen element attachment apertures 24 provide a guide for
   attachment of screen elements 16 to subgrids simplifying assembly of subgrids. The
   elongated attachment members 44 pass through the screen element attachment
   apertures 24 guiding the screen element into correct placement on the surface of the
   subgrid.   Attachment via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element
20 attachment apertures 24 further provides a secure attachment to the subgrid and
   strengthens the screening surface of the screen assembly 10.
           Figure 4 shows a center subgrid 18. As shown in Figure 1 and Figure 1A, the
   center subgrid 18 may be incorporated into a screen assembly. The center subgrid 18
   has clips 42 and clip apertures 40 on both subgrid end members 36. The end subgrid
25 14 has clips 42 and clip apertures 40 on only one of two subgrid side members 36.
                                              44

   Center subgrids 18 may be secured to other subgrids on each of its subgrid end
   members and subgrid side members.
           Figure 5 shows a top view of binder bar 12. Figure 5A shows a bottom view
   of binder bar 12. Binder bars 12 include clips 42 and clip apertures 40 such that
 5 binder bar 12 may be clipped to a side of an assembly of screen panels (see Figure 9).
   As with subgrids, fasteners on the binder bar 12 are shown as clips and clip apertures
   but other fasteners may be utilized to engage fasteners of the subgrids. Handles may
   be attached to binder bars 12 (see, e.g., Figure 7) which may simplify transportation
   and installation of a screen assembly. Tags and/or labels may also be attached to
10 binder bars. As discussed above, binder bars 12 may increase the stability of the grid
   framework and may distribute compression loads of a vibratory screening machine if
   the screen assembly is placed under compression as shown in U.S. Patent No.
   7,578,394 and U.S. Patent Application No. 12/460,200.
           The screening members, screening assemblies and parts thereof, including
15 connecting members/fasteners      as described herein, may include nanomaterial
   dispersed therein for improved strength, durability and other benefits associated with
   the use of a particular nanomaterial or combination of different nanomaterials. Any
   suitable nanomaterial may be used, including, but not limited to nanotubes, nanofibers
   and/or elastomeric nanocomposites. The nanomaterial may be dispersed in the
20 screening members and screening assemblies and parts thereof in varying
   percentages, depending on the desired properties of the end product. For example,
   specific percentages may be incorporated to increase member strength or to make a
   screening surface wear resistant. Use of a thermoplastic injection molded material
   having nanomaterials dispersed therein may provide for increased strength while
25 using less material.   Thus, structural members, include subgrid framework supports
                                              45

   and screen element supporting members may be made smaller and stronger and/or
   lighter.   This is particularly beneficial when fabricating relatively small individual
   components that are built into a complete screen assembly.            Also, instead of
   producing individual subgrids that clip together, one large grid structure having
 5 nanomaterials dispersed therein, may be fabricated that is relatively light and strong.
   Individual screen elements, with or without nanomaterials, may then be attached to
   the single complete grid framework structure.       Use of nanomaterials in a screen
   element will provide increased strength while reducing the weight and size of the
   element.    This may be especially helpful when injection molding screen elements
10 having extremely small openings as the openings are supported by the surrounding
   materials/members. Another advantage to incorporating nanomaterials into the screen
   elements is an improved screening surface that is durable and resistant to wear.
   Screen surfaces tend to wear out through heavy use and exposure to abrasive
   materials and use of a thermoplastic and/or a thermoplastic having abrasive resistant
15 nanomaterials, provides for a screening surface with a long life.
            Figure 6 shows a subassembly 15 of a row of subgrid units. Figure 6A is an
   exploded view of the subassembly in Figure 6 showing individual subgrids and
   direction of attachment to each other. The subassembly includes two end subgrid
   units 14 and three center subgrid units 18. The end subgrid units 14 form the ends of
20 the subassembly while the center subgrid units 18 are used to join the two end subgrid
   units 14 via connections between the clips 42 and clip apertures 40. The subgrid units
   shown in Figure 6 are shown with attached screen elements 16. By fabricating the
   screen assembly from subgrids and into the subassembly, each subgrid may be
   constructed to a chosen specification and the screen assembly may be constructed
25 from multiple subgrids in a configuration required for the screening application. The
                                               46

   screen assembly may be quickly and simply assembled and will have precise
   screening capabilities and substantial stability under load pressures. Because of the
   structure   configuration of the grid framework       and screen elements     16, the
   configuration of multiple individual screen elements forming the screening surface of
 5 the screen assembly 10 and the fact that the screen elements 16 are thermoplastic
   injection molded, the openings in screen elements 16 are relatively stable and
   maintain their opening sizes for optimal screening under various loading conditions,
   including compression loads and concavity deflections and tensioning.
           Figure 7 shows a screen assembly 10 with binder bars 12 having handles
10 attached to the binder bars 12. The screen assembly is made up of multiple subgrid
   units secured to each other. The subgrid units have screen elements 16 attached to
   their top surfaces. Figure 7A is a cross-section of Section A-A of Figure 7 showing
   individual subgrids secured to screen elements forming a screening surface.        As
   reflected in Figure 7A, the subgrids may have subgrid support members 48 configured
15 such that screen assembly has a slightly concave shape when the subgrid support
   members 48 are fastened to each other via clips 42 and clip apertures 40. Because the
   screen assembly is constructed with a slightly concave shape it may be configured to
   deform to a desired concavity upon application of a compression load without having
   to guide the screen assembly into a concave shape. Alternatively, the subgrids may be
20 configured to create a slightly convex screen assembly or a substantially flat screen
   assembly.
           Figure 8 is a top isometric view of a screen assembly partially covered with
   screen elements 16. This figure shows end subgrid units 14 and center subgrid units
   18 secured to form a screen assembly. The screening surface may be completed by
25 attaching screen elements 16 to the uncovered subgrid units shown in the figure.
                                             47

   Screen elements 16 may be attached to individual subgrids prior to construction of the
   grid framework or attached to subgrids after subgrids have been fastened to each other
   into the grid framework.
           Figure 9 is an exploded isometric view of the screen assembly shown in
 5 Figure 1. This figure shows eleven subassemblies being secured to each other via
   clips and clip apertures along subgrid end members of subgrid units in each
   subassembly.     Each subassembly has two end subgrid units 14 and three center
   subgrid units 18. Binder bars 12 are clipped at each side of the assembly. Different
   size screen assemblies may be created using different numbers of subassemblies or
10 different numbers of center subgrid units in each subassembly. An assembled screen
   assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface made up of multiple
   screen element screening surfaces.
            Figures 10 and 1OA illustrate attachment of screen elements 16 to end
   subgrid unit 14, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
15 Screen elements 16 may be aligned with end subgrid unit 14 via the elongated
   attachment members 44 and the screen element attachment apertures 24 such that the
   elongated attachment members 44 pass through the screen element attachment
   apertures 24 and extend slightly beyond the screen element screening surface. The
   elongated attachment members 44 may be melted to fill the tapered bores of the
20 screen element attachment apertures 24 or, alternatively, to form beads upon the
   screen element screening surface, securing the screen element 16 to the subgrid unit
   14. Attachment via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element attachment
   apertures 24 is only one embodiment of the present invention. Alternatively, screen
   element 16 may be secured to end subgrid unit 14 via adhesive, fasteners and fastener
25 apertures, etc. Although shown having two screen elements for each subgrid, the
                                             48

   present invention includes alternate configurations of one screen element per subgrid,
   multiple screen elements per subgrid, one screen element per subgrid opening, or
   having a single screen element cover multiple subgrids. The end subgrid 14 may be
   substantially rigid and may be formed as a single thermoplastic injection molded
 5 piece.
           Figure lOB is a top view of the end subgrid unit shown in Figure 1OA with
   screen elements 16 secured to the end subgrid.       Figure 1OC is an enlarged cross
   section of Section B-B of the end subgrid unit in Figure lOB. Screen element 16 is
   placed upon the end subgrid unit such that elongated attachment member 44 passes
10 through the attachment aperture and beyond a screening surface of the screen element.
   The portion of the elongated attachment member 44 passing through the attachment
   aperture and beyond the screening surface of the screen element may be melted to
   attach the screen element 16 to the end subgrid unit as described above.
           Figure 11 and Figure 11 A illustrate attachment of screen elements 16 to center
15 subgrid unit 18, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Screen elements 16 may be aligned with center subgrid unit 18 via the elongated
   attachment members 44 and the screen element attachment apertures 24 such that the
   elongated attachment members 44 pass through the screen element attachment
   apertures 24 and extend slightly beyond the screen element screening surface. The
20 elongated attachment members 44 may be melted to fill the tapered bores of the
   screen element attachment apertures 24 or, alternatively, to form beads upon the
   screen element screening surface, securing the screen element 16 to center subgrid
   unit 18.    Attachment via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element
   attachment    apertures 24 is only one embodiment of the present invention.
25 Alternatively, screen element 16 may be secured to center subgrid unit 14 via
                                              49

   adhesive, fasteners and fastener apertures, etc. Although shown having two screen
   elements for each subgrid, the present invention includes alternate configurations of
   one screen element per subgrid, one screen element per subgrid opening, multiple
   screen elements per subgrid, or having a single screen element cover multiple subgrid
 5 units. The center subgrid unit 18 may be substantially rigid and may be a single
   thermoplastic injection molded piece.
           Figures 12 and 12A show screen assemblies 10 installed on a vibratory
   screening machine having two screening surfaces. The vibratory screening machine
   may have compression assemblies on side members of the vibratory screening
10 machine, as shown in U.S. Patent No. 7,578,394.        A compression force may be
   applied to a binder bar or a side member of the screen assembly such that the screen
   assembly deflects downward into a concave shape.        A bottom side of the screen
   assembly may mate with a screen assembly mating surface of the vibratory screening
   machine as shown in U.S. Patent No. 7,578,394 and U.S. Patent Application No.
15 12/460,200.    The vibratory screening machine may include a center wall member
   configured to receive a binder bar of a side member of the screen assembly opposite
   of the side member of the screen assembly receiving compression. The center wall
   member may be angled such that a compression force against the screen assembly
   deflects the screen assembly downward. The screen assembly may be installed in the
20 vibratory screening machine such that it is configured to receive material for
   screening. The screen assembly may include guide notches configured to mate with
   guides of the vibratory screening machine such that the screen assembly may be
   guided into place during installation and may include guide assembly configurations
   as shown in U.S. Patent Application No. 12/460,200.
                                             50

            Figure 12B is a front view of the vibratory screening machine shown in
   Figure 12.    Figure 12B shows screen assemblies 10 installed upon the vibratory
   screening machine with compression applied to deflect the screen assemblies
   downward into a concave shape.          Alternatively, the screen assembly may be
 5 preformed in a predetermined concave shape without compression force.
           Figures 13 and 13A show installations of screen assembly 10 in a vibratory
   screening machine having a single screening surface.         The vibratory screening
   machine may have a compression assembly on a side member of the vibratory
   screening machine. Screen assembly 10 may be placed into the vibratory screening
10 machine as shown.      A compression force may be applied to a binder bar or side
   member of the screen assembly such that the screen assembly deflects downward into
   a concave shape.    A bottom side of the screen assembly may mate with a screen
   assembly mating surface of the vibratory screening machine as shown in U.S. Patent
   No. 7,578,394 and U.S. Patent Application No. 12/460,200. The vibratory screening
15 machine may include a side member wall opposite of the compression assembly
   configured to receive a binder bar or a side member of the screen assembly. The side
   member wall may be angled such that a compression force against the screen
   assembly deflects the screen assembly downward.         The screen assembly may be
   installed in the vibratory screening machine such that it is configured to receive
20 material for screening. The screen assembly may include guide notches configured to
   mate with guides of the vibratory screening machine such that the screen assembly
   may be guided into place during installation.
           Figure 14 is a front view of screen assemblies 52 installed upon a vibratory
   screening machine having two screening surfaces, according to an exemplary
25 embodiment of the present invention. Screen assembly 52 is an alternate embodiment
                                              51

   where the screen assembly has been preformed to fit into the vibratory screening
   machine without applying a load to the screen assembly, i.e., screen assembly 52
   includes a bottom portion 52A that is formed such that it mates with a bed 83 of the
   vibratory screening machine. The bottom portion 52A may be formed integrally with
 5 screen assembly 52 or maybe a separate piece. Screen assembly 52 includes similar
   features as screen assembly 10, including subgrids and screen elements but also
   includes bottom portion 52A that allows it to fit onto bed 83 without being
   compressed into a concave shape. A screening surface of screen assembly 52 may be
   substantially flat, concave or convex. Screen assembly 52 may be held into place by
10 applying a compression force to a side member of screen assembly 52. A bottom
   portion of screen assembly 52 may be preformed to mate with any type of mating
   surface of a vibratory screening machine.
           Figure 15 is a front view of screen assembly 53 installed upon a vibratory
   screening machine having a single screening surface, according to an exemplary
15 embodiment of the present invention. Screen assembly 53 has similar features of
   screen assembly 52 described above, including a bottom portion 53A that is formed
   such that it mates with a bed 87 of the vibratory screening machine.
           Figure 16 shows an end support frame subassembly and Figure 16A shows an
   exploded view of the end support frame subassembly shown in Figure 16. The end
20 support frame subassembly shown in Figure 16 incorporates eleven end subgrid units
   14. Alternate configurations having more or less end subgrid units may be utilized.
   The end subgrid units 14 are secured to each other via clips 42 and clip apertures 40
   along side members of the end subgrid units 14. Figure 16A shows attachment of
   individual end subgrid units such that the end support frame subassembly is created.
25 As shown, the end support frame subassembly is covered in screen elements 16.
                                               52

   Alternatively, the end support frame subassembly may be constructed from end
   subgrids prior to attachment of screen elements or partially from pre-covered subgrid
   units and partially from uncovered subgrid units.
            Figure 17 shows a center support frame assembly and Figure 17A shows an
 5 exploded view of the center support frame subassembly shown in Figure 17.        The
   center support frame assembly shown in Figure 17 incorporates eleven center subgrid
   units 18. Alternate configurations having more or less center subgrid units may be
   utilized. The center subgrid units 18 are secured to each other via clips 42 and clip
   apertures 40 along side members of the center subgrid units 18. Figure 17A shows
10 attachment of individual center subgrid units such that the center support frame
   subassembly is created. As shown, the center support frame subassembly is covered
   in screen elements 16. Alternatively, the center support frame subassembly may be
   constructed from center subgrids prior to attachment of screen elements or partially
   from pre-covered subgrid units and partially from uncovered subgrid units.
15          Figure 18 shows an exploded view of a screen assembly having three center
   support frame subassemblies and two end support frame subassemblies. The support
   frame assemblies are secured to each other via the clips 42 and clip apertures 40 on
   the subgrid end members. Each center subgrid unit is attached to two other subgrid
   units via end members. End members 36 of end subgrid units having no clips 42 or
20 clip apertures 40 form the end edges of the screen assembly. The screen assembly
   may be made with more or less center support frames subassemblies or larger or
   smaller frame subassemblies. Binder bars may be added to side edges of the screen
   assembly.     As shown, the screen assembly has screen elements installed upon the
   subgrid units prior to assembly. Alternatively, screen elements 16 may be installed
25 after all or a portion of assembly.
                                             53

           Figure 19 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the present disclosure where
   screen assembly 54 is substantially flat. Screen assembly 54 may be flexible such that
   it can be deformed into a concave or convex shape or may be substantially rigid.
   Screen assembly 54 may be used with a flat screening surface.       See Figure 39. As
 5 shown, screen assembly 54 has binder bars 12 attached to side portions of the screen
   assembly 54. Screen assembly 54 may be configured with the various embodiments
   of the grid structures and screen elements described herein.
           Figure 20 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the present disclosure
   wherein screen assembly 56 is convex. Screen assembly 56 may be flexible such that
10 it can be deformed into a more convex shape or may be substantially rigid. As shown,
   screen assembly 56 has binder bars 12 attached to side portions of the screen
   assembly. Screen assembly 56 may be configured with the various embodiments of
   the grid structures and screen elements described herein.
           Figures 21 and 21A show an alternative embodiment of the present disclosure
15 incorporating pyramidal shaped subgrid units.       A screen assembly is shown with
   binder bars 12 attached. The screen assembly incorporates center and end subgrid
   units 14 and 18 and center and end pyramidal shaped subgrid units 58 and 60. By
   incorporating the pyramidal shaped subgrid units 58 and 60 into the screen assembly,
   an increased screening surface may be achieved.           Additionally, material being
20 screened may be controlled and directed.        The screen assembly may be concave,
   convex, or flat. The screen assembly may be flexible and may be deformed into a
   concave or convex shape upon the application of a compression force. The screen
   assembly may include guide notches capable of mating with guide mating surfaces on
   a vibratory screening machine. Different configurations of subgrid units and pyramid
25 subgrid units may be employed which may increase or decrease an amount of
                                                54

   screening surface area and flow characteristics of the material being processed. Unlike
   mesh screens or similar technology, which may incorporate corrugations or other
   manipulations to increase surface area, the screen assembly shown is supported by the
   grid framework, which may be substantially rigid and capable of withstanding
 5 substantial loads without damage or destruction.        Under heavy material flows,
   traditional screen assemblies with corrugated screening surfaces are frequently
   flattened or damaged by the weight of the material, thereby impacting the
   performance and reducing the screening surface area of such screen assemblies. The
   screen assemblies disclosed herein are difficult to damage because of the strength of
10 the grid framework, and the benefits of increased surface area provided by
   incorporating pyramidal shaped subgrids may be maintained under substantial loads.
           A pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58 is illustrated in Figure 22 and Figure 22A.
   Pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58 includes a first and a second grid framework
   forming first and second sloped surface grid openings 74. Pyramidal shaped end
15 subgrid 58 includes a ridge portion 66, subgrid side members/base members 64, and
   first and second angular surfaces 70 and 72, respectively, that peak at ridge portion 66
   and extend downwardly to side member 64. Pyramidal shaped subgrids 58 and 60
   have triangular end members 62 and triangular middle support members 76. Angles
   shown for first and second angular surface 70 and 72 are exemplary only. Different
20 angles may be employed to increase or decrease surface area of screening surface.
   Pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58 has fasteners along side members 64 and at least
   one triangle end member 62. The fasteners may be clips 42 and clip apertures 40
   such that multiple subgrid units 58 may be secured together. Alternatively, the clips
   42 and clip apertures 40 may be used to secure pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58 to
25 end subgrid 14, center subgrid 18, or pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60. Elongated
                                              55

   attachment members 44 may be configured on first and second sloped surfaces 70 and
   72 such that they mate with the screen element attachment apertures 24. Screen
   element 16 may be secured to pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58 via mating elongated
   attachment members 44 with the screen element attachment apertures 24. A portion
 5 of the elongated attachment member 44 may extend slightly above the screen element
   screening surface when the screen element 16 is attached to pyramidal shaped end
   subgrid 58. The screen element attachment apertures 24 may include a tapered bore
   such that a portion of the elongated attachment members 44 extending above the
   screen element screening surface may be melted and fill the tapered bore.
10 Alternatively, the screen element attachment apertures 24 may be without a tapered
   bore and the portion of the elongated attachment members extending above the
   screening surface of the screening element 16 may be melted to form a bead on the
   screening surface. Once attached, screen element 16 may span first 74 and second
   sloped grid openings. Materials passing through the screening openings 86 will pass
15 through the first 74 and second grid openings.
           A pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60 is illustrated in Figure 23 and Figure
   23A.    Pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60 includes a first and a second grid
   framework forming a first and second sloped surface grid opening ,74. Pyramidal
   shaped center subgrid 60 includes a ridge portion 66, a subgrid side members/base
20 members 64, and first and second angular surfaces 70 and 72 that peak at the ridge
   portion 66 and extend downwardly to the side member 64. Pyramidal shaped center
   subgrid 60 has triangular end members 62 and triangular middle members 76.
   Angles shown for first and second angular surface 70 and 72 are exemplary only.
   Different angles may be employed to increase or decrease surface area of screening
25 surface. The pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60 has fasteners along side members 64
                                             56

   and both triangle end members 62. The fasters may be clips 42 and clip apertures 40
   such that multiple pyramidal shaped center subgrids 60 may be secured together.
   Alternatively, the clips 42 and clip apertures 40 may be used to secure pyramidal
   shaped center subgrid 60 to end subgrid 14, center subgrid 18, or pyramidal shaped
 5 end subgrid 58.    Elongated attachment members 44 may be configured on first and
   second sloped surfaces 70 and 72 such that they mate with the screen element
   attachment apertures 24.    Screen element 16 may be secured to pyramidal shaped
   center subgrid 60 via mating elongated attachment members 44 with the screen
   element attachment apertures 24. A portion of the elongated attachment member 44
10 may extend slightly above the screen element screening surface when the screen
   element 16 is attached to pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60. The screen element
   attachment apertures 24 may include a tapered bore such that the portion of the
   elongated attachment members 44 extending above the screen element screening
   surface may be melted and fill the tapered bore. Alternatively, the screen element
15 attachment apertures 24 may be without a tapered bore and the portion of the
   elongated attachment members extending above the screening surface of the screening
   element 16 may be melted to form a bead on the screening surface. Once attached,
   screen element 16 will span sloped grid opening 74. Materials passing through the
   screening openings 86 will pass through the grid opening 74. While pyramid and flat
20 shaped grid structures are shown, it will be appreciated that various shaped subgrids
   and corresponding screen elements may be fabricated in accordance with the present
   disclosure.
           Figure 24 shows a subassembly of a row of pyramidal shaped subgrid units.
   Figure 24A is an exploded view of the subassembly in Figure 24 showing the
25 individual pyramidal shaped subgrids and direction of attachment. The subassembly
                                             57

   includes two pyramidal shaped end subgrids 58 and three pyramidal shaped center
   subgrids 60. The pyramidal shaped end subgrids 58 form ends of the subassembly
   while pyramidal shaped center subgrids 60 are used to join the two end subgrids 58
   via connections between the clips 42 and clip apertures 40. The pyramidal subgrids
 5 shown in Figure 24 are shown with attached screen elements 16. Alternatively, the
   subassembly may be constructed from subgrids prior to attachment of screen elements
   or partially from pre-covered pyramidal shaped subgrid units and partially from
   uncovered pyramidal shaped subgrid units.
            Figures 24B and 24C illustrate attachment of screen elements          16 to
10 pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   present invention.   Screen elements 16 may be aligned with pyramidal shaped end
   subgrid 58 via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element attachment
   apertures 24 such that the elongated attachment members 44 pass through the screen
   element attachment apertures 24 may extend slightly beyond the screen element
15 screening surface.    The portion of   elongated attachment members 44 extending
   beyond screen element screening surface may be melted to fill tapered bores of the
   screen element attachment apertures 24 or, alternatively, to form beads upon the
   screen element screening surface, securing the screen element 16 to pyramidal shaped
   subgrid 58. Attachment via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element
20 attachment   apertures   24 is only one embodiment of the present invention.
   Alternatively, screen element 16 may be secured to pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58
   via adhesive, fasteners and fastener apertures, etc.    Although shown having four
   screen elements for each pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58, the present invention
   includes alternate configurations of two screen elements per pyramidal shaped end
25 subgrid 58, multiple screen elements per pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58, or having
                                             58

   a single screen element cover a sloped surface of multiple pyramidal shaped subgrid
   units. Pyramidal shaped end subgrid 58 may be substantially rigid and may be a
   single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
            Figures 24D and 24E illustrate attachment of screen elements 16 to pyramidal
 5 shaped center subgrid 60, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention. Screen elements 16 may be aligned with pyramidal shaped center subgrid
   60 via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element attachment apertures 24
   such that the elongated attachment members 44 may pass through the screen element
   attachment apertures 24 and may extend slightly beyond the screen element screening
10 surface.    The portion of the elongated attachment members 44 extending beyond
   screen element screening surface may be melted to fill tapered bores of the screen
   element attachment apertures 24 or, alternatively, to form beads upon the screen
   element screening surface, securing the screen element 16 to pyramidal shaped
   subgrid unit     60.  Attachment via elongated attachment members 44 and screen
15 element attachment apertures 24 is only one embodiment of the present invention.
   Alternatively, screen element 16 may be secured to pyramidal shaped center subgrid
   60 via adhesive, fasteners and fastener apertures, etc. Although shown having four
   screen elements for each pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60, the present invention
   includes alternate configurations of two screen elements per pyramidal shaped center
20 subgrid 60, multiple screen elements per pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60, or
   having a single screen element cover a sloped surface of multiple pyramidal shaped
   subgrids. Pyramidal shaped center subgrid 60 may be substantially rigid and may be
   a single thermoplastic injection molded piece. While pyramid and flat shaped grid
   structures are shown, it will be appreciated that various shaped subgrids and
                                              59

   corresponding screen elements may be fabricated in accordance with the present
   disclosure.
           Figure 25 is a top view of a screen assembly 80 having pyramidal shaped
   subgrids. As shown, the screen assembly 80 is formed from screen subassemblies
 5 attached to each other alternating from flat subassemblies to pyramidal shaped
   subassemblies.    Alternatively, pyramidal shaped subassemblies may be attached to
   each other or less or more pyramidal shaped subassemblies may be used. Figure 25A
   is a cross-section of Section C-C of the screen assembly shown in Figure 25. As
   shown, the screen assembly has five rows of pyramidal shaped subgrid units and six
10 rows of flat subgrids, with the rows of flat subgrid units in between each row of the
   pyramidal shaped subgrids. Binder bars 12 are attached to the screen assembly. Any
   combination of flat subgrid rows and pyramidal shaped subgrid rows may be utilized.
   Figure 25B is a larger view of the cross-section shown in Figure 25A. In Figure 25B,
   attachment of each subgrid to another subgrid and/or binder bar 12 is visible via clips
15 and clip apertures.
           Figure 26 is an exploded isometric view of a screen assembly having
   pyramidal shaped subgrid units.      This figure shows eleven subassemblies being
   secured to each other via clips and clip apertures along subgrid side members of
   subgrid units in each subassembly. Each flat subassembly has two end subgrids 14
20 and three center subgrids 18. Each pyramidal shaped subassembly has two pyramidal
   shaped end subgrids 58 and three pyramidal shaped center subgrids 60. Binder bars
   12 are fastened at each end of the assembly. Different size screen assemblies may be
   created using different numbers of subassemblies or different numbers of center
   subgrid units. Screening surface area may be increased by incorporating more
25 pyramidal shaped subassemblies or decreased by incorporating more flat assemblies.
                                             60

   An assembled screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
   made up of multiple screen element screening surfaces.
           Figure 27 shows installation of screen assemblies 80 upon a vibratory
   screening machine having two screening surfaces. Figure 30 is a front view of the
 5 vibratory machine shown in Figure 27. The vibratory screening machine may have
   compression assemblies on side members of the vibratory screening machine. The
   screen assemblies may be placed into the vibratory screening machine as shown. A
   compression force may be applied to a side member of the screen assembly such that
   the screen assembly deflects downward into a concave shape. A bottom side of the
10 screen assembly may mate with a screen assembly mating surface of the vibratory
   screening machine as shown in U.S. Patent No. 7,578,394 and U.S. Patent
   Application No. 12/460,200. The vibratory screening machine may include a center
   wall member configured to receive a side member of the screen assembly opposite of
   the side member of the screen assembly receiving compression.      The center wall
15 member may be angled such that a compression force against the screen assembly
   deflects the screen assembly downward. The screen assembly may be installed in the
   vibratory screening machine such that it is configured to receive material for
   screening. The screen assembly may include guide notches configured to mate with
   guides of the vibratory screening machine such that the screen assembly may be
20 guided into place during installation.
           Figure 28 shows an isometric view of a screen assembly having pyramidal
   shaped subgrids where screen elements have not been attached. The screen assembly
   shown in Figure 28 is slightly concave, however, the screen assembly may be more
   concave, convex or flat.       The screen assembly may be made from multiple
25 subassemblies, which may be any combination of flat subassemblies and pyramidal
                                            61

   shaped subassemblies. As shown, eleven subassemblies are included, however, more
   or less subassemblies may be included. The screen assembly is shown without screen
   elements 16. The subgrids may be assembled together before or after attachment of
   screen elements to subgrids or any combination of subgrids having attached screen
 5 elements and subgrids without screen elements may be fastened together. Figure 29
   shows the screen assembly of Figure 28 partially covered in screen elements.
   Pyramidal shaped subassemblies include pyramidal shaped end subgrids 58 and
   pyramidal shaped center subgrids 60. Flat subassemblies include flat end subgrids 14
   and flat center subgrids 18. The subgrid units may be secured to each other via clips
10 and clip apertures.
           Figure 31 shows installation of screen assembly 81 in a vibratory screening
   machine having a single screening surface, according to an exemplary embodiment of
   the present invention.    Screen assembly 81 is similar in configuration to screen
   assembly 80 but includes additional pyramid and flat assemblies.       The vibratory
15 screening machine may have a compression assembly on a side member of the
   vibratory screening machine. Screen assembly 81 may be placed into the vibratory
   screening machine as shown. A compression force may be applied to a side member
   of screen assembly 81 such that screen assembly 81 deflects downward into a concave
   shape.   A bottom side of the screen assembly may mate with a screen assembly
20 mating surface of the vibratory screening machine as shown in U.S. Patent No.
   7,578,394 and U.S. Patent Application No. 12/460,200.       The vibratory screening
   machine may include a side member wall opposite of the compression assembly
   configured to receive a side member of the screen assembly. The side member wall
   may be angled such that a compression force against the screen assembly deflects the
25 screen assembly downward. The screen assembly may be installed in the vibratory
                                             62

   screening machine such that it is configured to receive material for screening. The
   screen assembly may include guide notches configured to mate with guides of the
   vibratory screening machine such that the screen assembly may be guided into place
   during installation.
 5         Figure 32 is a front view of screen assemblies 82 installed upon a vibratory
   screening machine having two screening surfaces, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention. Screen assembly 82 is an alternate embodiment
   where the screen assembly has been preformed to fit into the vibratory screening
   machine without applying a load to the screen assembly, i.e., screen assembly 82
10 includes a bottom portion 82A that is formed such that it mates with a bed 83 of the
   vibratory screening machine. The bottom portion 82A may be formed integrally with
   screen assembly 82 or it may be a separate piece.       Screen assembly 82 includes
   similar features as screen assembly 80, including subgrids and screen elements but
   also includes bottom portion 82A that allows it to fit onto bed 83 without being
15 compressed into a concave shape. A screening surface of screen assembly 82 may be
   substantially flat, concave or convex. Screen assembly 82 may be held into place by
   applying a compression force to a side member of screen assembly 82 or may simply
   be held in place. A bottom portion of screen assembly 82 may be preformed to mate
   with any type of mating surface of a vibratory screening machine.
20         Figure 33 is a front view of screen assembly 85 installed upon a vibratory
   screening machine having a single screening surface, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention. Screen assembly 85 is an alternate embodiment
   where the screen assembly has been preformed to fit into the vibratory screening
   machine without applying a load to the screen assembly i.e., screen assembly 85
25 includes a bottom portion 85A that is formed such that it mates with a bed 87 of the
                                              63

   vibratory screening machine. The bottom portion 85A may be formed integrally with
   screen assembly 85 or it may be a separate piece.       Screen assembly 85 includes
   similar features as screen assembly 80, including subgrids and screen elements but
   also includes bottom portion 85A that allows it to fit onto bed 87 without being
 5 compressed into a concave shape. A screening surface of screen assembly 85 may be
   substantially flat, concave or convex. Screen assembly 85 may be held into place by
   applying a compression force to a side member of screen assembly 85 or may simply
   be held in place. A bottom portion of screen assembly 85 may be preformed to mate
   with any type of mating surface of a vibratory screening machine.
10         Figure 34 is an isometric view of the end subgrid shown in Figure 3 having a
   single screen element partially attached thereto. Figure 35 is an enlarged view of
   break out section E of the end subgrid shown in Figure 34. In Figures 34 and 35,
   screen element 16 is partially attached to end subgrid 38.      Screen element 16 is
   aligned with subgrid 38 via elongated attachment members 44 and screen element
15 attachment apertures 24 such that the elongated attachment members 44 pass through
   the screen element attachment apertures 24 and extend slightly beyond the screen
   element screening surface. As shown along the end edge portion of screen element
   16, the portions of the elongated attachment members 44 extending beyond screen
   element screening surface are melted to form beads upon the screen element screening
20 surface, securing the screen element 16 to end subgrid unit 38.
           Figure 36 shows a slightly concave screen assembly 91 having pyramidal
   shaped subgrids incorporated into a portion of screen assembly 91 according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention. A screening surface of the screen
   assembly may be substantially flat, concave or convex. The screen assembly 91 may
25 be configured to deflect to a predetermined shape under a compression force. The
                                              64

   screen assembly 91, as shown in Figure 36, incorporates pyramidal shaped subgrids in
   the portion of the screen assembly installed nearest the inflow of material on the
   vibratory screening machine.      The portion incorporating the pyramidal shaped
   subgrids allows for increased screening surface area and directed material flow. A
 5 portion of the screen assembly installed nearest a discharge end of the vibratory
   screening machine incorporates flat subgrids. On the flat portion, an area may be
   provided such that material may be allowed to dry and/or cake on the screen
   assembly. Various combinations of flat and pyramidal subgrids may be included in
   the screen assembly depending on the configuration desired and/or the particular
10 screening application. Further, vibratory screening machines that use multiple screen
   assemblies may have individual screen assemblies with varying configurations
   designed for use together on specific applications. For example, screen assembly 91
   may be used with other screen assemblies such that it is positioned near the discharge
   end of a vibratory screening machine such that it provides for caking and/or drying of
15 a material.
           Figure 37 is a flow chart showing steps to fabricate a screen assembly,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Figure
   37, a screen fabricator may receive screen assembly performance specifications for
   the screen assembly.     The specifications may include at least one of a material
20 requirement, open screening area, capacity and a cut point for a screen assembly. The
   fabricator may then determine a screening opening requirement (shape and size) for a
   screen element as described herein.     The fabricator may then determine a screen
   configuration (e.g., size of assembly, shape and configuration of screening surface,
   etc.). For example, the fabricator may have the screen elements arranged in at least
25 one of a flat configuration and a nonflat configuration. A flat configuration may be
                                             65

   constructed from center subgrids 18 and end subgrids 14. A nonflat configuration
   may include at least a portion of pyramidal shaped center subgrids 60 and/or
   pyramidal shaped end subgrids 58.        Screen elements may be injection molded.
   Subgrid units may also be injection molded but are not required to be injection
 5 molded.     Screen elements and subgrids may include a nanomaterial, as described
   herein, dispersed within. After both screen elements and subgrid units have been
   created, screen elements may be attached to subgrid units. The screen elements and
   subgrids may be attached together using connection materials having a nanomaterial
   dispersed within. Multiple subgrid units may be attached together forming support
10 frames.    Center support frames are formed from center subgrids and end support
   frames are formed from end subgrids.       Pyramidal shaped support frames may be
   created from pyramidal shaped subgrid units. Support frames may be attached such
   that center support frames are in a center portion of the screen assembly and end
   support frames are on an end portion of the screen assembly. Binder bars may be
15 attached to the screen assembly.        Different screening surface areas may be
   accomplished by altering the number of pyramidal shaped subgrids incorporated into
   the screen assembly. Alternatively, screen elements may be attached to subgrid units
   after attachment of multiple subgrids together or after attachment of multiple support
   frames together. Instead of multiple independent subgrids that are attached together
20 to form a single unit, one subgrid structure may be fabricated that is the desired size
   of the screen assembly. Individual screen elements may then be attached to the one
   subgrid structure.
            Figure 38 is a flow chart showing steps to fabricate a screen assembly,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. A thermoplastic
25 screen element may be injection molded. Subgrids may be fabricated such that they
                                             66

   are configured to receive the screen elements. Screen elements may be attached to
   subgrids and multiple subgrid     assemblies may be attached, forming a screening
   surface. Alternatively, the subgrids may be attached to each other prior to attachment
   of screen elements.
 5         In another exemplary embodiment, a method for screening a material is
   provided, including attaching a screen assembly to a vibratory screening machine and
   forming a top screening surface of the screen assembly into a concave shape, wherein
   the screen assembly includes a screen element having a series of screening openings
   forming a screen element screening surface and a subgrid including multiple
10 elongated structural members forming a grid framework having grid openings. The
   screen elements span grid openings and are secured to a top surface of the subgrid.
   Multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly and the screen
   assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface comprised of multiple
   screen element screening surfaces.     The screen element is a single thermoplastic
15 injection molded piece.
           Figure 39 is an isometric view of a vibratory screening machine having a
   single screen assembly 89 with a flat screening surface installed thereon with a
   portion of the vibratory machine cut away showing the screen assembly.           Screen
   assembly 89 is a single unit that includes a subgrid structure and screen elements as
20 described herein. The subgrid structure may be one single unit or may be multiple
   subgrids attached together. While screen assembly 89 is shown as a generally flat
   type assembly, it may be convex or concave and may be configured to be deformed
   into a concave shape from a compression assembly or the like.          It may also be
   configured to be tensioned from above or below or may be configured in another
25 manner for attachment to different types of vibratory screening machines. While the
                                             67

   embodiment of the screen assembly shown covers the entire screening bed of the
   vibratory screening machine, screen assembly 89 may also be configured in any shape
   or size desired and may cover only a portion of the screening bed.
           Figure 40 is an isometric view of a screen element 99 according to an
 5 exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Screen element 99 is substantially
   triangular in shape.    Screen element 99 is a single thermoplastic injection molded
   piece and has similar features (including screening opening sizes) as screen element
   16 as described herein. Alternatively, the screen element may be rectangular, circular,
   triangular, square, etc. Any shape may be used for the screen element and any shape
10 may be used for the subgrid as long as the subgrid has grid openings that correspond
   to the shapes of the screen elements.
           Figures 40A and 40B show screen element structure 101, which may be a
   subgrid type structure, with screen elements 99 attached thereto forming a pyramid
   shape. In an alternative embodiment the complete pyramid structure of screen element
15 structure 101 may be thermoplastic injection molded as a single screen element
   having a pyramid shape. In the configuration shown, the screen element structure has
   four triangular screen element screening surfaces. The bases of two of the triangular
   screening surfaces begin at the two side members of the screen element and the bases
   of the other two triangular screening surfaces begin at the two end members of the
20 screen element. The screening surfaces all slope upward to a center point above the
   screen element end members and side members. The angle of the sloped screening
   surfaces may be varied.     Screen element structure 101 (or alternatively single screen
   element pyramids) may be attached to a subgrid structure as described herein.
           Figures 40C and 40D show a screen element structures 105 with screen
25 elements 99 attached and having a pyramidal shape dropping below side members and
                                              68

   edge members of the screen element structure 105. Alternatively, the entire pyramid
   may be thermoplastic injection molded as a single pyramid shaped screen element. In
   the configuration shown, individual screen elements 99 form four triangular screening
   surfaces. The bases of two of the triangular screening surfaces begin at the two side
 5 members of the screen element and the bases of the other two triangular screening
   surfaces begin at the two end members of the screen element. The screening surfaces
   all slope downward to a center point below the screen element end members and side
   members. The angle of the sloped screening surfaces may be varied. Screen element
   structure 105 (or alternatively single screen element pyramids) may be attached to a
10 subgrid structure as described herein.
           Figures 40E and 40F show a screen element structure 107 having multiple
   pyramidal shapes dropping below and rising above the side members and edge
   members of screen element structure 107.        Each pyramid includes four individual
   screen elements 99 but may also be formed as single screen element pyramid. In the
15 configuration shown, each screen element has sixteen triangular screening surfaces
   forming four separate pyramidal screening surfaces.         The pyramidal screening
   surfaces may slope above or below the screen element end members and side
   members. Screen element structure 107 (or alternatively single screen element
   pyramids) may be attached to a subgrid structure as described herein.      Figures 40
20 through 40F are exemplary only as to the variations that may be used for the screen
   elements and screen element support structures.
           Figures   41   to 43   show    cross-sectional profile views   of exemplary
   embodiments of thermoplastic injection molded screen element surface structures that
   may be incorporated into the various embodiments of the present invention discussed
25 herein. The screen element is not limited to the shapes and configurations identified
                                              69

   herein.    Because the screen element is thermoplastic injection molded, multiple
   variations may be easily fabricated and incorporated into the various exemplary
   embodiments discussed herein.
            Figure 44 shows a prescreen structure 200 for use with vibratory screening
 5 machines.     Prescreen structure 200 includes a support frame 300 that is partially
   covered with individual prescreen assemblies 210.      Prescreen assemblies 210 are
   shown having multiple prescreen elements 216 mounted on prescreen subgrids 218.
   Although, prescreen assemblies 210 are shown including six prescreen subgrids 218
   secured together, various numbers and types of subgrids may be secured together to
10 form various shapes and sizes of prescreen assemblies 210. The prescreen assemblies
   210 are fastened to support frame 300 and form a continuous prescreening surface
   213.    Prescreen structure 200 may be mounted over a primary screening surface.
   Prescreen assemblies 210, prescreen elements 216 and the prescreen subgrids 218
   may include any of the features of the various embodiments of screen assemblies,
15 screen elements and subgrid structures described herein and may configured to be
   mounted on prescreen support frame 300, which may have various forms and
   configurations suitable for prescreening applications.       Prescreen structure 200,
   prescreen assemblies 210, prescreen elements 216 and the prescreen subgrids 218
   may be configured to be incorporated into the pre-screening technologies (e.g.,
20 compatible with the mounting structures and screen configurations) described in U.S.
   Patent Application No. 12/051,658.
            Figure 44A shows an enlarged view of prescreen assembly 210.
            The embodiments of the present invention described herein, including
   screening members and screening assemblies, may be configured for use with various
25 different vibratory screening machines and parts thereof, including machines designed
                                             70

   for wet and dry applications, machines having multi-tiered decks and/or multiple
   screening baskets, and machines having various screen attachment arrangements such
   as tensioning     mechanisms     (under and overmount), compression        mechanisms,
   clamping    mechanisms, magnetic mechanisms,          etc.   For example, the screen
 5 assemblies described in the present disclosure may be configured to be mounted on
   the vibratory screening machines described in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,578,394; 5,332,101;
   6,669,027; 6,431,366; and 6,820,748. Indeed, the screen assemblies described herein
   may include: side portions or binder bars including U-shaped members configured to
   receive overmount type tensioning members, e.g., as described in U.S. Patent No.
10 5,332,101; side portions or binder bars including finger receiving apertures configured
   to receive undermount type tensioning, e.g., as described in U.S. Patent No.
   6,669,027; side members or binder bars for compression loading, e.g., as described in
   U.S. Patent No. 7,578,394; or may be configured for attachment and loading on multi
   tiered machines, e.g., such as the machines described in U.S. Patent No. 6,431,366.
15 The screen assemblies and/or screening elements may also be configured to include
   features described in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 12/460,200, including the guide
   assembly technologies described therein and preformed panel technologies described
   therein. Still further, the screen assemblies and screening elements may be configured
   to be incorporated into the pre-screening technologies (e.g., compatible with the
20 mounting structures and screen configurations) described in U.S. Patent Application
   No. 12/051,658.      U.S. Patent Nos. 7,578,394; 5,332,101; 4,882,054; 4,857,176;
   6,669,027; 7,228,971; 6,431,366; and 6,820,748 and U.S. Patent Application Nos.
   12/460,200 and 12/051,658, which, along with their related patent families and
   applications, and the patents and patent applications referenced in these documents,
25 are expressly incorporated herein by reference hereto.
                                               71

          In the foregoing, example embodiments are described. It will, however, be
  evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without
  departing from the broader spirit and scope hereof. The specification and drawings
  are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than in a restrictive sense.
5
                                              72

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A screen assembly, comprising:
         a thermoplastic screen element including a screen element screening surface
having a series of screening openings; and
         a subgrid including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid
framework having grid openings,
         wherein the thermoplastic screen element spans at least one of the grid
openings and is attached to a top surface of the subgrid,
         wherein multiple independent subgrids are directly connected to each other to
form the screen assembly, and wherein the screen assembly has a continuous screen
assembly screening surface having multiple screen element screening surfaces,
         wherein the thermoplastic screen element includes substantially parallel end
portions and substantially parallel side edge portions substantially perpendicular to the
end portions,
         wherein the thermoplastic screen element further includes a first screen
element support member and a second screen element support member orthogonal to
the first screen element support member, the first screen element support member
extending between the end portions and being approximately parallel to the side edge
portions, the second screen element support member extending between the side edge
portions and being approximately parallel to the end portions,
         wherein the thermoplastic screen element includes a first series reinforcement
members substantially parallel to the side edge portions, a second series of
reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end portions,
                                            '72

        wherein the screen element screening surface includes screen surface elements
forming the screening openings,
        wherein the end portions, side edge portions, first and second support
members, first and second series of reinforcement members structurally stabilize
screen surface elements and screening openings,
        wherein the thermoplastic screen element is a single thermoplastic injection
molded piece,
        wherein the screening openings are formed between edges of the screen
surface elements, and a distance between a first edge of a first screen surface element
and a second edge of a second screen surface element adjacent the first screen surface
element has a magnitude in a range from approximately 70 microns to approximately
180 microns, and
        wherein the screen assembly has an open screening area of at least 16% of a
total area of the continuous screen assembly screening surface.
2. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein the screen surface elements extend
substantially parallel to the end portions, the screening openings include elongated
slots.
3. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein the screen surface elements run
substantially parallel to the end portions, the screening openings include elongated
slots having a substantially uniform width and a length, the substantially uniform
width having a magnitude in a range from about 0.070 mm to about 0.180 mm and the
length having a magnitude in a range from about 0.088 mm to about 60 mm.
                                             71

4. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein the subgrid is a second single
thermoplastic injection molded piece.
5. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein a first subgrid includes a first base
member having a first fastener that mates with a second fastener of a second base
member of a second subgrid, the first fastener and the second fastener securing the
first subgrid and the second subgrid together.
6. The screen assembly of claim 5, wherein the first fastener is a clip and the second
fastener is a clip aperture, and wherein the clip snaps into the clip aperture and
permanently attaches the first subgrid and second subgrid together.
7. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein the first screen element support member
and the second screen element support member and the screen element end portions
include a screen element attachment arrangement configured to mate with a subgrid
attachment arrangement.
8. The screen assembly of claim 7, wherein the subgrid attachment arrangement
includes elongated attachment members, and wherein the screen element attachment
arrangement includes attachment apertures that mate with the elongated attachment
members securely attaching the thermoplastic screen element to the subgrid.
9. The screen assembly of claim 8, wherein a portion of at least one of the elongated
attachment members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and
slightly above the screen element screening surface, the attachment apertures

including a tapered bore such that when the portion of the at least one of the elongated
attachment members above the screen element screening surface is melted it fills the
tapered bore and fastens the thermoplastic screen element to the subgrid.
10. The screen assembly of claim 8, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and slightly above
the screen element screening surface, such that when the portion of the elongated
attachment members above the screen element screening surface is melted it forms a
bead on the screen element screening surface and fastens the thermoplastic screen
element to the subgrid.
11. The screen assembly of claim 1,
        wherein the elongated structural members include substantially parallel
subgrid end members and substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially
perpendicular to the subgrid end members,
        wherein the elongated structural members further include a first subgrid
support member and a second subgrid support member orthogonal to the first subgrid
support member, the first subgrid support member extending between the subgrid end
members and being approximately parallel to the subgrid side members, the second
subgrid support member extending between the subgrid side members and being
approximately parallel to the subgrid end members, and substantially perpendicular to
the subgrid edge members.
12. The screen assembly of claim 1,

        wherein the grid framework includes a first grid framework and second grid
framework forming a first grid opening and a second grid opening, the thermoplastic
screen element including a first screen element and a second screen element,
        wherein the subgrid includes a ridge portion and a base portion, the first grid
framework and the second grid framework include a first angular surface and a
second angular surface that peak at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the
peak portion to the base portion, and wherein the first screen element spans the first
angular surface and the second screen element spans the second angular surface.
13. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein a first screening opening of the series of
screening openings has at least one of rectangular shape, a square shape, circular
shape, and oval.
14. The screen assembly of claim 1, wherein the screen surface elements run parallel
to the end portions and form the screening openings.
15. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a thermoplastic screen element screening surface
having elongated slots, each one of a group of the elongated slots having a length and
a substantially uniform width extending the length, the substantially uniform width
having a magnitude in a range from approximately 43 microns to approximately 180
microns; and
        a subgrid including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid
framework having grid openings,
                                           77

         wherein the screen element spans at least one grid opening of the grid
openings and is secured to a top surface of the subgrid,
         wherein multiple subgrids are secured to each other to form the screen
assembly, and wherein the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly
screening surface comprised of multiple thermoplastic screen element screening
surfaces.
16. The screen assembly of claim 15, wherein the screen element includes
substantially parallel end portions and substantially parallel side edge portions
substantially perpendicular to the end portions, wherein the thermoplastic screen
element further includes a first screen element support member and a second screen
element support member orthogonal to the first screen element support member, the
first screen element support member extending between the end portions and being
approximately parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element support
member extending between the side edge portions and being approximately parallel to
the end portions, wherein the screen element includes a first series reinforcement
members substantially parallel to the side edge portions, a second series of
reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end portions, wherein the screen
element includes elongated thermoplastic screen surface elements running parallel to
the end portions and forming the elongated slots, wherein the end portions, side edge
portions, first and second support members, first and second series of reinforcement
members structurally stabilize the elongated thermoplastic screen surface elements
and the elongated slots.

17. The screen assembly of claim 16, wherein the first screen element support
member and the second screen element support member and the end portions include
a screen element attachment arrangement configured to mate with a subgrid
attachment arrangement.
18. The screen assembly of claim 17, wherein the subgrid attachment arrangement
includes elongated attachment members and the screen element attachment
arrangement includes attachment apertures that mate with the elongated attachment
members that securely attach the screen element to the subgrid.
19. The screen assembly of claim 18, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above the
thermoplastic screen element screening surface, the attachment apertures including a
tapered bore such that when the portion of the elongated attachment members above
the thermoplastic screen element screening surface is melted it fills the tapered bore
and fastens the screen element to the subgrid.
20. The screen assembly of claim 18, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above the
thermoplastic screen element screening surface, such that when the portion of the
elongated attachment members above the screening element screening surface is
melted it forms a bead on the thermoplastic screen element screening surface and
fastens the screen element to the subgrid.
                                           70

21. The screen assembly of claim 16, wherein the width has a magnitude in a range
from approximately 70 microns to approximately 180 microns between inner surfaces
of each of the elongated screen surface elements.
22. The screen assembly of claim 16, wherein the width has a magnitude in a range
from approximately 43 microns to approximately 106 microns between inner surfaces
of each screen surface element.
23. The screen assembly of claim 16, wherein the width has a magnitude in a range
from about 0.044 mm to about 0.180 mm, and wherein the length has a magnitude in
a range from about 0.088 mm to about 60 mm.
24. The screen assembly of claim 16, wherein the first series of reinforcement
members and the second series of reinforcement members have a thickness less than a
thickness of the end portions, side edge portions and the first screen element support
member and the second screen element support member.
25. The screen assembly of claim 24, wherein the end portions and the side edge
portions and the first screen element support member and second screen element
support member form four rectangular areas and the first series of reinforcement
members and the second series of reinforcement members form multiple rectangular
support grids within each of the four rectangular areas.
26. The screen assembly of claim 24, wherein the end portions and the side edge
portions and the first screen element support member and the second screen element

support member form four rectangular areas and the first series of reinforcement
members and the second series of reinforcement members form multiple rectangular
support grids within each of the four rectangular areas and the elongated slots have an
open space of approximately 70 microns to approximately 180 microns between inner
surfaces of each of the screen surface elements.
27. The screen assembly of claim 24, wherein the end portions and the side edge
portions and the first screen element support member and the second screen element
support member form four rectangular areas and the first series of reinforcement
members and the second series of reinforcement members form multiple rectangular
support grids within each of the four rectangular areas and the elongated slots have an
open space of approximately 43 microns to approximately 106 microns between inner
surfaces of each of the screen surface elements.
28. The screen assembly of claim 24, wherein the end portions and the side edge
portions and the first and second screen element support members form four
rectangular areas and the first series of reinforcement members and the second series
of reinforcement members form multiple rectangular support grids within each of the
four rectangular areas and the elongated slots have an open space of about 0.044 mm
to about 0.180 mm of width and about 0.088 mm to about 60 mm in length.
29. The screen assembly of claim 24, wherein the screen elements is flexible.
30. The screen assembly of claim 15,

        wherein the elongated structural members include substantially parallel
subgrid end members and substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially
perpendicular to the subgrid end members,
        wherein the elongated structural members further include a first subgrid
support member and a second subgrid support member orthogonal to the first subgrid
support member, the first subgrid support member extending between the subgrid end
members and being approximately parallel to the subgrid side members, the second
subgrid support member extending between the subgrid side members and being
approximately parallel to the subgrid end members.
31. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein the first and second subgrid support
members include a subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with
a screen element attachment arrangement.
32. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein the subgrid attachment arrangement
includes elongated attachment members and the screen element includes a screen
element attachment arrangement having attachment apertures that mate with the
elongated attachment members and securely attach the screen element to the subgrid.
33. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above the
thermoplastic screen element screening surface, the attachment apertures including a
tapered bore such that when the portion of the elongated attachment members above
the thermoplastic screen element screening surface is melted it fills the tapered bore
and fastens the screen element to the subgrid.

34. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above the
thermoplastic screen element screening surface, such that when the portion of the
elongated attachment members above the screening element screening surface is
melted it forms a bead on the thermoplastic screen element screening surface and
fastens the screen element to the subgrid.
35. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein the screen element includes
substantially parallel end portions and substantially parallel side edge portions
substantially perpendicular to the end portions, wherein the screen element further
includes a first screen element support member and a second screen element support
member orthogonal to the first screen element support member, the first screen
element support member extending between the end portions and being approximately
parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element support member
extending between the side edge portions and being approximately parallel to the end
portions, the end portions, the side edge portions and the screen element including a
screen element attachment arrangement configured to mate with a subgrid attachment
arrangement, wherein the screen element includes a first series reinforcement
members substantially parallel to the to the side edge portions, a second series of
reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end portions, wherein the screen
element includes elongated screen surface elements running parallel to the end
portions and forming the elongated slots, wherein the end portions, side edge portions,
first and second support members, first and second series of reinforcement members
structurally stabilize screen surface elements and the elongated slots.

36. The screen assembly of claim 35, wherein the substantially uniform width having
a magnitude in a range of approximately 70 microns to approximately 180 microns
between inner surfaces of each of the screen surface elements.
37. The screen assembly of claim 35, wherein the length has a magnitude in a range
from about 0.088 mm to about 60 mm.
38. The screen assembly of claim 35, wherein the subgrid end members, the subgrid
side members and the first and second subgrid support members form eight
rectangular grid openings and a first screen element spans four of the grid openings
and a second screen element spans the other four openings, the first and second
support members of the screen element in line with the first and second subgrid
support members.
39. The screen assembly of claim 38, wherein a central portion of the thermoplastic
screen element screening surface flexes when subject to a load.
40. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein the subgrid is substantially rigid.
41. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein the subgrid is a single thermoplastic
injection molded piece.
                                           RAI

42. The screen assembly of claim 30, wherein at least one of the subgrid end
members and the subgrid side members includes fasteners configured to mate with
fasteners of other subgrids.
43. The screen assembly of claim 42, wherein the fasteners are clips and clip
apertures that snap into place and permanently attach the subgrids together.
44. The screen assembly of claim 15,
         wherein the subgrid includes substantially parallel triangular end pieces,
triangular middle pieces substantially parallel to the triangular end pieces, a first and
second mid support substantially perpendicular to the triangular end pieces and
extending between the triangular end pieces, a first and second base support
substantially perpendicular to the triangular end pieces and extending between the
triangular end pieces and a central ridge substantially perpendicular to the triangular
end pieces and extending between the triangular end pieces,
         wherein a first edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces,
the first mid support, the first base support and the central ridge form a first top
surface of the subgrid having a first series of grid openings and a second edge of the
triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the second mid support, the second
base support and the central ridge form a second top surface of the subgrid having
second elongated slots, the first top surface sloping from the central ridge to the first
base support, the second top surface sloping from the central ridge to the second base
support,
         wherein a first screen element and a second screen element span the first series
of grid openings and the second elongated slots, respectively.

45. The screen assembly of claim 44,
        wherein the first edges of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle
pieces, the first mid support, the first base support and the central ridge include a first
subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with a first screen
element attachment arrangement of the first screen element,
        wherein the second edges of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle
pieces, the second mid support, the second base support and the central ridge include
a second subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with a second
screen element attachment arrangement of the second screen element.
46. The screen assembly of claim 45, wherein the first and second subgrid attachment
arrangements include elongated attachment members and the first and second screen
element attachment arrangements include attachment apertures that mate with the
elongated attachment members thereby securely attaching the first and second screen
elements to the first and second subgrids, respectively.
47. The screen assembly of claim 46, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above a first
thermoplastic screen element screening surface and a thermoplastic second screen
element screening surface, the attachment apertures including a tapered bore such that
when the portion of the elongated attachment members above the first thermoplastic
screen element screening surface and the second thermoplastic screen element
screening surface is melted it fills the tapered bore and fastens the first screen element
and the second screen element to the first and second subgrids, respectively.

48. The screen assembly of claim 46, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above a first
thermoplastic screen element screening surface and a second thermoplastic screen
element screening surface, such that when the portion of the elongated attachment
members above the first thermoplastic screen element screening surface and the
second thermoplastic screen element screening surface is melted it forms a bead on
the thermoplastic screen element screening surface and fastens the screen element to
the subgrid.
49. The screen assembly of claim 44, wherein the first screen element and the second
screen elements each include substantially parallel end portions and substantially
parallel side edge portions substantially perpendicular to the end portions, wherein the
first and second screen elements each include a first screen element support member
and a second screen element support member orthogonal to the first screen element
support member, the first screen element support member extending between the end
portions and being approximately parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen
element support member extending between the side edge portions and being
approximately parallel to the end portions, wherein the first and second screen
elements each include a first series reinforcement members substantially parallel to
the to the side edge portions, a second series of reinforcement members substantially
parallel to the end portions, wherein the first and second screen elements each include
elongated screen surface elements running parallel to the end portions and forming the
elongated slots, wherein the end portions, side edge portions, first and second support

members, first and second series of reinforcement members structurally stabilize
screen surface elements and the elongated slots.
50. The screen assembly of claim 49, wherein the the substantially uniform width has
a magnitude in a first range from about 0.044 mm to about 0.180 mm and the length
having a magnitude in a second range from about 0.088 mm to about 60 mm.
51. The screen assembly of claim 49, wherein at least one of the first base support
and the second base support includes fasteners that secure the multiple subgrids
together.
52. The screen assembly of claim 51, wherein the fasteners are clips and clip
apertures that snap into place and permanently attach subgrids together.
53. The screen assembly of claim 49, further comprising a first thermoplastic screen
element screening surface, a second thermoplastic screen element screening surface, a
third thermoplastic screen element screening surface, and a fourth thermoplastic
screen element screening surface,
        wherein the elongated slots include eight slots formed by the first edge of the
triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the first mid support, the first base
support and the central ridge and the second elongated slots is eight slots formed by
the second edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the second
mid support, the second base support and the central ridge,
        wherein the first screen element spans four of the slots of the elongated slots
and the second screen element spans the other four slots of the elongated slots, the

first and second support members of the first screen element in line with the edge of
the first mid support and the first edges of the triangular end pieces and the triangular
middle pieces, the first and second support members of the second screen element in
line with the edges of the second mid support and the second edges of the triangular
end pieces and the triangular middle pieces,
         wherein the third screen element spans four of the slots of the second
elongated slots and the fourth screen element spans the other four slots of the second
elongated slots, the first and second support members of the third screen element in
line with the edge of the first mid support and the first edges of the triangular end
pieces and the triangular middle pieces, the first and second support members of the
fourth screen element in line with the edges of the second mid support and the second
edges of the triangular end pieces and the triangular middle pieces.
54. The screen assembly of claim 53, wherein a respective central portion of the first
thermoplastic screen element screening surface, the second thermoplastic screen
element screening surface, the third thermoplastic screen element screening surface,
and the fourth thermoplastic screen element screening surface flexes when subject to a
load.
55. The screen assembly of claim 44, wherein the subgrid is substantially rigid.
56. The screen assembly of claim 44, wherein the subgrid is a single thermoplastic
injection molded piece.

57. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a thermoplastic screen element including a screen element screening surface
having elongated slots; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
        wherein the thermoplastic screen element spans the grid openings and is
attached to a surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are directly connected to each other to form the
screen assembly, and wherein the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly
screening surface comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the thermoplastic screen element is an injection molded piece.
58. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the thermoplastic screen element is
rectangular and has an approximately two inch width and an approximately three inch
length and the screening openings are formed by screen surface elements having a
thickness of approximately 43 microns to approximately 100 microns.
59. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the each one of a group of the
elongated slots having a length and a substantially uniform width extending the
length, the substantially uniform width has a magnitude in a range from
approximately 43 microns to approximately 180 microns.
60. The screen assembly of claim 57, further comprising a first screen element and a
second screen element,
        wherein the grid framework includes a first grid framework and a second grid
framework forming a first grid opening and a second grid opening,
                                           on

        wherein the subgrid includes a ridge portion and a base portion, the first grid
framework and second grid framework include first angular surface and second
angular surface that peak at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the peak
portion to the base portion, wherein the first screen element and second screen
element span the first and second angular surfaces, respectively.
61. The screen assembly of claim 60, wherein the first angular surface and the second
angular surface include a subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate
with a screen element attachment arrangement.
62. The screen assembly of claim 61, wherein the subgrid attachment arrangement
includes elongated attachment members and the screen element attachment
arrangement includes apertures that mate with the elongated attachment members
thereby securely attaching the thermoplastic screen element to the subgrid.
63. The screen assembly of claim 62, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above the
screen element screening surface, the attachment apertures including a tapered bore
such that when the portion of the elongated attachment members above the screening
element screening surface is melted it fills the tapered bore and fastens the
thermoplastic screen element to the subgrid.
64. The screen assembly of claim 61, wherein a portion of the elongated attachment
members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and above the
screen element screening surface such that when the portion of the elongated
                                            01

attachment members above the screening element screening surface is melted it forms
a bead on the screening element screening surface and fastens the thermoplastic
screen element to the subgrid.
65. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the thermoplastic screen element
includes substantially parallel end portions and substantially parallel side edge
portions substantially perpendicular to the end portions, wherein the screen element
includes a first screen element support member and a second screen element support
member orthogonal to the first screen element support member, the first screen
element support member extending between the end portions and being approximately
parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element support member
extending between the side edge portions and being approximately parallel to the end
portions, wherein the screen element includes a first series of reinforcement members
substantially parallel to the side edge portions, a second series of reinforcement
members substantially parallel to the end portions, wherein the screen element
screening surface includes screen surface elements extending approximately parallel
to the end portions and forming the elongated slots, wherein the end portions, side
edge portions, first and second support members, first and second series of
reinforcement members structurally stabilize screen surface elements and the
elongated slots.
66. The screen assembly of claim 57,
        wherein the subgrid includes substantially parallel subgrid end members and
substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially perpendicular to the subgrid
end members,
                                             0)

        wherein the grid framework includes elongated structural members including a
first subgrid support member and a second subgrid support member orthogonal to the
first subgrid support member, the first subgrid support member extending between the
subgrid end members and being approximately parallel to the subgrid side members,
the second subgrid support member extending between the subgrid side members and
being approximately parallel to the subgrid end members.
67. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen element includes a screen
element attachment arrangement that mates with a subgrid attachment arrangement
and secures the thermoplastic screen element to the subgrid.
68. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the substantially uniform width of the
screening openings has a magnitude in a range from approximately 70 microns to
approximately 180 microns between inner surfaces of each of the screen surface
elements.
69. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the substantially uniform width of the
screening openings has a magnitude in a range from approximately 43 microns to
approximately 106 microns between inner surfaces of each of the screen surface
elements.
70. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the substantially uniform width has a
magnitude in a range from about 0.044 mm to about 4 mm and the length being about
0.088 mm to about 60 mm.
                                           oyr

71. The screen assembly of claim 60, wherein the subgrid is substantially rigid.
72. The screen assembly of claim 60, wherein the subgrid is a single thermoplastic
injection molded piece.
73. The screen assembly of claim 60, wherein a section of the base portion includes a
first fastener and a second fastener that secure the subgrid to a third fastener and a
fourth fastener of another subgrid.
74. The screen assembly of claim 60, wherein the first fastener and the third fastener
are clips and the second fastener and the fourth fastener are clip apertures, wherein the
clips snap into the clip apertures and securely attach the subgrid and the another
subgrid together.
75. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein subgrids form a concave structure and
the continuous screen assembly screening surface is concave.
76. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the subgrids form a flat structure and
the continuous screen assembly screening surface is flat.
77. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the subgrids form a convex structure
and the continuous screen assembly screening surface is convex.
78. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen assembly is configured to
form a predetermined concave shape when subjected to a compression force by a
                                            OA

compression assembly of a vibratory screening machine against at least one side
member of the vibratory screen assembly when placed in the vibratory screening
machine.
79. The screen assembly of claim 78, wherein the predetermined concave shape is
determined in accordance with a shape of a surface of the vibratory screening
machine.
80. The screen assembly of claim 78, further comprising a mating surface mating the
screen assembly to a surface of the vibratory screening machine.
81. The screen assembly of claim 80, wherein the mating surface is at least one of a
rubber, a metal or a composite material.
82. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen assembly includes a mating
surface and that is configured to interface with a mating surface of a vibratory
screening machine such that the screen assembly is guided into a fixed position on the
vibratory screening machine.
83. The screen assembly of claim 82, wherein the mating surface is formed in a
portion of at least one subgrid.
84. The screen assembly of claim 82, wherein the screen assembly mating surface is
a notch formed in a comer of the screen assembly.
                                            0r

85. The screen assembly of claim 82, wherein the screen assembly mating surface is
a notch formed approximately in the middle of a side edge of the screen assembly.
86. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen assembly has an arched
surface configured to mate with a concave surface of the vibratory screening machine,
the screen assembly having a substantially rigid structure that that is configured to
maintain its shape when secured to the vibratory screening machine.
87. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen assembly includes a screen
assembly mating surface, the screen assembly configured such that it forms a
predetermined concave shape when subjected to a compression force by a member of
a vibratory screening machine, wherein the screen assembly mating surface is shaped
such that the screen assembly interfaces with a mating surface of the vibratory
screening machine such that the screen assembly is guided into a predetermined
location on the vibratory screening machine.
88. The screen assembly of claim 57, further comprising a load bar attached to an
edge surface of the subgrid of the screen assembly, the load bar configured to
distribute a load across a surface of the screen assembly.
89. The screen assembly of claim 88, wherein the screen assembly is configured to
form a predetermined concave shape when subjected to a compression force by a
compression member of a vibratory screening machine against the load bar of the
vibratory screen assembly.
                                             oA

90. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen assembly has a concave
shape and is configured to deflect and form a predetermined concave shape when
subjected to a compression force by a member of a vibratory screening machine.
91. The screen assembly of claim 57,
         wherein a first set of the subgrids is formed into center support frame
assemblies having a first fastener arrangement, a second set of the subgrids is formed
into a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement, and a
third set of the subgrids is formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
third fastener arrangement,
         wherein the first fastener arrangement, the second fastener arrangement, and
the third fastener arrangement secure the first and second end support frames to the
center support assemblies, a side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly
forming a first end of the screen assembly, a side edge surface of the second end
support frame arrangement forming a second end of the screen assembly and an end
surface of each of the first and second end support frame assemblies and center
support frame assemblies cumulatively forming a first and a second side surface of
the complete screen assembly,
         wherein the first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen
assembly.
                                              o,

92. The screen assembly of claim 91, wherein the side surfaces of the screen
assembly include fasteners configured to engage at least one of a binder bar and a
load distribution bar.
93. The screen assembly of claim 91, wherein the subgrids include side surfaces
shaped such that when individual subgrids are secured together to form the first and
second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly that the
first and second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly
each form a concave shape.
94. The screen assembly of claim 91, wherein the subgrids include side surfaces
shaped such that when individual subgrids are secured together to form the first and
second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly that the
first and second end support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly
each form a convex shape.
95. The screen assembly of claim 91,
        wherein the subgrid includes substantially parallel subgrid end members and
substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially perpendicular to the subgrid
end members,
        wherein the subgrid includes a first subgrid support member and a second
subgrid support member orthogonal to the first subgrid support member, the first
subgrid support member extending between the subgrid end members and being
approximately parallel to the subgrid side members, the second subgrid support
                                           OR

member extending between the subgrid side members and being approximately
parallel to the subgrid end members.
96. The screen assembly of claim 91,
         wherein the grid framework includes a first grid framework and a second grid
framework forming a first and a second grid opening, the screen element includes a
first screen element and a second screen element,
         wherein the subgrid includes a ridge portion and a base portion, the first grid
framework and the second grid framework include first angular surface and a second
angular surface that peak at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the peak
portion to the base portion, wherein the first screen element and the second screen
element span the first angular surface and the second angular surface.
97. The screen assembly of claim 91, wherein the subgrid includes substantially
parallel subgrid end members and substantially parallel subgrid side members
substantially perpendicular to the subgrid end members, wherein the subgrid further
includes subgrid support members molded integrally with subgrid end members and
subgrid side members.
98. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the grid framework includes a first and
second grid framework forming a first and a second grid opening, the screen element
includes a first screen element and a second screen element, wherein the subgrid
includes a ridge portion and a base portion, the first grid framework and the second
grid framework include a first angular surface and a second angular surface that peak
at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the peak portion to the base portion,
                                            00

the first angular surface and the second angular surface, wherein the first screen
element and the second screen element span the first angular surface and the second
angular surface.
99. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the thermoplastic screen elements is
attached to the subgrids by at least one of a mechanical arrangement, an adhesive,
heat staking or ultrasonic welding.
100. The screen assembly of claim 57, wherein the screen assembly includes side
surfaces having fasteners configured to engage at least one of a binder bar and a load
distribution bar.
101. A screen assembly, comprising:
         a thermoplastic screen element including a screen element screening surface
having elongated slots, each one of a group of the elongated slots has a length and a
substantially uniform width extending the length, the substantially uniform width has
a magnitude in a range from approximately 43 microns to approximately 106 microns;
and
         a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
         wherein the screen element spans at least one grid opening and is secured to a
top surface of the subgrid, and
         wherein multiple subgrids are secured to each other to form the screen
assembly, and wherein the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly
screening surface comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces.
                                           1an()

102. The screen assembly of claim 101, wherein the screen element includes
substantially parallel end portions and substantially parallel side edge portions
substantially perpendicular to the end portions, wherein the screen element further
includes a first screen element support member and a second screen element support
member approximately orthogonal to the first screen element support member, the
first screen element support member extending between the end portions and being
approximately parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element support
member extending between the side edge portions and being approximately parallel to
the end portions, wherein the screen element includes a first series of reinforcement
members substantially parallel to the side edge portions and a second series of
reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end portions, wherein the
elongated slots extend approximately parallel to the end portions, wherein the end
portions, side edge portions, first and second support members, first series of
reinforcement members and second series of reinforcement members structurally
stabilize the screen surface elements and the elongated slots.
103. The screen assembly of claim 102, wherein the first screen element support
member, the second screen element support member, and the end portions include a
respective screen element attachment arrangement configured to mate with a
respective subgrid attachment arrangement.
104. The screen assembly of claim 103, wherein the respective subgrid attachment
arrangement includes elongated attachment members, and wherein the respective
screen element attachment arrangement includes attachment apertures that mate with
                                            1(1

the elongated attachment members that securely attach the screen element to the
subgrid.
105. A screen assembly, comprising:
          a screen element including a screen element screening surface having a series
of screening openings; and
          a subgrid including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid
framework having grid openings,
          wherein the screen element spans at least one grid opening and is secured to a
top surface of the subgrid,
          wherein the elongated structural members include substantially parallel
subgrid end members and substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially
perpendicular to the subgrid end members,
          wherein the elongated structural members further include a first subgrid
support member and a second subgrid support member orthogonal to the first subgrid
support member, the first subgrid support member extending between the subgrid end
members and being approximately parallel to the subgrid side members, the second
subgrid support member extending between the subgrid side members and being
approximately parallel to the subgrid end members,
          wherein a portion of the elongated attachment members extends through the
screen element attachment apertures and above the screen element screening surface,
the attachment apertures including a tapered bore such that when the portion of the
elongated attachment members above the screen element screening surface is melted
it fills the tapered bore and fastens the screen element to the subgrid,
                                             1(Y)

        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
106. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having a series
of screening openings; and
        a subgrid including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid
framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans at least one grid opening and is secured to a
top surface of the subgrid,
        wherein the elongated structural members include substantially parallel
subgrid end members and substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially
perpendicular to the subgrid end members,
        wherein the elongated structural members further include a first subgrid
support member and a second subgrid support member orthogonal to the first subgrid
support member, the first subgrid support member extending between the subgrid end
members and being approximately parallel to the subgrid side members, the second
subgrid support member extending between the subgrid side members and being
approximately parallel to the subgrid end members,
        wherein a portion of the elongated attachment members extends through the
screen element attachment apertures and above the screen element screening surface,
such that when the portion of the elongated attachment members above the screening
                                          1(Vm

element screening surface is melted it forms a bead on the screen element screening
surface and fastens the screen element to the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is a single thermoplastic injection molded piece.
107. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having a series
of screening openings; and
        a subgrid including multiple elongated structural members forming a grid
framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans at least one grid opening and is secured to a
top surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is a single thermoplastic injection molded piece,
        wherein the subgrid includes substantially parallel triangular end pieces,
triangular middle pieces substantially parallel to the triangular end pieces, a first and
second mid support substantially perpendicular to the triangular end pieces and
extending between the triangular end pieces, a first and second base support
substantially perpendicular to the triangular end pieces and extending between the
                                           1 (M

triangular end pieces and a central ridge substantially perpendicular to the triangular
end pieces and extending between the triangular end pieces,
         wherein a first edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces,
the first mid support, the first base support and the central ridge form a first top
surface of the subgrid having a first series of grid openings and a second edge of the
triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the second mid support, the second
base support and the central ridge form a second top surface of the subgrid having a
second series of grid openings, the first top surface sloping from the central ridge to
the first base support, the second top surface sloping from the central ridge to the
second base support,
         wherein a first and a second screen element span the first series and second
series of grid openings, respectively.
108. The screen assembly of claim 107,
         wherein the first edges of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle
pieces, the first mid support, the first base support and the central ridge include a first
subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with a first screen
element attachment arrangement of the first screen element,
         wherein the second edges of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle
pieces, the second mid support, the second base support and the central ridge include
a second subgrid attachment arrangement configured to securely mate with a second
screen element attachment arrangement of the second screen element.
109. The screen assembly of claim 108, wherein the first and second subgrid
attachment arrangements include elongated attachment members and the first and
                                             1 (Vr

second screen element attachment arrangements include attachment apertures that
mate with the elongated attachment members thereby securely attaching the first and
second screen elements to the first and second subgrids, respectively.
110. The screen assembly of claim 109, wherein a portion of the elongated
attachment members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and
slightly above a first and second screen element screening surface, the attachment
apertures including a tapered bore such that when the portion of the elongated
attachment members above the first and second screening element screening surfaces
is melted it fills the tapered bore and fastens the first and second screen elements to
the first and second subgrids, respectively.
111. The screen assembly of claim 109, wherein a portion of the elongated
attachment members extends through the screen element attachment apertures and
slightly above a first and second screen element screening surface, such that when the
portion of the elongated attachment members above the first and second screen
element screening surfaces is melted it forms a bead on the screen element screening
surface and fastens the screen element to the subgrid.
112. The screen assembly of claim 109, wherein the first and second screen elements
each include substantially parallel end portions and substantially parallel side edge
portions substantially perpendicular to the end portions, wherein the first and second
screen elements each include a first screen element support member and a second
screen element support member orthogonal to the first screen element support
member, the first screen element support member extending between the end portions
                                             1AA

and being approximately parallel to the side edge portions, the second screen element
support member extending between the side edge portions and being approximately
parallel to the end portions, wherein the first and second screen elements each include
a first series reinforcement members substantially parallel to the to the side edge
portions, a second series of reinforcement members substantially parallel to the end
portions, wherein the first and second screen elements each include elongated screen
surface elements running parallel to the end portions and forming the screening
openings, wherein the end portions, side edge portions, first and second support
members, first and second series of reinforcement members structurally stabilize
screen surface elements and screening openings.
113. The screen assembly of claim 112, wherein the screening openings are
elongated slots with a width and a length, the width of the screening openings being
approximately 43 microns to approximately 1000 microns between inner surfaces of
each screen surface element.
114. The screen assembly of claim 112, wherein the screening openings are
elongated slots with a width and a length, the width of the screening openings being
approximately 70 microns to approximately 180 microns between inner surfaces of
each screen surface element.
115. The screen assembly of claim 112, wherein the screening openings are
elongated slots with a width and a length, the width of the screening openings being
approximately 43 microns to approximately 106 microns between inner surfaces of
each screen surface element.
                                            1 fl7

116. The screen assembly of claim 112, wherein the screening openings are
elongated slots with a width and a length the width being about 0.044 mm to about 4
mm and the length being about 0.088 mm to about 60 mm.
117. The screen assembly of claim 112, wherein at least one of the first and second
base supports includes fasteners that secure the multiple subgrids together.
118. The screen assembly of claim 117, wherein the fasteners are clips and clip
apertures that snap into place and securely attach subgrids together.
119. The screen assembly of claim 117, further comprising a first, second, third and
fourth screen element,
         wherein the first series of grid openings is eight openings formed by the first
edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular middle pieces, the first mid support,
the first base support and the central ridge and the second series of grid openings is
eight openings formed by the second edge of the triangular end pieces, the triangular
middle pieces, the second mid support, the second base support and the central ridge,
         wherein the first screen element spans four of the grid openings of the first
series of grid openings and the second screen element spans the other four openings of
the first series of grid openings, the first and second support members of the first
screen element in line with the edge of the first mid support and the first edges of the
triangular end pieces and the triangular middle pieces, the first and second support
members of the second screen element in line with the edges of the second mid
                                              1AR

support and the second edges of the triangular end pieces and the triangular middle
pieces,
        wherein the third screen element spans four of the grid openings of the second
series of grid openings and the fourth screen element spans the other four openings of
the second series of grid openings, the first and second support members of the third
screen element in line with the edge of the first mid support and the first edges of the
triangular end pieces and the triangular middle pieces, the first and second support
members of the fourth screen element in line with the edges of the second mid support
and the second edges of the triangular end pieces and the triangular middle pieces.
120. The screen assembly of claim 119, wherein a central portion of the first, second,
third and fourth screening element screening surfaces slightly flex when subject to a
load.
121. The screen assembly of claim 108, wherein the subgrid is substantially rigid.
122. The screen assembly of claim 108, wherein the subgrid is a single thermoplastic
injection molded piece.
123. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
                                            1no0

        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
        wherein the multiple subgrids form a concave structure and the continuous
screen assembly screening surface is concave.
124. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
        wherein the subgrids form a convex structure and the continuous screen
assembly screening surface is convex.
125. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
                                          1 1f)

        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
        wherein the screen assembly has an arched surface configured to mate with a
concave surface of the vibratory screening machine, the screen assembly having a
substantially rigid structure that that is configured to maintain its shape when secured
to the vibratory screening machine.
126. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
        wherein the screen assembly includes a screen assembly mating surface, the
screen assembly configured such that it forms a predetermined concave shape when
subjected to a compression force by a member of a vibratory screening machine,
wherein the screen assembly mating surface is shaped such that it interfaces with a
                                             111

mating surface of the vibratory screening machine such that the screen assembly is
guided into a predetermined location on the vibratory screening machine.
127. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings;
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings; and
        a load bar attached to an edge surface of the subgrid of the screen assembly,
the load bar configured to distribute a load across a surface of the screen assembly,
        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
        wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
        wherein the screen assembly is configured to form a predetermined concave
shape when subjected to a compression force by a compression member of a vibratory
screening machine against the load bar of the vibratory screen assembly.
128. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
                                           112

         wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
         wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
         wherein the screen assembly has a concave shape and is configured to deflect
and form a predetermined concave shape when subjected to a compression force by a
member of a vibratory screening machine.
129. A screen assembly, comprising:
         a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
         a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
         wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
         wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
         wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
         wherein a first set of the subgrids is formed into center support frame
assemblies having a first fastener arrangement, a second set of the subgrids is formed
into a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement, and a
third set of the subgrids is formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
third fastener arrangement,
         wherein the first fastener arrangement, the second fastener arrangement, and
the third fastener arrangement secure the first and second end support frames to the
                                             1111

center support assemblies, a side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly
forming a first end of the screen assembly, a side edge surface of the second end
support frame arrangement forming a second end of the screen assembly and an end
surface of each of the first and second end support frame assemblies and center
support frame assemblies cumulatively forming a first and a second side surface of
the complete screen assembly,
        wherein the first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen
assembly,
        wherein the subgrids include side surfaces shaped such that when individual
subgrids are secured together to form the first and second end support frame
assemblies and the center support frame assembly that the first and second end
support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly each form a concave
shape.
130. A screen assembly, comprising:
        a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
        a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
        wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
        wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
                                            114

        wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
        wherein a first set of the subgrids is formed into center support frame
assemblies having a first fastener arrangement, a second set of the subgrids is formed
into a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement, and a
third set of the subgrids is formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
third fastener arrangement,
        wherein the first fastener arrangement, the second fastener arrangement, and
the third fastener arrangement secure the first and second end support frames to the
center support assemblies, a side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly
forming a first end of the screen assembly, a side edge surface of the second end
support frame arrangement forming a second end of the screen assembly and an end
surface of each of the first and second end support frame assemblies and center
support frame assemblies cumulatively forming a first and a second side surface of
the complete screen assembly,
        wherein the first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen
assembly,
        wherein the subgrids include side surfaces shaped such that when individual
subgrids are secured together to form the first and second end support frame
assemblies and the center support frame assembly that the first and second end
support frame assemblies and the center support frame assembly each form a convex
shape.
131. A screen assembly, comprising:
                                            11

         a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
         a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
         wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
         wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
         wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
         wherein a first set of the subgrids is formed into center support frame
assemblies having a first fastener arrangement, a second set of the subgrids is formed
into a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement, and a
third set of the subgrids is formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
third fastener arrangement,
         wherein the first fastener arrangement, the second fastener arrangement, and
the third fastener arrangement secure the first and second end support frames to the
center support assemblies, a side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly
forming a first end of the screen assembly, a side edge surface of the second end
support frame arrangement forming a second end of the screen assembly and an end
surface of each of the first and second end support frame assemblies and center
support frame assemblies cumulatively forming a first and a second side surface of
the complete screen assembly,
         wherein the first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly are
                                             1 1A

substantially parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen
assembly,
         wherein the subgrid includes substantially parallel subgrid end members and
substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially perpendicular to the subgrid
end members,
         wherein the subgrid includes a first subgrid support member and a second
subgrid support member orthogonal to the first subgrid support member, the first
subgrid support member extending between the subgrid end members and being
approximately parallel to the subgrid side members, the second subgrid support
member extending between the subgrid side members and being approximately
parallel to the subgrid end members.
132. A screen assembly, comprising:
         a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
         a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
         wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
         wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
         wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
         wherein a first set of the subgrids is formed into center support frame
assemblies having a first fastener arrangement, a second set of the subgrids is formed
into a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement, and a
                                             117

third set of the subgrids is formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
third fastener arrangement,
         wherein the first fastener arrangement, the second fastener arrangement, and
the third fastener arrangement secure the first and second end support frames to the
center support assemblies, a side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly
forming a first end of the screen assembly, a side edge surface of the second end
support frame arrangement forming a second end of the screen assembly and an end
surface of each of the first and second end support frame assemblies and center
support frame assemblies cumulatively forming a first and a second side surface of
the complete screen assembly,
         wherein the first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen
assembly,
         wherein the grid framework includes a first grid framework and a second grid
framework forming a first and a second grid opening, the screen element includes a
first screen element and a second screen element,
         wherein the subgrid includes a ridge portion and a base portion, the first grid
framework and the second grid framework include first angular surface and a second
angular surface that peak at the ridge portion and extend downwardly from the peak
portion to the base portion, wherein the first screen element and the second screen
element span the first angular surface and the second angular surface.
133. A screen assembly, comprising:
                                            11

         a screen element including a screen element screening surface having
screening openings; and
         a subgrid including a grid framework having grid openings,
         wherein the screen element spans the grid openings and is attached to a
surface of the subgrid,
         wherein multiple subgrids are secured together to form the screen assembly
and the screen assembly has a continuous screen assembly screening surface
comprised of multiple screen element screening surfaces,
         wherein the screen element is an injection molded piece,
         wherein a first set of the subgrids is formed into center support frame
assemblies having a first fastener arrangement, a second set of the subgrids is formed
into a first end support frame assembly having a second fastener arrangement, and a
third set of the subgrids is formed into a second end support frame assembly having a
third fastener arrangement,
         wherein the first fastener arrangement, the second fastener arrangement, and
the third fastener arrangement secure the first and second end support frames to the
center support assemblies, a side edge surface of the first end support frame assembly
forming a first end of the screen assembly, a side edge surface of the second end
support frame arrangement forming a second end of the screen assembly and an end
surface of each of the first and second end support frame assemblies and center
support frame assemblies cumulatively forming a first and a second side surface of
the complete screen assembly,
         wherein the first and second side surfaces of the screen assembly are
substantially parallel and the first and second end surfaces of the screen assembly are
                                             110

substantially parallel and substantially perpendicular to the side surfaces of the screen
assembly,
        wherein the subgrid includes substantially parallel subgrid end members and
substantially parallel subgrid side members substantially perpendicular to the subgrid
end members, wherein the subgrid further includes subgrid support members molded
integrally with subgrid end members and subgrid side members.
                                            129f

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
