                                              ABSTRACT
TiCKTOC's integrated app is for the business and consumer marketplace. The app provides non
hardware based, Merchant EFTPOS machine functionality, the first of its kind globally. The in-built
TiCKPay System includes both a contactless payment system, like PayWave, and TiCKWallet like
ApplePay and a bar-code scanner for Service Providers to read a user's unique bar-code as an option
to collect payments. This innovation leverages existing smart-device technology (smartphone,
smartwatch, other mobile smart device), with an in-built, software based EFTPOS Merchant machine,
allowing all Service Providers, including Drivers of rideshare, to have a bank backed, compliant,
Merchant EFTPOS machine on their mobile device with no additional hardware being required.
TiCKTOC's related, and integrated second innovation, is a bookings system primarily for the rideshare
and deliveries industries. The application platform is extensible to be able to include multiple
industries. The 'Book Later' function incorporates booking for yourself and for others at a later date
and time.
The TiCKTOC app is unique by displaying to passengers on one screen, the vehicle type and availability,
time for vehicle to reach you, origination and destination address, map pin-point and the price, which
combined, allows users to make a fully informed choice without searching through multiple screens.
TiCKTOC's unique dispatch system allows all Service Providers, including drivers, to earn a commission,
automatically paid in to their TiCKPay TiCKWallet, by booking 'jobs' in to the TiCKTOC app. Service
Providers and Drivers then have access to the collected funds in their TiCKWallet for their own use,
provided a 100-point check has been submitted and approved.

                  (( ))
JOHN GARDENING
123456789
Pay Wave
50.95
 2300 00119898 7676
12/12/2018
509
      All payments are approved with
                    FIG2

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of Description only

Description
TiCKTOC Technologies Pty Ltd as holder of the IP, brings to the market an integrated app for the
business and consumer marketplace. Upon registration on the TiCKTOC app, TiCKTOC issues a unique
bar-code combined with an end users mobile phone number to identify each end user. This provides
a layer of security and, combined with Bank related security such as encryption, allows Service
Providers (rideshare drivers, hoteliers, restauranteurs, tradespeople, small businesses, service
industries and any entity) and Passengers to use the TiCKTOC app for use of our TiCKPay System which
includes both a contactless payment system like PayWave, a Wallet like ApplePay and a bar-code
scanner for Service Providers to read a user's unique bar-code and collect payments. This first
innovation leverages existing smart-device technology (smartphone, smartwatch, other mobile smart
device), and adds our software based EFTPOS Merchant machine, allowing all Service Providers,
including drivers, to have a bank backed, compliant, Merchant EFTPOS machine on their mobile device
with no additional hardware being required.
TiCKTOC's related, and integrated second innovation, is a bookings system primarily for the rideshare
and deliveries industries. The application platform is extensible to be able to include multiple
industries. The 'Book Later' function incorporates booking for yourself and for others at a later date
and time. The TiCKTOC app is unique by displaying to passengers on one screen the vehicle type and
availability, time for vehicle to reach you, origination and destination address, map pin-point and the
price, which all combined, allows users to make a fully informed choice without having to go to
multiple screens. TiCKTOC's unique dispatch system allows all Service Providers, including drivers, to
earn a commission, automatically paid in to their TiCKPay TiCKWallet, by booking 'jobs' in to the
TiCKTOC app. Service Providers and drivers then have access to collected funds in their TiCKWallet for
their own use, provided a 100-point check has been submitted and accepted.

                                              0
 Australia Patents Act 1990 including amendment 'The Intellectual Property Laws
                     Amendment Act 2015 ("Amendment Act")'
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION INNOVATION PATENT
    INTEGRATED APP: MOBILE NON-HARDWARE
      BASED CONTACTLESS, MERCHANT EFTPOS
  PAYMENTS MACHINE AND BOOKINGS SYSTEM
The following statement is a full description if this invention, including the best method of
                        performing it as known to the inventor.

                                                     1
Merchant Payment systems currently provide for the collection of payments by use of dedicated
hardware which is expensive to produce and maintain, is not as reliable as required for constant use
as merchants require, often meaning that a Service provider pays for a second Merchant EFTPOS
machine from an alternate supplier as a backup which then costs Service Providers significant fixed
monthly fees.
Within the Service Provider industry such as hotels and restaurants and within the rideshare
industry, incorporating taxis and related commercial passenger vehicles, Service Providers and
Drivers often give jobs away without fair, nor reliable, compensation. For example, a concierge at a
hotel books many cabs per day with no financial reward. There is currently no automated dispatch
system in the market today that rewards Service Providers and Drivers for dispatching jobs in to an
automated passenger or delivery app-based system.
Consumers are not always fully informed about the fee/s they'll pay when they make a Rideshare
booking. The impacts of this have been one of, or a combination of, incorrect pick-up address,
vehicle not to the standard expected, surge pricing and prices provided to the consumer either many
minutes or hours after the ride has been completed, sometimes resulting in bill-shock.
TiCKTOC Claims in-app (and online as appropriate)
    1. TiCKPay, a contactless payments system, within the TiCKTOC app, incorporates NFC (near
        field communications) in combination with the RFID (radio frequency identification) in
        Credit, Debit Cards and NFC in smart devices, to allow a User to present their card or smart
        device to the Service Provider's smart mobile device (smartphone, smartwatch or other
        smart device fitted with NFC) to make an electronic payment, in effect replacing what we
        know as the Merchant EFTPOS machine we currently see in stores, taxis etc, TiCKTOC being
        the first company globally to collect payments using this method without additional
        Merchant hardware; like Square but with no hardware.
        Figure 1 shows the blank payments screen prior to entering the fee to be paid and prior to
        presenting a credit or debit card.
        Figure 2 shows that the card has just been presented and credit card details have been
        populated for auto payment under $100 and, when the amount is over $100, a PIN is
        required.
    2. Book Later and Book for Someone Else ('Others') provides End Users the ability to book a
        service (ie: rideshare car) for themselves, or for someone else with a digital device, at a later
        date and time up to 12-months in the future with the TiCKTOC system then automatically
        dispatching these jobs at the appropriate time prior to the booking date and time and, prior
        to submitting the booking, TiCKTOC displays to passengers one screen the vehicle type and
        availability, time for vehicle to reach you, origination and destination address, map pin-point
        and the price, which, all combined, allows users to make a fully informed choice without
        having to search through multiple screens.
        Figure 3 shows the Book Later function for self or for others
        Figure 4 shows on one screen, the vehicle type and availability, time for vehicle to reach you,
        origination and destination address, map pin-point and the price.

                                               2
3. Digitised Dispatch allows Service Providers (Taxi, Hire Car and Rideshare company or driver,
   Hotel/Motel, Restaurant, Club, Tradesperson or any entity whether company or individual)
   to submit a person's name, or item detail in the case of delivery, mobile number, originating
   address and destination address ('job') in to the TiCKTOC app and the TiCKTOC system
   automatically dispatches these jobs to other Service Providers and Drivers who can see the
   mapped pinpoint of the End User and a Service Provider or Driver can accept the job whilst
   the dispatcher earns a commission in to their TiCKPay account.
   Figure 5 shows the process used to dispatch jobs: Dispatched jobs, Past jobs, Future
   Bookings and Pending jobs (meaning upcoming this hour)
   Figure 6 shows Service Providers and Drivers current and past dispatched jobs
4. In relation to Claim 3, TiCKTOC's TiCKWallet functions to allow Service Providers and Drivers
   to dispatch jobs so that the company or individual that accepts the job can be paid
   automatically by the dispatcher and TiCKTOC pays the dispatcher minus any fees, meaning
   that both Service Providers and Drivers need to hold funds in their TiCKWallet.
   Figure 7 shows the first screen of the TiCKWallet allowing users to access funds in their
   Wallet to pay for any item or bill or transfer funds in to the Wallet.
5. The Bar-code and Mobile phone number together provides a unique combination as an
   additional security layer beyond accessing the digital device, typically the End Users phone,
   which is then used to allow a Service Provider or Driver to scan the bar-code of a user for
   identification and payments.
   Figure 8 provides Service providers, Drivers and Users with a unique bar-code ID to enable
   identification and bar-code scan payments.

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG1
                              DRAWINGS

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG3

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG 5

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG 6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
