ABSTRACT
         This invention describes Ophthalmic Devices with media inserts that have
nanostructured Metasurface elements upon or within them. In some embodiments passive
ophthalmic devices of various kinds may be formed. Methods and devices for active
ophthalmic devices based on Metasurface structures may also be formed.

                                                1
METHODS FOR OPHTHALMIC DEVICES INCORPORATING METASURFACE
ELEMENTS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]           This invention describes Ophthalmic Devices with media inserts and Lenses
that have Metasurface elements upon or within them.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           Traditionally, an ophthalmic device, such as a contact lens, an intraocular
lens, or a punctal plug, included a biocompatible device with a corrective, cosmetic, or
therapeutic quality. A contact lens, for example, may provide one or more of vision
correcting functionality, cosmetic enhancement, and therapeutic effects. Each function is
provided by a physical characteristic of the lens. A design incorporating a refractive
quality into a lens may provide a vision corrective function. A pigment incorporated into
the lens may provide a cosmetic enhancement. An active agent incorporated into a lens
may provide a therapeutic functionality. Such physical characteristics are accomplished
without the lens entering into an energized state. A punctal plug has traditionally been a
passive device.
[0003]           Novel ophthalmic devices based on energized and non-energized
ophthalmic inserts have recently been described. These devices may use the energization
function to power active optical components.
[0004]           Recently, it has been demonstrated that unique flat lenses may be formed by
the fabrication of specialized surface structure having Nanoscale metallic features arrayed
on the surface. Various designs may be made through control of the Nanoscale feature's
unit cell structure designs.
[0005]           It may be useful to define ophthalmic devices to result from the
incorporation of Nanoscale structures.

                                                2
SUMMARY
[0006]          Accordingly, the present invention includes a Media Insert with included
Nanoscale metallic features that comprise a Metasurface. The Metasurface may be a
repeating pattern of sub-wavelength sized features to a particular wavelength of light. The
interaction of the sub-wavelength sized features may interact with the light and alter the
phase characteristics of reemitted light from the features. The features in this sense may
also be considered Nanoscale antennas. There may be numerous methods to form
Nanoscale metallic features on an insert and these inserts may be encapsulated in a lens
skirt of ophthalmic material to form ophthalmic devices.
[0007]          In some embodiments, an insert device may be defined by forming
Nanoscale metallic features into a periodic pattern across at least a portion of a surface of
an insert device.   The periodic pattern may have a length factor for the periodicity that is
approximately equal or less than various wavelengths of visible light. In some
embodiments, the design of the shape and size factors of the metallic features may be
determined based on modeling a desired phase characteristic of the Nanoscale features.
Light that is incident upon the Metasurface elements may emerge with altered phase
characteristics and this may be modeled. The design may be an ab-initio modeling process
where the nature of the structure, layout, feature location and other factors and the desired
effect on light are used in a self-consistent model. Alternatively iterative modeling based
on trial designs with adjustments based on previous results may be used. In some
embodiments, the desired lens characteristics of the Nanoscale metallic surface may have a
radially symmetric focusing lens characteristic. Models may generate desired phase
characteristics that have the radial symmetry and a focal characteristic of the effect of the
collection of elements. When the insert is formed to have a three dimensional and curved
surface as opposed to a flat surface, there may be estimation protocols that may be useful
to transform the resulting lens characteristics of an Ophthalmic device with the
Metasurface elements into a model of the Ophthalmic device in three dimensional space
and the Metasurface as a equivalent flat space. There may be estimates to the effective
focal characteristics of the Metasurface that may result in design parameters. The process
may be used with the iterative modeling process as mentioned above.

                                              3
[0008]          In some embodiments, the modeling processes may occur through the use of
software based algorithms for which parameters may be provided by a user and which may
be run on computing systems. The parameters that a user provides may be based upon
theoretical requirements. In other cases, Ophthalmic practitioners may measure the
Ophthalmic characteristics and corrective needs of a patient and formulate these needs into
a set of parameters for the modeling system. The computer systems may provide
numerical output in some embodiments or provide spatially designed elements as arrays of
design data points.
[0009]          In some embodiments, preferably where the wavelength of the light is in a
visible spectrum, the metallic features may have small surface area dimensions. As an
example, the Metasurface features may have surface area dimensions that are 10,000 nm 2
or less. There might be much diversity in the periodic nature of the placement of the
Metasurface elements. They might be deployed in rectilinear, polar or radial patterns, or
other periodic patterns. The spacing of nearest neighbors may be related to the desired
wavelengths of light to be interacted with by the elements. In some embodiments, this
spacing may be less then or approximately equal to the early red spectrum that may occur
in the visible spectrum. In some embodiments, the spacing or periodicity may be less then
or approximately equal to 700 nm.
[0010]          The insert may be enveloped in a lens skirt. A lens skirt may be made of
materials that are typically employed in the production of contact lenses, such as for
example hydrogels. Molded into the ophthalmic skirt may be stabilization features that
may be useful to orient the lens within the eye. These features may be of particular use for
Metasurface lens elements that have high order correction aspects to them where the
correction aspects are not radially symmetric. Various designs of inserts may be employed
which may fit into the resulting ophthalmic device. The overall shape of the surface of the
insert that has the Metasurface elements upon it may be convex in nature or alternatively
concave in nature. Other shapes that may be formed into inserts for ophthalmic devices
may also comprise art within the scope of this disclosure.
[0011]          Active or non-static embodiments of the Metasurface elements may also be
produced. In some embodiments, metallic layers may be formed into features that may be

                                               4
used under the influence of electrical energy to form or enhance the activity of Metasurface
elements. The periodicity and shape aspects of the actively formed structures may be
similar to the discussions in the preceding sections. Electrowetting on Dielectric (EWOD)
principles may be useful in some embodiments. One of the immiscible fluids in an EWOD
device may contain metallic nanospheres or metallic nanorods. In some embodiments, the
nanospheres or nanorods may have surface modifications to enhance their preference to
one or another of the EWOD fluids. In some embodiments, the surface modification may
be carried out by the chemical attachment of ligand molecules to the Nanoscale metallic
components. The surface of the insert where Metasurface elements will be actively formed
may have regions that have a preferred surface free energy to interact differentially with
the EWOD fluids. In some embodiments, the resting state of the EWOD regions may
define a condition where the fluid containing the nanospheres, nanorods or other shaped
metallic constituents may be diffuse in space. By the application, of an electric field in the
EWOD device the regional preference may be switched resulting in an accumulation of the
fluid containing Nanoscale metallic constituents into shapes that comprise Metasurface
elements.
[0012]          Contact lenses may be formed which comprise inserts with three
dimensional shapes to them where at least portions of the surfaces of the inserts may have
static or active Metasurface elements upon them where the Metasurface elements have a
lens effect. Some embodiments with active Metasurface elements may comprise
components that act with the phenomena of Electrowetting on Dielectrics. Within fluids of
EWOD cells may be Nanoscale components that in some cases may comprise nanospheres
or nanorods. Modification of the surface of the Nanoscale components in the fluid may be
performed in various manners and may include the chemical attachment of molecules to
the surfaces of the Nanoscale components to change their preference to one or more of the
Electrowetting on Dielectric fluids. Embodiments with active Metasurface elements upon
them may respond to an electric field that may be controlled by other components located
in the insert or within the ophthalmic device. In some embodiments a variable focus
contact lens may result from an electrically controllable formation of active surface
Metasurface elements.

                                                 5
DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]          FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a Media Insert for an
energized ophthalmic device and an exemplary embodiment of an energized Ophthalmic
Device.
[0014]          FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary contact lens with various features including
an incorporated single piece insert that may be useful for implementing aspects of the art
herein.
[0015]           FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary alternative embodiment to that
demonstrated in FIG 2.
[0016]          FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary contact lens with various features including
an incorporated multipiece insert that may be useful for implementing aspects of the art
herein.
[0017]          FIG. 5 illustrates aspects of prior art related to a flat Metasurface element
based lens and to designing the Metasurface elements with a hyperboloidal phase profile to
function as a lens.
[0018]          FIG. 6 illustrates changes to the nanostructure modeling based on three
dimensional lens substrates rather than flat substrates.
[0019]          FIG. 7 Illustrates a phase characteristic estimation useful to model the lens.
[0020]          FIG. 8 Illustrates an exemplary media insert comprising active elements
and Metasurface elements.
[0021]          FIG. 9 Illustrates an exemplary active ophthalmic device with structures
that introduce Metasurface elements upon activation.
[0022]          FIG. 10 Illustrates an alternative exemplary active ophthalmic device with
structures that introduce Metasurface elements upon activation.

                                                6
[0023]          FIG. 11 Illustrates exemplary methods for designing and forming
Ophthalmic devices with incorporated static Metasurface elements.
[0024]          FIG. 12 Illustrates exemplary methods for designing and forming
Ophthalmic devices with incorporated dynamic Metasurface elements.
[0025]          FIG. 13 Illustrates exemplary methods for utilizing Ophthalmic devices with
incorporated dynamic Metasurface elements.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0026]          The present invention relates to an ophthalmic device having Metasurface
components that may affect changes in electromagnetic radiation in the environment of the
eye. In the following sections detailed descriptions of embodiments of the invention will be
given. The description of both preferred and alternative embodiments are exemplary
embodiments only, and it is understood that to those skilled in the art that variations,
modifications and alterations may be apparent. It is therefore to be understood that said
exemplary embodiments do not limit the scope of the underlying invention.
GLOSSARY
[0027]          In this description and claims directed to the presented invention, various
terms may be used for which the following definitions will apply:
[0028]          Energized: as used herein refers to the state of being able to supply electrical
current to or to have electrical energy stored within.
[0029]          Energy: as used herein refers to the capacity of a physical system to do work.
Many uses within this invention may relate to the said capacity being able to perform
electrical actions in doing work.
[0030]          Energy Source: as used herein refers to a device or layer that is capable of
supplying Energy or placing a logical or electrical device in an Energized state.

                                                7
[0031]          Energy Harvester: as used herein refers to a device capable of extracting
energy from the environment and converting it to electrical energy.
[0032]          Functionalized: as used herein refers to making a layer or device able to
perform a function including for example, energization, activation, or control.
[0033]          Leakage: as used herein refers to unwanted loss of energy.
[0034]          Lens or Ophthalmic Device: as used herein refers to any device that resides
in or on the eye. These devices may provide optical correction, may be cosmetic, or may
provide functionality unrelated to the eye. For example, the term lens may refer to a
contact lens, intraocular lens, overlay lens, ocular insert, optical insert, or other similar
device through which vision is corrected or modified, or through which eye physiology is
cosmetically enhanced (e.g. iris color) without impeding vision. Alternatively, the Lens
may provide non-optic functions such as, for example, monitoring glucose or
administrating medicine. In some embodiments, the preferred lenses of the invention are
soft contact lenses are made from silicone elastomers or hydrogels, which include, for
example, silicone hydrogels, and fluorohydrogels.
[0035]          Lens-forming mixture or Reactive Mixture or Reactive Monomer Mixture
(RMM): as used herein refers to a monomer or prepolymer material that may be cured and
crosslinked or crosslinked to form an ophthalmic lens. Various embodiments may include
lens-forming mixtures with one or more additives such as, for example, UV blockers, tints,
photoinitiators or catalysts, and other additives one might desire in an ophthalmic lenses
such as, contact or intraocular lenses.
[0036]          Lens-forming Surface: as used herein refers to a surface that is used to mold
a lens. In some embodiments, any such surface can have an optical quality surface finish,
which indicates that it is sufficiently smooth and formed so that a lens surface fashioned by
the polymerization of a lens forming material in contact with the molding surface is
optically acceptable. Further, in some embodiments, the lens-forming surface can have a
geometry that is necessary to impart to the lens surface the desired optical characteristics,
including without limitation, spherical, aspherical and cylinder power, wave front

                                                8
aberration correction, corneal topography correction and the like as well as any
combinations thereof.
[0037]          Lithium Ion Cell: as used herein refers to an electrochemical cell where
Lithium ions move through the cell to generate electrical energy. This electrochemical cell,
typically called a battery, may be reenergized or recharged in its typical forms.
[0038]          Media Insert: as used herein refers to an encapsulated insert that will be
included in an energized ophthalmic device. The energization elements and circuitry may
be incorporated in the Media Insert. The Media Insert defines the primary purpose of the
energized ophthalmic device. For example, in embodiments where the energized
ophthalmic device allows the user to adjust the optic power, the Media Insert may include
energization elements that control a liquid meniscus portion in the Optical Zone.
Alternatively, a Media Insert may be annular so that the Optical Zone is void of material. In
such embodiments, the energized function of the Lens may not be optic quality but may be,
for example, monitoring glucose or administering medicine.
[0039]          Metasurface: as used herein refers to man-made combinations of Nanoscaled
features arrayed with periodicity. The combinations result in useful characteristics that are
distinct from natural structures. In many embodiments herein, the interaction of the features
with light, particularly in a visible spectrum allow for lens devices to be constructed.
[0040]          Mold: as used herein refers to a rigid or semi-rigid object that may be used
to form lenses from uncured formulations. Some preferred molds include two mold parts
forming a front curve mold part and a back curve mold part.
[0041]          Nanoscale: as used herein refers to an element that has a feature or features
that has or have at least one dimension that is smaller than approximately 1 micron; thus its
dimensionality for that at least one dimension may be referred to in nanometers.
[0042]          Operating Mode: as used herein refers to a high current draw state where the
current over a circuit allows the device to perform its primary energized function.

                                                9
[0043]          Optical Zone: as used herein refers to an area of an ophthalmic lens through
which a wearer of the ophthalmic lens sees.
[0044]          Power: as used herein refers to work done or energy transferred per unit of
time.
[0045]          Rechargeable or Re-energizable: as used herein refers to a capability of being
restored to a state with higher capacity to do work. Many uses within this invention may
relate to the capability of being restored with the ability to flow electrical current at a certain
rate and for a certain, reestablished time period.
[0046]          Reenergize or Recharge: as used herein refers to restoring to a state with
higher capacity to do work. Many uses within this invention may relate to restoring a
device to the capability to flow electrical current at a certain rate and for a certain,
reestablished time period.
[0047]          Reference: as use herein refers to a circuit which produces an, ideally, fixed
and stable voltage or current output suitable for use in other circuits. A reference may be
derived from a bandgap, may be compensated for temperature, supply, and process
variation, and may be tailored specifically to a particular application-specific integrated
circuit (ASIC).
[0048]          Released from a Mold: as used herein refers to a lens is either completely
separated from the mold, or is only loosely attached so that it may be removed with mild
agitation or pushed off with a swab.
[0049]          Reset Function: as used herein refers to a self-triggering algorithmic
mechanism to set a circuit to a specific predetermined state, including, for example, logic
state or an energization state. A Reset Function may include, for example, a power-on
reset circuit, which may work in conjunction with the Switching Mechanism to ensure
proper bring-up of the chip, both on initial connection to the power source and on wakeup
from Storage Mode.

                                                 10
[0050]           Sleep Mode or Standby Mode: as used herein refers to a low current draw
state of an energized device after the Switching Mechanism has been closed that allows for
energy conservation when Operating Mode is not required.
[0051]           Stacked: as used herein means to place at least two component layers in
proximity to each other such that at least a portion of one surface of one of the layers
contacts a first surface of a second layer. In some embodiments, a film, whether for
adhesion or other functions may reside between the two layers that are in contact with each
other through said film.
[0052]           Stacked Integrated Component Devices or SIC Devices: as used herein
refers to the products of packaging technologies that assemble thin layers of substrates that
may contain electrical and electromechanical devices into operative-integrated devices by
means of stacking at least a portion of each layer upon each other. The layers may
comprise component devices of various types, materials, shapes, and sizes. Furthermore,
the layers may be made of various device production technologies to fit and assume
various contours.
[0053]           Storage Mode: as used herein refers to a state of a system comprising
electronic components where a power source is supplying or is required to supply a minimal
designed load current. This term is not interchangeable with Standby Mode.
[0054]           Substrate Insert: as used herein refers to a formable or rigid substrate capable
of supporting an Energy Source within an ophthalmic lens. In some embodiments, the
Substrate insert also supports one or more components.
[0055]           Switching Mechanism: as used herein refers to a component integrated with
the circuit providing various levels of resistance that may be responsive to an outside
stimulus, which is independent of the ophthalmic device.
[0056]          Three-dimensional: as used herein refers to a shape or surface that is
essentially not planar.

                                               11
ENERGIZED OPHTHALMIC DEVICE
[0057]          Proceeding to Figure 1, an exemplary embodiment of a Media Insert 100 for
an energized ophthalmic device and a corresponding energized ophthalmic device 150 are
illustrated. The Media Insert 100 may comprise an Optical Zone 120 that may or may not
be functional to provide vision correction. Where the energized function of the ophthalmic
device is unrelated to vision, the Optical Zone 120 of the Media Insert 100 may be void of
material. In some embodiments, the Media Insert 100 may include a portion not in the
Optical Zone 120 comprising a substrate 115 incorporated with energization elements 110
and electronic components 105. There may be numerous embodiments relating to
including Metasurface elements into ophthalmic devices; however many may define
surface portions within the Optical Zone 120 upon which Metasurface elements are
deployed.
[0058]          In some embodiments, a power source 110, which may be, for example, a
battery, and a load 105, which may be, for example, a semiconductor die, may be attached
to the substrate 115. Conductive traces 125 and 130 may electrically interconnect the
electronic components 105 and the energization elements 110. The Media Insert 100 may
be fully encapsulated to protect and contain the energization elements, traces, and
electronic components. In some embodiments, the encapsulating material may be semi
permeable, for example, to prevent specific substances, such as water, from entering the
Media Insert 100 and to allow specific substances, such as ambient gasses or the
byproducts of reactions within energization elements, to penetrate or escape from the
Media Insert 100.
[0059]          In some embodiments, the Media Insert 100 may be included in an
ophthalmic device 150, which may comprise a polymeric biocompatible material. The
ophthalmic device 150 may include a rigid center, soft skirt design wherein a central rigid
optical element comprises the Media Insert 100. In some specific embodiments, the Media
Insert 100 may be in direct contact with the atmosphere and the comeal surface on
respective anterior and posterior surfaces, or alternatively, the Media Insert 100 may be
encapsulated in the ophthalmic device 150. The periphery 155 of the ophthalmic Lens 150
may be a soft skirt material, including, for example, a hydrogel material.

                                               12
[0060]         The infrastructure of the media insert 100 and the ophthalmic device 150
may provide an environment for numerous embodiments involving nanostructured
elements to form Metasurfaces. Some of these embodiments may involve purely passive
function of the ophthalmic device, where for example, the Metasurface component
performs optical effects relating to vision correction for example. Other embodiments,
may involve the ophthalmic device having active functions where once again the
Metasurface components themselves perform a passive function. In addition, in still
further embodiments the Metasurface components may themselves be part of the active
function of the ophthalmic device.
[0061]         Proceeding to Fig. 2, item 200 a depiction of an exemplary single piece
insert may be illustrated in cross section. In Fig. 2, the ophthalmic device, 220, may have a
cross sectional representation, 230, which represents a cross section through the location
represented by line 210. In an exemplary embodiment, the optic zone of the ophthalmic
device 220 may include a polarizing element, which may be represented in the cross
section as item 235. Upon the surface of item 235 may be nanostructured elements to
form the Metasurface. In other embodiments, item 235 may solely represent a surface that
has the Metasurface elements thereupon. Item 235 may represent a three dimensionally
formed substrate which is attached to other insert forming pieces to form an insert.
[0062]         As well, outside the optic zone of the device there may be printed patterns
placed on the single piece insert as shown by item 221 and in cross section as items 231. In
some embodiments, the insert piece may simply comprise the Metasurface components at
235 and an optionally printed region at 231.
[0063]         As shown in the cross section, the single piece insert piece 235 may have a
three dimensional shape. For example, the piece may assume the three dimensionally
curved shape by thermoforming a thin sheet material that may start in a planar format. The
Metasurface elements may be added to the sheet either before or after this thermoforming
is performed.
[0064]         In some embodiments, there may be a requirement for orientation of the
ophthalmic lens within the ocular environment. Items 250 and 260 may represent

                                                13
stabilization zone features that can aid in orienting the formed ophthalmic lens upon a
user's eye. In addition, in some embodiments the use of stabilization features upon the
single piece insert may allow for its orientation relative to the molded stabilization
features. The ability to orient may be particularly important for placements of Metasurface
features that are not radially symmetric in nature, as would be case for a pattern that may
correct second order and higher aberrations in vision.
[0065]          Proceeding to Fig. 3, item 300 a variation of the exemplary single piece
insert shown in Fig. 2, may be illustrated in cross section. In Fig. 3, the ophthalmic device,
320, may have a cross sectional representation, 330, which represents a cross section
through the location represented by line 310. In an exemplary embodiment, the optic zone
of the ophthalmic device 320 may include a portion, not necessarily shown to scale in the
figure, where the surface shape is concave to incident radiation as opposed to the convex
orientation. This may allow for embodiments, where instead of adjusting focusing aspects
of the ophthalmic lens the Metasurface elements may adjust divergent aspects of the lens
surface. Upon this concave surface of item 335 may be nanostructured elements to form
the Metasurface. As well, outside the optic zone of the device there may be printed patterns
placed on the single piece insert as shown by item 321 and in cross section as items 331. In
some embodiments, the insert piece may simply comprise the Metasurface components at
335 and an optionally printed region at 331. For the same motivations as the embodiment
in Fig. 2, there may be alignment features or stabilization zones incorporated into the
ophthalmic device as shown as items 350 and 360, and there may be patterns printed upon
the insert as features 331.
[0066]          Proceeding to Fig. 4, item 400 additional embodiments where multi-piece
inserts may be used to form ophthalmic devices may be observed. In item 405 a multi
piece insert 422 may include an active element in the optic zone. The figure depicts a cross
sectional representation 430 across line 410. For exemplary purposes, the ophthalmic lens
also includes printed features as item 431, which may also be represented in cross section
as item 431. In addition, the exemplary lens may include stabilization features 450 and
460.

                                                14
[0067]          Multi-piece inserts may also be useful for embodiments with annular shapes
where there is no insert material in the optical zone. With Metasurfaces, a modification of
this type of annular insert may be made where a two piece annular shape is found in
regions depicted as item 436 whereas a single piece of the insert may be located in the
optical zone and support the Metasurface elements.
[0068]          An exemplary embodiment of a multipiece insert may include a meniscus
based active lens element at item 435 between the two insert pieces. The meniscus lens
may actively change focal characteristics when a battery-powered circuit applies electric
potential across parts of the meniscus lens. Metasurface elements may also be included
upon one of the multipiece surfaces. In a non-limiting example, the inclusion of passive
Metasurface focusing elements upon the surface of an active meniscus lens may allow for
the adjustment of optical characteristics for higher order corrective aspects of the lens.
[0069]          The multipiece insert may include an active Nanoscale Metasurface
embodiment as well. In subsequent sessions discussion is found for an embodiment that
actively forms Metasurface elements within the region between the two insert pieces at
item 435. In some such embodiments, the optical zone may have preferred orientations
relative to the use's eyes. The methods used to form such a Metasurface including
ophthalmic device may allow for registered alignment of the various components of the
lens to the stabilization elements 450 and 460. These elements will then maintain an
established orientation of the lens relative to the user's eyes.
METASURFACE LENS ELEMENTS
[0070]          Proceeding to Fig. 5, item 500 aspects of prior art implementations of flat
surface based lens devices based on the phase altering interaction of light with Nanoscale
metallic elements is displayed. In some implementation of flat surface lenses, small
metallic features may be defined upon the flat surface in a design that interacts with light
upon the surface of the flat lens. In items 520 through 527 a set of designs of a functional
lens are depicted. The features of 510 comprise the unit cell of Metasurface elements that
are deployed across the flat surface in such a manner to form a lens.

                                               15
[0071]          In an exemplary embodiment, the lens is optimized for wavelength around
1.5 microns, a common communication electromagnetic wavelength out of the visual
spectrum. In other embodiments, optimization may occur for wavelengths in the visual
spectrum. The unit cell varies from item 520 to 523. The length of the components ranges
from 180 to 85 nanometers in length, and as can be observed there is an angle between
linear elements of that length that ranges from approximately 90 angstroms to zero. The
thickness of the metal comprising the Metasurface devices may be approximately 50
nanometers and devices may be separated from each other by spacing ranging from 750
nanometers down to 200 nanometers. When closer than 200 nanometers, the Metasurface
components may tend to "communicate" with each other and alter the properties of
neighboring devices. In the demonstration of functional devices, the number of unit cell
components was made in four discrete steps although in practice the number of different
component designs may be significantly more. The various parameters relate to
demonstrated practice for a certain wavelength range. Variation of the design aspects of
the Metasurface elements in 510 including their thickness and lengths may be useful in
tuning the Metasurface elements to different wavelength ranges.
[0072]          The depicted elements and the parameters mentioned above relate to design
aspects used to create a flat lens where the phase alteration of the Metasurface antenna
elements is used to model a hyperboloidal radial phase distribution 590 that results in a
lens. In 550, the important elements relating to estimating the desired phase characteristic
of an element placed upon the flat lens 560 may be found. The lens 560 may have a
radius as shown as item 561. The modeled lens may have a focal length characteristic
shown as item 581. The modeled phase characteristics of a Metasurface element, for
example 524, at position 570 which may be represented as position (x,y), is such that the
Phase shift characteristic represented by item 590 is proportional to the projection of the
location vector upon the spherical model surface 580. That will result in the desired lens
function with the desired focal characteristic 581.   It can be demonstrated that for such
parametric relationships that such projection for the phase shift PS(x,y) will follow the
relationship of
            (1)         PS(x,y) ~ 2               (x2     +   y2) + f2        _f)

                                                16
[0073]           Where PS(x,y) represents the desired phase shift of a point x,y on the flat
lens, and Arepresents the wavelength of the light, and f represents the focal characteristic
of the lens desired. In a polar coordinate system the phase shift PS(r, 0) is
             (2)         PS(r, ) ~ 2T               r2 +f       2   _ f)
[0074]           It may be apparent that incorporation of flat lenses of this type may create
novel ophthalmic devices. In an intraocular device, a flat focusing plane may be possible.
Utilizing designs of this kind within intraocular devices may be practical for adjusting
focal characteristics in a static sense. Alternatively, the active element embodiments
discussed in three dimensionally shaped devices in coming sections may likewise have
relevance for flat lens type intraocular embodiments.
[0075]           Proceeding to Fig. 6, item 600 the resulting model for such a lens condition
where the surface is not flat may be depicted. It may be practical to use similar unit cell
designs for the Metasurface Nanoscale elements as shown in 610 as items 620-627. Where
the design aspects of the elements such as their thickness, angle of features and lengths
may be related to the desired central wavelength of focus and to the calculated phase shift
characteristics desired.
[0076]           It may be apparent that switching from a flat lens to a curved lens may
introduce additional complexity in modeling the device. The physical phase characteristics
to an incident plane wave based on the curved surface may introduce a first component of
phase aspects of the device. In addition, now Metasurface elements may reside upon a
globally curved surface that will change the angular orientation of the antenna feature in
space. Furthermore, as the surface curves, the straight lined distance between nanoshaped
Metasurface elements and each other may be different from the distance along the surface
itself between elements.
[0077]           There may be some reasonable estimation that may allow for estimated lens
design parameters. For example, to a first order it may be possible to treat the phase
characteristics of the curved surface, introducing a phase alteration of the plane wave

                                                17
interaction with the surface, and the phase altering characteristics of the Metasurface
antenna elements as independent. Thus to model the design parameters of the Metasurface
antenna, it may be sufficient to consider the desired change of the phase due to the
Metasurface antenna independent of the other phase shift by subtracting that phase shift
from the overall phase shift of the three dimensionally formed lens device.
[0078]          In estimation, since the Nanoscale Metasurface antennas are so small it may
be a good estimate to model them as points. Although, there may be differences in how
the plane wave interacts with a tilted Nanoscale Metasurface element, it may still be
acceptable to ignore the impact by estimating the small device as a point that is not
affected by the distortion that curving the lens surface may introduce.
[0079]          In addition, in another estimation the spacing between elements in the
design may be estimated based on the distance between the elements in a non-curved
space. In practice, the density of Nanoscale elements may affect the efficiency of the
focusing device and a curved implementation may decrease the density that Nanoscale
elements may be placed at. Nevertheless, devices may still be created with first order
effects within the estimate that the curved space does not limit the design density of
Nanoscale elements.
[0080]          The effect of curved space may be observed in the depiction of Fig. 6, item
690. A spherical model surface may be depicted as item 671. A curved surface may be
depicted as item 691 where a Nanoscale Metasurface element such as item 624 may be
located at a point on the surface (x', y', z') at point 680. The resulting impact on the
phase length characteristics may be observed as the shortened phase length 691. The
equations for estimating the phase shift may become equations whose dependence is three
dimensional and represented by PS(x,y,z) or alternatively in a cylindrical coordinate
system as PS( r, 0, h).
[0081]          Applying the various estimates mentioned, a method to apply the desired
overall lens characteristics to a curved lens surface with Metasurface elements may be
discussed in relationship to Fig. 7, item 700. In item 710, a graphical depiction of the
curved surface with Metasurface elements may be found. The combinational phase

                                               18
characteristics of the lens shape as item 730 and then the Metasurface component as item
740 may be depicted. In an exemplary case where the Metasurface and the physical curved
surface are radially symmetric and focusing, a difference in focal length of the combined
phase shifts may be understood as item 750, where item 760 may represent the resulting
lens focal characteristic as item 760. It may be a reasonable estimate to focus on the
relative construction angle of the two different independent focal characteristics where 770
may represent the angle of the Metasurface impacted focal characteristic on top of the
physical curved lens surface focal characteristic.
[0082]          Continuing with estimates, in 720 the case resulting if you decouple the
phase shift characteristics of the curved ophthalmic lens device from the Metasurface
device may be depicted. If the three dimensional impact of the total phase impact of the
curved lens with Metasurface elements is estimated to come entirely from the curved
device phase characteristic, then it may be estimated that by subtracting the PSlens(x,y,z)
phase characteristics across the lens surface you can transform the desired Metasurface
modeling condition to again match that of a flat lens as discussed in reference to Fig. 6.
This may be the equivalent of the cylindrical coordinate system having a representation
where the height parameter - h is set to zero. If the resulting transformation is estimated
to occur by maintaining the focal length contributions that may be modeled by maintaining
the relative angles of the focal length characteristics as shown by item 771 then a new
estimated focal characteristic for a transformed phase space flat lens model may be
represented as item 750. Then the design aspects for such Metasurface elements may be
calculated in the same manner as mentioned relating to Fig. 6, and equation 1, 2 where the
"f"is now an estimated effective focal length from item 750. In practice more
sophisticated wavefront modeling systems may be used to rigorously calculated the desired
phase characteristics of arbitrary three dimensional curved surfaces and the resulting
desired phase characteristics of Nanoscale Metasurface elements deployed thereon. For,
making devices consistent with the art herein, with estimated optical characteristics, the
global estimates may be applied.
[0083]          In the estimated case where the cylindrical coordinates may be compressed
to a polar coordinate relationship by the subtraction of the three dimensional characteristics
of the physical lens substrate then the polar coordinate phase representation may again be

                                               19
             (3)         PS(r, ®)         ~"T      r2   +f'    2      _ f)
[0084]          Furthermore, the modeling of the design parameters of the individual
Metasurface elements can be carried out with sophisticated modeling protocols as for
example Finite Difference Time-Dependent (FTDT) electromagnetic simulations. These
simulations may be computationally intensive if carried out on full three dimensionally
deployed nanosurface elements but possible. Alternatively the estimates discussed
previously may provide an alternative to generate results that may be iteratively corrected
through production, measurement and refined estimation cycles.
[0085]          Proceeding to Fig. 8, item 800, an exemplary embodiment of some of the
concepts may be found. Item 800 may represent an ophthalmic insert device that may be
included within an ophthalmic lens in some embodiments, or represent an ophthalmic
device on its own. The example includes energization elements 830 that energize control
circuitry 840 that may comprise an integrated circuit. The integrated circuit as well as
other components may control other active components within the device. In a non
limiting example, in the active zone may be a meniscus-based lens capable of adjusting the
optical power when light proceeds through the device. Overlying this device in the optical
zone, at 820 may be the Metasurface elements. In the magnified inset of 810, the
Metasurface elements may be observed. These elements may be designed to provide a
static optical correction that in combination with the active change in optical power of the
underlying lens element may provide novel function.
[0086]          In some embodiments, as shown in Fig. 9, the Metasurface elements may
be defined in active manners as well. The exemplary meniscus lens discussed in item 800
may typically employ the technique of Electrowetting on dielectrics (EWOD). The
technique acts on combinations of liquids by changing the surface free energy of surfaces
near the liquids. Combinations of immiscible liquids, where one liquid, for example is a
polar liquid like an aqueous solution, and the other liquid is a non polar liquid like an oil
may be effective for EWOD devices. The technique may be used to create active creation
of Metasurface elements. In item 910, a combination of EWOD type liquids without an
applied electrical field across an active surface may result in a diffuse lens effect without

                                               20
regularly defined Metasurface elements. The highlight of 910 depicts a diffuse location of
elements. These elements may be found in the fluid layer identified as 915. In the inset,
the fluid layer 915 may be comprised of solvated components. In some embodiments these
components may be metallic nanospheres such as shown by item 930 or metallic nanorods
as shown as item 935. The metallic components may be comprised of Gold, Silver,
Platinum or other elements that can form nanosized components.
[0087]          The surface of the nanocomponents may be coated with chemicals that
impart a surface energy to the nanosized component. These coated chemicals may
establish a preference to certain fluid types or away from certain fluid types. The ligand
molecules, 931 shown attached to the nanospheres 930 may in some embodiments make
the nanospheres hydrophilic in nature or alternatively hydrophobic. If the nanospheres
were hydrophilic they may be preferentially located in the aqueous component of the
EWOD liquid mixture. When the first liquid contains the nanosized components, like 915
in the depiction, the other component 913 may be devoid of them. Then the fluids may be
contained in microscale structures that are surrounded by a top 912, side structures 911 and
a surface layer 916 upon a dielectric 917. The surface layer may be such that the aqueous
phase, for example, is preferred to wet across the surface as shown by the contact of
exemplary aqueous fluid layer 915 across it. Underlying the dielectric 917 may be
electrodes 918. The fluid layers may be contacted by another electrode 914. When an
electro potential is applied across the electrodes 918 and 914 the surface free energy at the
surface of the surface layer 916 which is in the vicinity of electrodes 918 may change to
favor wetting by the oil type layer (which may be considered an oil type wetting
characteristic). This condition may be depicted at 920.
[0088]          If the electrodes are defined such that the nanostructure containing liquid
when localized into smaller regions such as the case for liquid 914 in the 920 case, then the
nanospheres are concentrated into features that may assume the nanosurface type designs
as shown in the inset at 920. These shapes would occur with concentrated nanometallic
structures comprised of nanospheres 930 or nanorods 935, which may interact with light in
similar fashions to the Metasurface components described previously. The nanospheres or
nanorods with attached surface molecules may be formulated to be a single size component
within the mixture of size ranging from commercially available 2nm - 250nm sphere sizes

                                               21
from Discovery Scientific Inc. Alternatively a combination of different sizes may also be
used. The optical properties of the fluids may be altered depending on the size of sphere
used or the combination of various sizes. As well the ligands could play roles in
interacting with the optical properties by determining the closest spacing between
nanospheres in the liquid.
[0089]          In some embodiments the side structure 911 may be designed to surround
individual Metasurface elements. In other embodiments, multiple elements may be located
within each isolated surface structure. The design of the electrode locations 918, or
missing electrode locations, may be made such that the individual elements are spaced at
roughly 250 nm or more apart. The relative surface area of the designed features 918 in
these individual isolated cells may determine the relative amounts of the two immiscible
fluids for containment of the design element of one fluid region when the EWOD effect
causes the definition of Metasurface elements.
[0090]          Proceeding to Fig. 10, an alternative embodiment to that in Fig. 9 may be
found. Operating in a similar manner with Electrowetting as a means of defining active
Metasurface elements, the embodiment in Fig. 10, builds up the layer with nanostructured
devices along the sidewall of an electrode. At item 1010 the condition where the
nanostructure containing liquid layer is located along the bottom of a small cell. The cell
has similar structural features to that in embodiment 900. Item 1011 may be sidewalls
containing the micro-fluidic cell. A top of the cell may be item 1012. Item 1014 may be
an electrode formed in the desired shape of a nanosurface element. Item 1013 may be a
dielectric film formed on the sidewall of the electrode that has the desired wetting
properties on its side. Item 1015 may be an electrode that penetrates through the top of the
cell. Item 1016 may be the fluid layer containing the solvated nanospheres and item 1018
may be the other fluid layer. The layer 1016 may have the similar metallic nanospheres
930 and nanorods 935, which may have attached ligand molecules 931 to define the
surface free energy of the nanostructure and therefore which liquid type it would prefer to
be solvated within.
[0091]          When an electric field is applied across electrode 1015 and electrode 1016,
this applied potential may change the surface free energy of the sidewall region of item

                                              22
1016 causing the fluid layer 1016 to move along the sidewall region as shown in the
depiction related to 1020. The accumulation of the fluid in the region may form the
Metasurface structures as shown in item 1020. Again, the application of voltage across the
cells may generate an active nanostructure pattern that may have the modeled optical
effects. In some embodiments, the application of the voltage may be controlled by the
electronics contained within an insert structure that also contains energization elements.
[0092]          The resulting Metasurface structures that are created in the embodiment of
item 1020 where they are located in the proximity of the metal electrode may have altered
optical interaction because the structure of metal nanostructures with a dielectric and a
second metal structure may create nanostructures with couple more strongly with the
magnetic field of the electromagnetic radiation. This may create additional wavelength
based resonances based on parameters such as the thickness of the dielectric film. This
may create another dimension for the modeling of the nanosurface structures incorporated
into such embodiments.
METHODS
[0093]          Proceeding to Fig. 11, item 1100, exemplary methods of designing and
forming ophthalmic devices which include Metasurface elements may be found. At 1101 a
model for an ophthalmic device may be formed. The model may comprise a three
dimensional substrate form which may have at least two important aspects. First, the
substrate form will typically define a shape of a conventional ophthalmic device which
may understood optical properties, which also may be represented as point based phase
characteristics imparted to incident light. Second, upon the shape or within the shape a
network or array of three dimensionally deployed Nanoscaled metallic elements may be
layed out. The system may be used by sophisticated modeling systems that model the
wavefront characteristics of the optic elements and the nature of the electromagnetic
interaction with the Nanoscale Metasurface elements. In other simplified estimates, the
model may be broken down into a standard device lens characteristics and a superimposed
Metasurface lens which may be estimated to function as a flat Metasurface lens.
Regardless of the modeling approach, desired ophthalmic parameters may be fed into the
modeling system along with empirical results as appropriate to generate the design aspect

                                               23
of both the substrate shape as well as the individual nanosurface element designs across
that shape.
[0094]          Proceeding to 1102, the model information may be used to fabricate
Nanoscale Metasurface antenna elements upon a substrate. In a non-limiting example, this
process may first involve placing Metasurface elements upon a flat substrate and then
forming the substrate into a desired three dimensional shape. For example, the forming of
the flat substrate may be carried out by thermoforming. In order to place the Metasurface
elements there may be numerous methods that can yield the desired result. A
thermoformable substrate may be coated with a thin film of chemical resist as may be used
in the semiconductor industry. Then, for example, a nanoimprint lithography substrate
may be used to impress into the photoresist the pattern desired for the Metasurface
elements. The nanoimprint substrate may be as large as the desired ophthalmic substrate
or alternatively it may contain multiple versions of the desired ophthalmic substrate
pattern. In some embodiments it may be possible to step the nanoimprint substrate
multiple times across the ophthalmic substrate to transfer the appropriate pattern.
[0095]          Again, as a non-limiting example, recesses into the thermoformable
substrates may be etched by either a chemical etch or a reactive ion etching technique. A
film of metal, typically comprising Gold, silver, platinum or copper or other metallic
component or alloy may be deposited upon the substrate with etched features and
photoresist. A lift-off process may next remove metal and photoresist leaving a pattern of
nanostructured features. Chemical cleans and physical polishing steps may be useful to
remove material remaining of the photoresist or metal layer.
[0096]          At 1103, the resulting substrate may be transformed into a three
dimensionally shaped feature. In some embodiments this may be performed by
thermoforming the substrate. The resulting three dimensional shape may become a part of
an insert or may be an insert in its own right. Next at 1104, an insert with the Nanoscale
metallic features may be placed into a mold form. The insert, at 1105, may then be
surrounded by ophthalmic material which may be called reactive mixture and encapsulated
as ophthalmic material may be polymerized and shaped with the mold around the insert.
When removed from the mold a form of an ophthalmic device may be obtained. At 1106,

                                               24
the resulting ophthalmic device may be measured for its optical characteristics for example
by a wave front aberrometer. Results from the measurement may be used to determine if
the device thus formed is acceptable. Alternatively, at 1107 an alternative model may be
formed by adjusting parameters in the modeling system based on the measured results. At
1108, these adjusted parameters and modeling characteristics may be feed back for
refinement of the lens design.
[0097]          Proceeding to Fig. 12, item 1200, exemplary methods of designing and
forming ophthalmic devices which include active Metasurface elements may be found.
The flow is similar to that discussed in reference to Fig. 11. At 1201 a model for an
ophthalmic device may be formed. The model may comprise a three dimensional substrate
form which may have at least two important aspects. First, the substrate form will
typically define a shape of a conventional ophthalmic device which may understood optical
properties, which also may be represented as point based phase characteristics imparted to
incident light. Second, upon the shape or within the shape a network or array of three
dimensionally deployed Nanoscale forming features may be laid out. As discussed in
previous sections these forming features may cause Metasurface elements to form under
the action of electric potentials. The resulting designed system may be used by
sophisticated modeling systems that model the wavefront characteristics of the optic
elements and the nature of the electromagnetic interaction with the Nanoscale Metasurface
elements that would form actively. In other simplified estimates, the model may be broken
down into a standard device lens characteristics and a superimposed Metasurface lens
which may be estimated to function as a flat Metasurface lens and the complex active
elements that may be collections of nanoparticles in a suspension in a fluid may be
estimated as solid metallic features. Regardless of the modeling approach, desired
ophthalmic parameters may be fed into the modeling system along with empirical results
as appropriate to generate the design aspect of both the substrate shape as well as the
individual nanosurface element designs across that shape.
[0098]          Proceeding to 1202, the model information may be used to fabricate
Nanoscale Metasurface antenna forming elements upon a substrate. In a non-limiting
example, this process may first involve placing Metasurface controlling elements upon a
flat substrate and then forming the substrate into a desired three dimensional shape. For

                                               25
example, the forming of the flat substrate may be carried out by thermoforming. In order
to place the Metasurface controlling elements there may be numerous methods that can
yield the desired result. A thermoformable substrate may be coated with a thin film of
chemical resist as may be used in the semiconductor industry. Then, for example, a
nanoimprint lithography substrate may be used to impress into the photoresist the pattern
desired for the Metasurface elements. The nanoimprint substrate may be as large as the
desired ophthalmic substrate or alternatively it may contain multiple versions of the desired
ophthalmic substrate pattern. In some embodiments it may be possible to step the
nanoimprint substrate multiple times across the ophthalmic substrate to transfer the
appropriate pattern.
[0099]          As a non-limiting example a film of metal, typically comprising Gold,
silver, platinum or copper or other metallic component or alloy may be deposited upon the
substrate with imprinted photoresist. A lift-off process may next remove metal and
photoresist leaving a pattern of nanostructured metallic features. Chemical cleans and
physical polishing steps may be useful to remove material remaining. A dielectric film
may be deposited upon the substrate, covering the metallic features and the regions lacking
metallic features. Some of the metallic features may be used as electrodes for the EWOD
cells to be built in other cases they may be used to create the walls that surround each
EWOD cell. The deposited dielectric film may be treated to condition its surface free
energy. In a next step, the EWOD fluids may be added to the plurality of cells created
across the substrate. Next, a layer comprising the top of the EWOD cells may be placed
upon the growing substrate structure. Electrical interconnects may have already been
placed upon the top layer structure for electrical connection.
[0100]          At 1203, the resulting substrate structure may be transformed into a three
dimensionally shaped structure. In some embodiments this may be performed by
thermoforming the substrate. The resulting three dimensional shape may become a part of
an insert or may be an insert in its own right. It may be electrically connected to other
components within the insert as well.    Next at 1204, an insert with the Nanoscale metallic
controlling features may be placed into a mold form. The insert, at 1205, may then be
surrounded by ophthalmic material, which may be called reactive mixture, and
encapsulated as ophthalmic material may be polymerized and shaped with the mold around

                                                26
the insert. When removed from the mold a form of an ophthalmic device may be obtained.
At 1206, the resulting ophthalmic device may be measured for its optical characteristics
for example by a wave front aberrometer. The control electronics in the energized insert
within the ophthalmic device may allow for a test mode activation of the ophthalmic
device and both states with Metasurface elements and without may be tested. Results from
the measurement may be used to determine if the device thus formed is acceptable.
Alternatively, at 1207 an alternative model may be formed by adjusting parameters in the
modeling system based on the measured results. At 1208, these adjusted parameters and
modeling characteristics may be feed back for refinement of the lens design.
[0101]           There may also be methods for using an Ophthalmic device which has an
energized insert comprising Metasurface forming elements. In some embodiments, the
Ophthalmic device may have two operational states related to the Metasurface forming
elements. In a first state when the Metasurface elements are activated, the lens may have a
first effective focal characteristic and in the other state when the Metasurface elements are
deactivated it may have a second focal characteristic. Thus, proceeding to Fig. 13, item
1300 a method for utilizing such an active Ophthalmic device may be found. At 1301, an
ophthalmic device with active Metasurface elements may be obtained. When the device is
a contact lens embodiment, it may be placed in the user's eye region at 1302. When settled
in place, the user will observe the lens through his eye to have a certain optical quality and
characteristic. Next at 1303 the user may provide an activation signal of some kind. This
may entail signals that the user may directly control, such as for example intentionally
blinking his eyelids in some fashion. Alternatively, wireless communication devices may
be controlled by the user to provide a signal. The signal when received by the ophthalmic
device may cause it to shift states. At 1304, the user may then observe the result of the
state shift through the ophthalmic device and recognize an altered optical quality and
characteristic. In some embodiments, the user may provide a second activation signal at
1305 which may restore the active Ophthalmic device to the previous state it occupied
prior to step 1303. The device may be removed from the eye at step 1306.
[0102]           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group

                                                27
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0103]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0104]             This application is a divisional application from Australian application
2014201537. The full disclosure of AU2014201537 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                  28
CLAIMS
1.         A method for forming an Ophthalmic insert device comprising:
           depositing Nanoscale features on a substrate, wherein a portion of the features
comprises a conductive electrode;
           depositing a dielectric coating upon at least the portion of the feature comprising
the conductive electrode;
           treating the dielectric coating to establish a preference to a first fluid;
           forming the substrate with Nanoscale features into a three dimensional form; and
           attaching the three dimensionally formed substrate within an insert.
2.         The method according to claim 1 additionally comprising:
           filling regions of the substrate with a mixture of at least two immiscible fluids,
wherein one of the immiscible fluids is a first fluid and any other fluids have the opposite
wetting characteristic to the treated dielectric coating.
3.         The method according to claim 1 wherein the first fluid is an electrowetting on
dielectric (EWOD) fluid.
4.         The method according to claim 1 wherein the first fluid includes metallic
Nanoscale components.
5.         The method according to claim 4 wherein the metallic Nanoscale components
contain one or both of nanospheres and nanorods.
6.         The method according to claim 4 wherein the surfaces of the metallic Nanoscale
components are treated with surface bonded chemicals to establish a solvation preference
to a first fluid.
7.         The method according to claim 4 wherein the surfaces of the metallic Nanoscale
components are treated with surface bonded chemicals to establish a solvation preference
away from a first fluid.

                                               29
8.        The method according to claim 1 wherein the Nanoscale metallic features have a
                                                             2
surface area less then or approximately equal to 10,000 nm
9.        The method according to claim 1 wherein the metallic features are arranged in a
periodic pattern and a periodicity of the periodic pattern has a size scale less than or
approximately equal to 700nm.
10.       A method of utilizing an Ophthalmic device fabricated according to the method of
claim 1 comprising:
          positioning the ophthalmic device between an eye surface and an eye lid.
11.       The method according to claim 10 additionally comprising activating a function in
the insert device with an activation signal, wherein the function corresponds to adjusting
phase characteristics of incident light upon the insert device through interaction of light
with Nanoscale Metasurface features.
12.       The method according to claim 11 wherein the Nanoscale Metasurface features
actively form within an insert by the application of electrical potential across electrodes
within the insert thereby causing a corresponding wetting characteristic on the first fluid.
13.       The method according to claim 12 wherein the application of electrical potential
occurs by an electrical circuit connecting an Electrowetting on Dielectric electrode to an
energization element, wherein the energization element is comprised within the ophthalmic
device.
14.       The method according to claim 10 additionally comprising visualizing an effect
on an image observed by a user based up the activation of the Ophthalmic device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
