Abstract
This magnetic straw is design to improve the existing stainless steel straw or other reusable
straw.
The exciting reusable straw mainly made of stainless steel and glass.
One of the big drawbacks of stainless steel straw is hard to clean inside completely even
using brush. The dirt and germs stay inside the straw and create hygienic problems.
Therefore, this magnetic straw designs can be separated into 2 parts and the user can clean
easily and also extend the life of the stainless straw and create less waste.
The drawback of the glass straw is easy to break. Therefore, this magnetic straw is made of
stainless steel which can use for longer time and create less waste.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Innovation name: Magnetic straw
Innovation purposes: In order to protect the environment by using less 1 time plastic
straw, this straw is made of stainless steel and reusable.
In order to prevent the dirt stay inside the straw and clean inside completely, this straw
designs to be able to open the straw with the magnetic edge.
Description:
The straw is made of SUS 304 stainless steel/SUS316L stainless steel.
The straw is made by 2 half cylinder shape straw, one with the south pole magnet edges ,
the other one with the north pole magnet edges.
The length of the straw is 23cm.
The straw can be separated into 2 half cylinder shape by the magnetic edges. It is for the
washing and cleaning purpose.
The straw can be set for using by just simply put the 2 half cylinder (with different poles)
straw together.
There is a shallow mouth at the middle of the straw (11cm from the head of the straw)
which is design for the user separate the magnet.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims
    1. This straw is an invention of applying magnet into the straw.
    2. This straw is openable for completely washing without using brush
    3. This straw design is innovative as it can be open vertically, there is no other similar
       design

                 Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
