                                         ABSTRACT
                Curable resin compositions comprising an epoxy resin and a hydrazide curing
agent and methods for using the curable resin compositions in cementing and/or remedial
operations in a subterranean formation are provided.     In one embodiment, the method may
comprise combining an epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a curable resin composition,
wherein the curing agent comprises a hydrazide curing agent; introducing the curable resin
composition into a subterranean formation; and allowing the curable resin composition to at least
partially cure.

            HYDRAZIDE-BASED CURING AGENTS FOR USE IN SUBTERRANEAN
                                              OPERATIONS
                                             BACKGROUND
                    The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
 5 application no. 2015377198 filed on 16 January 2015, the contents of which are to be taken as
   incorporated herein by this reference.
                    The present disclosure relates to methods and compositions for use in cementing
   operations and/or remedial operations in previously-cemented areas in a subterranean formation.
                    Natural resources such as gas, oil, and water residing in a subterranean formation
 0 are usually recovered by drilling a wellbore down into the subterranean formation while
   circulating a drilling fluid in the wellbore. After terminating the circulation of the drilling fluid,
   a string of pipe, e.g., casing or liners, is run in the wellbore and cemented into place.        Such
   cementing operations are commonly referred to as primary cementing operations.
                    In primary cementing operations, a hydraulic cement composition is pumped into
 5 the annular space between the walls of the wellbore and the exterior of the pipe string disposed
   therein. The cement composition is permitted to set in the annular space thereby forming an
   annular sheath of hardened, substantially impermeable cement therein.           The cement sheath
   physically supports and positions the pipe string in the wellbore and bonds the exterior surfaces
   of the pipe string to the walls of the wellbore whereby the undesirable migration of fluids
 0 between zones or formations penetrated by the wellbore is prevented.
                    Shear and compressional stresses are commonly exerted on the cement as the
   result of relatively high fluid pressures and/or temperatures inside the pipe string during testing,
   hydraulic fracturing, perforating, fluid injection and/or fluid production and as the result of
   outside forces exerted on the cement sheath due to formation shifting, overburdened pressures,
25 subsidence, and/or tectonic creep.         Resins (e.g., epoxy resins) can be used in cement
   compositions to improve the resiliency, i.e., elasticity and ductility, of the cement sheath to
   withstand these commonly exerted stresses.
                    Small openings such as holes or cracks in the casing string, the cement sheath,
   and/or the wellbore are sometimes formed as a result of these stresses through which fluids can
30 undesirably flow into or out of the wellbore. Due to their resiliency, epoxy resins can also be
   used to seal the small openings and serve as a barricade against leaks of undesirable fluids. Such
   sealing operations are commonly referred to as remedial operations.
                                                      1

                                            SUMMARY
                  According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
  comprising: combining an epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a curable resin composition,
5 wherein the curing agent consists of a hydrazide curing agent; introducing the curable resin
  composition into a subterranean formation; and allowing the curable resin composition to at least
  partially cure.
               A method comprising: combining an epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a
  curable resin composition, wherein the curing agent consists of a dihydrazide having the
0 following chemical structure:
                                               o     O
                                               ||    ||
                                        H2N-N-G- R- C-N-NH2
                                            H           H
          wherein R comprises (-CH2 -)n or (-Ar-); wherein n is a number from 0 to 10; and
  wherein Ar is an aromatic ring; introducing the curable resin composition into a subterranean
  formation; and allowing the curable resin composition to at least partially cure.
5
                                                  la

                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                   These drawings illustrate certain aspects of some of the embodiments of the
   present disclosure, and should not be used to limit or define the claims.
                   Figure 1 illustrates a system for preparation and delivery of a cement composition
 5 comprising a curable resin composition of the present disclosure to a wellbore in accordance
   with aspects of the present disclosure.
                   Figure 2A illustrates surface equipment that may be used in placement of a
   cement composition comprising a curable resin composition of the present disclosure in a
   wellbore in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.
 0                 Figure 2B illustrates placement of a cement composition comprising a curable
   resin composition of the present disclosure into a wellbore annulus in accordance with aspects of
   the present disclosure.
                   Figure 3 is a differential scanning calorimetry thermogram depicting a curing
   exotherm for a curable resin composition comprising an epoxy resin and a hydrazide curing
 5 agent, according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.
                   Figure 4 is a differential scanning calorimetry thermogram depicting a curing
   exotherm for a curable resin composition comprising an epoxy resin and an aromatic amine
   curing agent, diethyltoluenediamine.
                   Figure 5 is a differential scanning calorimetry thermogram depicting a curing
 0 exotherm for a curable resin composition comprising an epoxy resin and an aromatic amine
   curing agent, Ethacure® 300.
                   While embodiments of this disclosure have been depicted, such embodiments do
   not imply a limitation on the disclosure, and no such limitation should be inferred. The subject
   matter disclosed is capable of considerable modification, alteration, and equivalents in form and
25 function, as will occur to those skilled in the pertinent art and having the benefit of this
   disclosure. The depicted and described embodiments of this disclosure are examples only, and
   not exhaustive of the scope of the disclosure.
                                                      2

                           DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EMBODIMENTS
                   Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail herein.
   In the interest of clarity, not all features of an actual implementation may be described in this
   specification. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual
 5 embodiment, numerous implementation-specific decisions may be made to achieve the specific
   implementation goals, which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover, it will
   be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time-consuming, but would
   nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of
   the present disclosure.
 0                 The present disclosure relates to methods and compositions for use in cementing
   operations and/or remedial operations in previously-cemented areas in a subterranean formation.
   More particularly, the present disclosure relates to curable resin compositions comprising an
   epoxy resin and a hydrazide curing agent and methods for using the curable resin compositions
   in cementing operations and/or remedial operations in previously-cemented                areas in a
 5 subterranean formation.
                   Generally, curing agents dissolve into and chemically react with liquid epoxy
   resins to at least partially cure the epoxy resin into a solid over time. Amine curing agents are
   commonly used curing agents. The active hydrogen atoms of the amine group(s) of an amine
   curing agent react with the epoxy group(s) of an epoxy resin to yield cured epoxy resins that
 0 have excellent heat and chemical resistance. Traditional amine curing agents may begin to react
   with epoxy resins upon mixing at room temperature because, among other reasons, they are
   liquids or they dissolve easily into the epoxy resin. As used herein, the term "room temperature"
   refers to a temperature of from about 15'C to about 28'C. Thus, the epoxy resins often must be
   placed in the desired location in a subterranean formation quickly after mixing to prevent the
25 epoxy resin from curing in the mixing equipment or prior to reaching the desired location within
   a wellbore.
                   Without limiting the disclosure to any particular theory or mechanism, it is
   believed that the hydrazide curing agents of the present disclosure may be partially or
   substantially insoluble in epoxy resins at room temperature.          It is further believe that the
30 hydrazide curing agents of the present disclosure may be substantially unreactive with the epoxy
   resins until the hydrazide curing agents reach their activation temperature. As used herein, the
   term "activation temperature" refers to the temperature at which the curing agent begins to
   substantially react with the epoxy resin. As used herein, the term "substantially" refers to a
   majority of, or mostly, as in at least about 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%,
35 99%, 99.5%, 99.9%, 99.99%, or at least about 99.999% or more.               Thus, the curable resin
                                                      3

   compositions of the present disclosure may exhibit delayed curing as compared to other curing
   agents. The delayed curing of the hydrazide curing agents of the present disclosure as compared
   to aromatic diamine curing agents, in particular, was unexpected (without the benefit of this
   disclosure) based on chemical structure and electron density at least in part because aliphatic
 5 diamines generally would be expected to react faster with epoxy resins than aromatic diamines
   due to the delocalized electron density of the aromatic diamines.
                  Among the many potential advantages of the methods and compositions of the
   present disclosure, only some of which are alluded to herein, the compositions of the present
   disclosure may allow for delayed curing of the curable resin compositions such that the curable
 0 resin compositions remain in a form that is pumpable for an extended time after combining the
   epoxy resin and the curing agent. Thus, the delayed curing of the curable resin compositions
   allows for greater time to place the curable resin compositions in a specific desired location
   within a wellbore before curing occurs. The compositions of the present disclosure may also be
   pre-mixed and stored at ambient temperatures without substantially curing. When pre-mixed,
 5 the compositions of the present disclosure may be pumped directly into a wellbore, thereby
   eliminating the need for equipment at the production well site to combine the epoxy resin and the
   curing agent.
                  The present disclosure provides curable resin compositions comprising an epoxy
   resin and a curing agent.      The curable resin compositions of the present disclosure may
 0 optionally further comprise a diluent, filler particles, a silane coupling agent, and/or
   combinations thereof. The present disclosure also provides methods of using the curable resin
   compositions in both primary cementing and remedial operations in a previously-cemented area
   in a subterranean formation. As used herein, the term "primary cementing operations" refers to
   operations that employ cementing fluids to achieve zonal isolation and to support, position,
25 and/or bond a string of pipe in a wellbore in a subterranean formation. "Remedial operations"
   may include operations that are used to cure a variety of well problems that may occur at any
   time during the life of the well, including, but not limited to, well construction, well repair, well
   stimulation, production, and abandonment.
                  In the certain embodiments of the present disclosure, a curable resin composition
30 may be formed by combining (e.g., mixing) an epoxy resin and a curing agent.               In certain
   embodiments, the epoxy resin may be liquid. In certain embodiments, two or more epoxy resins
   may be combined and used as the epoxy resin in accordance with the methods and compositions
   of the present disclosure.    The epoxy resins that may be suitable for use in accordance the
   present disclosure include, but are not limited to, bisphenol A diglycidyl ether resins, bisphenol F
35 diglycidyl ether resins, bisphenol AF diglycidyl ether resins, bisphenol S diglycidyl ether resins,
                                                     4

   novolac epoxy resins, cyclohexanedimethanol diglycidyl ether, tetraphenylolethane glycidyl
   ether, poly(ethylene glycol) diglycidyl ether, poly(propyleneglycol) diglycidyl ether, hexanediol
   diglycidyl ether, epoxy cresol novolacs, butanediol diglycidyl ether, N,N-diglycidyl-4
   glycidyloxyaniline, resorcinol diglycidyl ether, tris(4-hydroxyphenyl) methane triglycidyl ether,
 5 and tetraglycidyl-4,4'-methylenedianiline, neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether, and combinations
   thereof. One example of a commercially available epoxy resin is Araldite@ GY-506, available
   from Huntsman Corporation, Houston, Texas.
                  In certain embodiments, one or more curing agents may be combined with the
   epoxy resin to form a curable resin composition. In certain embodiments, the curing agent and
 0 epoxy resin may be combined in amounts to provide an equimolar ratio of epoxide groups in the
   epoxy resin to amino-hydrogens in the curing agent. In certain embodiments, the curing agent
   may be present in the curable resin composition in an amount from about 1% to about 150% by
   weight of epoxy resin. In some embodiments, the curing agent may be present in the curable
   resin composition in an amount from about 1% to about 50% by weight of epoxy resin. In other
 5 embodiments, the curing agent may be present in the curable resin composition in an amount
   from about 20% to about 40% by weight of epoxy resin. In certain embodiments, the curing
   agent may be present in the curable resin composition in an amount from about 20% to about
   25% by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 25% to about 30% by weight
   of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 30% to about 35% by weight of epoxy resin,
 0 in other embodiments, from about 3 5% to about 4 0% by weight of epoxy resin.
                  The curing agent may comprise a hydrazide             curing agent.     In certain
   embodiments, two or more hydrazide curing agents may be combined and used as the hydrazide
   curing agent in accordance with the methods and compositions of the present disclosure. The
   hydrazide curing agents that may be suitable for use in accordance with the present disclosure
25 may be any hydrazide that is solid and that is partially or substantially insoluble in the epoxy
   resin at room temperature such that the curable resin composition does not begin to cure.
   Suitable hydrazide curing agents that may be used in accordance with the present disclosure
   include, but are not limited to, adipic acid dihydrazide, 3, 4-diaminobenzhydrazide, succinic
   dihydrazide,     4-aminobenzoic     hydrazide,      (+)-biotinamidohexanoic    acid    hydrazide,
30 oxalyldihydrazide, maleic hydrazide, dodecanoic acid dihydrazide, isophthalic acid dihydrazide,
   1,4-cyclohexyl dihydrazide, 4,4'-(propane-1,3-diylbisoxy) dibenzoic dihydrazide, terephthalic
   acid dihydrazide, isophthalic dihydrazide, and combinations thereof.
                  In certain embodiments, the hydrazide curing agent may be an aromatic
   hydrazide. In certain embodiments, the hydrazide curing agent may be a linear and/or branched
                                                    5

   aliphatic hydrazide. In certain embodiments, the hydrazide curing agent may be a dihydrazide
   having the following chemical structure:
                                                 0     0
                                                 ||    ||
                                          H2N-N-C- R- C-N-NH2
                                              H           H
   wherein R may comprise (-CH2 -)n or (-Ar-), wherein n may be a number from 0 to 10, and
 5 wherein Ar is an aromatic ring. Examples of commercially available hydrazide curing agents are
   adipic acid dihydrazide (ADH) and isophthalic dihydrazide (IDH), available from Brenntag
   Specialties, Inc., South Plainfield, New Jersey.
                   In certain embodiments, the curing agent may further comprise an amine curing
   agent. The amine curing agents that may be suitable for use in accordance with the present
 0 disclosure may include, but are not limited to, aliphatic amines and aromatic amines. Examples
   of commercially available amine curing agents are diethyltoluenediamine and Jeffamine@ D230,
   available form Huntsman Corporation, Houston, Texas, and Ethacure@ 300, available form
   Albemarle Corp., Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In such embodiments, the amine curing agent may
   comprise up to about 50% of the total curing agent that may be used to form the curable resin
 5 composition.
                   In certain embodiments, the curing agent may further comprise an anhydride
   curing agent. The anhydride curing agents that may be suitable for use in accordance with the
   present disclosure may include, but are not limited to, methyltetrahydrophthalic anhydride,
   tetrahydrophthalic     anhydride,     methylhexahydrophthalic    anhydride,    hexahydrophthalic
 0 anhydride, maleic anhydride, phthalic anhydride, and combinations thereof.          Examples of
   commercially available anhydrides are the Lindride@ family of anhydride curing agents
   available from Lindau Chemicals, Inc., Columbia, S.C. In such embodiments, the anhydride
   curing agent may comprise up to about 50% of the total curing agent that may be used for form
   the curable resin composition.
25                 In certain embodiments, the curing agent may react with the epoxy resin and may
   thus cause the curable resin composition to cure (e.g., harden). In certain embodiments, the
   curing agent may be partially or substantially insoluble in and substantially unreactive with the
   epoxy resin at room temperature and thus may not cure at room temperature.               In some
   embodiments,       the curing agent may remain partially or substantially insoluble in and
30 substantially unreactive with the epoxy resin until the temperature of the curable resin
   composition reaches the activation temperature of the curing agent and thus may not
   substantially cure until the activation temperature is reached.     In certain embodiments, the
   activation temperature of the curing agent may vary depending on, among other factors, the type
                                                    6

   of curing agent and the type of epoxy resin used to form the curable resin composition.         In
   certain embodiments, the rate at which the curable resin composition cures may vary depending
   on temperature, the type of curing agent used, the type of epoxy resin used, and/or other factors.
   For example, in certain embodiments, a curable resin composition comprising a hydrazide curing
 5 agent may cure more rapidly over a narrower temperature range as compared to a curable resin
   composition comprising an amine curing agent.
                    In certain embodiments, the activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent
   may be above room temperature.         In certain embodiments, the activation temperature of the
   hydrazide curing agent may be above about 100 0 C.        In certain embodiments, the activation
 0 temperature of the hydrazide curing agent may be a temperature from about 100 0 C to about
   260'C. In certain embodiments, the activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent may be
   a temperature from about 100 0 C to about 120'C, in other embodiments, from about 120'C to
   about 140'C, in other embodiments, from about 140'C to about 160'C, in other embodiments,
   from about 160'C to about 180'C, in other embodiments, from about 180'C to about 200'C, in
 5 other embodiments, from about 200'C to about 220'C, in other embodiments, from about 220'C
   to about 240'C, and in other embodiments, from about 240'C to about 260'C.
                    In certain embodiments, the curable resin composition may contain two or more
   curing agents.       In such embodiments, the curing agents may have different activation
   temperatures, and thus the curable resin composition may cure in multiple stages as the
 0 temperature of the curable resin composition increases. For example, in certain embodiments,
   the curable resin composition may contain a hydrazide curing agent and an amine curing agent.
   In such embodiments, the amine curing agent may have a lower activation temperature than the
   hydrazide curing agent, and thus the curable resin composition may cure in multiple stages. In
   certain embodiments, the curable resin composition may begin to partially cure at the activation
25 temperature of the amine curing agent and may thus increase the viscosity of the curable resin
   composition.      In certain embodiments, the curable resin composition may further cure at
   temperatures above the activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent.            In certain
   embodiments, the multi-stage curing of the curable resin composition may allow for solids (e.g.,
   filler particles) to be suspended in the curable resin composition while preventing full curing of
30 the curable resin composition before the curable resin composition is placed in a desired location
   within the wellbore.
                    In certain embodiments, the curable resin compositions of the present disclosure
   optionally may comprise any number of additional additives.          Examples of such additional
   additives include, but are not limited to, diluents, filler particles, silane coupling agents, and
                                                     7

   combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, the curable resin composition may comprise a
   diluent, filler particles, and/or a silane agent.
                    The diluents that may be suitable for use in accordance with the present disclosure
   may be any solvent or reactive diluent that modifies the viscosity of the curable resin
 5 composition. In certain embodiments of the present disclosure, the viscosity of the curable resin
   composition may less than about 3000 centipoise (cP) at room temperature.                  In certain
   embodiments, the viscosity of the curable resin composition may be about 500 cP at room
   temperature.     Suitable solvents that may be used as diluents in accordance with the present
   disclosure include, but are not limited to, polyethylene glycol, butyl lactate, dipropylene glycol
 0 methyl ether, dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether, dimethyl formamide, diethylene glycol methyl
   ether, ethyleneglycol butyl ether, diethyleneglycol butyl ether, propylene carbonate, d-limonene,
   fatty acid methyl esters, xylenes, solvent naphthas, and combinations thereof. Suitable reactive
   diluents that may be used in accordance with the present disclosure include, but are not limited
   to, butyl glycidyl ether, ethylhexyl glycidyl ether, C 12 -C14 alcohol glycidyl ether, cresol glycidyl
 5 ether, tert-butyl glycidyl ether, tert-butyl phenol glycidyl ether, cashew nut shell liquid glycidyl
   ether, and combinations thereof.
                    In certain embodiments, a diluent may be present in the curable resin composition
   in an amount from about 0.1% to about 50% by weight of epoxy resin. In certain embodiments,
   the diluent may be present in the curable resin composition in an amount from about 1% to about
 0 10% by weight of epoxy resin. In certain embodiments, the diluent may be present in the curable
   resin composition in amount from about 1% to about 2% by weight of epoxy resin, in other
   embodiments, from about 2% to about 3%by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from
   about 3% to about 4% by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 4% to about
   5% by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 5% to about 6% by weight of
25 epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 6% to about 7% by weight of epoxy resin, in
   other embodiments, from about 7% to about 8%by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments,
   from about 8% to about 9% by weight of epoxy resin, and in other embodiments, from about 9%
   to about 10% by weight of epoxy resin.
                    The filler particles that may be suitable for use in accordance with the present
30 disclosure may be any filler particles that adjust the density of the curable resin composition, that
   increase the compressive strength of the curable resin composition, and/or that reduce the cost of
   the curable resin composition. Suitable filler particles that may be used in accordance with the
   present disclosure include, but are not limited to, aluminum oxide, awaruite, barium carbonate,
   barium oxide, barite, calcium carbonate, calcium oxide, chromite, chromium oxide, copper,
35 copper oxide, dolomite, galena, gold, hematite, a hollow glass microsphere, ilmenite, iron oxide,
                                                     8

   kaolinite, siderite, magnetite, magnesium oxide, manganese carbonate, manganese dioxide,
   manganese (IV) oxide, manganese oxide, manganese tetraoxide, manganese (II) oxide,
   manganese (III) oxide, molybdenum (IV) oxide, molybdenum oxide, molybdenum trioxide,
   Portland cement, pumice, pyrite, spherelite, silica, silver, tenorite, titania, titanium (II) oxide,
 5 titanium (III) oxide, titanium (IV) dioxide, zirconium oxide, zirconium silicate, zinc oxide,
   cement-kiln dust, unexpanded and expanded perlite, attapulgite, bentonite, zeolite, elastomers,
   sand, and combinations thereof.
                   In certain embodiments, filler particles may be present in the curable resin
   composition in an amount from about 0.1% to about 90% by weight of epoxy resin. In certain
 0 embodiments, filler particles may be present in the curable resin composition in an amount from
   about 1%to about 30% by weight of epoxy resin. In certain embodiments, filler particles may
   be present in the curable resin composition in an amount from about 1% to about 10% by weight
   of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 5% to about 10% by weight of epoxy resin, in
   other embodiments, from about 10% to about 15% by weight of epoxy resin, in other
 5 embodiments, from about 15% to about 20% by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments,
   from about 20% to about 25% by weight of epoxy resin, and in other embodiments, from about
   25% to about 3 0% by weight of epoxy resin.
                   The silane coupling agents that may be suitable for use in accordance with the
   present disclosure may be any silane coupling agent that may increase the bonding between the
 0 curable resin composition and the surfaces to which the curable resin composition may be
   bonded (e.g., casing string and subterranean formation). Suitable silane coupling agents that
   may be used in accordance with the present disclosure include, but are not limited to, N-2
   (aminoyl)-3-aminopropyl        triethoxy   silane,   3-glycidyloxypropyltrimethoxysilane,         3
   aminopropyltrimethoxy silane, and combinations thereof.
25                 In certain embodiments, a silane coupling agent may be present in the curable
   resin composition in an amount from about 0. 1% to about 2 0% by weight of epoxy resin. In
   certain embodiments, the silane coupling agent may be present in the curable resin composition
   in an amount from about 0.1% to about 5% by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments,
   from about 5% to about 10% by weight of epoxy resin, in other embodiments, from about 10%
30 to about 15% by weight of epoxy resin, and in other embodiments, from about 15% to about
   20% by weight of epoxy resin.
                   In certain embodiments, the curable resin compositions of the present disclosure
   may be introduced into a subterranean formation. In certain embodiments, the curable resin
   compositions may be introduced into the subterranean formation using one or more pumps. In
35 certain embodiments, the epoxy resin and the curing agent may be combined at a production well
                                                    9

   site to form the curable resin composition before the curable resin composition may be
   introduced into the subterranean formation. In such embodiments, the total placement time of
   the curable resin composition in the subterranean formation may be greater than three hours. As
   used herein, the term "total placement time" refers to the amount of time available to place the
 5 curable resin composition in a desired location of a wellbore in a subterranean formation after
   combining the epoxy resin and the curing agent and before the curable resin composition
   becomes too hard to practically pump into the wellbore.
                   In other embodiments, the epoxy resin and the curing agent may be combined at
   an off-site location to form the curable resin composition. As used herein, the term "off-site
 0 location" refers to any location other than the production well site. In such embodiments, the
   curable resin composition may be later transported to the production well site as may be needed.
   In certain embodiments, the curable resin compositions of the present disclosure may be stored at
   a temperature below the activation temperature without curing.        In some embodiments, the
   curable resin compositions of the present disclosure may be stored for several weeks below the
 5 activation temperature without curing.
                   In certain embodiments, the curable resin compositions of the present disclosure
   may be allowed to cure after being placed in a subterranean formation. In some embodiments,
   the temperature of the subterranean formation may be above the activation temperature, and thus
   the curable resin composition may cure in the subterranean formation under the ambient
 0 conditions of the formation.     In other embodiments, the temperature of the subterranean
   formation may be below the activation temperature. In such embodiments, the temperature of
   the curable resin composition may be increased to above the activation temperature after the
   curable resin composition has been placed in a desired location in the subterranean formation,
   and thus the curable resin composition may then cure in the subterranean formation. In such
25 embodiments, the temperature of the curable resin composition may be increased by introducing
   steam into the subterranean formation and/or circulating hot oil or diesel between tubing and the
   casing string.
                   In certain embodiments, a liquid epoxy resin and a curing agent comprising a
   solid hydrazide curing agent may be combined to form a curable resin composition. In some
30 embodiments, the curable resin composition may further comprise one or more diluents, filler
   particles, silane coupling agents, and/or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, the
   hydrazide curing agent may be unreactive with the liquid epoxy resin until the temperature of the
   curable resin composition reaches the activation temperature.
                   In some embodiments, the curable resin compositions of the present disclosure
35 may be used in remedial operations to seal perforations within a subterranean formation through
                                                   10

   which fluids can undesirably flow. In such embodiments, the curable resin compositions may be
   introduced into a perforation within a subterranean formation to serve as a barricade against
   leaks of undesirable fluids into and out of the wellbore. In certain embodiments, the perforation
   may be located in various locations within a subterranean formation including, but not limited to,
 5 the wellbore casing string, the cement sheath, and the formation. In certain embodiments, the
   curable resin compositions may be introduced into an annular gas channel to mitigate gas
   migration. In certain embodiments, the temperature of the subterranean formation may be above
   the activation temperature of the curing agent, and the curable resin composition may be allowed
   to cure in the subterranean formation to seal the perforation.
 0                  In other embodiments, the curable resin compositions of the present disclosure
   may be used in primary cementing operations to improve the resiliency (i.e., elasticity and
   ductility) of the cement sheath. In such embodiments, the curable resin composition may be
   combined with a cement slurry before being introduced into a subterranean formation to form a
   cement composition. As used herein, the term "cement slurry" refers to a mixture comprising
 5 cement and water in a form that can be pumped into a subterranean formation and allowed to set
   or harden.
                    The curable resin compositions disclosed herein may directly or indirectly affect
   one or more components or pieces of equipment associated with the preparation, delivery,
   recapture, recycling, reuse, and/or disposal of the disclosed cement compositions. For example,
 0 the disclosed curable resin compositions may directly or indirectly affect one or more mixers,
   related mixing equipment, mud pits, storage facilities or units, composition separators, heat
   exchangers, sensors, gauges, pumps, compressors, and the like used generate, store, monitor,
   regulate, and/or recondition the disclosed cement compositions.        The disclosed curable resin
   compositions may also directly or indirectly affect any transport or delivery equipment used to
25 convey the disclosed cement compositions to a well site or downhole such as, for example, any
   transport vessels, conduits, pipelines, trucks, tubulars, and/or pipes used to compositionally
   move the cement compositions from one location to another, any pumps, compressors, or motors
   (e.g., topside or downhole) used to drive the cement compositions into motion, any valves or
   related joints used to regulate the pressure or flow rate of the cement compositions, and any
30 sensors (i.e., pressure and temperature), gauges, and/or combinations thereof, and the like. The
   disclosed curable resin compositions may also directly or indirectly affect the various downhole
   equipment and tools that may come into contact with the cement compositions/additives such as,
   but not limited to, wellbore casing, wellbore liner, completion string, insert strings, drill string,
   coiled tubing, slickline, wireline, drill pipe, drill collars, mud motors, downhole motors and/or
35 pumps, cement pumps, surface-mounted motors and/or pumps, centralizers, turbolizers,
                                                      11

   scratchers, floats (e.g., shoes, collars, valves, etc.), logging tools and related telemetry
   equipment, actuators (e.g., electromechanical devices, hydromechanical devices, etc.), sliding
   sleeves, production sleeves, plugs, screens, filters, flow control devices (e.g., inflow control
   devices, autonomous inflow control devices, outflow control devices, etc.), couplings (e.g.,
 5 electro-hydraulic wet connect, dry connect, inductive coupler, etc.), control lines (e.g., electrical,
   fiber optic, hydraulic, etc.), surveillance lines, drill bits and reamers, sensors or distributed
   sensors, downhole heat exchangers, valves and corresponding actuation devices, tool seals,
   packers, cement plugs, bridge plugs, and other wellbore isolation devices, or components, and
   the like.
 0                 Referring now to Figure 1, a system that may be used in the preparation of a
   cement composition comprising a curable resin composition of the present disclosure in
   accordance with example embodiments will now be described. Figure 1 illustrates a system 2
   for preparation of a cement composition and delivery to a wellbore in accordance with certain
   embodiments. As shown, the cement composition may be mixed in mixing equipment 4, such as
 5 a jet mixer, re-circulating mixer, or a batch mixer, for example, and then pumped via pumping
   equipment 6 to the wellbore.      In some embodiments, the curable resin composition may be
   pumped from a storage vessel into the mixing equipment 4. In some embodiments, the mixing
   equipment 4 and the pumping equipment 6 may be disposed on one or more cement trucks as
   will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, a jet mixer may be
 0 used, for example, to continuously mix the composition, including water, as it is being pumped
   to the wellbore.
                   An example technique and system for placing a cement composition into a
   subterranean formation will now be described with reference to Figures 2A and 2B. Figure 2A
   illustrates surface equipment 10 that may be used in placement of a cement composition in
25 accordance with certain embodiments. It should be noted that while Figure 2A generally depicts
   a land-based operation, those skilled in the art will readily recognize that the principles described
   herein are equally applicable to subsea operations that employ floating or sea-based platforms
   and rigs, without departing from the scope of the disclosure. As illustrated by Figure 2A, the
   surface equipment 10 may include a cementing unit 12, which may include one or more cement
30 trucks. The cementing unit 12 may include mixing equipment 4 and pumping equipment 6 (e.g.,
   Figure 1) as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The cementing unit 12 may
   pump a cement composition 14 comprising a curable resin composition of the present disclosure
   through a feed pipe 16 and to a cementing head 18 which conveys the cement composition 14
   downhole.
                                                     12

                    Turning now to Figure 2B, the cement composition 14 may be placed into a
   subterranean formation 20 in accordance with example embodiments. As illustrated, a wellbore
   22 may be drilled into the subterranean formation 20. While wellbore 22 is shown extending
   generally vertically into the subterranean formation 20, the principles described herein are also
 5 applicable to wellbores that extend at an angle through the subterranean formation 20, such as
   horizontal and slanted wellbores.      As illustrated, the wellbore 22 comprises walls 24. In the
   illustrated embodiments, a surface casing 26 has been inserted into the wellbore 22. The surface
   casing 26 may be cemented to the walls 24 of the wellbore 22 by cement sheath 28. In the
   illustrated embodiment, one or more additional conduits (e.g., intermediate casing, production
 0 casing, liners, etc.) shown here as casing 30 may also be disposed in the wellbore 22.           As
   illustrated, there is a wellbore annulus 32 formed between the casing 30 and the walls 24 of the
   wellbore 22 and/or the surface casing 26. One or more centralizers 34 may be attached to the
   casing 30, for example, to centralize the casing 30 in the wellbore 22 prior to and during the
   cementing operation.
 5                  With continued reference to Figure 2B, the cement composition 14 may be
   pumped down the interior of the casing 30. The cement composition 14 may be allowed to flow
   down the interior of the casing 30 through the casing shoe 42 at the bottom of the casing 30 and
   up around the casing 30 into the wellbore annulus 32.          The cement composition 14 may be
   allowed to set in the wellbore annulus 32, for example, to form a cement sheath 28 that supports
 0 and positions the casing 30 in the wellbore 22. While not illustrated, other techniques may also
   be utilized for introduction of the cement composition 14.           By way of example, reverse
   circulation techniques may be used that include introducing the cement composition 14 into the
   subterranean formation 20 by way of the wellbore annulus 32 instead of through the casing 30 or
   the cement composition 14 may be introduced into an open hole section of the wellbore 22
25 before the casing 30 is disposed in the wellbore 22.
                    As it is introduced, the cement composition 14 may displace other fluids 36, such
   as drilling fluids and/or spacer fluids, that may be present in the interior of the casing 30 and/or
   the wellbore annulus 32. At least a portion of the displaced fluids 36 may exit the wellbore
   annulus 32 via a flow line 38 and be deposited, for example, in one or more retention pits 40
30 (e.g., a mud pit), as shown on Figure 2A. Referring again to Figure 2B, a bottom plug 44 may be
   introduced into the wellbore 22 ahead of the cement composition 14, for example, to separate the
   cement composition 14 from the fluids 36 that may be inside the casing 30 prior to cementing.
   After the bottom plug 44 reaches the landing collar 46, a diaphragm or other suitable device
   ruptures to allow the cement composition 14 through the bottom plug 44.            In Figure 2B, the
35 bottom plug 44 is shown on the landing collar 46. In the illustrated embodiment, a top plug 48
                                                      13

  may be introduced into the wellbore 22 behind the cement composition 14. The top plug 48 may
  separate the cement composition 14 from a displacement fluid 50 and also push the cement
  composition 14 through the bottom plug 44.
                  An embodiment of the present disclosure is a method comprising: combining an
5 epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a curable resin composition, wherein the curing agent
  comprises a hydrazide curing agent; introducing the curable resin composition into a
  subterranean formation; and allowing the curable resin composition to at least partially cure.
                  Another embodiment of the present disclosure is a method comprising: combining
  an epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a curable resin composition, wherein the curing agent
0 comprises a dihydrazide having the following chemical structure
                                                   0       0
                                                    ||     ||
                                            H2N-N-G- R- G-N-NH2
                                                 H            H
  wherein R comprises (-CH2-)n or (-Ar-); wherein n is a number from 0 to 10; and wherein Ar is
  an aromatic ring; introducing the curable resin composition into a subterranean formation; and
  allowing the curable resin composition to at least partially cure.
5                 Another embodiment of the present disclosure is a composition comprising: an
  epoxy resin; a curing agent, wherein the curing agent comprises a hydrazide curing agent; and at
  least one of a diluent, a plurality of filler particles, and a silane coupling agent.
                  To facilitate a better understanding of the present disclosure, the following
  examples of certain aspects of preferred embodiments are given. The following examples are not
0 the only examples that could be given according to the present disclosure and are not intended to
  limit the scope of the disclosure or claims.
                                                       14

                                              EXAMPLES
                   Three different curable resin compositions were obtained by mixing an epoxy
   resin, Araldite@ GY-506, with three different curing agents, two aromatic amine curing agents
   and one dihydrazide curing agent, at room temperature. The epoxy resin was mixed with each
 5 curing agent in amounts to provide an equimolar ratio of epoxide groups in the epoxy resin to
   amino-hydrogens in the curing agent.
                                             EXAMPLE 1
                   The thickening times of the three curable resin compositions were measured at a
   temperature of about 120'C and pressure of about 3000 psi. The temperature and pressure of the
 0 curable resin compositions were steadily increased from ambient temperature to about 120'C
   and from ambient pressure to 3000 psi over 45 minutes. As shown in Table 1, the curable resin
   composition comprising the hydrazide curing agent, adipic acid dihydrazide, in accordance with
   the present disclosure had a longer thickening time than the aromatic amine curing agent,
   diethyltoluenediamine.   Example 1 demonstrates that the hydrazide curing agents of the present
 5 disclosure may provide extended total placement time of curable resin composition in the
   subterranean formation as compared to some aromatic amine curing agents.
                                             EXAMPLE 2
                   The hard set time of the three curable resin compositions was measured at about
   85'C by determining the time required for a cylinder of each curable resin composition to cure
 0 enough to hold its shape when removed from the cylindrical mold. As shown in Table 1, both of
   the aromatic amine curing agents, diethyltoluenediamine and Ethacure@ 300, cured faster than
   the hydrazide curing agent, adipic acid dihydrazide, at the lower temperature as compared to the
   temperature used in Example 1. There was no noticeable increase in the viscosity of the curable
   resin composition with the hydrazide curing agent after 7 days. A comparison of the results from
25 Example 1 and Example 2 demonstrates that the hydrazide curing agents of the present
   disclosure may be unreactive with epoxy resin until the activation temperature is reached, and
   thus that the use of the hydrazide curing agent may provide the ability to form and store the
   curable resin compositions of the present disclosure at temperatures below the activation
   temperature without the curable resin composition substantially curing.
30                 Example 2 also demonstrates that the hydrazide curing agents of the present
   disclosure may not react with epoxy resin at temperatures at which aromatic amine curing agents
   react with epoxy resin. This delayed curing of the hydrazide curing agent as compared to the
   aromatic amine curing agents is unexpected based on the chemical structure and electron
   densities of the curing agents.  Based on solely on chemical structure, it could be reasonably
35 assumed that the terminal amines in the hydrazide curing agent would react more quickly than
                                                   15

   the terminal amines in the aromatic amine curing agents. Additionally, aliphatic diamines, such
   as adipic acid dihydrazide, will generally react faster with epoxy resins than aromatic diamines
   due to delocalization of electron density in aromatic diamines, which reduces the nucleophilicity
   of the lone pairs of electrons in the aromatic diamines. However, as Example 2 demonstrates,
 5 the hydrazide curing agent may not react with the epoxy resin until the activation temperature is
   reached, and thus may be less reactive with epoxy resin as compared to other amine curing
   agents at temperatures below the activation temperature.
                                                 Table 1
                        Epoxy                               Curing       Thickening      Hard Set
     Epoxy Resin                      Curing Agent
                       Resin (g)                           Agent (g)    Time (hours)       Time
       Araldite@          600        Diethyltoluene-          162            1.97         9 hours
         GY-506                          diamine
                          600          Adipic Acid            159            3.37        > 7 days
         GY-506                        Dihydrazide
       Araldite@
                          600         Ethacure@ 300           194            5.75        48 hours
         GY-506
 0                                            EXAMPLE 3
                  The three curable resin compositions were cured and tested in a differential
   scanning calorimeter to determine the activation temperature of the curing agents. The curable
   resin compositions were heated to 250'C at 2.5'C per minute and then held at 250'C for 5
   minutes to ensure the curable resin compositions were fully cured. Figure 3 shows a differential
-5 scanning calorimetry thermogram depicting a curing exotherm for a curable resin composition
   comprising an epoxy resin and a hydrazide curing agent, according to one embodiment of the
   present disclosure. Figure 4 shows a differential scanning calorimetry thermogram depicting a
   curing exotherm for a curable resin composition comprising an epoxy resin and an aromatic
   amine curing agent, diethyltoluenediamine.     Figure 5 shows a differential scanning calorimetry
20 thermogram depicting a curing exotherm for a curable resin composition comprising an epoxy
   resin and an aromatic amine curing agent, Ethacure@ 300.
                  As depicted in Figure 3, the hydrazide curing agent, adipic acid dihydrazide,
   began to react with the epoxy resin upon reaching a activation temperature of about 150'C. As
   depicted in Figure 4, the aromatic amine curing agent, diethyltoluenediamine, has a lower
25 activation temperature of about 110'C as compared to the activation temperature of the
   hydrazide curing agent depicted in Figure 3. As depicted in Figure 5, the aromatic amine curing
   agent, Ethacure@ 300, has a lower activation temperature of about 125'C as compared to the
                                                    16

   activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent depicted in Figure 3. Example 3 further
   demonstrates the delayed curing of the hydrazide curing agent as compared to the aromatic
   amine curing agents.
                   As shown in Figure 3, the curable resin composition comprising the hydrazide
 5 curing agent rapidly cured over a narrow temperature range from about 150'C to about 185'C as
   depicted by the sharp and narrow curing exotherm. As shown Figure 4 and Figure 5, the curable
   resin compositions comprising the aromatic amine curing agents gradually cured over broader
   temperature ranges as depicted by the gradual and wider curing exotherms.           Example 3 also
   demonstrates that type of curing agent used in the methods and compositions of the present
 0 disclosure may affect the rate at which the curable resin composition cures.
                   Therefore, the present disclosure is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages
   mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein.       The particular embodiments disclosed
   above are illustrative only, as the present disclosure may be modified and practiced in different
   but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings
 5 herein.   While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art, such changes are
   encompassed      within the spirit of the subject matter defined by the appended claims.
   Furthermore, no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown,
   other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular illustrative
   embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered
 0 within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In particular, every range of values (e.g.,
   "from about a to about b," or, equivalently, "from approximately a to b," or, equivalently, "from
   approximately a-b") disclosed herein is to be understood as referring to the power set (the set of
   all subsets) of the respective range of values. The terms in the claims have their plain, ordinary
   meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee.
25                 A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior art
   is not to be taken as an admission that the document or matter was known or that the information
   it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the
   claims.
                   Where the terms "comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" are used in the
30 specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the stated features,
   integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features,
   integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                                    17

   What is claimed is:
            1.      A method comprising:
                    combining an epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a curable resin composition,
   wherein the curing agent comprises a hydrazide curing agent;
 5                  introducing the curable resin composition into a subterranean formation; and
                    allowing the curable resin composition to at least partially cure.
           2.       The method of claim 1 wherein the hydrazide curing agent is a dihydrazide
   having the following chemical structure:
                                                  0      0
                                                   ||    ||
                                           H2N-N-G-R-C-N-NH2
                                                H           H
 0                  wherein R comprises (-CH 2 -)n or (-Ar-);
                    wherein n is a number from 0 to 10; and
                    wherein Ar is an aromatic ring.
           3.       The method of claim 1 wherein the hydrazide curing agent comprises at least one
   compound selected from the group consisting of: an aromatic hydrazide, an aliphatic hydrazide,
 5 and any combination thereof.
           4.       The method of claim 1 wherein the hydrazide curing agent is selected from the
   group consisting of: adipic acid dihydrazide, 3, 4-diaminobenzhydrazide, succinic dihydrazide,
   4-aminobenzoic hydrazide, (+)-biotinamidohexanoic acid hydrazide, oxalyldihydrazide, maleic
   hydrazide,     dodecanoic    acid  dihydrazide,    isophthalic  acid   dihydrazide,  1,4-cyclohexyl
 0 dihydrazide, 4,4'-(propane-1,3-diylbisoxy) dibenzoic dihydrazide, terephthalic acid dihydrazide,
   isophthalic dihydrazide, and any combination thereof.
           5.       The method of claim 1 wherein the curing agent further comprises at least one
   compound selected from the group consisting of: an amine curing agent, an anhydride curing
   agent, and any combination thereof.
25         6.       The method of claim 1 wherein the curable resin composition does not cure at
   room temperature.
           7.       The method of claim 1 further comprising adding at least one of a diluent, a filler
   particle, a silane coupling agent, or any combination thereof to the curable resin composition.
            8.      The method of claim 1 wherein combining the epoxy resin and the curing agent is
30 performed at an off-site location.
           9.       The method of claim 1 wherein the subterranean formation has a temperature
   above the activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent.
                                                      18

           10.    The method of claim 1 further comprising increasing the temperature of the
   subterranean formation to above the activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent before
   allowing the curable resin composition to cure, wherein the subterranean formation has a
   temperature below the activation temperature of the hydrazide curing agent when the curable
 5 resin composition is introduced into a subterranean formation.
           11.    The method of claim 1 wherein the curable resin composition is introduced into
   the subterranean formation using one or more pumps.
           12.    The method of claim 1 further comprising combining the curable resin
   composition with a cement slurry before introducing the curable resin composition into a
 0 subterranean formation.
           13.    A method comprising:
                  combining an epoxy resin and a curing agent to form a curable resin composition,
                           wherein the curing agent comprises a dihydrazide having the following
   chemical structure
                                                  0      0
                                          H2N-N-G-R-G-N-NH2
                                                H            H
 5
                           wherein R comprises (-CH2 -)n or (-Ar-);
                           wherein n is a number from 0 to 10; and
                           wherein Ar is an aromatic ring;
                  introducing the curable resin composition into a subterranean formation; and
 0                allowing the curable resin composition to at least partially cure.
           14.    A curable resin composition comprising:
                  an epoxy resin;
                  a curing agent, wherein the curing agent comprises a hydrazide curing agent; and
                  at least one of a diluent, a plurality of filler particles, and a silane coupling agent.
25
                                                      19

             15.     The curable resin composition of claim 14 wherein the epoxy resin is selected
   from the group consisting of: bisphenol A diglycidyl ether resins, bisphenol F diglycidyl ether
   resins, bisphenol AF diglycidyl ether resins, bisphenol S diglycidyl ether resins, novolac epoxy
   resins,     cyclohexanedimethanol      diglycidyl    ether,    tetraphenylolethane    glycidyl    ether,
 5 poly(ethylene glycol) diglycidyl ether, poly(propyleneglycol)           diglycidyl ether, hexanediol
   diglycidyl ether, epoxy cresol novolacs, butanediol diglycidyl ether, N,N-diglycidyl-4
   glycidyloxyaniline, resorcinol diglycidyl ether, tris(4-hydroxyphenyl) methane triglycidyl ether,
   and     tetraglycidyl-4,4'-methylenedianiline,    neopentyl     glycol  diglycidyl   ether,   and   any
   combination thereof.
 0           16.     The curable resin composition of claim 14 wherein the hydrazide curing agent is
   selected from the group consisting of: adipic acid dihydrazide, 3, 4-diaminobenzhydrazide,
   succinic dihydrazide, 4-aminobenzoic          hydrazide, (+)-biotinamidohexanoic acid hydrazide,
   oxalyldihydrazide, maleic hydrazide, dodecanoic acid dihydrazide, isophthalic acid dihydrazide,
   1,4-cyclohexyl dihydrazide, 4,4'-(propane-1,3-diylbisoxy) dibenzoic dihydrazide, terephthalic
 5 acid dihydrazide, isophthalic dihydrazide, and any combination thereof.
              17.    The curable resin composition of claim 14 wherein the curing agent further
    comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of: an amine curing agent,
    an anhydride curing agent, and any combination thereof.
              18.    The curable resin composition of claim 14 wherein the diluent is selected from the
 0  group consisting of: polyethylene glycol, butyl lactate, dipropylene glycol methyl ether,
    dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether, dimethyl formamide, diethylene glycol methyl ether,
    ethyleneglycol butyl ether, diethyleneglycol butyl ether, propylene carbonate, d-limonene, fatty
    acid methyl esters, xylenes, solvent naphthas, butyl glycidyl ether, ethylhexyl glycidyl ether,
    C 12 -C1 4 alcohol glycidyl ether, cresol glycidyl ether, tert-butyl glycidyl ether, tert-butyl phenol
25  glycidyl ether, cashew nut shell liquid glycidyl ether, and any combination thereof.
                                                      20

          19.     The curable resin composition of claim 14 wherein the filler particles are selected
  from the group consisting of: aluminum oxide, awaruite, barium carbonate, barium oxide, barite,
  calcium carbonate, calcium oxide, chromite, chromium oxide, copper, copper oxide, dolomite,
  galena, gold, hematite, a hollow glass microsphere, ilmenite, iron oxide, kaolinite, siderite,
5 magnetite, magnesium oxide, manganese carbonate, manganese dioxide, manganese (IV) oxide,
  manganese oxide, manganese tetraoxide, manganese (II) oxide, manganese (III) oxide,
  molybdenum (IV) oxide, molybdenum oxide, molybdenum trioxide, Portland cement, pumice,
  pyrite, spherelite, silica, silver, tenorite, titania, titanium (II) oxide, titanium (III) oxide, titanium
  (IV) dioxide, zirconium oxide, zirconium silicate, zinc oxide, cement-kiln dust, unexpanded and
0 expanded perlite, attapulgite, bentonite, zeolite, an elastomer, sand, and any combination thereof.
          20.     The curable resin composition of claim 14 wherein the silane coupling agent is
  selected from the group consisting of: N-2-(aminoyl)-3-aminopropyl                  triethoxy silane, 3
  glycidyloxypropyltrimethoxysilane,         3-aminopropyltrimethoxy       silane, and any combination
  thereof.
5
                                                        21

Attorney Docket: 063718-3650
 <removed-date>
                                          1/5
                           2
                                    4
                                            6
 <removed-apn>
                                                       TO WELL BORE
                                        Fig. 1
                                                             10
                                                  18
                               14
                                                  16
                               38
                                                                      12
                      40
                                        Fig. 2A

Attorney Docket: 063718-3650
 <removed-date>
                                     2/5
                                              26
                                              28
 <removed-apn>
                               48             24
                                              14
                                              30
                               32             22
                               44                  20
                               46
                                              36
                               34
                               42
                                    Fig. 2B

Attorney Docket: 063718-3650
 <removed-date>
                                                       3/5
 <removed-apn>
                                 1.5
                                                                     Adipic Acid Dihydrazide
                                 1.0
               Heat Flow (W/g)
                                 0.5
                                 0.0
                                 -0.5
                                        0   50   100         150    200         250            300
                                                 Temperature (°C)
                                                       Fig. 3

Attorney Docket: 063718-3650
 <removed-date>
                                                       4/5
 <removed-apn>
                                 0.6
                                                                          Diethyltoluenediamine
                                 0.4
                                 0.2
               Heat Flow (W/g)
                                 0.0
                                 -0.2
                                 -0.4
                                 -0.6
                                        0   50   100         150    200           250         300
                                                 Temperature (°C)
                                                       Fig. 4

Attorney Docket: 063718-3650
 <removed-date>
                                                       5/5
 <removed-apn>
                                 0.6
                                                                          Ethacure® 300
                                 0.4
                                 0.2
               Heat Flow (W/g)
                                 0.0
                                 -0.2
                                 -0.4
                                 -0.6
                                        0   50   100         150    200   250         300
                                                 Temperature (°C)
                                                       Fig. 5

