Abstract
Disclosed herein is a valve for a fluidic cartridge. The valve comprises a valve cavity having first
and second openings connected to first and second passageways, respectively; and a flexible
membrane within the valve cavity, the flexible membrane having a first portion actuatable to seal
against the first opening and a second portion actuatable to seal against the second opening;
wherein the valve cavity is configured such that the first flexible membrane portion may be
actuated independently of the second flexible membrane portion to enable the first opening to be
sealed independently of the second opening.

                                                     1
                         A Valve which Depressurises, and a Valve System
Cross-Reference
This Application is related to United Kingdom Patent Application 1313527.2, having filing date of 29
July 2013, to International Patent Application No. PCT/GB2014/052304 (Publication No. WO
2015/015178 A2), having filing date of 28 July 2014, entitled "A valve which depressurises, and a
valve system", and to Australian Patent Application No. 2014298182 (Publication No. AU
2014298182 B2), having filing date of 28 July 2014, entitled "A valve which depressurises, and a
valve system", entire copies of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Field
The present disclosure relates to a valve for a fluidic cartridge and more particularly to a
mechanical valve which may be used to depressurise a valve system.
Background
Sample preparation and analysis presents many logistical problems.            Conventionally, many
medical samples (such as blood, saliva, urine and swab eluate) are provided to a doctor, for
example a general practitioner doctor (GP) or a principle care physician (PCP), in a local surgery
without the equipment necessary to analyse the sample. Hence, the sample must be sent to a
laboratory where the sample is analysed. The test results must then be collated and returned to
the GP to analyse the results and make a diagnosis. This approach is inadequate. Firstly, there is
a significant risk that a sample is lost in transit or mismatched with the wrong patient. Moreover,
whilst recent developments in technology have reduced the overall time taken to conduct the test,
the delay involved in sending the sample to a laboratory is unsatisfactory.
Nevertheless, analytical systems of the kind found in laboratories are complex and it is often
difficult to provide sufficient amounts of pure targets from source samples to reliably perform
downstream analytical assays. This typically prohibits local GP surgeries from being able to carry
out such tests on site.
However, in recent years efforts have been made to reduce the scale of the analytical systems to
make tests faster and simpler to run, and require smaller quantities of sample.        For instance,
"laboratory on a chip" (LOC) devices (a subset of microfluidic devices) integrate almost all medical
tests or diagnostic operations performed in a hospital on a single microfluidic chip. The channels

                                                   2
forming such microfluidics devices handle small fluid volumes and are connected together so as to
achieve a desired function such as mixing of a sample, moving the sample through the device,
reacting the sample with different reagents, and so on.          These chips may be inserted into
machines to control the performance of a test and measure the results.
However, it has been found that handling a sample in a microfluidics device can be very difficult.
In such small channels as are found on a conventional LOC, it is difficult to apply external forces to
move the sample from one site to another to perform different actions on the sample. There is also
a limit to the complexity of a LOC device which operates purely using capillary action. Furthermore,
owing to the small sample sizes of LOC's, the devices have reduced sensitivity and the probability
of a target being present in the sample is thus reduced.
An alternative approach is to use a fluidic cartridge. The scale of the components of a fluidic
cartridge is larger than for a microfluidic device, and so it becomes possible to move a sample
through various different sites to perform different actions on it. This makes it possible to perform
more complex tests than may be conducted using typical LOC devices, whilst still providing an
analytical system of potential use in a local GP surgery.
Scientific assays useful in medical diagnostics have increasingly involved biochemical procedures,
such as the polymerase chain reaction ("PCR"). The PCR assay has provided a powerful method
of assaying for the presence of defined segments of nucleic acids.        It is therefore desirable to
perform a PCR assay on a fluidic cartridge.
Reducing PCR to the microchip level is important for portable detection technologies and high
throughput analytical systems. The method can be used to assay body fluids for the presence of
nucleic acid specific for particular pathogens, such as the Chlamydia trachomatis bacterium, HIV or
any other pathogenic microbe.
The introduction of commercially available automated DNA amplification assays has allowed more
laboratories to introduce these technologies for routine testing of specimens. However, there is a
need to improve the fluidic devices used for this purpose.
It is a requirement of any microfluidics device to minimise leakage from valves. Minimising leakage
from valves is particularly important in devices which are designed to handle biological samples.
This is because any leakage of sample could not only lead to contamination, but may lead to false
positives in future test runs. The need to minimise leakage from a microfluidics system is

                                                     3
particularly acute in devices which employ PCR technology since the target DNA is amplified and
increases the risk of causing false positive results.
Some cartridges may be adapted to perform several steps of sample analysis from introduction of
the sample, through mixing and sample preparation, pumping the sample through the device,
reacting the sample with different reagents, and processing and detection. In these devices there
may be a front end in which sample preparation takes place and a back end in which processing
and detection takes place. The front end of the cartridge is typically an open system, i.e. vented to
atmosphere, for instance where the sample is introduced. Therefore the front end of the system is
the most prone to leakage, and it is important that processed fluid cannot move from the back end
of the cartridge, upstream to the front end of the cartridge where leakage may occur. In LOC
devices the movement of sample around the cartridge is controlled                by mechanically or
pneumatically actuated valves.
US20090162864 discloses a biological substance detection cartridge comprising a reaction vessel
for reacting a probe with a specific biological substance in a sample solution. The cartridge further
comprises a porous membrane facing the inside of the reaction vessel, a gas-liquid separation
membrane superposed with the porous membrane and is equipped with an air pump which is
provided on the opposite side of the gas-liquid separation membrane from the side contacting the
porous membrane, and with which the interior can be kept at negative pressure during the reaction
between the biological substance and the probe. This allows any bubbles generated in the reaction
vessel during the reaction to be discharged by a simple method through the gas-liquid separation
membrane
In addition to minimising leakage of the valve during and after use, it is important in devices used
for volume sensitive analysis (such as cartridges using PCR technology) that when valves are
moved from their open position to their closed position, they do not force large quantities of surplus
liquid resting in the valve chamber back into the system.
Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been included
in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form
part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended claims.
Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group

                                                   4
of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group
of elements, integers or steps.
Summary
Disclosed herein is a valve for a fluidic cartridge, the valve comprising: a valve cavity having first
and second openings connected to first and second passageways, respectively; and a flexible
membrane within the valve cavity, the flexible membrane having a first portion actuatable to seal
against the first opening and a second portion actuatable to seal against the second opening;
wherein the valve cavity is configured such that the first flexible membrane portion is actuatable
independently of the second flexible membrane portion to enable the first opening to be sealed
independently of the second opening.
A valve chamber may be formed between the flexible membrane and the cavity, the first and
second openings being in communication with the chamber; wherein each of the first and second
portions of the flexible membrane is configured to be movable between a first position, in which it is
spaced apart from its respective opening, and a second position, in which it is sealed against its
respective opening, thereby changing the volume of the valve chamber. By changing the volume of
the valve chamber, it is possible to change the volume of the system in which the valve is located.
The valve cavity may further comprise a third opening connected to a third passageway, wherein
the second portion of the flexible membrane is also actuatable to seal against the third opening.
Preferably, the distance between the first and second openings is a, and the distance between the
second and third openings is b, and wherein a is greater than b. This allows the second portion of
the valve membrane to seal the second and third openings without the first portion of the valve
membrane sealing the first opening
The flexible membrane may be a resiliently deformable polymer membrane such that the first and
second portions of the flexible membrane are biased into their first positions.
The valve chamber may be formed in a first polymer layer, preferably a pneumatic layer of the
fluidic cartridge. The network of channels may be formed in a second polymer layer, preferably a
fluidic layer of the fluidic cartridge. The first polymer layer may comprise polypropylene. The
second polymer layer may comprise polypropylene. The valve membrane may comprise a
thermoplastic elastomer.

                                                     5
Also disclosed herein is a method of actuating a valve in a fluidic cartridge comprising a valve
cavity and a flexible membrane within the valve cavity, the method comprising the steps of:
exerting a force on a first portion of the flexible membrane to seal the first portion against a first
opening in the valve cavity; and subsequently exerting a force on a second portion of the flexible
membrane to seal the second portion against a second opening in the valve cavity.
A chamber may be formed between the flexible membrane and the valve cavity, and the step of
exerting a force on the first portion of the flexible membrane may further comprise reducing the
volume of the chamber by moving the first portion of the flexible membrane from a first position, in
which the first portion is spaced apart from the first opening, to a second position, in which the first
portion is sealed against the first opening; and the step of exerting a force on the second portion of
the flexible membrane further comprises reducing the volume of the chamber by moving the
second portion of the flexible membrane from a first position, in which the second portion is spaced
apart from the second opening, to a second position, in which the second portion is sealed against
the second opening.
The method may further comprise the steps of: removing the force on the first portion of the flexible
membrane to break the seal between the first portion and the first opening; and removing the force
on the second portion of the flexible membrane to break the seal between the second portion the
second opening.
The flexible membrane may be biased to the open position, the step of removing the force on the
first portion may further comprise increasing the volume of the chamber by moving the first portion
from its second position to its first position; and the step of removing the force on the second
portion may further comprise increasing the volume of the chamber by moving the second portion
from its second position to its first position.
The step of exerting a force on the first portion of the flexible membrane may further comprise
sealing the first portion against a third opening in the valve cavity.
Preferably, the distance between the first and second openings is a, and the distance between the
second and third openings is b, and wherein a is greater than b.
Also disclosed herein is a valve system in a fluidic cartridge for depressurising a fluid sample
processing region, comprising: a network of channels forming the fluid sample processing region,
the network of channels fluidly connected to a first channel for introducing a fluid sample into the
network of channels, the first channel having an isolation valve therein, the isolation valve

                                                   6
actuatable to seal off the network of channels and thereby create a closed system therein. Thus,
the isolation valve is provided between the first channel and the network of channels. The valve
system further comprises a control valve interrupting a second channel within the network of
channels, the control valve having a valve chamber coupled to the second channel via first and
second openings, the valve chamber configured such that it has a first volume when the valve is
closed to prevent fluid from flowing between the first and second openings, and a second, larger,
volume when the valve is open to permit fluid to flow between the first and second openings;
wherein the valve system is operable to depressurise the fluid sample processing region by closing
the control valve to decrease the total volume within the network of channels, actuating the
isolation valve to seal off the network of channels and thereby create a closed system within the
network of channels, and opening the control valve to increase the total volume within the closed
system of the network of channels. In embodiments, because the isolation valve is the only point at
which fluid may be introduced into the network of channels, when the isolation valve is closed, the
network of channels is a completely sealed system with no further entry or exit points.           By
depressurising the fluid sample processing region after use, the risk of leakage of fluid sample is
reduced in used cartridges.
Preferably, the increase in volume achieved in the closed system of the network of channels is at
least 5%, more preferably at least 8%, more preferably at least 10%, and most preferably 13% or
more.
Preferably, following depressurisation, the pressure within the closed system is less than 95% of
the start pressure within the closed system, more preferably less than 90% of the start pressure
and most preferably less than or equal to 88.5% of the start pressure.
Preferably, the volume of the valve chamber when the valve is in the open position is at least 150%
of the volume of the valve chamber when the valve is in the closed position, more preferably the
open volume of the valve chamber is 200% of the closed volume, more preferably the open volume
is 210% of the closed volume and most preferably the open volume is 220% of the closed volume.
Preferably, the total volume of the network (excluding the volume of the valve chamber) is between
500pl and 1000pl, more preferably between 600pl and 900pl, more preferably between        7 00pl and
800pl, and most preferably approximately   7 80pl.
Preferably, the volume of the valve chamber D250 when the valve D200 is open is between 50pl
and 300pl, more preferably between 80pl and 200pl, more preferably between 100pl and 250pl,
more preferably between 120pl and 160pl, most preferably approximately 153pl.

                                                   7
Preferably, the volume of the valve chamber D250 when the valve D200 is closed is between OpI
and 200pl, more preferably between 10pl and 150pl, more preferably between 20 pl and 130 pl,
more preferably between 30pl and 11Opl, more preferably between 40pl and 90pl, more preferably
between 50pl and 80pl, most preferably approximately 69pl.
Preferably, total volume of the fluid sample in the network of channels is between 150pl and 250pl,
more preferably between 17 5pl and 225pl, more preferably between 190pl and 210pl and most
preferably approximately 200pl.
Preferably, the compressible volume of the system when the valve is closed is between 550pl and
7 00pl, more preferably between 57 0pl and 680pl, more preferably between 600pl and 660pl and
most preferably 649pl.
Preferably, the compressible volume of the system when the valve is open is between 500pl and
900pl, more preferably between 600pl and 800pl, more preferably between        7 00pl  and 7 50pl, and
most preferably 733pl.
The network of channels may further comprise: a fluid pathway for receiving and processing a fluid
sample introduced by the first channel, the fluid pathway having an upstream end at the isolation
valve and a downstream end, the downstream end being closed; wherein the second channel is a
bypass channel for removing excess fluid sample from the fluid pathway, the bypass channel
coupled to the fluid pathway at a junction partway along the fluid pathway and coupled to the first
channel upstream of the junction and downstream of the isolation valve. It is preferable to remove
unprocessed surplus fluid from the fluid pathway to avoid diluting any processed sample being
advanced from the sample processing chamber after processing.
The control valve may further comprise: a valve cavity and a flexible membrane within the valve
cavity, the flexible membrane having a first portion actuatable to seal against the first opening and
a second portion actuatable to seal against the second opening; wherein the valve chamber is
formed between the flexible membrane and the valve cavity; and wherein the valve chamber is
configured such that the first flexible membrane portion may be actuated independently of the
second flexible membrane portion to enable the first opening to be sealed after the second
opening. By providing independently actuatable valve membrane portions, it is possible to close
one side of the valve first, thereby avoiding applying excessive back pressure to the network of
channels.

                                                    8
The network of channels may further comprise: first and second fluid pathways for receiving and
processing a fluid sample introduced by the first channel, the first and second fluid pathways each
having an upstream end at the isolation valve and a downstream end, the downstream end being
closed; wherein the second channel is a bypass channel for removing excess fluid sample from the
first and second fluid pathways, the bypass channel comprising: a first bypass portion coupled to
the first fluid pathway at a junction partway along the first fluid pathway; a second bypass portion
coupled to the second fluid pathway at a junction partway along the second fluid pathway; and
wherein the first and second bypass portions are coupled to the first channel upstream of the
respective junctions and downstream of the isolation valve. In embodiments, the bypass channel
provides a route via which surplus fluid may be evacuated from the first and second fluid pathways.
The valve chamber may further comprise: a third opening, and the control valve may be coupled
to: the first channel upstream of the junction and downstream of the isolation valve first via the first
opening; the first bypass portion via the second opening; and the second bypass portion via the
third opening; and a flexible membrane overlying the valve chamber, the flexible membrane having
a first portion actuatable to seal against the first opening and a second portion actuatable to seal
against the second and third openings; wherein the valve chamber is configured such that the first
flexible membrane portion may be actuated independently of the second flexible membrane portion
to enable the first opening to be sealed after the second and third openings. In embodiments, the
first opening provides an exit through which any fluid trapped in the valve chamber may escape
upon actuation of the second valve membrane portion to avoid forcing surplus fluid back down the
first and second bypass portions.
Also disclosed herein is a method for depressurising a fluid sample processing region within a
fluidic cartridge comprising a network of channels forming a fluid sample processing region, a first
channel fluidly connected to the network of channels, an isolation valve between the first channel
and the network of channels, and a control valve interrupting a second channel within the network
of channels, wherein the control valve is configured such that it has a first volume when the valve
is closed, and a second, larger volume when the control valve is open, the method comprising the
steps of: passing a fluid through the first channel and into the network of channels; closing the
control valve to decrease the volume of the network of channels; closing the isolation valve to seal
off the network of channels and create a closed system within the network of channels; opening
the control valve to increase the volume within the closed system of the network of channels,
thereby depressurising the fluid sample processing region.

                                                     9
Brief Description of the Figures
Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an exemplary fluidic cartridge in which the principles disclosed
herein may be embodied.
Figure 2 is a top view of an exemplary fluidic cartridge in which the principles disclosed herein may
be embodied.
Figure 3 is an exploded view of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 4 is a perspective view of the housing of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 5 is a perspective view of the blister sub-assembly of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of
figure 2.
Figure 6A is a top view of the pneumatic layer of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 6B is a bottom view of the pneumatic layer of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 7 is a top view of the pneumatic foil of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 8A is a top view of the fluidic layer of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 8B is a bottom view of the fluidic layer of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 9 is a top view of the fluidic foil of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 10 is a top view of the electrode layer of the exemplary fluidic cartridge of figure 2.
Figure 11 is a section view of an advantageous valve arrangement which may form an isolated
inventive aspect.
Figure 12 is a section view of another advantageous valve arrangement which may form an
isolated inventive aspect.
Figure 13a is a section view of an advantageous inlet port arrangement which may form an
isolated inventive aspect.

                                                   10
Figure 13b is a perspective section view of the inlet port arrangement of figure 13a.
Figure 14a is a section view of an advantageous capture column arrangement which may form an
isolated inventive aspect.
Figure 14b is a perspective section view of a portion of the capture column arrangement of figure
14a.
Figure 15a is a section view of an advantageous waste chamber arrangement which may form an
isolated inventive aspect.
Figure 15b is a perspective section view of the waste chamber arrangement of figure 15a.
Figure 16 is a schematic of an exemplary valve system.
Figure 17a is a cross section of a valve suitable for the valve system of figure 16 in a closed
position.
Figure 17b is a cross section of the valve of figure 17a in an open position.
Figure 18 is a schematic of the back end of the exemplary cartridge including another exemplary
valve system.
Figure 19 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method.
Figure 20 is a schematic of a valve system according to a first embodiment of principles disclosed
herein.
Figure 21 is a section view of a valve according to a first embodiment of principles disclosed
herein.
Figure 22 is a section view of a valve according to a second embodiment of principles disclosed
herein in an open position.
Figure 23 is a section view of the valve of figure 22 in an intermediate position.

                                                    11
Figure 24 is a section view of the valve of figure 22 in a closed position.
 Figure 25 is a schematic diagram of a valve system according to an embodiment of principles
disclosed herein.
Detailed Description
Embodiments will now be described in the context of an exemplary fluid cartridge embodying
principles disclosed herein. Whilst not necessary to understand the principles disclosed herein, it
is beneficial to provide general description of the principles of the structure, manufacture, function
and use of a fluidic cartridge and associated methods for performing a test embodying principles
disclosed herein.
The exemplary fluidic cartridge and associated methods chosen to illustrate principles disclosed
herein are for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis bacterium using PCR amplification and
electrochemical detection. However, the skilled person would understand that the principles
disclosed herein are not limited to the exemplary fluidic cartridge and associated methods, and are
suitable for use in with various different cartridges for a wide variety of sample analysis techniques
or biological assays; for example, assays of target nucleic acid sequences in a liquid sample.
Those skilled in the art will understand that the devices and methods described herein and
illustrated in the accompanying drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the
scope of the present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described
in connection with one exemplary embodiment              may be combined with features of other
embodiments. Such modifications and variations are included within the scope of the present
disclosures.
The exemplary cartridge comprises: a fluidic portion through which the sample flows and in which
nucleic acid amplification and detection take place; a pneumatic portion which controls flow
through the fluidic portion; and at least two electrodes which provide a potential difference for the
detection of an amplified nucleic acid of interest. The fluidic portion and pneumatic portion may be
constructed of a fluidic layer, a fluidic foil, a pneumatic layer and a pneumatic foil such as those
described in relation to the exemplary cartridge below. However, the fluidic portion does not
necessarily consist only of a fluidic layer and a fluidic foil and the pneumatic portion does not
necessarily consist only of a pneumatic layer and a pneumatic foil. Rather, the layers may interact
to produce the fluidic portion and the pneumatic portion such that parts of all or some of the layers

                                                   12
make up each portion. Rather than referring to the particular layers of the cartridge, the fluidic
portion refers to the particular areas of the cartridge which provide the function of allowing
controlled sample flow, and the pneumatic portion refers to the particular areas of the cartridge
which provide the function of controlling the flow through the fluidic portion.
The housing, fluidic portion and pneumatic portion are made of plastic. By plastic is meant a
synthetic or natural organic material that may be shaped when soft and then hardened, including
resins, resinoids, polymers, cellulose derivatives, casein materials, and protein plastics. Examples
of plastics from which the cartridge may be constructed include, but are not limited to
thermoplastics, for example polycarbonate, polyethylene terephthalate, cyclic olefin copolymers
such as Topaz, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, and thermoplastic elastomers, for example
polypropylene. Plastic housings, fluidic portions and pneumatic portions can include components
which are not made of plastic (e.g. blisters made from metal foil, metallic inserts at the sample
inlet), but they are formed primarily from plastic. The use of plastic materials facilitates economical
manufacture of the cartridges.
Whilst the pneumatic and fluidic foils may be made from a metal foil, the preferred materials are
plastic including those mentioned above. In particular, it is preferred that foils are a polyethylene
terephthalate / polypropylene composite.
The target nucleic acid sequence is any nucleic acid to be detected in a sample. The target nucleic
acid(s) to be amplified and detected in the cartridge will usually be DNA, but it is also possible to
amplify and detect RNA. In some embodiments a cartridge may permit amplification and/or
detection of both DNA and RNA targets.
The liquid sample is the composition which is introduced into the cartridge in order to determine
whether the target nucleic acid(s) of interest is/are present. The sample may be a composition in
which the nucleic acid to be detected is suspected to be present (e.g. for clinical diagnosis), or may
be a composition in which the nucleic acid to be detected is potentially present (e.g. for
contamination testing).
The liquid sample can have various sources. For instance, it can be material obtained from an
animal or plant (e.g. for diagnosis of infections or for genotyping). Such samples may be obtained
with minimal invasiveness or non-invasively, e.g., the sample may be obtained from an animal
using a swab, or may be a bodily fluid. As an alternative, the sample may be material obtained
from food or water (e.g. for contamination testing). The sample will usually include cells, and the
target nucleic acid (if present) can be extracted from these cells within the cartridge. One skilled in

                                                     13
the art will appreciate that samples can be diluted or otherwise treated prior to being introduced
into the cartridge, but it is preferred that the cartridge can handle material which has not been pre
treated in this way.
An animal from whom the sample is obtained may be a vertebrate or non-vertebrate animal.
Vertebrate animals may be mammals. Examples of mammals include but are not limited to mouse,
rat, pig, dog, cat, rabbit, primates or the like. The animal may be a primate, and is preferably a
human. Thus the cartridge can be used for clinical diagnosis of human samples.
In addition to analysing a sample, the cartridge can analyse a positive and/or negative control to
provide confirmation that the cartridge is functioning as expected. The control(s) can be introduced
into the cartridge by a user, or can be included within a cartridge before use.
The inclusion of an internal positive control nucleic acid allows a user to identify whether a negative
result for the sample has been obtained because the nucleic acid amplification has been
unsuccessful (false negative). If the positive control nucleic acid fails to be detected in the
detection chamber, despite its presence in an amplification chamber, the user will be able to
identify the test as a potential false negative result, and can perform another test.
The inclusion of an internal negative control allows a user to identify whether a positive result has
been falsely obtained because of the presence of contamination. A negative control can involve
performing PCR in a chamber in which no nucleic acid is provided, or in which a sample undergoes
an amplification reaction without necessary components e.g. PCR without primers. If nucleic acid is
nevertheless detected in the detection chamber, despite its intended absence in an amplification
chamber, the user will be able to identify the test as a potential false positive result, and can
perform another test.
A positive control nucleic acid may be any nucleic acid that will not be found in a sample used in
the cartridge. The internal control DNA may be taken from a bacterium that is not pathogenic to
animals and which contains a nucleic acid that is highly specific to the bacterium. One example of
a possible bacterium from which the control nucleic acid may be taken for an animal sample is
Pectobacterium atrosepticum, although any control nucleic acid may be used that will not be
present in a sample.
The fluidic portion of the cartridge comprises channels and chambers through which sample flows.
The flow of sample through the cartridge is controlled in two ways. Firstly, the fluidic portion has a
gas inlet. The gas inlet is connected to a gas supply, and injection of gas into the fluidic portion via

                                                   14
this inlet allows the sample to be pushed downstream through the cartridge, towards the detection
chamber. The gas supply may be provided by the reader. As an alternative, the gas supply may be
an on-board gas supply. Preferably, the gas supply is provided by an external source and the gas
inlet is connected to a pneumatic circuit such that the gas supply is provided via a pneumatic inlet
on the cartridge. Secondly, at least one pneumatically controlled valve controls local movement of
the sample through the fluidic portion. The pneumatically controlled valve(s) may be controlled
independently of other pneumatically controlled valves and may be controlled independently of the
gas supply that generally causes downstream movement of the sample via the gas inlet. The gas
inlet and the pneumatically controlled valve(s) also permit sample to be flushed through the fluidic
portion e.g. to exclude excess volumes of material. The fluidic portion also has an exhaust which
allows air and waste material to exit the channels and chambers of the fluidic portion without a
build-up of pressure occurring in the cartridge. Preferably, the exhaust comprises a waste chamber
and/or a waste vent.
The fluidic portion of the cartridge includes reagents and/or physical components for cell lysis and
nucleic acid separation. These may be any reagents or physical components that are capable of
lysing cells and separating nucleic acids from cell debris and other cellular components. For
instance, they may comprise (i) a lysis buffer which is capable of causing lysis of target cells which
may     be    present    in the  sample    e.g.  buffers  including  a  detergent    such   as   nonyl
phenoxypolyethoxylethanol (available as NP-40) or t-octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol, (available as
Triton X 100), or including guanidine thiocyanate, and/or (ii) a capture support or column which
specifically binds nucleic acids but does not bind other undesired cellular components (e.g.
proteins and lipids). The capture column comprises a capture filter and may additionally comprise a
depth filter. The filters may be made of glass fibres (available as Whatman filters), or may be made
of silica, although any column or support which is capable of separating nucleic acids from other
cellular components may be used. Elution using a wash buffer to remove cell debris and other
cellular components, followed by elution using an elution buffer to elute the separated nucleic acids
from the capture support or column can be undertaken such that the capture column can separate
nucleic acids from cell debris and other cellular components.
A channel through which the sample flows fluidly connects the sample inlet to at least one
amplification chamber where nucleic acid amplification can take place. The purpose of the
amplification chamber(s) is to permit amplification of any target nucleic acid of interest that is
present in the sample (and, where present, any positive control nucleic acid). Any nucleic acid
amplification method may be used and these are described in more detail below in relation to an
exemplary cartridge. The different nucleic acid amplification reagents that are required for different
nucleic acid amplification methods are well known in the art. These reagents are provided in or

                                                  15
upstream of the amplification chamber(s) such that the sample (and any positive control) includes
all necessary reagents for nucleic acid amplification once it reaches the amplification chamber.
Adaptation of a nucleic acid amplification method according to the target nucleic acid to be
detected is also well known in the art (e.g. design of primers). The skilled person would therefore
be able to adapt the reagents for nucleic acid amplification accordingly. The term "chamber" does
not denote any particular size or geometry, but instead it means a region within the fluidic portion
which is designed to permit nucleic acid amplification to occur. Thus, for instance, it could be a
region in which the sample can be fluidically isolated (e.g. via the use of pneumatically controlled
valves) while the steps required for nucleic acid amplification (e.g. thermocycling, etc.) occur, and it
can be located within the cartridge so that it is in the proximity of any external resources that are
needed (e.g. next to a heat source within a cartridge reader, thereby permitting thermal cycling to
occur).
Multiple test amplification channels and/or chambers may be included in the cartridge. The
different test amplification channels and/or chambers may include reagents required to amplify
different nucleic acids of interest. Therefore using multiple amplification test channels and/or
chambers allows multiple tests to be performed on a single cartridge, simultaneously (including any
controls). As an alternative, reagents for amplification of multiple different nucleic acids may be
present in a single amplification chamber, and the different nucleic acids (whether multiple target
nucleic acids, or a target nucleic acid and a control nucleic acid) may be amplified simultaneously
in the same amplification chamber.
A further channel through which the sample flows after nucleic acid amplification fluidly connects
the at least one amplification chamber to at least one detection chamber where the results of
nucleic acid amplification can be detected. In or upstream of the detection chamber are reagents
for nucleic acid detection such that the sample includes all necessary reagents for the detection
once it reaches the detection chamber. The reagents for nucleic acid detection may be specific for
the particular target nucleic acid, i.e. they may allow for detection of the presence of the specific
nucleic acid sequence. As an alternative, the reagents for nucleic acid detection may be generic
reagents to detect the presence of any nucleic acids. Such generic reagents may be used if all
nucleic acids other than the target nucleic acid are removed prior to detection. For example, this
may be achieved by providing a nuclease that is capable of hydrolysing all nucleic acids present in
the sample other than the target nucleic. The amplified target nucleic acid can be protected from
hydrolysis, for example by inclusion of chemical modifications in the primers which are
incorporated into the amplified product and which cannot be hydrolysed. Reagents for nucleic acid
detection are described below in relation to an exemplary cartridge but usually comprise a probe
including a label. The probe is capable of hybridising to the amplified nucleic acid which has been

                                                    16
amplified in the amplification chamber(s). Following hybridisation of the probe to the amplified
nucleic acid, the detection of the nucleic acid may occur via a detectable change in the signal from
the label. In some embodiments the change may be caused by hydrolysis of the probe. Where the
probe is hydrolysed, hydrolysis is usually achieved using a double strand specific nuclease, which
can be an exonuclease or an endonuclease. Preferably, the nuclease is T7 endonuclease. The
signal from the label is capable of undergoing a change following hydrolysis of the probe. This is
due to a change in the environment of the label when it moves from being bound to the rest of the
probe to being free from the rest of the probe or bound to a single nucleotide or a short part of the
probe. Further details of the types of probes and detection methods that may be used can be found
in Hillier et al. Bioelectrochemistry, 63 (2004), 307-310. As an alternative, methods for causing a
detectable change in the signal from the label which do not rely on hydrolysis of the probe may be
used e.g. see lhara et al. Nucleic Acids Research, 1996, Vol. 24, No. 21 4273-4280. This change
in environment of the label leads to a change in the signal from the label. The change in signal
from the label can be detected in order to detect the presence of the nucleic acid of interest.
Where a positive control nucleic acid is used, the reagents for nucleic acid detection will
additionally include a positive control probe including a label. The positive control probe is capable
of hybridising to the amplified control nucleic acid. The signal provided by the labels of the positive
control and target probes may be the same, but present in separate detection chambers such that
the signals corresponding to the control and test nucleic acids can be distinguished. As an
alternative, the signal provided by the labels of the control and target probes may be different, such
that the signals are distinguishable from one another, even if the probes are present in the same
detection chamber.
Multiple test detection channels and/or chambers may be included in the cartridge. The different
test detection channels and/or chambers may include reagents required to detect different nucleic
acids of interest. Therefore using multiple detection test channels and/or chambers allows multiple
tests to be performed on a single cartridge, simultaneously. As an alternative, reagents for
detection of multiple different nucleic acids may be present in a single detection chamber, and the
different nucleic acids (whether multiple target nucleic acids or a target nucleic acid and a control
nucleic acid) may be detected simultaneously in the same detection chamber.
The label is detectable by use of the cartridge's electrodes, and so the label will usually be an
electrochemical label, such as a ferrocene. Examples of labels which may be used can be found in
W003/074731, W02012/085591 and PCT/GB2013/051643. Signal emitted by the label can be
detected by a cartridge reader.

                                                    17
The pneumatic portion of the cartridge comprises at least one pneumatic circuit which each control
at least one pneumatically controlled valve. The pneumatic portion controls sample flow through
the cartridge by the opening and closing of pneumatically controlled valves. The opening and
closing of the valves is controlled by changes in pneumatic pressure in the pneumatic circuit that is
applied through a pneumatic pressure inlet. Usually, the cartridge contains many pneumatically
controlled valves. The pneumatically controlled valves may be controlled by separate pneumatic
pressure inlets. These valves can be used to prevent downstream movement of sample through
the fluidic portion until necessary steps have been performed and/or to prevent unwanted reverse
movement of sample upstream. For example, a valve may be provided upstream of the at least
one amplification chamber in order to prevent downstream movement into the at least one
amplification chamber until cell lysis and nucleic acid separation has taken place. Following cell
lysis and nucleic acid separation the valve upstream of the at least one amplification chamber may
be opened in order to allow downstream flow. It can then be closed again, to prevent backflow out
of the chamber back towards the sample inlet.
The cartridge comprises at least two electrodes which can provide a potential difference across the
at least one detection chamber. The potential difference causes current to flow through the at least
one detection chamber, thereby permitting the detection of signal from electrochemically active
labels.
An exemplary cartridge which operates according to the above description will now be described
with reference to the accompanying drawings.
1.       The exemplary cartridge
1.1      Overview
The exemplary cartridge described below is intended to be a single-use, disposable cartridge for
performing a test on a sample introduced into the cartridge. The exemplary cartridge is a fluidic
cartridge with channels of an appropriate scale (as detailed hereafter).       However, the principles
disclosed herein may be performed on a microfluidic device, or an LOC. Once the test has been
run, it is preferred that the cartridge is disposed of. However, if desired, the cartridge may be sent
for re-processing to enable it to be used again.
It is preferred that the cartridge comprises all of the biological agents necessary for conducting the
test of choice. For example, the exemplary cartridge is used for detecting the presence, absence
or amount of a pathogen of interest. Any pathogen may be detected. Examples of pathogens which

                                                   18
may be detected by the cartridge are Chlamydia trachomatis, Trichomonas vaginalis, Neisseria
gonorrhoea, Mycoplasma genitalium and methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus. To that end
the cartridge comprises reagents for nucleic acid amplification. Nucleic acid amplification may be
performed using any nucleic acid amplification method. The nucleic acid amplification method may
be a thermocycling method in which the temperature at which the method is performed is varied
such that different steps of the amplification are able to take place at different temperatures within
the cycle. For example melting, annealing of primers and extension may each be performed at
different temperatures. By cycling through the temperatures, the timing of each of the steps of the
method can be controlled. As an alternative, the nucleic acid amplification may be an isothermal
method in which the temperature is kept constant. In both the thermocycling and the isothermal
nucleic acid amplification methods, the temperature is controlled during nucleic acid amplification.
Examples of nucleic acid amplification methods are the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), the
ligase chain reaction (LCR), strand displacement amplification (SDA), transcription mediated
amplification,   nucleic   acid   sequence-based      amplification   (NASBA),     helicase-dependent
amplification  and    loop-mediated    isothermal  amplification.   The  reagents for     nucleic acid
amplification will vary depending of the nucleic acid amplification method used but include a
polymerase and nucleotide triphosphates.
As explained below, the cartridge also comprises detection reagents which are capable of
detecting the presence or absence of amplified nucleic acids which are the product of the nucleic
acid amplification method. The reagents for nucleic acid detection comprise a probe which is
capable of hybridising to the amplified nucleic acid. The probe includes a ferrocene label.
Following hybridisation of the probe to the amplified nucleic acid, the detection of the nucleic acid
occurs via a detectable change in the signal from the label. The change is caused by hydrolysis of
the probe, which is achieved using a double strand specific nuclease. The nuclease is a T7
endonuclease. The ferrocene gives different electrochemical signals when it is part of a probe or
when it is attached only to a single nucleotide, and so hydrolysis is easily detected. Thus, the
change in signal from the label permits detection of the presence of the nucleic acid of interest.
The electrodes allow the detectable change in the signal from the label, which occurs in the
presence of the target nucleic acid, to be detected.
The cartridge is configured for use with a cartridge reader (not shown). The cartridge comprises a
number of pneumatic, mechanical, thermal and electrical interfaces (described in more detail
below) through which the reader interacts with the cartridge to perform the test. Hence, in use, the
cartridge would be inserted into the reader, and the reader would be activated to begin interacting

                                                      19
with the cartridge via the interfaces to perform the test.         For the purposes of understanding
principles disclosed herein, it is not necessary to describe exactly how the cartridge interacts with
the reader to conduct a particular test and provide the test results, but an overview of an exemplary
operation of a cartridge is provided hereafter.
 1.2     Schematic diagram of the exemplary cartridge
Before explaining the structure and arrangement of the components of an exemplary fluid cartridge
in detail, it is helpful to describe the layout of the exemplary cartridge at a high level with reference
to the schematic shown in figure 1.
It is convenient to consider the overall layout of the cartridge in terms of the flow of liquids,
including the liquid sample, through the cartridge.         Unless otherwise specified hereafter, the
passage of liquids including the liquid sample and the liquid buffers is referred to as the 'fluid
pathway' which has an upstream end and a downstream end.                    Unless otherwise specified
hereafter, 'downstream' generally refers to the direction of flow of the liquids and 'upstream' refers
to the direction opposite the direction of flow. The fluid pathway in the exemplary cartridge may
have different branches (and thus form different fluid pathways), but all pathways have a
recognisable direction of flow which permit a skilled person to identify the upstream and
downstream directions. However, there is an exception to this general definition, which is when the
liquid sample is pumped between the mixing chamber 10 and the bellows 20. In this case, fluid is
intermittently pumped back upstream in the opposite direction to its general direction of fluid flow,
which is downstream. This mixing serves to mix the lysis and sample and to rehydrate the internal
control.
The liquid sample is introduced into the cartridge at a sample mixing chamber 10 through an entry
port. A particular arrangement of a preferred entry port may itself form an isolated inventive aspect
of the cartridge, as described further in section 3, below. A sample indicator 12 is fluidly coupled to
the sample mixing chamber 10 such that a sample introduced into the sample mixing chamber 10
is visible in the sample indicator 12. Also connected to the sample mixing chamber 10 is a blister
 14 containing a lysis buffer. The lysis buffer comprises guanidine thiocyanate. Once the sample
has been introduced into the sample mixing chamber 10, and a test is started, the lysis blister 14 is
collapsed so as to expel the lysis buffer into the sample mixing chamber 10 where it mixes with the
liquid sample introduced therein.

                                                    20
Downstream of the sample mixing chamber 10, along a main channel 16, is a coarse filter 18. The
coarse filter 18 filters out any large debris in the liquid sample, such as skin or bodily hair, as the
liquid sample passes through main channel 16.
Downstream of the coarse filter 18, along the main channel 16, is a bellows 20 having an upstream
bellows valve 22a and a downstream bellows valve 22b. As described in more detail below, the
bellows 20, together with its upstream and downstream valves 22a-b, is capable of pumping the
liquid sample from the upstream end of the fluid pathway (i.e. from the sample mixing chamber 10)
to the downstream end. In summary, this is achieved by virtue of flexible membranes within the
bellows 20 and the upstream and downstream bellows valves 22a-b which actuate to create local
pressure differentials to, on the one hand, draw in the liquid sample from the sample mixing
chamber 10 into the bellows 20 and, on the other hand, from the bellows 20 further downstream
through the main channel 16. This is achieved by carefully choreographed pneumatic actuation of
the flexible membranes in the valves.           Particular arrangements of a preferred valve may
themselves form isolated inventive aspects of the cartridge, as described further in section 3,
below.
Downstream of the bellows along the main channel 16 is a capture column 24. The purpose of the
capture column 24 is to separate nucleic acids from cell debris and other cellular components. The
capture column comprises a capture filter and a depth filter both made of glass fibres. A particular
arrangement of a preferred capture column may itself form an isolated inventive aspect of the
cartridge, as described further in section 3, below.
Two branch channels 26, 28 join the main channel 16 between the downstream bellows valve 22b
and the capture column 24. The purpose of the branch channels is to introduce liquid buffers
necessary for performing the desired test. For example, with the test conducted by the exemplary
cartridge, it is necessary to introduce an elution buffer and a wash buffer into the main channel
once the sample has passed through. The wash buffer is contained in a wash buffer blister 30 and
the elution buffer is contained in an elution buffer blister 32. The introduction of the wash buffer
and elution buffer into the main channel 16 is controlled by wash buffer valve 34 and elution buffer
valve 36, respectively. At the appropriate point in the test, the wash and elution buffer blisters 30,
32 are collapsed so as to expel the wash and elution buffers into the branch channels 26, 28 and
thence into the main channel 16 through the wash and elution buffer valves 34, 36.
Downstream of the capture column 24, along a waste branch 16a of the main channel 16, is a
waste chamber 38. A particular arrangement of a preferred waste chamber may itself form an
isolated inventive aspect of the cartridge, as described further in section 3, below. The purpose of

                                                  21
the waste chamber 38 is to collect the cell debris and cellular components other than nucleic acids
and contain them, thereby preventing them from entering the test channel 54a or the control
channel 54b. The waste chamber 38 is vented to atmosphere through a waste vent 40, and an
aerosol impactor 42 is provided between the waste chamber 38 and the waste vent 40 to prevent
particulate matter from escaping from the waste chamber 38 into the atmosphere.               A waste
chamber valve 44 in the main channel waste branch 16a of the main channel 16 permits and
prevents fluids passing into the waste chamber 38 at appropriate points during the test.
Downstream of the capture column 24, along an elution branch 16b of the main channel 16, is an
elution chamber 46. The purpose of the elution chamber 46 is to allow the sample preparation to
settle and for bubbles to disperse before the sample enters the amplification chambers. An elution
chamber valve 48 in the elution branch 16b of the main channel 16 permits and prevents fluids
passing into the elution chamber 46 at appropriate points during the test.
Downstream of the elution chamber 46 is a convoluted mixing channel 52.             Here the prepared
sample is mixed prior to passing through the isolation valve 50.
In the present application, the components upstream of the isolation valve 50 are referred to as
being comprised in the 'front end' of the cartridge, whilst the components downstream of the
isolation valve 50 are referred to as being comprised in the 'back end' of the cartridge. Broadly
speaking, the liquid sample is prepared for analysing in the front end of the cartridge, and the
analysis is carried out on the sample in the back end of the cartridge.
The isolation valve 50 is open to permit the prepared liquid sample to pass from the front end to
the back end of the cartridge. At an appropriate point in the test, after the liquid sample has been
prepared and is within the back end of the cartridge for analysis, the isolation valve 50 is closed to
prevent any of the sample from re-entering the front end. Once the isolation valve 50 is closed, it
cannot be opened again. The isolation valve 50 also acts as a safeguard in case of a power
failure, wherein the reader closes the isolation valve 50 to prevent leakage.
Downstream of the isolation valve 50, the fluid pathway splits into an amplification test channel 54a
and an amplification control channel 54b. Each of the amplification channels 54a-b comprises an
amplification chamber 56a-b having an amplification chamber inlet valve 58a-b and                   an
amplification chamber outlet valve 60a-b. Any nucleic acid amplification method may be performed
in the nucleic acid amplification chamber. If PCR is used, the nucleic acid amplification chambers
contain a thermostable DNA polymerase, dNTPs, a pair of primers which are capable of
hybridising to the nucleic acid to be amplified. Optionally, the nucleic acid amplification chambers

                                                   22
may additionally contain buffer salts, MgCl 2, passivation agents, uracil N-glycosylase and dUTP.
An example of a thermostable DNA polymerase that may be used is Taq polymerase from
Thermus aquaticus.
Each of the nucleic acid amplification chambers in the exemplary cartridge comprises reagent
containment features in the form of first and second shallow wells formed in the fluidic layer. The
reagents to be used in the cartridge are spotted in the wells. In the exemplary cartridge, the test
specific reagents and the generic reagents are isolated from each other by spotting each in a
different well. Hence, the test-specific reagents are spotted in a first well in the chamber and the
generic reagents are spotted in a second well in the chamber. By spotting the reagents separately,
it is easier to swap the test-specific reagents during manufacture for a different set of test-specific
reagents, so as to perform a different test, whilst keeping the generic reagents as they are.
In the exemplary cartridge, the ratio of nucleic acid amplification chambers to detection chambers
is 1:2. The prepared sample enters the back end of the cartridge at the isolation valve 50 and is
split into two nucleic acid amplification chambers. After processing, the each of the two processed
measures of sample from the nucleic acid amplification chamber is split into two detection
chambers. Therefore, for each sample introduced into the exemplary cartridge, four detection
chambers may be filled from two nucleic acid amplification chambers, thus facilitating duplex
amplification and 4-plex detection.
However, it will be appreciated that one or three or more nucleic acid amplification chambers may
be provided to provide any level of multiplexing desired, and that the number of the detection
chambers provided may be adjusted accordingly to maintain a 1:2 ratio of nucleic acid amplification
chambers to detection chambers.
The ratio 1:2 is preferred for the exemplary cartridge because such a ratio allows twice the number
of target nucleic acids to be assayed compared to the number of different labels required for
detection in the detection chambers. However, it will be appreciated that the ratio may be changed
depending on the number of labels and PCR targets for the liquid sample. For instance, the ratio
may be 1:1, 1:3 or 1:n such that there are n detection chambers branching from the main channel
of each fluid pathway when there are n times as many multiplexed PCR targets for the number of
labels.
PCR primers specific for Chlamydia trachomatis are dried down in the amplification chamber in the
amplification test channel together with the other reagents required for nucleic acid amplification.
PCR primers specific for a positive control nucleic acid are dried down in the amplification chamber

                                                  23
in the amplification control channel together with the other reagents required for nucleic acid
amplification. A positive control nucleic acid is also provided in the amplification chamber in the
amplification control channel, taken from Pectobacterium atrosepticum. The dried down reagents
are reconstituted when the liquid sample reaches them.
Downstream of the amplification chamber outlet valves 60a-b each of the amplification channels
54a-b splits into two further detection channels, leading to two detection chambers for each
amplification chamber, giving a total of four detection chambers 62a-d in total. The reagents for
nucleic acid detection, including the target probe, are dried down in the detection chambers 62a-d
downstream of the test amplification chamber 56a or 56b. The reagents for nucleic acid detection
including the control probe are dried down in the detection chambers downstream of the control
amplification chamber 56a or 56b (whichever is not the test chamber mentioned above). Each
detection chamber 62a-d is provided with its own gas spring 64a-d which forms a dead end at the
downstream end of the fluid pathway.
Reagents for nucleic acid detection are provided in detection chambers. The reagents for nucleic
acid detection include probes having a ferrocene label. These probes are capable of hybridising to
the amplified nucleic acids. Following hybridisation of the probes to the amplified nucleic acids, the
probes are hydrolysed by a double strand specific nuclease which causes the label to be freed
from the rest of the probe. As explained above, freeing of the label from the rest of the probe
causes a detectable change in the signal from the label. The control probe is provided in separate
detection chambers to the target probe and detection of the target nucleic acid and the control
nucleic acid take place in different detection chambers, such that the signals are distinguishable
from one another.
Downstream of the amplification outlet valves 60a-b, but upstream of the forks creating the four
detection channels, two bypass channels 66a-b respectively join the two amplification channels
54a-b. The purpose of the bypass channels 66a-b is to remove excess liquid sample within the
amplification channels 54a-b before the liquid sample enters the detection chambers 62a-d. The
bypass channels 66a-b connect to a bypass valve 68, which is also fluidly coupled to the elution
chamber branch 16b of the main channel 16, downstream of the isolation valve 50, before the
channel splits into amplification channels 54a and 54b.
A particular arrangement of a preferred chamber in the cartridge, such as the first and second
amplification chambers or the first to fourth detection chambers, may itself form an isolated
inventive aspect of the cartridge, as described further in section 3, below.

                                                   24
It will be appreciated that the number of amplification chambers, and the number of detection
chambers in the exemplary cartridge may vary depending on the preferred implementation.
Moreover, other configurations of channels, chambers, valves and so on are possible without
departing from the scope of the invention, as defined by the claims.
The physical structure and operation of the various components of the exemplary cartridge
introduced above will now be explained with reference to figures 2 to 10.
1.3      Physical structure of an exemplary cartridge
1.3.1    Overview and external features of the exemplary cartridge
An exemplary cartridge is shown in figure 2. As described above, the reader interacts with the
cartridge through a plurality of interfaces. The interfaces shown in the exemplary cartridge 100
are: a pneumatic interface 101; an electrical interface 102; a bypass valve interface 103; and an
isolation valve interface 104. Each of these interfaces is described in more detail below. It will be
appreciated that more or fewer interfaces could be provided, depending on the preferred
implementation.
Also provided in the cartridge, but not shown, is a thermal interface. The thermal interface allows
the temperature of the amplification chambers to be regulated to allow nucleic acid amplification to
take place.
The exemplary cartridge 100 shown in figure 2 comprises an insertion end 105 for insertion into the
reader, and a non-insertion end 106. Proximate the non-insertion end 106 is a sample inlet 107 for
introducing a sample into the sample mixing chamber 10. In the exemplary cartridge, the sample
will usually include cells, and the target nucleic acid (if present) can be extracted from these cells,
but other fluid samples such as swab eluate, urine, semen, blood, saliva, stool sweat and tears
could be used in other implementations. The sample may be introduced into the sample mixing
chamber 10 through the sample inlet 107 using a pipette, for example.
The exemplary cartridge 100 and reader are configured such that when the cartridge is inserted
into the reader, all of the aforementioned interfaces are actuatable by the reader. On the other
hand, the sample inlet 107 remains external to the reader such that a sample may be introduced
into the sample mixing chamber 10 whilst the cartridge is inserted into the reader.

                                                  25
The exemplary cartridge 100 shown in figure 2 further comprises a sample indicator window 109,
through which the sample indicator 12 is visible to determine whether a sample has been
introduced into the sample mixing chamber 10.
All of the pneumatic, mechanical and electrical interfaces in the exemplary cartridge 100 are
located on the same face of the cartridge, in this case the top face 110. The thermal interface (not
shown) is provided on the bottom face of the cartridge. This simplifies the design of the reader,
which may this provide the associated pneumatic, mechanical and electrical parts which interact
with those interfaces in the same region of the reader, thereby making best use of space. It also
enables the thermal part of the reader to be provided away from the pneumatic, mechanical and
electrical parts.
 1.3.2  Internal components of cartridge
The exemplary cartridge 100 shown in figure 2 is formed from various components which shall now
be described. Figure 3 shows an exploded view of the exemplary cartridge 100 of figure 2. The
cartridge 100 comprises, from top to bottom, a housing 111, a blister sub-assembly 112, a
pneumatic foil 113, a pneumatic layer 114, a fluid layer 115 and a fluidic foil 116. Also shown in
figure 3 is an electrode layer 117, two filters 118 and a plurality of absorbent pads 119, which will
be described in more detail below.
The housing 111 is manufactured from acrylonitrile butadiene styrene. The pneumatic and fluidic
foils 113, 116 are manufactured from a polyethylene terephthalate / polypropylene composite. The
pneumatic and fluidic layers 114, 115 are manufacture from polypropylene.
With the exception of the housing 111, filters 118 and pads 119, each of the components
mentioned in the previous paragraph is adhered to its adjacent component or components. Hence,
the blister sub-assembly 112 is adhered to the pneumatic foil 113, which is adhered to the
pneumatic layer 114, which is adhered to the fluidic layer 115, which is adhered to the fluidic foil
 116. The electrode layer 117 is adhered to fluidic layer 115 also.
The adhesion of the layers to each other provides a series of fluid-tight channels in the cartridge,
together with associated chambers, valves, pumps, bellows and other components. The channels
passing a liquid sample therethrough are liquid-tight and the channels passing a gas therethrough
are gas-tight.    Optionally, all components are both liquid tight and gas-tight.      For example,
recesses and openings formed in one or both sides of the pneumatic and fluidic layers create,
when sandwiched together and adhered to the pneumatic and fluidic foils, respectively, the shapes

                                                   26
necessary to provide the aforesaid channels, chambers, valves, pumps, bellows and other
components.
Each of the components referred to above in figure 3 will now be described in more detail.
1.3.3    Housinq 111
Figure 4 shows housing 111 in more detail.          As shown, housing 111 comprises a generally
rectangular upper surface 120 and walls 121 depending therefrom on all four sides (two of which
are visible in figure 4). A principal purpose of the housing 111 is to protect certain components of
the cartridge, most notably the blister sub-assembly 112 and the isolation valve interface 104. It
will therefore be noted that the housing 111 is shorter than the pneumatic and fluidic layers 114,
115 such that it overlies only a portion of those layers when the cartridge 100 is assembled. In the
exemplary cartridge 100, the pneumatic interface 101, electronic interface 102, and bypass valve
interface 103 are not covered by the housing 111 to provide ease of access by the reader.
The upper surface 120 of the housing 111 has three apertures 122a-c therein, each having walls
depending from the peripheries of the apertures to form, when the cartridge is assembled, three
recesses. The purpose of the recesses is to house the blisters of the blister sub-assembly 112
such that the blisters may be accessed and pressed by the reader, but are otherwise protected
from accidental impact.      Naturally, since the exemplary cartridge comprises three blisters, the
housing 111 comprises three corresponding apertures 122a-c forming three corresponding
recesses.     It will be appreciated that more or fewer blisters, apertures and recesses may be
provided, depending on the preferred implementation.          Alternatively, the housing 111 could
comprise a single aperture forming a single recess housing all available blisters.
The side walls 121 of the housing 111 which run along the length of the housing 111 between the
insertion end 105 and the non-insertion end 106 of the cartridge 100 comprise flanges 123 along at
least a portion of their lower edges. The purpose of the flanges 123 is two-fold.        Firstly, they
comprise one or more windows 124a-b for receiving a corresponding number of tabs formed in the
pneumatic layer 114 to hold the cartridge 100 together.            Secondly, the flanges 123 are
dimensioned so as to protrude beyond the lower surface of the fluidic foil 116 when the cartridge is
assembled, such that the fluidic foil 116 is suspended above a flat surface on which the cartridge
100 is placed. This prevents accidental damage to the fluidic foil 116 which could otherwise result.
Although in the exemplary cartridge depicted in figure 4 flanges 123 are provided along
substantially the length of two opposing sides of the cartridge, it will be appreciated that flanges

                                                   27
may be provided along three or four edges of the cartridge and still suspend the foil above a flat
surface on which the cartridge is placed. Similarly, although the cartridge depicted in figure 4
shows flanges 123 extending along substantially the entire length of the edge, a flange which
extends only partially along an edge may be provided, or multiple flanges may be provided along
each edge.
The housing 111 further comprises, at the non-insertion end 106, a grip 125 to facilitate insertion of
the cartridge into and removal of the cartridge 100 from the reader by hand.             The grip 125
comprises a series of ridges and grooves formed in the housing 111, but alternative structures to
increase friction, such as knurls, are also possible.
The housing 111 further comprises a sample inlet aperture 126 through which a sample may be
introduced into the sample mixing chamber 10 of the cartridge 100 using a pipette, for example.
Surrounding the inlet aperture 126 for a given diameter is a basin 127 recessed into the upper
surface 120 of the housing 111 to accommodate a certain amount of spillage of the liquid sample.
Whilst the basin 127 of the exemplary embodiment is substantially flat, it may be sloped toward the
inlet aperture 126, such that any spillage drains through the inlet aperture 126.
The exemplary housing 111 further comprises a plurality of cut-outs: a first cut-out 128 forming the
sample window 109, and a second cut-out 129 to provide access to the isolation valve interface
 104. As with the recesses which protect the blisters, by providing access to the isolation valve
interface 104 only through a cut-out 129 in the housing 111, the isolation valve interface 104 is
protected to some extent from accidental impact, which could actuate the isolation valve and
render the cartridge inoperable.
 1.3.4  Blister sub-assembly 112
Figure 5 shows the blister sub-assembly 112 in more detail. The blister sub-assembly 112 may be
manufactured separately, during which the blisters are pre-filled with the liquid reagents necessary
for conducting the preferred test, and subsequently adhered to the pneumatic foil 113.
Blister sub-assemblies (or 'blister packs') are familiar to a skilled person. A blister is a collapsible
chamber for containing a liquid, which may be expelled from the blister by pressing on the blister
and thereby collapsing it. In typical blister packs, the chamber of a blister is sealed by a foil or
other frangible layer which ruptures once the pressure inside the chamber reaches a particular
magnitude as the blister is collapsed.

                                                  28
In the exemplary cartridge, the blister sub-assembly 112 comprises three blisters 130a-c. These
contain, respectively, the lysis buffer which comprises reagents capable of performing cell lysis, the
wash buffer and the elution buffer.
The exemplary       blister sub-assembly     112  comprises   a substrate     131    onto which    the
aforementioned blisters 130a-c are formed by a deformable polymeric layer which is shaped to
provide the chambers. Three apertures 132a-c, corresponding to the three blisters 130a-c, pass
through the substrate 132. Each of the apertures is covered by the deformable polymeric layer
forming the chamber, which thereby connects the aperture to the chamber but for a seal 133a-c
between the respective apertures 132a-c and chambers. Upon application of a suitable pressure
on the blister 130a-c, the seal 133a-c breaks, thereby causing the liquid contents of the blister to
be ejected from the blister and to flow through the aperture 132a-c in the substrate 131 out of the
blister sub-assembly.
As shown, the seals 133a-c at least partially surround the periphery of the chambers, where they
meet the substrate 131.      At the point in each seal 133a-c which is designed to break (thereby
forming the liquid passageway between the aperture 132a-c and chamber), the seal 133a-c may
be weaker than the rest of the periphery. This ensures that the correct part of the seal 133a-c
breaks when the suitable pressure is applied.
The blisters may be collapsed by the reader when the cartridge is inserted therein. One or more
mechanical actuators (such as a foot) may be applied by the reader into the recess so as to
collapse the blister.
The blister sub-assembly 112 further comprises two reference holes 134a-b configured to permit
an assembly fixture to provide a reference to facilitate positioning of the assembly during
manufacture.
 1.3.5   Pneumatic layer 114
Figures 6A and 6B show the pneumatic layer 114 in more detail. Figure 6A is a top view of the
pneumatic layer and Figure 6B is a bottom view. The pneumatic layer 114 is comprised of a rigid
plastic layer 135 which, in certain places, is overmoulded with a plurality of flexible membranes to
form certain components when the cartridge is assembled.             The flexible membranes are
manufactured from a thermoplastic elastomer.

                                                   29
The rigid plastic layer 135 has a plurality of differently-shaped recesses therein and apertures
therethrough. In combination with the fluidic layer 115, certain recesses within, and/or apertures
through, the rigid plastic layer 135 form a number of components, including: the sample mixing
chamber 136; the waste chamber 137; the capture column 138; the elution chamber 139; the first
and second amplification chambers 140a-b; and the first to fourth detection chambers 141a-d. An
aperture 142 is also provided to give access to the electrode layer 117.
In combination with the overmoulded flexible membranes and the pneumatic foil 113, certain other
apertures through the rigid plastic layer form a number of other components, including: the
upstream bellows valve 142; the bellows 143; a pneumatic interface 144; the downstream bellows
valve 145; the wash buffer inlet valve 146; the wash buffer air inlet valve 146a; the elution buffer
inlet valve 147; the elution buffer air inlet valve 147a; the waste chamber valve 148; the elution
chamber valve 149; the isolation valve 150; the first and second amplification chamber inlet valves
151a-b; and first and second amplification chamber outlet valves 152a-b. A further aperture, in
combination with an overmoulded flexible membrane (but not the pneumatic foil) forms a bypass
valve 153.
With the exception of the isolation valve 150 and the bypass valve 153, the valves formed in the
pneumatic layer are pneumatically-operable valves. That is, each valve is operable to open and
close a fluidic channel in which the valve is located, and this valve is actuated by applying a
particular pressure to a pneumatic control line coupled to the valve. The pneumatic control lines
are coupled to the pneumatic interface 144, to which the reader has access when the cartridge 100
is inserted therein.   Hence, to actuate a given pneumatic valve, the reader merely applies an
appropriate pressure to the pneumatic control line associated with that valve to open or close the
valve.
The isolation valve 150 and the bypass valve 153 are also actuated by the reader, but
mechanically. Again, each valve is operable to open and close a fluidic channel in which the valve
is located, but the valve is actuated by applying one or more mechanical actuators (such as a foot)
to the valve.
The pneumatic layer further comprises two reference holes 154a-b configured to permit an
assembly fixture to provide a reference to facilitate positioning of the layer during manufacture.
When the cartridge is assembled, the reference holes 154a-b in the pneumatic layer align with the
reference holes 134a-b in the blister sub-assembly.

                                                   30
The pneumatic layer further comprises apertures 155a-c which, when the cartridge is assembled,
line up with apertures 132a-c passing through the substrate 131 of the blister sub-assembly
(through the pneumatic foil, as described below).
1.3.6    Pneumatic foil 113
Figure 7 shows the pneumatic foil 113 in more detail. As explained above, the pneumatic foil 113
is adhered to the upper surface of the pneumatic layer 114, thereby fluidly sealing channels,
chambers, valves, pumps, bellows and other components formed therein. Thus, for the most part,
the pneumatic foil 113 is a generally rectangular and planar foil sheet so as to provide an effective
seal.   Beneficially, the pneumatic foil 113 is inert such that is does not react with the reagents
which move through the pneumatic layer 114.
However, the pneumatic foil 113 does not overlie the entire pneumatic layer 114. In particular, the
pneumatic foil 113 does not overlie the sample mixing chamber 136 or the waste chamber 137 at
the non-insertion end 106 of the cartridge 100, or the bypass valve 153 at the insertion end 105.
Moreover, the pneumatic foil 113 comprises cut-outs 156, 157, such that it does not overlie the
isolation valve 150 or the pneumatic interface 144, respectively.
The pneumatic foil 113 further comprises three apertures 158a-c which, when the cartridge 100 is
assembled, line up with apertures 132a-c passing through the substrate 131 of the blister sub
assembly and 155a-c passing through the pneumatic layer 114. The apertures 158a-c permit the
liquid reagents within the blisters to pass to the pneumatic layer 114, and thence to the fluidic layer
115 through apertures 155a-c.
The pneumatic foil 113 comprises two reference holes 159a-b configured to permit an assembly
fixture to provide a reference to facilitate positioning of the layer during manufacture. When the
cartridge is assembled, the reference holes 159a-b in the pneumatic foil align with the reference
holes in the other layers.
The pneumatic foil is a composite foil manufactured from a layer of polyethylene terephthalate, to
provide strength, with a layer of polypropylene on top to provide an inert material for contacting the
liquid sample and buffers, and also to enable the foil to be heat sealed to the pneumatic layer (also
manufactured from polypropylene.
1.3.7    Fluidic layer 115

                                                    31
Figures 8A and 8B show the fluidic layer 115 in more detail.         Figure 8A is a top view of the
pneumatic layer and Figure 8B is a bottom view. The fluidic layer 115 is comprised of a rigid
plastic layer 160. As explained previously, the top side of the fluidic layer 115 (not shown) is
adhered to the bottom side of the pneumatic layer 113 (see figure 5B) such that the various
channels, chambers, valves, pumps, bellows and other components formed by a combination of
the pneumatic and fluidic layers are aligned.
As with the rigid plastic layer 135 of the pneumatic layer 113, the rigid plastic layer 160 of the
fluidic layer 115 has a plurality of differently-shaped recesses therein and apertures therethrough.
In combination with the pneumatic layer 113 and the fluidic foil 116, certain recesses within, and/or
apertures through, the rigid plastic layer 160 forms certain components, including: the sample inlet
chamber 136; the capture column 138; the elution chamber 139; the first and second amplification
chambers 140a-b; and the first to fourth detection chambers 141a-d. the upstream bellows valve
 142; the bellows 143; the pneumatic interface 144; the downstream bellows valve 145; the wash
buffer inlet valve 146; the wash buffer air inlet valve 146a; the elution buffer inlet valve 147; the
elution buffer air inlet valve 147a; the waste chamber valve 148; the elution chamber valve 149; the
isolation valve 150; the first and second amplification chamber inlet valves 151a-b; and first and
second amplification chamber outlet valves 152a-b.         An aperture 161 is also provided to give
access to the electrode layer 117.
Moreover, in combination with the fluidic foil 116 (but not the pneumatic layer 114), recesses in the
fluidic layer 115 also provides the coarse filter 162, the convoluted mixing channel 163, and a
plurality of channels which, when the cartridge is assembled, connect the aforementioned
components together to enable passage of the liquid sample and liquid reagents through the
cartridge, and facilitate pneumatic actuation of the valves, pumps, bellows and other components.
The fluidic layer comprises two reference holes 164a-b configured to permit an assembly fixture to
provide a reference to facilitate positioning of the layer during manufacture. When the cartridge is
assembled, the reference holes 164a-b in the fluidic layer align with the reference holes in the
other layers.
As mentioned above, channels are formed between the pneumatic interface and the various valve
and bellows described above. In the exemplary cartridge, the pneumatic interface comprises 11
ports which are connected to the various components as follows.
         Port 1:          bellows
         Port 2:          upstream bellows valve

                                                      32
                         first and second amplification chamber inlet valves
                         first and second amplification chamber outlet valves
         Port 3:         downstream bellows valve
         Port 4:         wash buffer inlet valve
         Port 5:         wash buffer air inlet
         Port 6:         wash buffer air inlet valve
                         elution buffer air inlet valve
         Port 7:         elution buffer air inlet
         Port 8:         elution buffer inlet valve
         Port 9:         reference pressure line
         Port 10:        elution chamber valve
         Port 11:        waste chamber valve
It will be understood that whilst various inventive aspects of the exemplary cartridge may be
implemented using specific ones of the connections listed above (in particular, the first and second
amplification chamber inlet and outlet valves being connected to a single port; and the wash and
elution buffer air inlets being connected to a single port); the precise configuration listed above is
not essential.
 1.3.8   Fluidic Foil
Figure 9 shows the fluidic foil 116 in more detail.        As explained above, the fluidic foil 116 is
adhered to the lower surface of the fluidic layer 115, thereby fluidly sealing channels, chambers,
valves, pumps, bellows and other components formed therein. Thus, for the most part, the fluidic
foil 116 is a generally rectangular and planar foil sheet so as to provide an effective seal.
Beneficially, the foil 116 is inert such that is does not react with the reagents which move in the
pneumatic layer.
However, the fluidic foil 116 does not overlie the entire fluidic layer 115. In particular, the fluidic foil
 116 does not overlie the detection chambers 141a-d at the insertion end 105.
The fluidic foil 116 comprises two reference holes 165a-b configured to permit an assembly fixture
to provide a reference to facilitate positioning of the layer during manufacture. When the cartridge
is assembled, the reference holes 165a-b in the fluidic foil align with the reference holes in the
other layers.

                                                  33
The fluidic foil is a composite foil manufactured from a layer of polyethylene terephthalate, to
provide strength, with a layer of polypropylene on top to provide an inert material for contacting the
liquid sample and buffers, and also to enable the foil to be heat sealed to the fluidic layer (also
manufactured from polypropylene.
 1.3.9   Electrode layer 117
Finally, figure 10 shows the electrode layer 117 in more detail. As explained above, the electrode
layer 117 is adhered to the fluidic layer 115.     The electrode layer 117 comprises four sets of
detection electrodes 166a-d.      Each set of detection electrodes 166a-d comprises first to third
electrical contacts 168a-d which couple with corresponding electrical contacts in the reader when
the cartridge is inserted therein. Preferably, the electrical contacts are made of silver to optimise
the electrical connection. Preferably electrodes which are silver plated with silver chloride are used
to ensure an optimal galvanic behaviour.
Each set of detection electrodes 166a-d comprises a working electrode 169a-d; a counter
electrode 170a-d and a reference electrode 171a-d.          Each of the electrodes is coupled to a
respective electrical contact. Each set of detection electrodes 166a-d also comprises a dielectric
 172a-d covering the interface between the electrodes and the respective electrical contacts.
A skilled person understands that electrochemical signalling may be used to indicate the presence
of genetic or immuno targets. In the exemplary cartridge this process is performed in the first to
fourth detections chambers 141a-d which are optimised to provide the electrochemical test
interface.
The electrodes 166a-d are arranged such that a liquid sample within the first to fourth detection
chambers 141a-d comes into contact with the first to fourth sets of electrodes 166a-d.           In the
detection chambers, some compounds in the fluid sample (referred to as the 'electrolyte') have a
natural tendency to migrate to electrodes and swap electrons. This galvanic effect is how batteries
work.
All combinations of soluble compounds have some electrochemical activity, and the rate at which
this activity occurs (i.e. the amount of charge exchanged) is determined by exactly what those
compounds are. Hence, it is possible to measure the presence of different analytes in the liquid
sample, by searching for characteristic features of their redox electrochemistry.

                                                  34
In the exemplary cartridge, the current required to maintain a given redox state in the detection
chambers 141a-d is monitored at different redox states. Current is supplied through the electrolyte
from the working electrodes 169a-d to counter electrodes 170a-d.
The reference electrodes 171a-d also contact the electrolyte. Voltages are declared with respect to
this reference electrode because its voltage is largely independent of the redox conditions and this
therefore means that it is only the redox state of the chemistry at the control electrode that is being
measured.
A voltage sweep is applied between the working electrodes 169a-d and counter electrodes 170a-d
by the reader, which generates the characteristic range of redox conditions. The current passing
between the working electrodes 169a-d and the counter electrodes 170a-d is then measured to
obtain the test results.     The voltage sweep is a slowly incrementing set of voltages applied
between the electrodes. Preferably the sweep is from about -0.7 volts to about +1 volts relative to
the reference electrode. The voltage is applied in consecutive incrementing pulses having a pulse
modulation amplitude of between 30 and 80 millivolts (preferably between 40 and 60 millivolts;
more preferably 50 millivolts). Preferably the step increment from one pulse to the next is between
 1 and 5 millivolts (preferably between 2 and 4 millivolts; more preferably 3 millivolts). By applying
these voltages across the electrodes, current measurements in the scale of 100s of nano amps
may be obtained.
The particular arrangement of detection electrodes illustrated in figure 10 may itself form an
isolated inventive aspect of the cartridge. Conventionally, the counter electrode in a potentiostat is
larger than the working electrode to provide an ample supply of surplus electrons. However, it has
been found that reversing this convention surprisingly offers better results for the exemplary
cartridge.   For the electrochemistry performed on the liquid sample described above in the
exemplary cartridge, it is found that having a working electrode which is larger than the counter
electrode provides larger signals and improved results by way of increased sensitivity. In other
words, having a current flow from a relatively large working electrode to a relatively small counter
electrode offers improvements over the conventional arrangement.
Preferably each working electrodes 169a-d is formed in a U-shape and each counter electrode
 170a-d is formed in a straight elongate shape between the two prongs of the respective U-shaped
working electrode.
The method operation of the exemplary cartridge introduced above will now be briefly explained.

                                                   35
1.4      Method of operation of the exemplary cartridge
1.4.1    The front end
As described above, a fluid sample (such as a urine sample) is introduced into the sample mixing
chamber 10 using a pipette. A portion of the sample passes to the sample indicator 12 to show
that a sample is present in the sample mixing chamber.
Once the cartridge 100 with a sample in the mixing chamber 10 is inserted into a reader, and the
reader is activated, the test may commence. Firstly, the reader will apply a mechanical actuator
(such as a foot) to collapse the lysis buffer blister 14. In doing so, the lysis buffer will be expelled
into the sample mixing chamber 10 where it will mix with the sample.
The bellows 20 and its valves 22a-b then moves the liquid sample and lysis buffer back and forth
into the sample mixing chamber 10 so as to mix the lysis and sample and to rehydrate the internal
control. Following the mixing step, incubation of the sample and lysis buffer occurs to allow cell
lysis to take place.
The bellows 20 and its valves 22a-b will then commence operation to pump the sample from the
sample mixing chamber 10, into the main channel 16, through the coarse filter 18 and toward the
capture column 24. Within the capture column 24 nucleic acids are specifically bound to a filter in
the capture column on the basis of their size and charge. The unwanted liquid sample passes
through to the waste chamber 38.
Once the unwanted liquid sample has passed to the waste chamber 38, leaving the nucleic acids
bound to the capture column 24, the reader applies a mechanical actuator (such as a foot) to
collapse the wash buffer blister 30.    In doing so, the wash buffer will be expelled into the first
branch channel 26, and thence into the main channel 16. Again, the bellows 20 and its valves
22a-b will commence operation to pump the wash buffer through the main channel 16 and through
the capture column 24 to wash any remaining unwanted cell debris and other cellular components
out of the capture column with the wash buffer through to the waste chamber 38, or else the wash
buffer will be flushed into the waste chambers using air from the wash and/or elution buffer air
inlets.
Once the wash sample has passed to the waste chamber 38, leaving only the bound and purified
nucleic acids in the capture column 24, the reader applies a mechanical actuator (such as a foot)
to collapse the elution buffer blister 32. In doing so, the elution buffer will be expelled into the

                                                    36
second branch channel 28, and thence into the main channel 16. Again, the bellows 20 and its
valves 22a-b will commence operation to pump the elution buffer through the main channel 16 and
through the capture column 24 to elute the nucleic acids from the capture column, or else the
elution buffer will be flushed into the capture column using air from the wash and/or elution buffer
air inlets. The prepared liquid sample then passes through to the elution chamber 46; again, either
by being pumped or flushed as described above.
The sample settles in the elution chamber 46 allowing bubbles to disperse before entering the
amplification chambers.
1.4.2    The back end
The bellows 20 and its valves 22a-b will then commence operation to pump the liquid sample from
the elution chamber 46, through the mixing channel 52, through the isolation valve 59 and into the
amplification chambers 56a-b, or else the sample will be flushed into the amplification chambers
using air from the wash and/or elution buffer air inlets. In the nucleic acid amplification chambers
56a-d the nucleic acid of interest, if present, is amplified such that it is present at a detectable level.
The control nucleic acid is also amplified such that it is present at a detectable level. As mentioned
above, any nucleic acid amplification method may be used. Where PCR is used, primers
specifically hybridise to the nucleic acid of interest and are extended by a thermostable polymerase
such as Taq polymerase via the addition of dNTPs to the 3' end of each of the primers. Any excess
liquid sample may be removed from the fluid pathway through the bypass channels 68.
The bellows 20 and its valves 22a-b will then commence operation to pump the liquid sample from
the amplification chambers 56a-b and into the detection chambers 62a-d, or else the sample will
be flushed into the detection chambers using air from the wash and/or elution buffer air inlets. In
the detection chambers, the target probe specifically hybridises to the target amplified nucleic acid
of interest and the control probe specifically hybridises to the amplified control nucleic acid. The
nuclease hydrolyses the target and control probes following hybridisation of the probes to the
amplified nucleic acid. The hydrolysis of the target and control probes frees the labels from the
probes causing a detectable change in the signal from the labels to occur.
Once the liquid sample occupies the detection chambers, the reader applies a mechanical actuator
to the isolation valve 50 to close the valve and isolate the liquid sample in the back end of the
device.

                                                   37
The electrodes provide a potential difference across the at least one detection chamber.
Depending on the state of the label (i.e. whether it is attached to the full length probe or the probe
has been hydrolysed and it is free or attached to a single nucleotide or short part of the probe), the
current that is able to flow through the detection chamber will differ. The electrodes therefore allow
detection by the reader of the change in the signal from the label which results from hydrolysis of
hybridised probe.
The principles disclosed herein will now be described with reference to figures 21 to 25.
2.      Handling the liquid sample in the back end
The following section describes the principles disclosed herein in more detail with reference to
figures 21 to 25. The principles disclosed herein may be implemented in the exemplary fluidic
cartridge described above, specifically in the back end of the cartridge, downstream of the isolation
valve.   However, it will be appreciated that the principles disclosed herein have a number of
advantages which may be applicable in circumstances other than the exemplary fluidic cartridge
described above.
Before the principles disclosed herein are discussed in detail, however, additional aspects of the
back end of the exemplary cartridge will be described.        It will be appreciated that the principles
disclosed herein may be implemented in combination with these additional aspects.
2.1     Meterinq the liquid sample
Figure 16 shows a first embodiment of a valve system for metering a liquid sample. The valve
system C100 comprises a fluid pathway C110 for passing fluid from an upstream end to a
downstream end, a sample processing chamber C102 within the fluid pathway, having an inlet
valve C101 upstream of the sample processing chamber C102 and an outlet valve C103
downstream of the sample processing chamber C102. The sample processing chamber may, for
example, be a nucleic acid amplification chamber 58a-b described above in respect of the
exemplary cartridge, although other chambers are also possible.                A downstream sample
processing region may be provided at the downstream end of the fluid pathway. In the exemplary
cartridge, the downstream sample processing region may be target chamber C104, which is
located along the fluid pathway downstream of the outlet valve C103. Again, the target chamber
may, for example, be a detection chamber 64a-d described above in respect of the exemplary
cartridge, although other chambers are also possible.       Irrespective of the purposes to which the
sample processing chamber and target chamber are put, the target chamber is a chamber to which

                                                  38
a volume of a liquid sample is to be delivered, once the sample has passed through the processing
chamber.
A bypass channel C105 is coupled to the fluid pathway at a junction between the outlet valve C103
and the target chamber C104. The purpose of the bypass channel C105 is to permit excess liquid
sample, which should be prevented from entering the target chamber, to be removed from the fluid
pathway, as described in more detail below.
Inlet valve C101 and outlet valve C103 may be pneumatically-actuated valves formed in the
pneumatic and fluidic layers of the exemplary cartridge, for example. A diagram of an exemplary
pneumatically-actuated valve is shown in figure 17. A valve cavity C201 may be formed in a single
polymer layer or in a plurality of layers, such as the housing layer 111, pneumatic layer 114, and
fluidic layer 115 of the exemplary cartridge described above. A flexible valve membrane C202 is
formed within the valve cavity C201 to define a valve chamber C203 between the valve membrane
C202 and the valve cavity C201. The membrane may be overmoulded onto the pneumatic layer,
as explained above.
The valve chamber C203 has a first opening C204 and a second opening C205, each connected to
a channel; either the bypass channel C105, a channel which forms part of the main pathway C110,
or any other channel. The flexible membrane C202 is movable between a closed position (figure
 17a), in which the flexible membrane C202 seals against the first and second openings C204,
C205 to prevent fluid flow through the channel or pathway, and an open position (figure 17b), in
which the flexible membrane C202 is spaced apart from the first and second openings C204, C205
to permit fluid to flow through the channel or pathway.
The valve C200 further comprises a passageway C206 having an opening into the valve cavity
C201. The opening of passageway C206 is separated from the first and second openings C204,
C205 by the flexible membrane C202. The passageway C206 serves as an actuation channel to
move the flexible membrane between its open and closed positions actuate the valve. Preferably,
under atmospheric pressure, valve membrane C202 is sealed against first and second openings
C204, C205 and the valve is closed. Conversely, when a vacuum or gauge pressure is applied via
the fluid passageway C206, the pressure within the valve cavity C201 reduces below that in the
channel of fluid pathway C110 and the flexible membrane C202 is brought into the open position.
Actuation passageway C206 may be connected to a port on pneumatic interface through which the
vacuum or gauge pressure may be applied.

                                                  39
Referring back to figure 16, it will be understood that the inlet and outlet valves C101, C103 may
each be configured in accordance with the valve shown in figures 17a-b. Preferably, the actuation
passageways of the inlet and the outlet valves C101, C103 are coupled to a single port on the
pneumatic interface to permit substantially simultaneous actuation of the inlet and outlet valves
C101, C103. To improve the accuracy of the simultaneous actuation, the actuation passageways
from the valve to the pneumatic interface may be the same length and the total volume of the
passageways and valve cavities are equal. This ensures that upon application of a gauge pressure
to the actuation passageways via the port on the pneumatic interface (not shown), inlet valve and
outlet valves C101, C103 will be opened and closed simultaneously. To improve the speed of
actuation, the inlet valve and outlet valves C101, C103 may be provided with abutments, as
described in more detail below.
The arrangement described above permits a precise volume of liquid sample to be delivered from
the sample processing chamber C102 to the target chamber C104, as will now be explained. A
liquid sample is first introduced through fluid pathway C110.      The sample passes downstream,
through the open inlet valve C101 and into the sample processing chamber C102.            When the
sample processing chamber is full, the liquid sample passes further downstream, through the open
outlet valve C103 such that at least a portion of the liquid sample is downstream of the outlet valve
C103.
At this point, at least outlet valve C103 (but preferably both the inlet valve C101 and outlet valve
C103) is closed. This ensures that a fixed and predetermined volume of liquid sample is contained
between the inlet valve C101 and outlet valve C103.
Once the outlet valve C103 (or the inlet valve C101 and the outlet valve C103) is closed, excess
liquid sample downstream of the outlet valve may be removed from the fluid pathway via the
bypass channel C105.         A preferred arrangement for removing the excess liquid sample is
described below, but any means will do for the purpose of describing the present embodiment. For
instance, a vacuum may be applied to the bypass channel C105 to remove the liquid sample and
an appropriate re-pressurising system provided to ensure that the fluid pathway returns to its
normal operating pressure.
Once the surplus liquid sample has been removed from the fluid pathway downstream of the outlet
valve C103 via the bypass channel C105, a fixed and predetermined volume of liquid sample
exists between the inlet valve C101 and the target chamber C104.                Thus, the fixed and
predetermined volume of liquid sample may be delivered to the target chamber C104 simply by

                                                 40
opening the outlet valve C103 and passing the liquid from the sample processing chamber to the
target chamber by any convenient process, such as described above.
As will now be explained, when the valve system described above in connection with figure 16 is
used in the exemplary cartridge fluidic cartridge, a metering system C300 is established for
delivering a well-defined volume of processed sample to detection chambers C306.
Referring now to figure 18, in the exemplary cartridge described above, two fluid pathways are
provided. Of course, more or fewer pathways may be provided depending on the preferred
implementation.
First fluid pathway C310a comprises a first sample processing chamber C302a, a first inlet valve
C301a upstream of the first sample processing chamber C302a, a first outlet valve C303a
downstream of the first sample processing chamber C302a and first and second detection
chambers C304a1, C304a2 branching from the main channel of the first fluid pathway,
downstream of the first outlet valve C303a. Again, more or fewer detection chambers may be
provided per fluid pathway, depending on the preferred implementation.
Likewise, second fluid pathway C310b comprises a second sample processing chamber C302b, a
second inlet valve C301b upstream of the second sample processing chamber C302b, a second
outlet valve C303b downstream of the second sample processing chamber C302b and third and
fourth detection chambers C304b1, C304b2, branching from the main channel of the second fluid
pathway C310b, downstream of the second outlet valve C303b.
First and second bypass channels C305a C305b are coupled to the first and second fluid pathways
C310a, C310b respectively between the outlet valves C303 and the detection chambers C304. If
more or fewer fluid pathways were provided, it will be appreciated that a corresponding number of
bypass channels may be connected thereto at a corresponding number of junctions.
Although in the embodiment illustrated in figure 18, the ratio of sample processing chambers to
target chambers is 1:2, it will be appreciated that the ratio may be 1:1, 1:3 or 1:n such that there
are n target chambers branching from the main channel of each fluid pathway.
Referring still to figure 18, in an exemplary embodiment of the valve system, there is further
provided a control valve (or 'bypass' valve) C315 to which the first and second bypass channels
are coupled, the isolation valve 50 from which the first and second fluid pathways stem, and first,
second, third and fourth gas springs C306, downstream of the first, second, third and fourth target

                                                41
chambers C304 respectively. The bypass valve C315 is a valve which is used to control the
movement of a liquid sample within the back end, as described in more detail below. The liquid
sample enters the back end of the fluidic cartridge through isolation valve 50 and then enters
amplification chambers C302a, C302b. Gas springs 306a1-2 and 306b1-2 are blind bores (that is,
dead-ends in the channels) which contain a compressible gas.             The compressible gas is
compressed as a fluid is pushed into the channel in which the gas spring is located, and the
compressible gas thus exerts a force against the fluid in the channel in a direction opposite to that
from in which it is introduced.
An implementation of valve system C300 will now be explained with reference to figures 18 and 19.
A liquid sample is introduced into the back end of the exemplary cartridge via isolation valve 50e.
As liquid sample is introduced, first and second inlet valves C301a-b and first and second outlet
valves C303a-b are open, and bypass valve C305 is closed. As the liquid sample is passed along
the first and second fluid pathways C310a-b, the volume between the dead-end of gas springs
C306a1-2, C306b1-2 and the fluid sample in the fluid pathways reduces. Since bypass valve C315
is closed, no air can escape downstream of the advancing fluid sample, and gas springs C306a1
2, C306b1-2 become pressurised. The liquid sample continues to be advanced along first and
second fluid pathways C310a-b until it passes the outlet valves C303a-b, at which point it is known
that a surplus of fluid has been delivered to sample processing chambers C302a-b.            Once a
surplus of liquid sample has been delivered and the sample processing chambers C302a-b are full,
inlet and outlet valves C301a-b and C302a-b are closed.
Once the inlet and outlet valves C301a-b and C302a-b are closed, the sample is processed in the
sample processing chambers C302a-b. In the exemplary cartridge described above, it is envisaged
that PCR amplification will be performed on the sample. Once the inlet and outlet valves C301a-b
and C302a-b are closed, and whilst the liquid sample is being processed in sample processing
chambers C302a-b, bypass valve C315 is opened, whilst the first and second inlet and outlet
valves C301a-b and C302a-b remain closed. The bypass valve may be opened whilst the liquid
sample is being processed, or after or before the liquid sample is processed. When bypass valve
C315 is opened, first and second bypass channels C305a-b are permitted return to atmospheric
pressure by virtue of the bypass valve being vented to atmosphere in any convenient manner.
Since the pressure in bypass channels C305a-b is now less than the pressure in the pressurised
gas springs C306a1-2, C306b1-2, the surplus fluid in the fluid pathways C310a-b is forced out of
the pathways and into the bypass channels C305a-b by the force exerted from the gas springs
C306a1-2, C306b1-2. To ensure that substantially all the surplus liquid sample is forced out of the
pathways, the bypass channels C305a-b are located immediately adjacent the outlet valves 303a-b

                                                 42
to prevent dead-legs from forming between the outlet valves 303a-b and the junctions at which the
bypass channels 306a-b join the fluid pathways.
Once the surplus fluid sample has been drawn into bypass channels C305a-b, first and second
inlet and outlet valves C301a-b and C302a-b are opened and the processed sample is advanced
along the first and second fluid pathways and delivered to the detection chambers C304a1-2,
C304b1-2.
Steps of the method described above are set out in figure 19.
2.2.    Evacuating excess liquid sample
In the above discussion of a valve system for metering a liquid sample in a sample chamber, an
example was given of a mechanism for expelling a surplus liquid sample using gas springs. This
novel mechanism for expelling a surplus liquid sample need not only be used in conjunction with a
sample processing chamber bounded by inlet and outlet valves, and could instead be used to
expel a surplus liquid sample from a main fluid pathway downstream of an outlet valve of any
subsystem or sample processing region in a fluidic cartridge, to ensure that only the contents
remaining upstream of the outlet valve is passed to the target chamber.
Thus, figure 20 shows an embodiment of a valve system for expelling a liquid sample from sub
system such as a sample processing region (not shown). The valve system C500 comprises a
fluid pathway C510 for passing fluid from an upstream end to a downstream end, an outlet valve
C503 downstream of the sample processing region (not shown), and a target chamber C504
located along the fluid pathway downstream of the outlet valve C503. The target chamber may, for
example, be a detection chamber 64a-d described above in respect of the exemplary cartridge,
although other chambers are also possible, depending on the particular sample processing region.
Irrespective of the purpose to which the target chamber is put, the target chamber is a chamber to
which a volume of a liquid sample is to be delivered, once the sample has exited the sample
processing region.
A bypass channel C505 is coupled to the fluid pathway between the outlet valve C503 and the
target chamber C504. The purpose of the bypass channel C505 is to permit excess liquid sample,
which should be prevented from entering the target chamber C504, to be removed from the fluid
pathway, as described in more detail below.

                                                  43
A gas spring C506 is provided downstream of the target chamber C504. As explained above, the
gas spring C506 is a blind bore (that is, a dead-end in the channel) which contains a compressible
gas. The compressible gas is compressed as a fluid is pushed into the channel in which the gas
spring is located, and the compressible gas thus exerts a force against the fluid in the channel. A
bypass valve C515 is also provided within the bypass channel. The bypass valve is a valve which
is used to control the movement of a liquid sample, as described below
A liquid sample passes from the sample processing region (not shown) and downstream of the
open outlet valve C503. As liquid exits the sample processing region, the outlet valve C503 is
open and the bypass valve C515 is closed. As the liquid sample is passed along the fluid pathway
C510, the volume between the dead-end of the gas spring C506 and fluid sample reduces. Since
bypass valve C515 is closed, no air can escape downstream of the advancing fluid sample, and
gas spring C506 becomes pressurised. The liquid sample continues to be advanced along the fluid
pathway C510 until it passes the outlet valve C503.        Once this happens, outlet valve C503 is
closed.
Once outlet valve is closed, bypass valve C515 is opened, whilst the outlet valve remains closed.
When bypass valve C515 is opened, the bypass channel C505 is permitted return to atmospheric
pressure, again by virtue of the bypass valve being vented to atmosphere in any convenient
manner.     Since the pressure in bypass channel C505 is now less than the pressure in the
pressurised gas springs, the surplus fluid in the fluid pathway is forced out of the pathway and into
the bypass channel C505 by the force exerted from the gas spring 506. To ensure that
substantially all the surplus liquid sample is forced out of the pathway, the bypass channel is
located immediately adjacent the outlet valve C503 to prevent a dead-leg from forming between
the outlet valve 503 and the junction at which the bypass channel C506 joins the fluid pathway.
Once the surplus fluid sample has been expelled into bypass channel C505, the outlet valve C503
is opened and processed sample is advanced along the fluid pathway and delivered to the
detection chamber C504.
It will be recognised that the embodiment discussed in connection with figure 20 may be
implemented with any number of fluid pathways, any number of target chambers, and any number
of gas springs.    It will also be recognised that the embodiment discussed in figure 20 may be
implemented in the exemplary fluidic cartridge in the manner described above in connection with
figures 18 and 19.

                                                 44
Once the excess liquid sample has been removed from the fluid pathway and passed into the
bypass valve, it may be prevented from returning into the fluid pathway by any convenient means.
For example, in the exemplary fluid cartridge, the isolation valve and bypass valve may be
configured to reduce the pressure in the back end of the cartridge, and preferably develop a
negative fluid pressure in the back end of the cartridge, thereby sucking the excess liquid sample
toward the bypass valve and preventing it from returning toward the fluid pathway.
The use of gas springs in the embodiments described above in connection with figures 18 to 20 is
particularly advantageous because it permits equal quantities of processed sample to be delivered
to the target chambers even when local imbalances in pressures (such as those caused by thermo
cycling in a nucleic acid amplification process, for example) may make such precise delivery
difficult. By venting gas springs C306 and target chambers C304 through bypass channels C305
when the bypass valve is open, and allowing the target chambers to equalise, the pressure within
the target chambers can remain equal and ensure delivery of equal quantities of liquid sample.
Referring back to the implementation of the valve systems in the exemplary cartridge (see figures
18 and 19), it is preferred that the combined volume of the plurality of detection chambers
branching from each sample processing chamber is approximately half of the volume of sample
processing chamber itself. This is because as processed sample from sample processing chamber
C302 is advanced, unprocessed sample from upstream of the sample processing chamber is also
passed along each fluid pathways C310 and mixes with the processed fluid downstream of the
sample processing chamber C302. By ensuring that there is twice as much processed fluid
available than the combined capacity of the plurality of detection chambers, only the undiluted
processed fluid will be advanced into detection chambers C306.       Of course, this ratio is merely
preferred, and in reality any ratio wherein the volume of the sample processing chamber is larger
than the combined volumes of the target chambers would work.
The principles disclosed herein will now be described with reference to figures 21 to 25.
2.3       The bypass valve and valve system
A valve embodying principles disclosed herein may be implemented in the exemplary fluidic
cartridge described above, specifically at the bypass valve 68. However, it will be appreciated that
a valve embodying principles disclosed herein has a number of advantages, which may be
applicable in circumstances other than the exemplary fluidic cartridge.
Figure 21 shows a first embodiment of a valve D100 embodying principles disclosed herein. The
valve D100 comprises a valve cavity D101 and a flexible valve membrane D105 provided within

                                                  45
valve cavity D101. The valve cavity D101 may be formed in a single polymer layer or may be
comprised of a plurality of layers, such as the housing 111, pneumatic layer 114, and fluidic layer
115 of the exemplary cartridge 100. The valve membrane D105 is formed within the valve cavity
D101 and may be over-moulded onto the pneumatic layer, as explained above.
The valve cavity D101 has side walls D130, a floor D132 and is open at the top. The valve cavity
D101 comprises first and second openings D102, D103 in the floor D132 connected to first and
second passageways, D112, D113 formed in the fluidic layer 115.           First and second openings
D102, D103 may be located on first and second raised portions of valve cavity D101 to form first
and second valve seats.
Between the flexible membrane D105 and the floor D132 of the valve cavity D101, a valve
chamber D1 15 is defined. The valve chamber is therefore fluidly connected to the first and second
openings D102, D103.
Valve membrane D105 comprises a first valve membrane portion D122 and a second valve
membrane portion D123.
The first valve membrane portion D122 is movable between an open position, in which it is spaced
apart from the first opening D102 and permits fluid to flow between the first passageway D1 12 and
the valve chamber D115, and a closed position, in which it seals against the first opening D102
and prevents any fluid flow between the first passageway D1 12 and the valve chamber D1 15.
Similarly, the second valve membrane portion D123 is movable between an open position in which
it is spaced apart from the second opening D103 and permits fluid to flow between the second
passageway D113 and the valve chamber D115, and a closed position, in which it seals against
the second opening D102 and prevents any fluid flow between the second passageway D1 13 and
the valve chamber D1 15.
It will therefore be appreciated that the valve chamber D1l15 has a first volume, V1, when the first
and second valve portions are in their open positions; a second volume, V2, when one of the first
and second valve portions is in its open position and the other is in its closed position; and a third
volume, V3, when the first and second valve positions are in their closed positions. It will be
appreciated that V1 > V2 > V3.          Volume V3 is ideally as small as possible, and may be
substantially zero.

                                                  46
The first and second valve membrane portions D122, D123 are actuatable independently of one
another. For instance, when the valve is used in the exemplary cartridge and when the cartridge is
inserted into a reader, the reader may apply first and second mechanical actuators, such as feet, to
actuate the first and second valve membrane portions D122 and D123 independently. This is
advantageous in a sealed system, such as the back end of the exemplary cartridge where there is
a critical pressure to be maintained on one side of the valve. In this case the valve seat
corresponding to the first and second channels can be actuated first while keeping the valve
chamber open to the bypass channel, to avoid pressurising the first and second channels or
displacing the liquid therein.
Referring now to figure 22, a second embodiment of a valve D200 embodying principles disclosed
herein is illustrated. The second embodiment is identical to the first (and like reference numerals
refer to similar features), except that a third opening D204 is provided in the floor of the valve
cavity in addition to the first and second openings D202, D203.           The third opening D204 is
connected to a third passageway D214 and is adapted to be sealed by the second valve
membrane portion D223, to prevent fluid moving between the third passageway D214 and the
valve chamber D250.
In the embodiment shown in figure 22, second and third openings D203, D204 are located on
second and third raised portions D243, D244.        However, it will be appreciated that second and
third opening may be located on a single raised portion D343 as shown in figure 18, or that they
may be located on a region substantially flush with the rest of the valve cavity floor.
As shown, the second and third openings D203, D204 are spaced apart by distance b.                First
opening D202 is spaced apart from the second opening D203 by distance a.                The distance a
between first and second openings D202, D203 is greater than the distance b between second and
third openings D203, D204. This is convenient to enable the second and third openings D203,
D204 to be sealed by the second membrane portion D223 and the first opening D202 to be sealed
by the first membrane portion D222.
Although in the first and second embodiments illustrated in figures 21 and 22, the valve is shown
as having two or three openings, it will be appreciated that four or more openings may be provided.
The openings may be grouped in any manner so as to be sealed by the first membrane portion or
the second membrane portion, depending on the preferred implementation. It will also be
appreciated that, although in the embodiments shown in the drawings, the valve membrane is
shown to have first and second valve membrane portions, it possible that the valve membrane may

                                                   47
have three or more portions, each adapted to seal one or more openings and each adapted to be
independently actuatable.
As described above, the first valve membrane portion D222 and the second valve membrane
portion D223 may be mechanically actuated by first and second mechanical actuators D232, D233
which could, for instance, be provided in a reader (not shown). The first mechanical actuator D232
is configured to be movable from a first position in which it is spaced apart from the first valve
membrane portion D222 and a second position in which it presses first valve membrane portion
against opening D202, thereby sealing the opening.        Similarly the second mechanical actuator
D232 is configured to be movable from a first position in which it is spaced apart from the second
valve membrane portion D223, to a second position in which it presses second valve membrane
portion D233 against the second opening and third openings D203, D204.
The valve may be configured such that the mechanical actuators D232 and D233 may contact
substantially all of the valve membrane D205. Alternatively, the valve may be configured such that
the mechanical actuators D232 and D233 may only contact a portion of valve membrane D1 05.
Referring now to figures 23 and 24, it can be seen that by positioning the second and third
openings relatively close together, the second valve membrane portion D223 may be actuated to
effectively seal the second and third openings D203, D204 without requiring a large surface area to
contact the valve membrane D205. In contrast, the relatively large distance between the second
and first openings D202, D203 allows the second portion of valve membrane D223 to be
depressed by the second biasing means without significantly depressing the first valve membrane
portion D222.
Preferably, valve membrane D205 is formed of resiliently deformable polymer such that the valve
is biased into the first position. Preferably, the valve membrane D205 has a thickness of at least
0.25mm, most preferably a thickness of around 1mm. This ensures that the valve membrane is
thick enough to provide compliance for an effective seal over the openings.   By moving the biasing
means D232, D233 from the second position to the first position, biasing means D232, D233 no
longer press valve membrane D105 against openings D202, D203, D204 and the valve returns to
the open position.
An implementation of the valve D200 will be explained with reference to figure 25. In particular
valve D200 is used as a bypass valve 68 in the back end of the exemplary fluidic cartridge 100
discussed above.

                                                  48
Figure 25 shows following features of the exemplary cartridge 100: the elution branch 16b of the
main channel 16; the isolation valve 50; the mixing channel 52; the first and second PCR channels
54a, 54b and the first and second bypass channels 66a, 66b. Certain features present in the
exemplary cartridge 100 are omitted from figure 25 for clarity.
The network of channels and valves referred to in the previous paragraph form a valve system
D500; namely part of the back end of the exemplary fluidic device.            It will be appreciated that
principles disclosed herein may be implemented in other valve systems and with other networks of
channels, depending on the preferred implementation.       In particular, it will be appreciated that the
system in figure 25 may be combined with the features described under sections 2.1 and 2.2
above.
As illustrated in figure 25, the first and second bypass channels 66a, 66b are respectively
connected to the second and third openings D203, D204 of the bypass valve D200.                  The first
opening 202 and first passageway D212 are coupled to the elution branch 16b of the main channel
16 downstream of the isolation valve.
As described above, the back end of the exemplary fluid cartridge forms a closed system when the
isolation valve 50 is closed. Hence, a first advantage of using the bypass valve D200 in the valve
system D500 shown in figure 25 is that it can be used to depressurise the back end after the test is
complete. This may occur as follows. Once the liquid sample has been pumped into the detection
chambers (not shown) of the exemplary cartridge 100, the isolation valve may be closed to form a
closed system in the back end. However, at a suitable point before the isolation valve 50 is closed,
the first, and preferably second flexible membrane portions D222, D223 may be pushed by
mechanical actuators into their closed positions, thereby decreasing the volume within the valve
chamber D250.
When the volume of the valve chamber D250 is below its maximum (for instance when one or both
of the flexible membrane portions D222, D223 is in its closed position), the isolation valve may be
closed, thereby forming a sealed system in the back end. Once the isolation valve is closed, the
flexible membrane portions D222, D223 may be returned to their open positions, thereby
increasing the volume of the valve chamber D250 to its maximum.
In one example, when valve D200 is in the open position and valve membrane D205 is spaced
apart from openings D203, D204, as shown in figure 22, the volume of valve chamber D250 is
Vchamber(open). When valve D200 is in the closed position, as shown in figure 24, the volume of valve

                                                                49
chamber D250 is            Vchamber(closed). Vchamber(closed)  may be approximately 69pl, but could be other
volumes, including substantially zero.
Hence, when valve D200 is the open position, the volume of the valve system D500 is:
                                                 VopenVchamber(open)+Vnetwork.
When valve D200 is in the closed position, the volume of the valve system D500 is:
                                               Vclosed= Vchamber(closed) +Vnetwork
It will be appreciated that when the closed volume of the valve chamber is substantially zero:
                                                        Vclosed= Vnetwork.
In an exemplary embodiment, the volume of the valve chamber when open                                    (Vchamber(open)), is
approximately 153pl and approximately 69pl when closed                             (Vchamber(closed)). In the exemplary
embodiment, the total volume of the network (excluding the volume of the valve cavity),                          Vnetwork, is
approximately      7 80pl.    Typically, the system contains approximately 200pl of fluid sample, which
does not expand. Hence, when the control valve is open, the compressible volume of the closed
system D500,       (Vopen),   is approximately 7 33pl. When the control valve is closed, the compressible
volume of the closed system D500,               (Vclosed), is approximately 649pl.
A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the volumes given above are exemplary and that they
may be adapted for use in fluidic networks of various sizes. For example, the increase in volume of
the closed system D500 of the network of channels is preferably least 5%, more preferably at least
8%, more preferably at least 10%, and most preferably at least 13%. Following depressurisation,
the pressure within the closed system D500 is preferably be less than 95% of the start pressure
within the closed system, more preferably less than 90% of the start pressure and most preferably
less than or equal to 88.5% of the start pressure. The volume of the valve chamber D250 when the
valve is open is preferably at least 150% of the volume of the valve chamber D250 when the valve
is in the closed position, more preferably the open volume is 200% of the closed volume, more
preferably 210% of the closed volume and most preferably the open volume is 220% of the closed
volume.
Providing the isolation valve is open when valve D200 is closed, an amount of fluid equal to                        Vchamber
(open) - Vchamber (closed)  will be displaced outside the network of channels (upstream of the isolation

                                                     50
valve) and there will be an amount of fluid equal to       Vnetwok + Vchamber(closed) left in the network of
channels (downstream of the isolation valve).
When isolation valve 50 is closed, the system becomes a closed system and the quantity of fluid in
that system is fixed. When valve D200 is then reopened after the isolation valve has been closed,
the volume of the system returns to        Vopen. Since Vopen > Vclosed, the pressure in the system is
reduced, and, preferably, a negative pressure is created in the system. This reduction in pressure
reduces the risk of leakage of the cartridge. It will be appreciated that if this reduction in pressure is
large enough, it is possible to create a negative pressure in a system, even where the system is
initially slightly pressurised.
By closing valve D200 to reduce the volume of the system, closing the isolation valve to close the
system, and then opening valve D200 to increase the volume of the system, it is possible to reduce
the pressure in the system, and preferably, achieve a negative pressure within the back end of the
exemplary cartridge. Preferably, the change in the volume of valve chamber D250 is large enough
to effect a significant pressure change in the fluidic network. Although in the embodiments shown
in the drawings, valve chamber is shown to have two or three openings, it will be appreciated that
this method of depressurising a system will work with any number of openings.
As described above, the first and second bypass channels 66a, 66b may be used to remove
excess fluid sample from the first and second fluid pathways through the first and second PCR
channels 54a, 54b. Thus, the first bypass channel 66a is coupled to the first fluid pathway in the
first PCR channel 54a and the second bypass channel 66b is coupled to the second fluid pathway
in the second PCR channel 54b.
At an appropriate point in the test, it is necessary to close the bypass valve D200. However, when
closing the bypass valve, there is a risk that the pressure change caused by the membrane sealing
against the second and third openings D203, D204 will push fluid in the bypass channels 66a, 66b
back toward the PCR channels 66a, 66b, particularly if fluid is unable to escape elsewhere in the
system. This is undesirable. Hence, a second advantage of using the bypass valve D200 in the
valve system D500 shown in figure 25 is that the pressure change causing such backflow can be
mitigated.
By using a valve D200, a first step of applying a force to the second valve membrane portion may
be carried out to seal the second valve membrane portion against the second and third openings of
the valve chamber. Figure 23 shows the valve D200 in an intermediate position wherein second
and third openings are sealed by second valve membrane portion D223 whilst the first opening

                                                     51
D202 remains open. A second step is then performed which comprises applying a force to the first
valve membrane portion D222 to seal the first valve membrane D222 portion against the first
opening D202 in the valve chamber D250.
By closing the second and third openings before closing the first opening in the valve chamber, it is
possible to avoid pressurising the second and third passageways excessively, and in fact to
minimise the back flow into the first and second bypass channels.
Although the method described above refers to a valve having first, second and third openings, it
will be appreciated that this method may be adapted for valves having two or four or more valves
arranged in two groups, wherein the first group of valves is sealed by the first valve membrane
portion, and the second group of valves may be sealed by the second valve membrane portion. In
this context, it is intended that a group refer to one or more valves.
Preferably, in embodiments of principles disclosed herein having four or more openings, the first
valve membrane portion is configured to seal the first opening and the second valve membrane
portion is adapted to seal any subsequent openings.            Additionally, the opening of the valve
chamber may be located on a raised portion of the valve chamber to create a raised valve seat.
Each raised portion may comprise multiple openings, or each opening may be provided with its
own raised portion. Alternatively some or all of the openings may not be located on a raised
portion.   It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods
and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.
Although preferred embodiments of principles disclosed herein are illustrated in the figures, it
should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments described herein can be
employed in practicing the principles disclosed herein.
3.       Additional isolated inventive aspects
The following is a non-exhaustive list of isolated aspects of the exemplary cartridge described
above which may be claimed. These aspects are described with reference to figures 11 to 15.
The inclusion of this section does not preclude there being further aspects of the exemplary
cartridge described above which may also be claimed.
3.1      Valves for minimisinq dead volume

                                                 52
An advantageous arrangement for a valve in a fluidic cartridge will now be described, which may
form an isolated inventive aspect.
Hence, in one aspect, there is provided a valve for a fluidic cartridge, the valve comprising:
        a valve cavity having first and second openings connected to first and                 second
passageways, respectively; and
        a flexible membrane movable between a closed position, in which the flexible membrane
seals against the first and second openings to prevent fluid flow between the first and second
passageways, and an open position, in which the flexible membrane is spaced apart from the first
and second openings to permit fluid to flow between the first and second passageways;
        wherein the a valve cavity comprises a roof and a floor, the floor comprising said first and
second openings; and further comprising:
        an abutment between the flexible membrane and the roof of the valve cavity, such that the
abutment restricts movement of the membrane in its open position.
Preferably the abutment is provided on the flexible membrane, and comprises one or more of a
protrusion, a cage, a lip or a cross structure.
It is sometimes advantageous to limit the extent to which the flexible membrane in a valve
described herein is able to travel in its open position. That is, it is desirable to minimise the
distance which the valve membrane moves to its open, and thus minimise the distance it must
travel to close. By minimising this distance, the dead volume within the valve cavity is reduced,
improving the reactivity of the valve.
Hence, as shown in more detail in figure 11, preferred embodiments of a valve 300 further
comprise an abutment 302. The abutment of the illustrated example is a cross structure, but in
different embodiments may be a protrusion, cage, lip or similar, attached to the upper surface of
the flexible membrane 304 so as to contact the roof 306 of the valve cavity and thus limit
movement of the membrane in its open position.
It should be appreciated that the channels and openings of the valve are not shown in figure 11.
The abutment is particularly advantageous when filing the amplification chambers of the exemplary
cartridge, because it reduces the dead-volume in the valve cavity and thus limits the distance
between the bottom surface of the flexible membrane and the openings in the valve cavity, thereby
permitting a more precise volume of fluid to be metered into the amplification chambers.

                                                  53
3.2      Crack pressure in valves
An advantageous arrangement for a valve in a fluidic cartridge will now be described, which may
form an isolated inventive aspect.
Hence, in one aspect, there is provided a valve for a fluidic cartridge, the valve comprising:
         a valve cavity having first and second openings connected to first and                second
passageways, respectively;
         a flexible membrane within the valve cavity movable between a closed position, in which
the flexible membrane seals against the first and second openings to prevent fluid flow between
the first and second passageways, and an open position, in which the flexible membrane is spaced
apart from the first and second openings to permit fluid to flow between the first and second
passageways; wherein
         the valve is configured such that a pressure required in the first passageway to move the
flexible membrane from the closed position to the open position is higher than a pressure required
in the second passageway to move the flexible membrane from the closed position to the open
position.
It will be appreciated that within the valve cavity there is a portion (known as the valve chamber)
between the flexible membrane and the floor. There is also a portion within the valve cavity on the
other side of the flexible membrane to the valve chamber. This portion will have a volume. The
pressure within that volume may be changed by applying a positive or gauge pressure to the
volume via an actuation channel, for example. The actuation channel may be connected to a
source of positive or gauge pressure via a pneumatic interface, for example. The pressure within
the volume is known as the actuation pressure. This operation is described in more detail above.
In a preferred arrangement, the first and second openings may be arranged such that fluid in the
first passageway acts on the flexible membrane only over a relatively small cross-sectional area
whereas fluid in the second passageway acts on the flexible membrane over a larger cross
sectional area, preferably substantially the whole membrane.
The effect of this is that the valve is able to withstand a much greater pressure in the first
passageway that in the second passageway.
Preferably the valve cavity has a floor comprising the first and second openings and one or more
walls between which the flexible membrane extends; and wherein the second opening is coupled

                                                   54
to a recess in the floor between the opening and the flexible membrane, the recess having a larger
cross-sectional area than the opening.
Preferably the first opening is located centrally within the floor and the recess extends around the
first opening, such that the second opening is located between the first opening and a wall of the
valve cavity. In a particularly preferred arrangement, the valve cavity has a circular cross section,
and the recess is an annular recess which surrounds the first opening.
Preferably the opening of the second fluid passageway is located adjacent the perimeter of the
valve chamber. Preferably the valve chamber has a diameter of between 2 and 10 mm, preferably
between 3 and 7 mm and more preferably 4 and 6 mm. More preferably, the second opening is
offset by 2 mm from the first opening.
An exemplary valve is shown in figure 12 in its closed position. The valve 310 may be used in
place of any of the valves of the exemplary fluidic cartridge shown above. The valve comprises a
valve cavity 312 having a flexible membrane 314 overlying a cavity floor 316 in which first 318 and
second 320 apertures are provided, leading to first 322 and second 324 fluid passageways,
respectively.
The cavity 312 is formed from a void in a first polymer layer (preferably the fluidic layer 114 of the
exemplary cartridge) together with a second polymer layer (preferably the second fluidic layer 115
of the exemplary cartridge).
The flexible membrane 314 is shown lying across the floor 316 of the cavity such that the valve is
shown in its closed position. The valve is movable from this position to an open position (where it
is spaced from the floor 316 and the apertures 322, 324 to form a valve chamber), as described
herein.
The first opening 318 of the valve is centrally located within the perimeter of the void formed in the
first polymer layer, and is therefore centrally located in the valve cavity 312. The second opening
324 of the valve is offset from the first opening 322.   The second opening is coupled to an annular
recess 326 in the floor, and thus the cross-sectional area over which the fluid in the second
passageway 324 acts on the flexible membrane 314 is much larger than the cross-sectional area
over which the fluid in the first passageway 322 acts on the flexible membrane.
The pressure of a fluid in the first passageway acts on the flexible membrane only over a relatively
small cross-sectional area of the flexible membrane. Thus, because the pressure of a fluid in the

                                                    55
valve cavity on the other side of the flexible membrane acts over the whole membrane, it may be
lower without allowing the membrane to move to its open position.
In contrast, the pressure of a fluid in the second passageway acts on the flexible membrane over a
relatively large cross-sectional area of the flexible membrane. Since the respective cross-sectional
areas are closer, so too is the pressure in the second passageway which the flexible membrane is
able to withstand vis-a-vis the pressure in the valve cavity.
Preferably, the respective cross-sectional areas of the openings of the fluid passageways allows
the membrane to resist pressures around 2.5 times the actuation pressure on the first, central, fluid
passageway, but only pressures equal to the actuation pressure (i.e. the pressure in the valve
cavity) on the opening of the second, offset, fluid passageway.
3.3     Entry port design
An advantageous arrangement for an entry port on a fluidic cartridge will now be described, which
may form an isolated inventive aspect.
Hence, in one aspect, there is provided a fluidic cartridge for processing a liquid sample, the
cartridge having a sample mixing chamber comprising:
        a sample inlet aperture for introducing a liquid sample into the sample mixing chamber;
        a cage surrounding the inlet aperture and extending into the sample mixing chamber, the
cage further comprising one or more protrusions extending radially inwardly to abut against a
sample delivery device introduced through the sample inlet.
The body of the cage may be formed from one or more elongate bars, or one or more solid walls,
depending from the roof of the sample mixing chamber.            If solid walls are provided, there is
preferably an aperture in the lower portion of the walls through which a liquid sample introduced by
the sample delivery device can pass. Preferably the bars or wall forming the body are tapered to
conform to the nib of a conventional sample delivery device introduced through the sample inlet.
Solid walls have the additional advantage that they provide a barrier to prevent fluid introduced into
the mixing chamber from escaping out of the inlet aperture, which is particularly useful if the
cartridge is turned upside-down during use.
If the cage is formed from solid walls, the protrusion may be a ledge extending inwardly from the
walls leaving an aperture. Preferably the protrusion extending from the sides of the inlet aperture

                                                 56
is positioned above the floor of the sample mixing chamber; more preferably above a liquid fill level
of the sample mixing chamber.       This prevents liquid sample from being sucked back into the
sample delivery device once introduced into the mixing chamber.
Preferably a vent is provided in the sample mixing chamber to allow air to escape from the
chamber during the introduction of the sample. This is particularly useful when the inlet aperture is
sealed by the sample delivery device.
Preferably a guide channel is provided within the sample mixing chamber (a portion of which is
preferably directly underneath the inlet aperture) to direct the sample introduced by a sample
delivery device into a visual indicator region.  An exemplary visual indicator region is described
above in connection with the exemplary cartridge.
Preferably a change in refractive index of the visual indicator region described herein identifies
when a sample has been introduced. The visual indicator region may comprise a narrow fluid
passageway, which becomes filled by the fluid sample via capillary action. The filling of the narrow
fluid passageway changes the refractive index of the visual indicator region and a colour change
identifies when a sample has been introduced.
A preferred embodiment of this aspect will now be described with reference to the exemplary fluidic
cartridge. The housing 111 (see figure 4) comprises a sample inlet aperture 126 through which a
sample may be introduced into the sample mixing chamber 10 of the cartridge 100 using a pipette,
for example. As shown in more detail in figure 13a, the sample mixing chamber 10 is formed from
the pneumatic layer 114, which has a roof adjacent the housing 111 in the region of the inlet
aperture, and a corresponding inlet aperture through which a sample may be introduced into the
sample mixing chamber 10.
The roof of the mixing chamber 10 comprises a cage structure formed by walls 330 surrounding
the inlet aperture 126 which extend into the sample mixing chamber 10 from the roof, and a ledge
332 extending radially inwardly from the walls 330.     The shape of the cage structure allows a
sample delivery device, such as a pipette, to be located in the correct position in the sample mixing
chamber 10, and the ledge 332 prevents the pipette contacting the surfaces of the sample mixing
chamber 10, thereby reducing the risk of contamination. The walls 330 can be tapered to further
increase the engagement with the pipette.
Once the sample delivery device is located through the aperture, the user can dispense the
sample. The ledge 332 is positioned above a nominal liquid fill level (not shown) of the sample

                                                    57
mixing chamber so as to prevent the user from accidentally sucking the sample back up after
dispensing it into the chamber.
A vent 334 into the chamber is provided to allow air to escape in the event that the inlet aperture is
sealed by the sample delivery device.
A guide 336 is provided within the sample mixing chamber 10, a portion of which is directly
underneath the inlet aperture 126 to direct the sample introduced by a sample delivery device into
a visual indicator region 338.       An exemplary visual indicator region is described above in
connection with the exemplary cartridge.
3.4     Thermal Isolation pockets
An advantageous arrangement for thermal isolation pockets for a nucleic acid amplification
chamber on a fluidic cartridge will now be described, which may form an isolated inventive aspect.
In nucleic acid amplification and detection, it is preferable to apply heat evenly throughout the liquid
sample. Whilst it is possible to do this without difficultly in a laboratory by placing heat sources
equidistantly around the sample, it is much harder to achieve in a cartridge.
Hence, in one aspect, there is provided a fluidic cartridge for performing nucleic acid amplification
on a liquid sample, the cartridge comprising at least one sample processing chamber and a
thermally insulating region adjacent the chamber to prevent heat loss from the chamber through
the thermally insulating region. Preferably the at least one sample processing chamber is one or
both of a nucleic acid amplification chamber and a nucleic acid detection chamber (hence forth
'processing chamber').
Preferably the nucleic acid processing chamber is adjacent a surface (preferably a bottom surface)
of the cartridge for accepting heat from an external source, the chamber situated between the
thermally insulating region and the surface such that heat passing from the external source through
the surface and thence the chamber is not lost out of the other side of the chamber owing to the
presence of the thermally insulating region.       This arrangement is found to make the change in
temperature inside the chamber (for instance when turning the heat source on and off) as fast as
possible, which is beneficial for performing rapid PCR, for example.
This is particularly advantageous because a single heat source may be placed adjacent the
cartridge to supply heat for the amplification process from one side (the heated side), and yet the

                                                   58
sample within the cartridge will be heated substantially and the amount of heat lost through the
unheated side minimised as far as possible.
Preferably the cartridge is comprised of at least a fluidic layer and a pneumatic layer in contacting
arrangement.    The nucleic acid processing chamber may be formed in the fluidic layer and the
thermally insulating region may be formed in the pneumatic layer. Preferably the fluidic cartridge
further comprises a fluidic foil underneath the fluidic layer, the foil forming the aforementioned
surface for accepting heat. The use of a thin foil maximises the heat transfer from the external
source. The material of the foil may be chosen to optimise the heat transfer. For instance, a metal
foil may be used, but it is preferred that a polyethylene terephthalate / polypropylene composite is
used due to the advantages in ease of manufacture of the cartridge, together with material strength
and acceptable heat transfer properties.
Preferably the thermally insulating region is formed from one or more sealed thermal isolation
pockets formed in the pneumatic layer and sealed by a pneumatic foil. The pockets may be filled
with gas such as air or may be evacuated during the manufacturing process such that they provide
a vacuum.
A preferred embodiment of this aspect will now be described with reference to the exemplary fluidic
cartridge. As shown in figure 3, the exemplary cartridge 100 comprises, from top to bottom, a
housing 111, a blister sub-assembly 112, a pneumatic foil 113, a pneumatic layer 114, a fluid layer
 115 and afluidicfoil 116.
Referring to figures 6A and 6B, which shows the pneumatic layer, six thermally insulating regions
 140a-b, 141a-d are provided.         The insulating regions 140a-b are located adjacent two
corresponding amplification chambers formed in the fluidic layer 115, whilst insulating regions
 141a-d are located adjacent four corresponding detection chambers formed in the fluidic layer 115,
when the cartridge is assembled. As shown, the insulating regions 140a-b consist of a plurality of
thermal isolation pockets, whereas insulating regions 141a-d each consist of a single pocket.
During nucleic acid amplification and detection, thermocycling of the amplification and detection
chambers takes place. The chambers in the fluidic layer may be heated by applying heat to the
bottom of the cartridge 100, adjacent the fluidic layer 115. The thermal isolation pockets retain the
heat within the cartridge, minimising heat loss from the fluidic layer 115 into the pneumatic layer
 114. The thermal isolation pockets also eliminate the need for heating of the fluidics cartridge from
both the top and bottom surfaces e.g. heating both the fluidics layer and the pneumatic layer,
simplifying the overall design of the cartridge and reader.

                                                  59
The thermal isolation pocket may comprise one large pocket or multiple smaller pockets. The
advantage of using multiple smaller pockets is that the risk of convection currents being set up is
reduced, thus providing maximal thermal insulation.
3.5      Capture column
An advantageous arrangement for a filtering device in a fluidic cartridge (preferably a 'capture
column') will now be described, which may form an isolated inventive aspect.
Hence, in one aspect, there is provided a fluidic cartridge comprising a channel through which a
liquid sample may pass, the channel having a filter for capturing biological components and further
comprising:
         an upstream portion and a downstream portion; and
         a capture portion between the upstream and downstream portions in which the filter is
arranged; wherein:
         the diameter of the capture portion is greater than the diameter of the upstream and
downstream portions.
Preferably the capture portion is a chamber within the channel, the chamber having an inlet
surface having an opening coupled to the upstream portion of the channel and an outlet surface
having an opening coupled to the downstream portion of the channel.
Preferably the fluidic cartridge comprises at least two polymer layers, wherein the upstream portion
and an upstream part of the capture portion of the channel are formed in a first polymer layer and
the downstream portion and a downstream part of the capture portion of the channel are formed in
a second polymer layer; and wherein the filter is clamped between the first and second polymer
layers.
Preferably the inlet surface of the chamber comprises distribution conduits leading radially
outwardly from the opening so as to direct a liquid sample passing through the opening in the inlet
surface radially outwardly.
Preferably the outlet surface of the chamber comprises distribution conduits leading radially
inwardly toward the opening so as to direct a liquid sample which has passed through the filter
radially inwardly toward the opening in the outlet surface.

                                                  60
A preferred embodiment of this aspect will now be described with reference to the exemplary fluidic
cartridge. In the exemplary cartridge described herein, a capture column 24 is provided along the
main channel (see figure 1). As shown in figures 14a and 14b, the capture column 24 has filter
340 which binds DNA from lysed material before releasing it during elution.       As shown in figure
 14a, capture column 24 comprises an inlet channel 342 leading into a capture chamber 344 at an
upstream end 346, and an outlet channel 350 leading from capture chamber 344 at a downstream
end 348.
A filter 340 is provided in chamber 344, perpendicular to the direction of flow of fluid through the
main channel, such that fluid must pass through filter 340 when passing from the upstream end of
the main channel 342 to the downstream end 350 of the main channel.
Referring now to figure 14b, the inlet and outlet walls (only one is shown) of the chamber comprise
distribution conduits 352 configured to direct fluid radially outwardly into the chamber 344 as it
enters the chamber, and radially inwardly toward the exit aperture after it has passed through the
filter 340.
3.6      Waste chamber
An advantageous arrangement for waste chamber in a fluidic cartridge will now be described,
which may form an isolated inventive aspect.
Hence, in one aspect, there is provided a fluidic cartridge comprising a channel through which a
liquid sample may pass and a waste chamber for receiving fluid from the channel, the waste
chamber comprising:
         a pipe, coupled to the channel, extending from a bottom surface of the waste chamber and
having an opening elevated above the bottom surface to pass fluid from the channel into the
chamber; and
         a vent within the waste chamber configured to vent the waste chamber to atmosphere.
 Preferably the vent comprises a second pipe, coupled to a vent channel within the cartridge,
extending from the bottom surface of the waste chamber and having an opening elevated above
the bottom surface. Preferably the vent passageway comprises at least one Anderson impactor.
 Preferably at least one absorbent pad is provided within the waste chamber.

                                                   61
A preferred embodiment of this aspect will now be described with reference to the exemplary fluidic
cartridge. In the exemplary cartridge described herein, a waste chamber is provided for collecting
and storing waste fluid which is produced during washing etc. Waste chamber 10 is shown in
more detail in figures 15a and 15b.         Waste chamber 38 comprises a pipe 360, extending
substantially vertically from a bottom surface 362 of waste chamber 38. The pipe 38 defines a
channel having a first end 364 connected to the bottom surface of the waste chamber 38 and
fluidly connected to the main channel 16. A second end 366 of fluid pipe 360 is disposed within
waste chamber 38, and has an opening through which fluid can flow into the waste chamber.
Preferably, pipe 360 is substantially vertical, and perpendicular to the bottom surface of the waste
chamber 38. The opening at the second end of pipe 360 is located near the top of the waste
chamber 38 as shown in figure 15b. By providing the first opening near the top of the waste
chamber, the risk of leakage is minimised should the cartridge be turned upside down.
Absorbent pads 368 are also provided in the waste chamber. Preferably, the upper surface of
absorbent pads 368 should also be near the top of waste chamber 38, even more preferably, the
top of absorbent pads 368 should be substantially level with the opening at the second end 366.
In the exemplary cartridge described herein, a second opening 370 is provided in waste chamber
38 as shown in figure 15b. The second opening 370 is configured to vent main channel 16 via
waste chamber 28 to atmospheric pressure. This avoids putting a back pressure along the main
channel as the waste channel fills with fluid. Preferably, the second opening 370 is provided at the
end of a second pipe 372 protruding from the bottom surface of waste chamber 38. The second
opening 370 may be fluidly connected to a vent passageway (not shown) which has an opening
outside of the cartridge housing to allow the waste chamber to remain at atmospheric pressure.
However, venting the waste chamber outside the cartridge carries a small risk of aerosol
contamination. To reduce this, the vent path has impact traps and vents under the cartridge cover.
The skilled person will be capable of modifying the exemplary cartridge to implement the inventive
aspects described herein in various ways depending on circumstances.           It is intended that the
scope of the present invention is defined by the following claims.

                                                     62
Claims
 1.      A valve for a fluidic cartridge, the valve comprising:
         a valve cavity having first and second openings connected to first and               second
passageways, respectively; and
         a flexible membrane within the valve cavity, the flexible membrane having a first portion
actuatable to seal against the first opening and a second portion actuatable to seal against the
second opening;
         wherein the valve cavity is configured such that the first flexible membrane portion is
actuatable independently of the second flexible membrane portion to enable the first opening to be
sealed independently of the second opening.
2.       The valve of claim 1, wherein a valve chamber is formed between the flexible membrane
and the cavity, the first and second openings being in communication with the chamber;
         wherein each of the first and second portions of the flexible membrane is configured to be
movable between a first position, in which it is spaced apart from its respective opening, and a
second position, in which it is sealed against its respective opening, thereby changing the volume
of the valve chamber.
3.       The valve of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the valve cavity further comprises a third opening
connected to a third passageway, wherein the second portion of the flexible membrane is also
actuatable to seal against the third opening.
4.       The valve of claim 3, wherein the distance between the first and second openings is a, and
the distance between the second and third openings is b, and wherein a is greater than b.
5.       The valve of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the flexible membrane is a resiliently
deformable polymer membrane such that the first and second portions of the flexible membrane
are biased into their first positions.
6.       The valve system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the valve chamber is formed in a first
polymer layer.
7.       The valve system of claim 6, wherein the first polymer layer is a pneumatic layer of the
fluidic cartridge.

                                                      63
8.       The valve system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the network of channels is formed in
a second polymer layer.
9.       The valve system of claim 8, wherein the second polymer layer is a fluidic layer of the
fluidic cartridge.
 10.     The valve system of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the first polymer layer comprises
polypropylene.
 11.     The valve system of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the second polymer layer comprises
polypropylene.
 12.     The valve system of claim 5, wherein the valve membrane comprises a thermoplastic
elastomer.
 13.     A method of actuating a valve in a fluidic cartridge comprising a valve cavity and a flexible
membrane within the valve cavity, the method comprising the steps of:
         exerting a force on a first portion of the flexible membrane to seal the first portion against a
first opening in the valve cavity; and subsequently
         exerting a force on a second portion of the flexible membrane to seal the second portion
against a second opening in the valve cavity.
 14.     The method of claim 13, wherein a chamber is formed between the flexible membrane and
the valve cavity, and the step of exerting a force on the first portion of the flexible membrane
further comprises reducing the volume of the chamber by moving the first portion of the flexible
membrane from a first position, in which the first portion is spaced apart from the first opening, to a
second position, in which the first portion is sealed against the first opening; and the step of
exerting a force on the second portion of the flexible membrane further comprises reducing the
volume of the chamber by moving the second portion of the flexible membrane from a first position,
in which the second portion is spaced apart from the second opening, to a second position, in
which the second portion is sealed against the second opening.
 15.     The method of claim 13 or claim 14, further comprising the steps of:
         removing the force on the first portion of the flexible membrane to break the seal between
the first portion and the first opening; and
         removing the force on the second portion of the flexible membrane to break the seal
between the second portion the second opening.

                                                 64
 16.    The method of claim 15, when dependent on claim 14, wherein the flexible membrane is
biased to the open position and wherein the step of removing the force on the first portion further
comprises increasing the volume of the chamber by moving the first portion from its second
position to its first position; and the step of removing the force on the second portion further
comprises increasing the volume of the chamber by moving the second portion from its second
position to its first position.
 17.    The method of any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein the step of exerting a force on the first
portion of the flexible membrane further comprises sealing the first portion against a third opening
in the valve cavity.
 18.    The method of claim 17, wherein the distance between the first and second openings is a,
and the distance between the second and third openings is b, and wherein a is greater than b.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
