BIOCHEMICAL ENERGY CONVERSION CELL
ABSTRACT
Presented herein is a voltaic cell containing light harvesting antennae or other biologically-based
electron generating structures optionally in a microbial population, an electron siphon population
having electron conductive properties with individual siphons configured to accept electrons
from the light harvesting antennae and transport the electrons to a current collector, an optional
light directing system (e.g. a mirror), and a regulator having sensing and regulatory feedback
properties for the conversion of photobiochemical energy and biochemical energy to electricity.
Also presented herein is a voltaic cell having electricity-generating abilities in the absence of
light. Also presented herein is the use of the voltaic cell in a solar panel.

                   BIOCHEMICAL ENERGY CONVERSION CELL
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S.
Provisional Applications No. 61/957,147, titled "PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS AND
PANELS," filed June 25, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/879,612, titled
"BIOCHEMICAL ENERGY CONVERSION CELL," filed September 18, 2013, and U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/991,335, titled "BIOCHEMICAL VOLTAIC CELLS,"
filed May 9, 2014, all of which are incorporated herein it their entireties for all purposes.
                                       BACKGROUND
[0002]     Current voltaic cells and solar panel systems have limited efficiency and require
complex materials resulting in significant associated costs. Many solar panels use wafer
based crystalline silicon cells or cadmium or silicon-based thin-film cells. These cells are
fragile and must be protected from moisture through adding multiple protective layers.
Panels are deployed in series for increased voltage and/or in parallel for increased current.
Panels are interconnected through conducting metallic wires. An inherent problem with
common systems is the susceptibility of the cells to overheat due to reverse current flow
when a portion of the panel is shaded and another portion of the panel is in direct sunlight.
Another inherent problem is that solar cells become less efficient at higher temperatures,
which limits the geographical effectiveness of light conversion to electricity.
Improvements such as arrayed lenses and mirrors improve the focusing of light to increase
efficiency but have higher fabrication complexity and associated costs.
[0003]     Dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) is a solar cell technology based on
semiconducting material placed between a light-sensitized anode and an electrolyte.
Fabrication of DSSCs is not cost-effective and requires expensive materials such as
platinum and ruthenium. Additionally, DSSC stability is a concern, as there exists a
climate-related sensitivity of the liquid electrolyte.
[0004]     Quantum dot solar cell (QDSC) technology is based on dye-sensitized solar cells
but utilizes low band gap semiconductor nanoparticles, also known as quantum dots,
which include CdS, CdSe, Sb 2 S 3 , PbS and other metalloid salts as light absorbers. The
advantages of quantum dots are that band gap preferences are dictated by particle size and
                                                    1

that they offer high extinction coefficients. The efficiencies of QDSCs are still low with
over 5% demonstrated for both liquid-junction and solid-state cell types and the fabrication
costs are still prohibitive.
 [0005]    Polymer (and copolymer) solar cells are made from thin films of organic
semiconducting polymers such as polyphenylene vinylene and copper phthalocyanine.
These cells differ from the aforementioned inorganic solar cells because they do not
require a built-in electric field of P-N junctions to separate electrons from holes. Instead,
organic cells contain an electron donor and an electron acceptor. In a polymeric solar cell,
the electron donor is excited by a photon, the energy of which is converted to an electron
and hole pair. The pair diffuses to the donor-acceptor interface whereby the electron and
hole are separated and current is generated.
 [0006]    Existing photovoltaic panels produce electricity from a range of wavelengths of
light but cannot harness wavelengths in the ultraviolet and infrared ranges (except for
recent conceptual studies with polymeric and copolymeric solar panels, although these
efficiencies remain low at 3-4%). The available panels also produce little electricity from
low light or diffuse light. Increased effort in design concepts split light into
monochromatic wavelengths and to direct these wavelengths to different solar cells
specifically tuned to those wavelengths and are projected to increase the efficiency by up
to 50%, but require significant technical advances and are very costly.
 [0007]    Field experiments involving solar panel technology reveal that a drop of 1.l1% in
peak output occurs for every increase in degrees Celsius past a threshold temperature of
42-44 degrees Celsius. This is problematic as on hot and sunny days, the surface
temperature of a panel can exceed 90 degrees Celsius and can often experience localized
heat buildup within the panel causing spots to be as high as 800 degrees Celsius due to the
reflective layering needed in current solar panels. Cold and sunny environments are the
optimal conditions for maximal efficiency of the current solar panels.
 [0008]    Photovoltaic solar panels have been used since the 1950s for the conversion of
sunlight to electricity, and decades of technological advancements have only increased the
efficiency to 12-28.8%. Recently, significant nanotechnological advancements have been
made to increase the efficiency from 10% to almost 29% but at increased design
complexity and fabrication cost.
                                                    2

                                           SUMMARY
 [0009]    Certain aspects of the disclosure pertain to voltaic cells characterized by the
following features: (a) a buffer containing an ionically conductive medium with an
electron donor population provided therein; (b) a vessel at least partially containing the
buffer electron donor population; (c) an anode for receiving electrons from the electron
donor population and providing electrons to an external circuit or load; and (d) a cathode
for donating electrons to, e.g., a species in the. In certain embodiments, the electron donor
population may be further characterized by a first species of microbe having a first primary
metabolic pathway and a second species of microbe having a second primary metabolic
pathway, which is complementary to the first primary metabolic pathway. In some
implementations, neither primary metabolic pathway is primarily glucose fermentative.
 [0010]    In certain embodiments, the voltaic cell additionally includes an ion permeable
and electron donor impermeable barrier separating the buffer into an anode compartment
and a cathode compartment, thereby preventing the electron donor population from
contacting the cathode. In some implementations, the barrier is electronically conductive.
In some implementations, the barrier contacts the anode. Some voltaic cells include a
current collector in electrical communication with the anode.
 [0011]    In some implementations, the first species of microbe and/or the second species
of microbe comprises light harvesting antennae. As an example, the first species of
microbe is excited by electromagnetic radiation in a first band, and at least one other
species of microbe in the buffer is excited by electromagnetic radiation in a second band.
The first band and the second band do not substantially overlap.
 [0012]    In certain embodiments, the first species of microbe is a phototrophic or chemo
trophic microbe. In certain embodiments, the first species of microbe is a chemotroph and
the second species of microbe is a phototroph. In certain embodiments, the first species of
microbe has pili, fibrils, flagella, and/or a filamentous shape.
 [0013]    In some implementations, the first primary metabolic pathway oxidizes a
compound containing carbon, nitrogen, phosphorous, or sulfur, and the second primary
metabolic pathway reduces the oxidized compound produced the first primary metabolic
pathway. In some implementations, the first species of microbe has a plurality of
metabolic pathways. In some embodiments, the first primary metabolic pathway and the
second primary metabolic pathway each participate in cellular respiration. In some
implementations, the first species of microbe is a naturally occurring microbial species.
                                                    3

 [0014]    In certain embodiments, the voltaic cell additionally includes a population of
electron siphons, where each electron siphon includes an electron accepting component for
receiving electrons from the electron donor population, and an electron conducting
element for directly or indirectly conducting electrons from the electron accepting
component to the anode. In some cases, the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers. In certain embodiments, the electron
siphons together form an assembly within the buffer, with the assembly configured to
conduct electrons from the electron donor population to the anode.
 [0015]    Another aspect of the disclosure concerns method of converting chemical and/or
light energy to electrical energy by operating the voltaic cell having any combination of
the features presented above in this section.
 [0016]    Another aspect of the disclosure pertains to buffers for voltaic cells. Such
buffers may be characterized the following components: (a) an ionically conductive
medium; and (b) an electron donor population provided in the ionically conductive
medium. In certain embodiments, the electron donor population includes: (i) a first species
of microbe having a first primary metabolic pathway, and (ii) a second species of microbe
having a second primary metabolic pathway, which is complementary to the first primary
metabolic pathway, where neither primary metabolic pathway is primarily glucose
fermentative
 [0017]    In certain embodiments, the first species of microbe and/or the second species of
microbe are light harvesting antennae. As an example, the first species of microbe may be
excited by electromagnetic radiation in a first band, and at least one other species of
microbe in the buffer may be excited by electromagnetic radiation in a second band. In
this example, the first band and the second band do not substantially overlap.
 [0018]    In certain embodiments, first species of microbe in the buffer is a phototrophic
or chemo-trophic microbe. As an example, the first species of microbe is a chemotroph
and the second species of microbe is a phototroph.
 [0019]    In certain embodiments of the buffer, the first primary metabolic pathway
oxidizes a compound containing carbon, nitrogen, phosphorous, or sulfur, and the second
primary metabolic pathway reduces the oxidized compound produced the first primary
metabolic pathway. In some examples of the buffer, the first primary metabolic pathway
and the second primary metabolic pathway each participate in cellular respiration. In some
buffers, the first or second species of microbe has a plurality of metabolic pathways. In
                                                  4

some buffer examples, the first primary metabolic pathway and the second primary
metabolic pathway each participate in cellular respiration.
 [0020]     In some buffers, the first species of microbe has pili, fibrils, flagella, and/or a
filamentous shape. In some buffers, the first species of microbe is a naturally occurring
microbial species.
 [0021]     In certain embodiments, the buffer additionally includes a population of electron
siphons, where each electron siphon includes an electron accepting component for
receiving electrons from the electron donor population, and an electron conducting
element for directly or indirectly conducting electrons from the electron accepting
component to the anode. In some cases, the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers. In some examples, the siphons collectively
make up an assembly within the buffer, which assembly is configured to conduct electrons
from the electron donor population to the anode.
 [0022]     Another aspect of the disclosure pertains to voltaic cells characterized by the
following features: (a) a buffer containing an ionically conductive medium with (i) an
electron donor population provided therein, and (ii) an electron siphon population provided
therein; (b) a vessel at least partially containing the buffer electron donor population; (c)
an anode for receiving electrons from the electron donor population and providing
electrons to an external circuit or load; and (d) a cathode for donating electrons to a species
in, e.g., the buffer. In certain embodiments, each electron siphon contains an electron
accepting component for receiving electrons from the electron donor population, and an
electron conducting element for directly or indirectly conducting electrons from the
electron accepting component to the anode.
 [0023]     In some implementations, the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers. In some implementations, the electron
siphons together make up an assembly within the buffer, which assembly is configured to
conduct electrons from the electron donor population to the anode. In some
implementations, the electron siphons include an docking moiety for docketing with the
electron donor population, but not lysing cells containing the electron donor population.
 [0024]     In certain embodiments, the voltaic cell additionally includes an ion permeable
and electron donor impermeable barrier separating the buffer into an anode compartment
and a cathode compartment, thereby preventing the electron donor population from
                                                    5

contacting the cathode. In certain embodiments, the voltaic cell additionally includes a
current collector in electrical communication with the anode.
 [0025]    Another aspect of the disclosure pertains to buffers for voltaic cells, which
buffers may be characterized by an ionically conductive medium including: (i) an electron
donor population; and (ii) an electron siphon population. In certain embodiments, each
electron siphon includes an electron accepting component for receiving electrons from the
electron donor population, and an electron conducting element for directly or indirectly
conducting electrons from the electron accepting component to the anode. In certain
embodiments, the electron siphons have a median principal dimension of at most about
500 micrometers. In certain embodiments, the electron siphons collectively make up an
assembly within the buffer, which assembly is configured to conduct electrons from the
electron donor population to the anode. In certain embodiments, the electron siphons
include a docking moiety for docketing with the electron donor population, but not lysing
cells containing the electron donor population.These and other features of the disclosed
embodiments will be set forth below regarding the associated drawings.
 [0026]    These and other features of the disclosure will be further described below with
reference to the drawings.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0027]    Figure 1A schematically depicts an energy conversion cell.
 [0028]    Figures 1B-ID depict variations of the cell shown in Figure 1A.
 [0029]    Figure 2 presents an example of an immersible open system voltaic cell.
 [0030]    Figures 3 and 4 depict light-conversion systems employing electron siphons.
 [0031]    Figure 5 depicts a photosystem coupled to an electron siphon.
 [0032]    Figure 6 presents a schematic of electron siphons and electron donor population
arrangement.
 [0033]    Figure 7 presents a schematic of a second arrangement of electron siphons and
microbial cell population.
 [0034]    Figure 8 presents examples of several electron siphons.
 [0035]    Figure 9 presents a schematic of a varied array of electron siphons.
 [0036]    Figure 10 shows the use of electron siphon to capture electrons generated from
metabolic processes.
 [0037]    Figure 11 shows the use of electron siphon to capture electrons generated from
liposomes.
                                                  6

 [0038]     Figure 12 presents a side view of a voltaic cell.
 [0039]     Figure 13 presents a schematic of a voltaic tube.
 [0040]     Figure 14 presents a schematic of voltaic cell pillars.
 [0041]     Figure 15 presents an arrangement of circuit connectivity in a voltaic cell.
 [0042]     Figure 16 presents an arrangement of electron donors on electron siphons in a
parallel manner.
 [0043]     Figure 17 presents a schematic of an arrangement of voltaic cells in series.
 [0044]     Figure 18 presents a schematic of a voltaic panel and a battery.
 [0045]     Figures 19 and 20 are plots of power output over time for voltaic cells
constructed in accordance with certain embodiments.
                           DESCRIPTION OF AN EMBODIMENT
         DEFINITIONS
 [0046]     Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Various
scientific dictionaries that include the terms included herein are well known and available
to those in the art. Any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described find
use in the practice of the embodiments disclosed.
 [0047]     The terms defined immediately below are more fully understood by reference to
the specification. The definitions are provided to describe particular embodiments only
and aiding in understanding the complex concepts described in this specification. They are
not intended to limit the full scope of the disclosure. Specifically, it is to be understood
that this disclosure is not limited to the particular compositions, systems, designs,
methodologies, protocols, and/or reagents described, as these may vary, depending upon
the context they are used by those of skill in the art.
 [0048]     As used in this specification and appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an",
and "the" include plural referents unless the content and context dictates otherwise. For
example, reference to "a cell" includes a combination of two or more such cells. Unless
indicated otherwise, an "or" conjunction is used in its correct sense as a Boolean logical
operator, encompassing both the selection of features in the alternative (A or B, where the
selection of A is mutually exclusive from B) and the selection of features in conjunction
(A or B, where both A and B are selected).
                                                    7

 [0049]    "Light-harvesting antennae" are biochemical or chemical structures capable of
being excited by light energy. Of interest, light may excite the antennae to a state allowing
them to generate electrical or electrochemical energy. Sometimes, a photosynthetic
microbe contains light harvesting antennae.
 [0050]    An "electron donor" is a component that donates electrons as part of a process
that involves conversion of energy from radiation (e.g., light), chemical components,
mechanical manipulation, or other process. In this disclosure, examples of electron donors
include photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic microbes, light-harvesting antennae, and
pigments.
 [0051]    A 'photosynthetic microbe' is a microbial cell that uses light energy for growth
and metabolic processes. Such microbe typically contains light-harvesting antennae
capable of harnessing light energy and electron transport components, which may be
embedded in the cytoplasmic membrane and/or membrane invaginations and/or membrane
vesicles and/or organelles.
 [0052]    A "pigment" is any composition capable of being excited by light energy,
typically through wavelength-selective absorption. A pigment is one light-harvesting
antennae or a component thereof. A pigment may be synthetically or biologically
produced.
 [0053]    A "non-photosynthetic microbe" is a microbial cell that does not need light
energy for growth and metabolic processes. Such microbe may contain electron transport
components, which may be embedded in the cytoplasmic membrane and/or membrane
invaginations and/or membrane vesicles and/or organelles.
 [0054]    An "electron siphon" is small structure configured to remove electrons from the
light harvesting antennae and directly or indirectly transport the electrons to a current
collector (sometimes serving as an electrode) of a voltaic cell. In certain embodiments, a
siphon contains one or more electron accepting elements (e.g., electron coordinating
moieties) attached to (e.g., on the surface of) an electron transporting structure. The
electron transporting structure may be a single atom thick (e.g., a graphene matrix) or may
be multiple atoms thick.
 [0055]    An "electron siphon matrix" is a collection of electron siphons that may
substantially overlap with one another. In some embodiments, an electron siphon matrix
provides a conductive pathway that spans multiple individual electron siphons. In some
embodiments, the matrix provides a conductive pathway extending from a current
                                                   8

collector of a voltaic cell well into a buffer where the matrix contacts a plurality of
biologically-based electron generating structures. In some implementations, the electron
siphon matrix is an arrayed configuration of electron siphons.
 [0056]    An "electron conductive material" is a material that enables the transfer of
electrons from one location of the electron conductive material to another location. The
electron conductive material may be electronically conductive or semiconductive. It may
conduct holes. In some embodiments, the electron transporting structure of an electron
siphon contains an electron conductive material.
        INTRODUCTION AND CONTEXT
 [0057]    Photosynthetic microbes and plants remain the most efficient at converting light
energy into other usable forms of energy at about 40-80% light absorption. It is estimated
that the average rate of energy capture by photosynthetic organisms is 130 terawatts
globally, which is approximately six-times larger than the current power consumption
capabilities of the human civilization (Nealson, 1999; Whitmarsh 1999; Steger, 2005;
Energy Information Administration, 2006). Photosynthetic microbes contain light
harvesting pigments and antenna systems or reaction centers in their membranes to harness
the energy delivered by a photon. Electron carriers serially pass excited electrons through
the electron transport chain and simultaneously facilitate the coordinated effort of proton
separation across the membrane to generate potential energy.
 [0058]    There are two types of photosynthesis, nonoxygenic and oxygenic. Nonoxygenic
photosynthesis is thought to historically precede oxygenic photosynthesis and does not
produce oxygen. Oxygenic photosynthesis occurs in plants and cyanobacteria and uses
H2 0 as an electron donor for phototrophy. Nonoxygenic photosynthesis can utilize
hydrogen, sulfur and certain compounds as electron donors for phototrophy.
 [0059]    The documented ability of maximal light harnessing has been identified in green
sulfur bacteria that reside almost 1 mile below the ocean's surface in deep-sea thermal
vents where very minimal light reaches these microbes. These microbes can utilize nearly
 100% of the residual light in non-oxygenic photosynthesis.
 [0060]     The use of photosynthetic microbes to generate usable energy has focused
mainly on biofuel generation.
 [0061]    Disclosed herein is a microbe-based electricity generating cell having lower
energy fabrication processes, producing high light-to-electricity conversion rates, having
regulators and having less geographical constraints compared to current solar technologies.
                                                   9

The cell may be customizable to address requirements of geography, climate, season,
structural needs, etc. In certain embodiments, a cell has one or more light-harvesting
antennae populations and optionally includes one or more of the following features:
electron siphons having electron conductive properties, an optical coupling system, and
regulator having sensing and regulatory feedback properties. In some designs, the cell has
electricity-generating abilities absent light. In some implementations, the cell is deployed
in a solar panel.
 [0062]     In one form, a voltaic cell includes a vessel containing a buffer system, a
microbial cell population, a conductive electron siphon population and a current collector
(e.g., a wire).
 [0063]     In certain embodiments, a voltaic cell includes a vessel containing a buffer
system, a microbial cell population, an electron siphon population and a current collector.
In other embodiments, a voltaic cell includes a vessel containing a buffer system, a
microbial cell population, a conductive electron siphon matrix, and a wire (an example of a
current collector). In other embodiments, a voltaic cell includes a vessel containing a
buffer system, a microbial cell population, a conductive electron siphon matrix, and a
current collector. In some aspects, a voltaic cell includes a vessel containing a light
harvesting antennae population, a buffer system, an electron siphon population, a
conductive electron siphon matrix, a mirror system and a regulator system. The electron
siphon population and the electron siphon matrix may be physically different structures,
with the population containing functional groups that facilitate docking with electron
donor and the matrix designed to transport electrons from the population to an electrode.
The siphons of the population may move about with the microbes while the siphons of the
matrix may have a fixed location. In some aspects may, a voltaic cell includes a vessel
containing a light harvesting antennae population, buffer system, arrayed electron siphon
population, electron conductive material, mirror system and regulator system. In yet other
aspects may, the voltaic cell includes a vessel containing a microbial population, buffer
system, electron siphon population, regulator system and charge storage device.
 [0064]     Figure 1A schematically depicts an energy conversion cell 105 having a
containment vessel 107 which holds in its interior 109 a fluid in which one or more
microbial populations exist. Cell 105 also includes a cover element 131 fitted on top of
vessel 107. Element 131 is transparent to radiation in a wavelength range to which the
microbial population responds. Optionally, cell 105 includes an ionically permeable barrier
                                                    10

 111 disposed within the vessel 107 to prevent microbes and/or other electron donors in the
region 109 from passing into a compartment 113 on the opposite side of permeable barrier
 111. It should be understood that permeable barrier 111 is optional and sometimes only a
single solution is provided within vessel 107.
 [0065]     Cell 105 will include an anode 115 and a cathode 117 electronically separated
from one another by ionically conductive fluid in compartment 109 and optionally in
compartment 113 if present. During operation, the microbial population(s) in compartment
 109 produces electrons that are collected at anode 115. These electrons work by flowing
through a load 119 in a circuit coupling cathode 117 and anode 115. If compartment 113
is used, it may include a separate microbial population. In some implementations,
microbes in compartment 113 donate protons or other positively charged species to
cathode 117. The microbes in fluids 109 and 113 convert energy by different mechanisms.
In various embodiments, at least the microbes within compartment 109 are phototrophic.
 [0066]     In certain embodiments, a fluidics system 121 is coupled to the vessel 107 and
optionally has separate ports for compartments 109 and 113. The fluidics system 121 may
include various elements such as a reservoir for holding make up fluids for compartments
 109 and/or 113, one or more pumps, one or more pressure gauges, mass flow rate meters,
baffles, and the like. The fluidics system 121 may provide fresh buffer solution and/or
microbes to cell 105. It may also deliver one or more of various regulating agents to these
fluids. Such regulating agents may include acid, base, salts, nutrients, dyes, and the like.
 [0067]     Cell 105 may also interface with a controller 125 that controls fluidic system
 121. Controller 125 may have one or more other functions. For example, it may receive
input from various components of the system such as the circuit coupling anode 115,
cathode 117, the fluidics system 121, and/or sensors 127 and 129 provided in
compartments 109 and 113, respectively. The sensors may monitor any one or more
relevant operating parameters for cell 105. Example such parameters include temperature,
chemical properties (e.g., component concentration and pH), optical properties (e.g.,
opacity), electrical properties (e.g., ionic conductivity), and the like.
 [0068]     Figure 1B depicts a variation of cell 105. Specifically, the figure depicts an
alternative cell 135 having an anode plate 137, a cathode plate 139, and a compartment
 141 between plates 137 and 139 as defined by a spacer 143. Within compartment 141 is an
ionically conductive medium. Anode plate 137 may contain or be made from a
semipermeable material that allows ionic communication between the two sides of the
                                                   11

plate but does not permit passage of microbes or microbial components. Provided on top
of anode plate 137 is a population 145 of phototrophic microbes containing photon
harvesting antennae.
 [0069]     Figure 1C depicts another variation of a cell 105. Specifically, the figure depicts
a first compartment 147 connected to a second compartment 149 by a third compartment
 151. Within compartment 147 is a first electrode 153, which is electronically conductive
and may be ionically conductive. A layer of organic photosensitive electron generators 145
is disposed on top of electrode 153. The electron generators may include light harvesting
antennae and, in some cases, electron siphons as well. Layer 145 may include a
population of phototrophic microbes, microbial membrane bound photosystem, vesicles
containing a photosystem, and/or other photosensitive organic electron generators. Within
compartment 149 is a second electrode 155, which has the opposite polarity of electrode
 153 and is electronically conductive and optionally ionically conductive. Compartment
 151 may contain a semipermeable material that allows ionic communication between
compartments 147 and 149 but does not permit the diffusion of phototrophic microbes,
microbial membrane components, etc. present in layer 145 from compartment 147 into
compartment 149. Electrons harvested from the microbial population 145 are transferred to
electrode 153 in compartment 147, which then pass through a connected conductive
element 157 (e.g., a wire). A second conductive element 159 is connected to electrode 155.
 [0070]     Figure ID depicts another variation of a cell 105. Specifically, the figure depicts
a split compartment 161 containing a first electrode 153 as described for the embodiment
of Figure IC having direct contact with a layer 145 containing phototrophic microbial
and/or microbial membrane component population containing photon harvesting antennae.
Compartment 161 also contains a second electrode 155 as described in the embodiment of
Figure 1C of opposite polarity separated by a semipermeable barrier 163 enabling ion
exchange throughout the cell but inhibiting the diffusion of photon harvesting antennae
 145 into the space surrounding electrode 155. Electrons flow to first electrode 153 and
then through a conductive element 157 to a circuit. Positively charged species such as
protons or holes may flow through the second electrode 155 by conductive element 159.
Having the same effect, electrons may flow into electrode 155 from a load electrically
connected to first electrode 153.
 [0071]     The light-conversion system may include an anode positioned directly adjacent
to the electron siphon to collect the electrons from the siphon and produce an electrical
                                                   12

current in a circuit containing an anode and a cathode. The circuit may be coupled to a
conversion module for an electrical grid or other system.
 [0072]    In one form, a disclosed microbial energy conversion cell includes a vessel
containing a buffer system, a light harvesting antennae population, and a conductive
electron siphon population. In some aspects of the current disclosure, the cell can include a
vessel containing the light harvesting antennae population, buffer, conductive electron
siphon population, mirror system and regulator system.
 [0073]    In some embodiments, a light conversion system includes a light-harvesting
antennae component population and modified conductive electron siphons for the
improved efficiency of light conversion to electricity at reduced complexity and cost.
 [0074]    In certain embodiments, a light-conversion system includes a buffered
electrolyte solution surrounding a microbe-derived light-harvesting antennae population,
the population having multiple light-harvesting antennae per component and where the
component population has an ability to harvest light over a broad range of wavelengths,
including ultraviolet and far red light and can harvest light over a range of intensities,
including diffuse light. The population can include one or more microbe species including
a mixture of photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic microbes, membranes components
derived from the microbes or vesicles containing light-harvesting antennae components
and electron carrier components.
 [0075]    In some embodiments, a light-harvesting antennae population contains
photosystems, which include light-harvesting pigments or electron carrier molecules and
reaction centers. These elements are described further regarding Figure 5 below. In some
implementations, a light-harvesting antennae population contains a range of different light
harvesting pigments and photosystems and may have similar electron carrier molecules.
Examples of individual components of a light-harvesting antennae population of the
disclosed embodiments are presented in Tables 1 and 2.
 [0076]     The light conversion system may contain electron siphons having electron
scavenging and conductive and/or semi-conductive properties over a broad temperature
range. Electron siphons may be modified conductive and semi-conductive in nature and
are modified in a manner to maintain electron conductive properties. As described more
fully below, electron siphons can be individual or multimeric nanorods, nanotubes,
nanowires, nanoparticles, nanonetworks, nanofibers, quantum dots, dendrimers,
nanoclusters, nanocrystals or nanocomposites and can contain carbon, silicon, metal, metal
                                                  13

alloys or colloidal. Further, individual electron siphons of the disclosed embodiments can
range from 1 to 900 nm in length and multimers that range from 0.9 to 4 um in length. In
some embodiments, the microbes themselves produced electron siphons to provide a
natural mechanism for expelling excess electrons.
 [0077]    Figure 5 depicts an example electron siphon in use. In this example, a single
walled carbon nanotube 505 was activated by HCl, washed and modified with L-Arginine
by chemical crosslinking to generate a biologically compatible electron siphon. The
modified carbon nanotube 505 was mixed with a microbial population containing light
harvesting pigments and electron carrier components in their membranes.
 [0078]    A photosystem may operate shown in Figure 5. In some embodiments, the
photosystem exists in the cell membrane of a living organism. In some embodiments, the
photosystem exists in a membrane derived from a living organism but is no longer part of
that organism. In other embodiments, the photosystem is incorporated in a synthetic
micellular structure. Such structures can be created by techniques known in the art such as
sonicating oil and lipid in a solvent with detergent. The resulting micellular structures can
be spiked with the required components of a photosystem. Such components typically
include a reaction center such as a molecule of chlorophyll a, light harvesting pigments,
and electron shuttling molecules. Certain pigment molecules may serve as both the light
harvesting pigments and electron shuttling molecules.
 [0079]    As light hits the light-harvesting pigments in the microbial membranes, the
excited electrons are passed directionally to electron carrier components (antenna
accessory pigments in Figure 5) in the membrane and to an electron shuttling component
that passes the electron to a terminal electron acceptor, in this case, the modified carbon
nanotube. Electron flow out of a microbial membrane onto an electron siphon results. The
electron flow can then be harnessed by a neighboring anode, such as a metal plate or wire
to maximize the flow of electrical current out of a population of microbes. When the net
flow of electrons on one portion of a cell (at one electrode) differs significantly from
another portion of a cell (at a different electrode), an electrical current can be generated.
 [0080]    Electrons may flow from the photosystem to the anode by various means.
Sometimes, the microbes are directly attached to the anode as a film or other adherent
structure. In such cases, the electrons generated by the photosystem move directly from
the photosystem to the anode. In other cases, the photosystems are not attached the anode
and electron flow out of electron siphons in solution where the electron may be captured
                                                   14

and transported by a mediator in the solution. In a similar embodiment, the electron is
delivered to a conductive network linking the anode to the microbes or other photosystem
containing elements in solution. Such systems may be a nanostructure network, pathway
or other arrangement to maintain linkage from an electron siphon to the anode for
example. In certain embodiments, the photosystem corresponds to a light harvesting
antenna.
 [0081]    While photosystems are frequently described as a source of electrons for the
disclosed embodiments, non-photosynthetic biochemical processes that produce electrons
may be used in place of or besides the photosystems. So, when appropriate, reference to
photosystems and similar terms may be considered to include metabolic and other
biochemical systems that produce electrons available for donation to an anode in an energy
conversion cell.
        VESSEL AND ASSOCIATED HARDWARE FOR VOLTAIC CELL
 [0082]    In its basic embodiment, an important function of a voltaic cell is to harvest
photons and harness excited electrons contained within the cell to generate electrical
current using photosynthetic microbe and photosynthetic microbial membrane populations.
The cell may include a leak proof vessel or housing for the microbial energy conversion
cell medium and microbial population. In some embodiments, the microbial energy
conversion cell additionally includes electrodes, sensors, semi-permeable barriers, ionic
conductive material, wires and the like.
 [0083]    Typically, the cell should be designed to accept external radiation and convert
the energy therein to excited electrons of the light harvesting antennae of microbial
membranes and to provide conductive material for the harnessing of resultant high energy
electrons generated by the electron transport chain within each membrane of a microbe.
 [0084]    Microbial energy conversion cells of the disclosed embodiments can have full
access to the environment and can be constructed in a manner to enable photon conversion
at temperatures ranging from -20 degrees Celsius to 65 degrees Celsius and weather
ranging from complete sun to cloud or fog cover. Microbial energy conversion cells of the
disclosed embodiments can also be portable and can have variable access to the
environment, as determined by the user.
 [0085]    In certain embodiments, vessels can withstand high temperatures (e.g., about
5OC or greater) and internal pressures (above atmospheric) of about 50 Pa to about 10 kPa;
of about 500 Pa to about 3 kPa; of about 800 Pa to about 1.5 kPa. Note that some
                                                  15

embodiments employ microbes whose natural habitat is a high pressure environment such
as a deep sea vent.
 [0086]     In some embodiments, the cell is a closed system with no flow of fresh buffer or
other solution into the system and no exposure to atmospheric gas exchange. In other
embodiments, it is a semi-closed system containing, for example, a system of tubing,
valves and ports to allow the inflow of fresh buffer, regulating elements, fresh microbial
antennae population and/or atmospheric gases into the system. The ports of which contain
0.22 um filters to prevent contamination of the system by atmospheric microbial
contaminants. In other aspects, the ports contain 0.45 um filters to prevent contamination
of the system by larger atmospheric microbial contaminants.
 [0087]     In yet other embodiments, the cell is an open system with full access to the
environment. In some cases, the open system is a body of water, such as a pond, lake,
river, reservoir, stream or other open body of water. The open system may also contain a
system of tubing, valves and ports to allow the circulation of endogenous fresh microbial
antennae population into the open system microbial energy conversion cell.
 [0088]     Figure 2 presents an example of an immersible open system. Elements 807 and
811 are an anode and a cathode. Element 813 is a semipermeable barrier that permits ionic
conduction but blocks transport of microbes. Element 813 could be an anti-microbial
coating (e.g., silver). 805 and 809 are conductive electrical leads from the anode and
cathode. Element 801 is part of a circuit, part of a mechanical support structure, or both.
 [0089]     Vessels bounding the voltaic cell and may be made from any of a number of
materials including, as examples, a polymer such as polyethylene, polypropylene, or
polyurethane, glass, metal, or a combination thereof. In various embodiments, the vessel
material is a gas- and liquid-impermeable material.
 [0090]     A vessel may contain a multilayered unit containing an outermost layer and one
or more inner layers. The outer layer may contain clear plastic, glass, metal or other
material to provide protection against the environment. In some embodiments, vessel has
an outermost layer that permits passage of various spectral wavelengths of electromagnetic
radiation. In some embodiments, the outermost layer may be permeable to most spectral
wavelengths of light energy. In some embodiments, a portion of the vessel may contain an
outermost layer that may be impermeable to most spectral wavelengths of light energy and
a second portion of the vessel that contains an outermost layer that may be permeable to
most spectral wavelengths of light energy.
                                                  16

 [0091]    In some embodiments, the vessel defining the outer boundary of the microbial
energy conversion cell is rigid. The rigid enclosures can contain glass or polymer with a
stiffness of> about 1.3 GPa. and having a shape resembling a cube, cuboid, sphere,
column, cylinder, cone, frustum, pyramid or prism. The wall thickness of the enclosure can
span the range of about 1 mm to 20 cm. Preferred is an enclosure with a wall thickness
ranging from about 5 mm to 25 mm.
 [0092]    The vessel volume, shape, and dimensions may be chosen to complement the
overall structure of the energy conversion system in which it resides. In some
embodiments, the vessel volume may be in the range of about 0.0000001 m3 to about 3 M3 ;
from about 0.000001 m 3 to about 2 m3 ; from about 0.0001 m3 to about 1.5 M3 ; from about
0.01 m 3 to about 1 m3 ; or from about 0.1 m 3 to about 0.5 M 3 .
 [0093]    The vessel may be manufactured by standard methods including part molding,
injection molding, extrusion, laser etching, gluing, soldering caulking, and other suitable
techniques.
 [0094]    In some embodiments, the vessel defining the outer boundary of the microbial
energy conversion cell is a frame having electrically insulating properties. In some aspects
of the disclosure, the framed enclosure has thermal insulating properties and is foam-filled.
Frames of the disclosed embodiments include fiberglass, aluminum, stainless steel,
graphite, polycarbonate, carbon fiber, polystyrene, polyethylene, polyethylene,
polyvinylchloride, polytetrafluoroethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, polyethylene
terephthalate, meta-aramid polymer, or copolyamid.
 [0095]    In other embodiments, the enclosure defining the outer boundary of the
microbial energy conversion cell is flexible. Examples of flexible enclosures include one
or more clear polymer with a stiffness of < about 1.2 GPa and having an amorphous shape
or having a shape resembling a cube, cuboid, sphere, column, cylinder, cone, frustum,
pyramid or prism. Examples of suitable polymers include polypropylene, polystyrene,
polyethylene, polyvinylchloride, polytetrafluoroethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene,
polyethylene terephthalate, meta-aramid polymer, or copolyamid. The wall thickness of
the enclosure can span, for example the range of about 0.5 mm to 25 mm. In some
embodiments, the enclosure has a wall thickness ranging from about 1 mm to 10 mm.
 [0096]    In some embodiments, a window is included in the microbial energy conversion
cell for photon energy penetration into the energy conversion cell. The window may be
transmissive to light at a range between about 100 nm and 1060 nm and can contain glass,
                                                   17

crystalline composites and polymers such as poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene, poly(3,4
ethylenedioxythiophene, poly(styrene sulfonate), poly(4,4-dioctylcyclopentadithiophene or
other transparent polymers. In certain embodiments, the windows can be about 1mm to 30
cm thick. In some cases, the windows range from about 5 mm to 25 mm in thickness.
[0097]      In some embodiments, gaskets or seals are included in the microbial energy
conversion cell can be used to provide a leak-proof seal between the frame of the cell and a
window and between the enclosure of a cell and a port or tubing. Suitable gaskets or seals
may contain UV-resistant silicone, cure-in-place resin, ethylene-propylenediene, closed
cell nitrile, or other UV-resistant gasket or sealant.
[0098]      In one example, a containment chamber includes a glass panel juxtaposed to a
UV-resistant gasket fitted onto a contiguous injection-molded polymeric sidewall and
backing unit. The contiguous injection-molded polymeric sidewall and backing unit
having: an inlet port and/or an outlet port for fluid and/or 0.22 um filter gas-exchange port
and fitted electron flow conduit plate connected to electrical wiring for the focused flow of
direct current into an alternate current converter of a solar panel.
[0099]      In another example, a vessel shape is a hollow polymer tube. In some
embodiments, the vessel is shaped as a cylinder; a rectangle; a square; a sphere; a
columnar object; or a planar object. In some embodiments, the vessel is a designed as
fermenter; a growth chamber or other cell culture apparatus.
[0100]      In certain embodiments, the cell system includes a housing frame, a light
conversion system adapter, AC adapter and electrical cord. In some embodiments, the
system can house an array of light-conversion systems. In other embodiments, the solar
panel can be fabricated in a manner such that the housing frame can enable the removal
and replacement of a light-conversion system. Cells as disclosed herein can serve a
functional role and can be used in a solar panel to provide electrical current to a dedicated
external electrical load (e.g., a grid) while other aspects of the disclosure use a portable
photovoltaic cell to provide electrical current to a device.
[0101]      In some embodiments, the cell housing is a rigid system and provides a
structural role in addition to a radiant energy acceptance role.
[0102]      In certain embodiments, the voltaic cell can be used in a structural and
functional role and can be used in an automobile and airplane as a hood, roof, sunroof,
moonroof, trunk, frame, wing, window or other. Additionally, the cell can be used in a
                                                   18

building as a wall, wall curtain, roof, window, door, walkway, patio, drive way, deck,
fence or other.
 [0103]    In other embodiments, the cell housing is a flexible system that may provide a
physical role in addition to an energy conversion role. Examples of use for a flexible
microbial energy conversion cell are: retractable elements such as awnings, sails, covers,
tarps, cloaks, capes; and foldable elements such as blankets, visors, umbrellas, parasols,
fans and clothing.
         Semi-permeable barrier
 [0104]    In some aspects of the disclosure, some or all of the microbial cell population is
blocked by a semi-permeable barrier within the vessel. In some embodiments, some or all
of the light harvesting antennae population is contained in a compartment at least partially
defined by a semi-permeable barrier. In some embodiments, a mixture of the microbial cell
population and a separate light harvesting antennae population may be contained in a
compartment defined by a semi-permeable barrier. In some embodiments, a mixture of the
electron siphon population and microbial cell population is contained in a compartment
defined by a semi-permeable barrier. In some embodiments, a mixture of the electron
siphon population, microbial cell population and a separate light harvesting antennae
population is contained by a semi-permeable barrier. In some embodiments, the semi
permeable barrier is electronically conductive. In some examples, the semi-permeable
barrier contains an electron conductive material contained by a semi-permeable barrier. In
some embodiments, a mixture of the electron siphon population, microbial cell population,
and a separate light harvesting antennae population is contained by a first semi-permeable
barrier, and an electron conductive material is contained by a second semi-permeable
barrier.
 [0105]    In certain embodiments where the barrier is electronically conductive, it makes
electrical contact with an electrode of the voltaic cell (the anode or cathode). In some
implementations, contact is made via a network of electron siphons.
 [0106]    In some embodiments, the semi-permeable barrier may be in a portion of the
vessel. In some embodiments, the semi-permeable barrier may be present in more than one
portion of the vessel. Semi-permeable barriers may provide containment of voltaic cell
components, separation (e.g., anode and cathode compartments in a voltaic cell), polarity
within the vessel, etc.
                                                  19

[0107]      Containment within the vessel may be achieved by bounding a component of the
voltaic cell. In some embodiments, containment within the vessel may also be achieved by
bounding a mixture of components of a voltaic cell. In some embodiments, a semi
permeable barrier may contain the electron harvesting population; the electron donors of a
voltaic cell, etc. In some embodiments, a semi-permeable barrier may contain one or more
electron acceptor; electron conductive material; or other component of a voltaic cell. In
some embodiments, a semi-permeable barrier is used to contain the electron harvesting
population and the electron siphon population. In some embodiments, a semi-permeable
barrier is used to contain the electron donor population. In some embodiments, a semi
permeable barrier is used to contain the electron donor population and the electron siphon
population. In some embodiments, a semi-permeable barrier is used to contain the electron
acceptor population. In some embodiments, a semi-permeable barrier is used to contain the
electron donor population and a second semi-permeable barrier is used to contain the
electron acceptor population.
[0108]      Separation of components within a voltaic cell may be achieved by using one or
more than one semi-permeable barrier to generate sub-compartments of specialized work.
In one compartment - an electron donor compartment - separated components of a voltaic
cell may convert light energy or chemical energy into free electrons. In another
compartment, separated components of a voltaic cell may conduct the electrons in
electrical current from the electron donor compartment to a current collector for the voltaic
cell.
[0109]      Separation within the vessel may be by electrical, chemical, osmotic,
chemiosmotic, chemoelectric, or other mechanisms. More than one semi-permeable barrier
may be used in each vessel may to generate a vessel with enhanced polarity. An
arrangement of more than one semi-permeable barrier within a vessel may be in parallel or
in series, where the separation may be set up in a portion of the vessel or over the expanse
of the vessel. In some embodiments, a parallel arrangement of semi-permeable barriers
containing electron-generating population may be generated. In some embodiments, a
parallel arrangement of semi-permeable barriers containing electron recipient population
may be generated. In some embodiments, an arrangement of semi-permeable barrier
containing electron donor population may be connected in series with a semi-permeable
barrier containing an electron recipient population. In some designs, multi-electrode
voltaic cells in monopolar or bipolar configuration are used. In bipolar voltaic cells, the
                                                 20

cells are stacked in a sandwich construction so the negative plate of one cell becomes the
positive plate of the next cell. Electrodes are shared by two series-coupled electrochemical
cells in such a way that one side of the electrode acts as an anode in one cell and the other
side acts as a cathode in the next cell. The anode and cathode sections of the common
electrodes are separated by an electron-conducting plate or membrane which allows no
flow of ions between the cells and serves as both a partition and series connection.
 [0110]     Examples of electron recipient microbes include Rhodopseudomonas spp.,
Geobacterspp., Acidithiobacillus spp., Shewanella spp., and other microbes with type IV
pili or electron accepting outer membrane components (Reguera et al, 2006; Leang et al.,
2010; Richter et al., 2012) , which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Examples of electron donating microbes include Desulfobacteralesspp.,
Desulfovibrionalesspp., Syntrophobacteralesspp., Desulfotomaculum spp.,
Desulfosporomusa spp., Desulfosporosinusspp., Thermodesulfovibrio spp.,
Thermodesulfobacteriaespp., Thermodesulfobium spp., Archaeoglobus, Thermocladium,
Caldivirga,Proteus spp., Pseudomonas spp., Salmonella spp., Sulfurospirillum spp.,
Bacillus spp., Desulfomicrobium spp., Pyrobaculum spp., Chrysiogenes spp., and others.
 [0111]     Semi-permeable barriers may contain a material that may have a single layer or
may have more than one layer such as a laminate. In some embodiments, the semi
permeable barrier contains pores. In certain implementations, the pores of the semi
permeable barriers may have pore sizes less than about 0.45 um; less than about 0.22 um;
less than about 0.1 um; or less than about 0.5 nm. The semi-permeable barrier may contain
a membrane; a filter; a film; a sieve; a size exclusion matrix, or the like. The semi
permeable barrier may be made from a synthetic polymer such as but not limited to
polyvinylchloride, polypropylene, polystyrene, nitrocellulose, nylon, or other; a natural
polymer such as lignin, cardboard, paper, silica nanoparticles, Semi-permeable barriers
containing an electron conductive material may be used in the voltaic cell, in which case
the barriers may serve as current collectors or otherwise supplement an anode or cathode.
In some embodiments, the semi-permeable barrier is not conductive. In some
embodiments, the buffer wets the barrier at which point the barrier allows diffusion and, in
some cases, conduction of ions. Semi-permeable barriers may also contain a lignin,
polyvinylchloride, PVDF, nitrocellulose or other. The barrier may have a thickness
appropriate for the application. It should maintain high ionic conductivity within the
voltaic cell and it should not occupy a large fraction of the cell's internal volume. In some
                                                  21

examples, the barrier has a thickness of about 2.5 mm or less, about 200 um or less, about
50 um or less, about 750 nm or less, or about 200 nm or less. Sometimes, the barrier
thickness may be as thin as about 1 nm to about 0.35 nm.
        Electron Conductive Materials for Current Collectors
 [0112]     An electron conductive material may contain a metal, metalloid, colloidal,
composite, silicon, or other material types having conductive or semi-conductive
properties. Electron conductive material may contain a planar form; a mesh form; a
bristled form; a web form; a layered form; a stippled form; a mesh form or other form that
has increased surface area for improved electron conduction.
 [0113]     In some embodiments, a voltaic cell may contain more than one type of electron
conductive material. In some embodiments, a voltaic cell may contain multiple types of
electron conductive material, each material type having a different electron accepting
potential. Different electrodes may have intrinsically different electrochemical potentials,
which may facilitate biological or biochemical energy conversion. An electrode at an
electropositive potential may potentiate the electron donating activity of certain types of
microbes.
 [0114]     Electron conductive material may be contained by a semi-permeable barrier. In
some embodiments, a voltaic cell may contain electron conductive material contained by a
semi-permeable barrier. In some embodiments, a voltaic cell may contain multiple electron
conductive materials, each contained by a semi-permeable barrier.
 [0115]     The electron conductive material may serve as a current collector in a voltaic
cell. In some embodiments, the current collector is implemented as a wire or an
interconnected group of wires extending into a compartment of a voltaic cell. In some
embodiments, the current collector is a porous material having a porosity of at least about
0.2, or at least about 0.5, or at least about 0.7, or at least about 0.9. In some embodiments,
the current collector occupies a substantial portion of a chamber (e.g., an anode chamber
separated from a cathode by a semi-permeable membrane) in a voltaic cell. As examples,
the current collector may occupy at least about 20% of the chamber volume, or at least
about 50% of the chamber volume, or at least about 70% of the chamber volume, or at
least about 90% of the chamber volume.
                                                    22

         Example Constructions of Voltaic Cells
                 Design of a Voltaic Cell.
[0116]      In this embodiment, a voltaic cell includes a vessel, a current collector or
electrical terminal (e.g., in the form wires), a first electrode, a second electrode, microbes,
and a buffer system. In one implementation, the vessel is made from glass, the current
collector contains copper wires, the first electrode contains a coating such as an oxide
(e.g., copper oxide or silicon dioxide), and a modified electrode contains a metal. As
examples, the modifications may be the addition of a conductive metal mesh and/or
quantum dots. The microbes may be a heterogeneous population of aquatic microbes, the
majority of which may be capable of photosynthesis. The buffer system contains salts,
minerals, sugars, amino acids, ammonium salts, and water.
                 Design of a flexible voltaic cell.
[0117]      A voltaic cell may include a flexible vessel as well as other components such as
wires, electrode, modified electrode, microbes and a buffer. The vessel is made of flexible
plastic tubing, closed at both ends during normal operation. As an example, the wires may
be copper wires. The electrode may contain the metal wire having, in operation, a
characteristic electrical potential ranging from about +0.8 to about +1.5 V versus the
standard hydrogen electrode. Unless otherwise stated, all electrode voltages listed herein
are versus a standard hydrogen electrode. The metal wire has a thin circumferential coating
of semi-permeable membrane having a pore size of about 0.2 um in diameter. The
modified electrode contains metal wire having a characteristic electrical potential ranging
from about -3.3 to about +0.55 V, the modifications being conductive nanowires and/or
quantum dots. The microbes are a heterogeneous population of aquatic microbes, the
majority of which may be capable of photosynthesis. The buffer includes salts, minerals,
sugars, amino acids, ammonium salts, and water.
                 Design of a High Surface Area Voltaic Cell.
[0118]      A voltaic cell may include a vessel, wires, electrode, modified electrode,
microbes and a buffer system. In one example, the vessel is made of glass and has
dimensions of about 1 foot long x about 1 foot wide x about 0.34 foot tall. The wires are
copper wires. The electrode includes silicon dioxide. The modified electrode is made of
metal mesh, the modifications being conductive nanotubes and/or quantum dots. The
                                                    23

microbes are a heterogeneous population of aquatic microbes, the majority of which may
be capable of photosynthesis. The buffer system contains salts, minerals, sugars, amino
acids, ammonium salts, and water.
                Design of a Fixed Voltaic Cell in a Moving Body of Water.
[0119]     An immersible voltaic cell may include a vessel, wires, electrode, modified
electrode, microbes and a buffer system. The vessel is made of a metal box housing a
battery, which may provide storage for electrical energy generated by the immersible cell
and/or activate microbes or other features of the immersible cell. The wires are copper
wires. The electrode is made of metal. The modified electrode contains graphite. The
modifications being conductive nanotubes and quantum dots, pre-coated with a mixture of
pigments. The microbes including a heterogeneous population of aquatic microbes, the
precise composition is dependent on geography and water depth. The buffer system is
ocean water. The portion of the voltaic cell immersed in the body of water includes the
electrode, modified electrode and wires. The portion of the voltaic cell on land contains the
vessel, wires, and optional battery.
        LIGHT HARVESTING ANTENNAE
[0120]     In some embodiments, a light-harvesting antennae component population may
be characterized as a population of components having: (i) one or more molecules with
photon-absorption ability, (ii) that can lead to the excitation of one or more electron of the
light-absorbing molecule or of a neighboring molecule in the presence of light, and (iii)
where the excited electron can be transferred or (iv) where the energy from the excited
electron can be transferred. As explained more fully below, the population of light
harvesting antennae components may include one or more of the following: a
photosynthetic microbe, a membrane derived from photosynthetic microbe, a membrane
vesicle derived from photosynthetic microbe, a macromolecular complex of lipid and
light-harvesting antennae, a recombinant light-harvesting protein complexed with
liposome, a micelle, a reverse micelle, a monolayer or other light-harvesting antennae
derived from photosynthetic microbe complexed with liposome, micelle, reverse micelle,
monolayer or other.
[0121]     The light harvesting antennae population may serve as electron donors and/or
may contain biochemical and chemical species capable of absorbing light energy. The light
harvesting antennae population may be or contain synthetic and/or naturally-occurring:
                                                   24

pigments; light-harvesting complexes; photosystems; photosynthetic reaction centers;
carotenoids; chlorophylls; chlorosomes; porphyrins; chlorins; bacteriochlorins and other.
Light harvesting antennae population may contain recombinant proteins; membrane
preparations from photosynthetic organisms; exosome preparations from photosynthetic
organisms; ground and lyophilized photosynthetic organisms; liposomal complexes
containing light-harvesting antennae population; and other.
[0122]     In some embodiments, the light harvesting antennae population contains a
homogenous population. In some embodiments, the light harvesting antennae population
contains a heterogeneous population. In some embodiments, a voltaic cell contains a
heterogeneous population of light harvesting antennae. In some embodiments, a voltaic
cell contains a homogenous population of light harvesting antennae.
[0123]     The arrangement of light harvesting antennae population in a voltaic cell may
vary based on use. As examples, the antennae population may be arranged in solution; in a
sediment layer; in more than one layer; in a coating on, for example, a current collector;
conjugated to the surface of an electron siphon; conjugated to the surface of an electron
conductive material; conjugated to a current collector such as a wire network or other. The
antennae population may be arranged between electron conductive siphon and electron
conductive material (e.g., as a link in a conductive pathway); may be arranged in
alternating layers with electron conductive siphon; may be arranged in alternating layers
with electron conductive material; may be arranged in alternating layers with electron
conductive siphon and electron conductive material. In some embodiments, the light
harvesting antennae population may be arranged near the outermost surface of the vessel.
In other embodiments, the light harvesting antennae population may be contained within a
portion of the vessel. In some aspects of the disclosure, the light harvesting antennae
population may be contained by a semi-permeable barrier with a pore size less than about
0.45 um; less than about 0.22 um; less than about 0.1 um; or less than about 0.5 nm. In
some embodiments, the semi-permeable membrane may contain an electron conductive
material. In some embodiments, the semi-permeable membrane is wholly or partially
immersed in the buffer.
[0124]     As examples, a light harvesting antennae population may be mixed with a
microbial cell population at a mg:mg wet weight ratio (light harvesting antennae
population mg: microbial cell population mg) of: about 0.0000001:1; about 0.000001:1;
                                                  25

about 0.000001:1; about 0.00001:1; about 0.0001:1, and all ranges between any two of
these examples.
 [0125]     Light harvesting antennae accept photons and in doing so excite electrons to a
state or states where they are available for transfer or for transferring their energy.
Sometimes, transfer occurs via donation to a redox mediator or other electron transporter.
Light harvesting antennae are characterized by their efficiency in converting radiant
energy to electrical energy. Efficiency is a function of wavelength, temperature, etc.
 [0126]     The light-harvesting antennae can be selected to have optimal light harvesting
efficiencies at temperatures representative of the environmental conditions under which
the light conversion system will be used. Organisms of the preferred invention have light
harvesting abilities at temperatures ranging from -20 to 100 degrees Celsius (Table 2).
 [0127]     The antennae populations can have a plurality of light harvesting efficiencies at
different wavelengths of light. In certain embodiments, a light-harvesting antennae
component population that can harvest ultraviolet, visible and far-red lights
simultaneously. In some embodiments, the different populations have different bands of
excitation wavelengths. In certain designs, a voltaic cell contains two different
populations, each with a distinct excitation band, which bands do not substantially overlap.
In other words, the majority of the wavelengths in each band does not overlap.
 [0128]     Light harvesting antennae contain chemical compounds having the above
function. They may additionally contain vehicles holding such compounds. Examples of
such vehicles include complexes, supermolecular assemblies, vesicles, organelles,
microbes, etc.
 [0129]     Typically, light harvesting antennae compounds are or contain organic materials.
In many embodiments, their molecular structure is cyclic organic with one or more metal
ions incorporated therein. The metal ions include, zinc, cadmium, zinc, zirconium,
molybdenum, manganese, magnesium, iron, platinum, copper, rhodium, osmium, iridium,
and the like.
 [0130]     The light-harvesting antennae component population may contain light
harvesting membranes prepared from photosynthetic microbes mixed with light-harvesting
liposomes.
 [0131]     The light harvesting antennae may be included in a photosynthetic microbe,
membrane derived from photosynthetic microbe, membrane vesicle derived from
photosynthetic microbe, macromolecular complex of lipid and light-harvesting antennae,
                                                  26

recombinant light-harvesting protein complexed with liposome, micelle, reverse micelle,
monolayer or other, light-harvesting antennae derived from photosynthetic microbe
complexed with liposome, micelle, reverse micelle, monolayer, etc.
 [0132]    Tailored compositions of light harvesting antennae can be generated by mixing
ratios of different light harvesting antennae having distinct wavelength excitation spectra
and growth requirements to generate a photovoltaic cell that is compatible to a climate.
Selection criteria for generating the population of light harvesting antennae include:
wavelength excitation spectra, thermophilicity, halophilicity, anaerobic profile, nutritional
requirements, and compatibility with different light harvesting antennae. Examples of
compatible classes of light harvesting antennae include phosynthetic microbes with
compatible nutrient and growth requirements such as Geobacter spp., Chlorobium spp.,
Shewanella spp., etc.; divergent wavelength excitation spectra of monomeric and
polymeric metal-based pigments such as titanium white, titanium oxide (nanotubes,
nanoribbons, and others), manganese violet, chrome green and others; inorganic pigments
such as yellow ochre, raw sienna, ultramarine and others; and biopigments such as
chlorophylls, carotinoids, anthocyanins, betalains, and others.
 [0133]    The choice of microbes for use in a voltaic cell is predicated on the power,
durability and vessel requirements for the cell. In some examples, microbes may be
selected for their ability to provide a bolus of electrical current from a unit periodically. As
such, these microbes will optimally have the ability to store electrons in their cellular
components and thus have electron sink properties. These microbes usually have
appendages such as pili, fibrils, flagella or may also be filamentous in shape. Examples of
suitable microbes with appendages such as pili, fibrils, flagella and similar structures
include Neisseriaspp., Escherichiaspp., Eikenella spp., Corynebacteriumspp.,
Rhodospirillum spp., Rhodobacterspp., Aquaspirillum spp., Pseudomonasspp., Pirellula
spp., Nostoc spp., Helicobacterspp., Geobacterspp., Enterobacterspp., Photobacterium
spp., Brucella spp., Borrelia spp., Azoarcus spp., Dinoflagellataspp., Zooxanthellae spp.,
Azotobacter spp., Parabasaliaspp., Aeromonas spp., Thermococcus spp., Methanopyrus
spp., Thermoplasma spp., Pyrococcus spp., Methanococcus spp., Desulfurococcus spp.,
Methanoculleus spp., Archeoglobus spp., Thiobacillus spp., Synechococcus spp., Spirillum
spp., Sphaerotilus spp., Ruminobacterspp., Roseobacter spp., and other. Examples of
filamentous microbes are: Desulfurococcus spp., Streptomyces spp., Spirulina spp.,
 Vorticella spp., Sphaerotilusspp., Xanthophyceae spp., Propionibacteriumspp., Nostoc
                                                   27

spp., Leptothrix spp., Frankiaspp., Pleurocapsaspp., Chloroflexus spp., Beggiatoaspp.,
Anabaena spp., Ustilago spp., Megnetospirillum spp., and other.
 [0134]    The microbes are selected such that said microbes are viable following voltaic
cell-mediated withdrawal of stored electrons. The freed up electron storage components in
a microbial cell can then be repopulated over time until the next bolus of electrical current
is required by the voltaic cell. Examples of microbes having suitably robust electron
storage capacities include Rhodopseudomonaspalustris,Moorella thermoacetica, and the
like. Timeframe of periodicity may be once every day, once every 3 days, once every 7
days, once every two weeks, once a month or other. The metabolic rates of the selected
microbes will determine the frequency at which electrical current can be withdrawn by a
voltaic cell.
 [0135]    In other examples, microbes may be selected for the ability of providing a fairly
constant level of electrical current from a voltaic cell. Examples of such microbes include
Neisseria spp., Escherichiaspp., Rhodospirillum spp., Rhodobacter spp., Aquaspirillum
spp., Rhodopseudomonas spp., Pirellulaspp., Nostoc spp., Geobacterspp., Enterobacter
spp., Photobacteriumspp., Azoarcus spp., Dinoflagellataspp., Zooxanthellae spp.,
Azotobacter spp., Aeromonas spp., Thermococcus spp., Methanopyrus spp.,
Thermoplasma spp., Pyrococcus spp., Methanococcus spp., Desulfurococcusspp.,
Methanoculleus spp., Archeoglobus spp., Thiobacillus spp., Synechococcus spp., Spirillum
spp., Sphaerotilus spp., Ruminobacterspp., Roseobacter spp., Desulfurococcus spp.,
Spirulina spp., Vorticella spp., Sphaerotilus spp., Xanthophyceae spp., Propionibacterium
spp., Nostoc spp., Leptothrix spp., Frankiaspp., Pleurocapsaspp., Chloroflexus spp.,
Anabaena spp., Ustilago spp., Megnetospirillum spp., and the like. As such, these
microbes will optimally have diverse metabolic pathway repertoires to enable them to
generate free electrons from a diverse set of chemical and/or light sources. Additionally,
the microbes will have a relatively constant rate at which free electrons are generated
(compared with most other microbes). The microbes are selected such that they are viable
following continual electrical current withdrawal by the voltaic cell. Examples of such
microbes include some photoheterotrophs and some chemoheterotrophs.
 [0136]    In other examples, microbes may be selected for their durability. Examples of
such microbes include Rhodospirillum spp., Rhodobacterspp., Aquaspirillum spp.,
Rhodopseudomonas spp., Nostoc spp., Geobacterspp., Enterobacterspp., Methanococcus
spp., Desu/furococcus spp., Thiobacillus spp., Synechococcus spp., Spirillum spp.,
                                                  28

Roseobacter spp., Desulfurococcus spp., Spirulina spp., Anabaena spp., and the like.
Durable microbes are defined as having the ability to withstand conditions in the voltaic
cell in a sustained manner. Variables that factor into the selection of durable microbes
include: metabolic robustness (e.g., having two or more metabolic pathways); genetic
robustness (ability to mutate during environmental stress, i.e., non-proofreading/non
editing capabilities in DNA polymerase or RNA polymerase); environmental robustness
(ability to be metabolically active over time under fluctuating environmental conditions,
i.e., temperature, light, pressure and other); and population robustness (ability to co-exist
with other microbial species in a community without being outcompeted for nutrients,
etc.).
 [0137]     In some examples, a nutrient spike may be necessary to maintain levels of one or
more subset of the microbial population. Examples of nutrients required periodically
include: phosphate, sulfur, hydrogen sulfide, sulfate, nitrate, acetic acid, C02, 02,
ammonia, H2, Fe2+, Mg2+, Mn2+, Co2+ and their salts, or other. In other examples, a
waste-neutralization spike may be necessary to maintain levels of one or more subset of
the microbial population. Examples of waste-neutralization components required
periodically include: HCl, NaOH, sodium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, chelators,
C02, 02 or other.
 [0138]     For self-sustaining microbial populations in a voltaic cell, microbes may be
selected based on their preferred metabolic substrate use or their preferred metabolic waste
product. Pairing of selected microbes may be based on complementary metabolisms. In
some examples, microbes having one type of predominant metabolism may produce
metabolic waste products that serve as substrates (or otherwise meet some nutritional
requirements) for other microbes having a second type of predominant metabolism, thus it
can be said that one microbial subset is symbiotic with a second microbial subset. Such
pairs of microbe species are sometimes said to be complementary. In other examples, a
voltaic cell can contain a diverse population of microbes wherein two or more subsets'
metabolisms are interacting with others in a symbiotic fashion. The metabolic balance of
the microbial population can be designed or tuned to provide a self-sustained voltaic cell.
 [0139]     Often, the two more microorganisms in a buffer can be characterized by their
primary metabolic pathways, which accounts for the fact that microorganisms may have
multiple metabolic pathways, but at any instant in time one of the pathways accounts for
more metabolism than the others. Focusing on the primary metabolic pathways, in certain
                                                  29

embodiments, complementary microbes have primary metabolic pathways that, to a
degree, are inverses one another. For example, one organism may primarily oxidize a
certain N, C, S, or P-containing compound and a complementary organism primarily
reduces the oxidized N, C, S, or P-containing compound produced by the first organism.
Of course, no organism exclusively oxidizes or reduces; rather it oxidizes some
compounds and reduces others. The pairing of complementary microorganisms focuses on
substrates and waste products of primary metabolic pathways. Ideally, the waste product
of one organism is an oxidized N, C, S, or P-containing compound, which is the substrate
of a different organism. In turn, the second organism reduces the oxidized compound to
produce the substrate of the first organism. In certain embodiments, the complementary
microorganisms in a buffer together make up at least about 50% of the buffer's microbial
content, or at least about 70% of the buffer's microbial content, or at least about 90% of
the buffer's microbial content. In certain embodiments, the primary metabolic pathways
of the complementary microorganisms are respiratory pathways. While the above
discussion focuses on two complementary microorganisms, the concept naturally extends
to three or more complementary microorganisms. In some cases, two or more
microorganisms share the same primary metabolic pathway or have similar primary
metabolic pathways. In other cases, each of three or more complementary microorganisms
in a buffer have different primary metabolic pathways, but collectively have little or no net
consumption of substrates or generation of waste products. For example, a first
microorganism may consume compound A and produce compound B; while a second
microorganism consumes compound B and produces compound C; and a third
microorganism consumes compound C and produces compound A.
 [0140]    Once self-sustained populations have been established in a voltaic cell, the
environmental conditions (daylight, temperature, etc.), timing and rate of electron current
withdrawal by the voltaic cell and microbial cell density input can be controlled for
maintaining symbiosis. Microbial selection will help to generate a sustained "homeostatic"
population with little turnover, but control of various inputs and outputs may also require
regulation. Such regulation may be employed by the use of sensors and feedback loops in
the voltaic cell to help maintain balance.
 [0141]    Microbes can also be selected based on their indigenous environment. Marine
waters and their underlying sediments constitute the largest portion of the biosphere. They
are key for biogeochemical cycling in our planet; the composition of marine microbial
                                                  30

communities, their metabolic potential and activities and their interactions with the
environment remain poorly understood. A considerable effort has been devoted to study
planktonic communities inhabiting euphotic layers by molecular and genomics-based
methods that complement classical cultivation-based approaches. In fact, surface seawaters
have been an environment of choice for pioneer studies of microbial diversity based on the
amplification, cloning and sequencing of small subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA)
genes to chronicle species diversity and genomic diversity. However, different water
masses are endowed with different physico-chemical characteristics. Such differences are
particularly important in close seas, much more influenced by coastal input and local
features. For example, Mediterranean waters are very different from open oceanic waters,
and this seems to be reflected at the metagenome level. Geographic location can thus be
used as selective criteria for selection of microbes for a voltaic cell for use in a particular
geographic environment. For example, geothermal vents, fissures, brackish watersheds,
brackish sediments, ponds, salt ponds, glacial ice, oceanic sediments, Yellowstone acid
pools, etc.
[0142]      In experimental microbial fuel cells presented in the literature, carbon sources
present a costly hurdle in generating a sustained system. For example, the use of sugar
fermentative organisms to fuel microbial fuel cells and/or fermentation systems winds up
being cost-prohibitive and not practical for scale-up. Therefore, in certain embodiments,
voltaic cells and associated buffers are substantially free of fermentative organisms such as
yeast. In some embodiments, the voltaic cells are substantially free of sugar fermenting
organisms such as glucose fermenting organisms.
[0143]      Selection and use of light-harvesting phototrophic microbes in combination with
chemotrophic microbes provides a more sustained population for lasting electric current
generation in a voltaic cell. In many phototrophs, a photon of light can generate 1-3 free
electrons (dependent on the microbial species), with the waste products being C0 2, 02,
other gases, inorganic molecules, organic carbon sources and other molecules as waste
products. These waste products can be used by chemotrophic microbes as energy sources.
[0144]      There is significant diversity amongst chemotrophs, with documented energy
sources in the hundreds of chemical compounds ranging from gases, to metals, to
inorganic compounds, to organic compounds. The breakdown of bond energy from these
chemistries and the generation of free electrons during the catabolic processes vary.
Examples of ranges include 1 to more than 6 free electrons per starting molecule, with the
                                                  31

metabolic waste products being C0 2 , 02, other gases, organic carbon compounds,
inorganic molecules, and other molecules as waste products. These waste products can be
used by other chemotrophs in a population or can be used by some photoheterotrophs in a
population.
 [0145]     The potential for ferric iron reduction with fermentable substrates, fermentation
products, and complex organic matter as electron donors has been investigated. For
example, even in aquatic sediments from freshwater and brackish water sites, microbes
have demonstrated electron flow capabilities, particularly following enrichment with
glucose and hematite. In these examples, iron reduction was a minor pathway for electron
flow and fermentation products accumulated, which may be used by chemotrophs in a
voltaic cell. The substitution of amorphous ferric oxyhydroxide for hematite in glucose
enrichments was further shown to increase iron reduction 50-fold because the fermentation
products could also be metabolized with concomitant iron reduction by the chemotrophs.
Acetate, hydrogen, propionate, butyrate, ethanol, methanol, and trimethylamine have also
been shown to stimulate the reduction of amorphous ferric oxyhydroxide in enrichments
inoculated with sediments but not in uninoculated or heat-killed controls under lab
conditions. The addition of ferric iron can inhibit methane production in sediments. The
degree of inhibition of methane production by various forms of ferric iron has been shown
to relate to the effectiveness of these ferric compounds as electron acceptors for
chemotrophic metabolism of acetate. The addition of acetate or hydrogen to the population
can relieve the inhibition of methane production by ferric iron. The decrease of electron
equivalents proceeding to methane in sediments supplemented with amorphous ferric
oxyhydroxides can be compensated for by a corresponding increase of electron equivalents
in ferrous iron. Therefore, iron reduction can out compete methanogenic food chains for
sediment organic matter. Thus, when amorphous ferric oxyhydroxides are available in
anaerobic sediments and/or when selected for use in voltaic cells, the transfer of electrons
from organic matter to ferric iron can be a major pathway for organic matter
decomposition and can be interrupted by electron siphons or other terminal electron
acceptor and thus a source of electron current generation for the voltaic cell.
 [0146]     In another example, gas or cold seeps are enriched in methane and can be seen
directly as bubbles coming out from the sediment, or can be detected indirectly by the
presence of dark patches revealing areas of strong redox activity in which sulfate reduction
by microbes occurs just beneath the surface. These patches are often colonized by
                                                   32

siboglinid polychaetes and bivalves likely associated with symbiotic bacteria and mats of
sulfide-oxidizing bacteria. A voltaic cell can comprise a population of symbiotic microbes
balancing sulfate reduction and methane production a freshwater sediment buffer system.
Examples of sulfate reducing bacteria include Desulfobacterspp., Desulfococcus spp.,
Desulfovibrio spp., Erythrobacterspp., Thermotoga spp., Pyrobaculum spp., Roseobacter
spp., Rhodoferax spp., Pelobacterspp., Carboxydothermusspp., Lawsonia spp.,
Methanococcus spp., Thermodesulfobacteriumspp., Desulfuromonas spp. and other.
Examples of methanogens are: Methanococcusspp., Methanoculleus spp., Methanofollis
spp., Methanopyrus spp., Methanosarcinaspp., Methanosphaeraspp.,
Methanothermobacterspp., and the like.
 [0147]     In yet another example, gamma-proteobacteria, which are the most abundant
groups in high bacterial-diversity sediment, can be mixed with an archael plankton fraction
containing Group I Crenarchaeota/Thaumarchaeota, and can be mixed with Euryarchaeota
from group I (e.g., Duboscquellida) and group II (e.g., Syndiniales) alveolates and
Radiozoa dominating plankton, and Opisthokonta and Alveolates, sediment buffer system.
 [0148]     Many other examples can exist, whereby desirable metabolism, cell physiology,
genes, growth conditions, metabolic rates and compatibility can be selected for.
 [0149]     While many studies of lab-based microbial fuel cells employ pure microbial
cultures comprising domesticated strains from glycerol freezer stocks, such strains may not
be appropriate for some voltaic cells as disclosed herein. In certain embodiments, voltaic
cells employ environmental microbes present in their natural state. Microbes isolated and
cultured using standard microbiological techniques have been shown to have lost "fitness",
i.e., they lose genes they no longer need under laboratory conditions. As used herein, the
term "natural state" refers to microbes having genotypes as found in their natural
environment, prior to becoming laboratory or industrial microbes. As such, natural state
microbes tend to be more fit than their laboratory or industrial counterparts. In an example,
an environmental sediment is placed in a voltaic cell. In some examples, the environmental
sediment is mixed with a second environmental sample prior to placement in a voltaic cell.
A goal of this method is to maintain as many of the naturally-observed genes as possible to
maximize natural state microbial fitness in a voltaic cell for optimal electrical current
production. A second advantage of using natural state microbes over lab-cultured microbes
is their ability to withstand external stressors and higher stress tolerance compared to lab
cultured microbes. The advantage of having a starting population with a higher gene
                                                   33

abundance and increased gene repertoire enables many more chances for a successful self
sustained population being generated in a voltaic cell, as it is much more difficult for an
lab-cultured microbe to spontaneously generate new genes from a smaller genome than it
is to select for modest beneficial mutations in pre-existing genes.
 [0150]     For environmental isolates and environmental populations for use in voltaic
cells, environmental sample testing can be performed using conventional methods such as
spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, gene sequencing and other methods to identify the
presence of desirable chemistries and/or the presence of desirable genes known to
participate in a biochemical and/or metabolic pathway.
 [0151]     For example, one can look for particular genes and their respective protein
products that are considered to be diagnostic for particular enzymatic pathways and, hence,
for particular metabolic capabilities. These included ammonia monooxygenase AmoA,
AmoB and AmoC subunits (nitrification), 4-hydroxybutyryl dehydratase (CO 2 fixation by
the 3-hydroxypropionate/4-hydroxybutyrate pathway), dissimilatory sulfite reductase DsrA
and DsrB subunits (sulfate respiration), dissimilatory nitrite reductase subunits NirK and
NirS (nitrate respiration), nitrogenase subunits NifH and NifD (nitrogen fixation), carbon
monoxide dehydrogenase CoxLMS subunits (CO oxidation), RuBisCO (CO 2 fixation),
sulphatase (degradation of sulfonated heteropolysaccharides), hydroxylamine
oxidoreductase HAO (anammox), methyl coenzyme A reductase (anaerobic oxidation of
methane) and C-P lyase (phosphonate utilization). Selective analysis of environmental
samples for desired genes is one method for determining the desirable composition of
microbes in a population for use in a voltaic cell.
 [0152]     Archaeal amo genes were abundant in plankton, suggesting that Marmara
planktonic Thaumarchaeotaare ammonia oxidizers. Genes involved in sulfate reduction,
carbon monoxide oxidation, anammox and sulfatases were over-represented in sediment.
Genome recruitment analyses showed that Alteromonas macleodii 'surface ecotype',
Pelagibacterubique and Nitrosopumilus maritimus were highly represented in 1000 m
deep plankton.
 [0153]     In anoxic sediments, sulfate reduction is generally accompanied by the activity
of methanogenic archaea in deeper sediment layers. In cold seep environments, such as
those existing in localized areas of the Marmara Sea, some sulfate-reducing bacteria are
symbiotically associated to archaea carrying out anaerobic methane oxidation. One can
look for the presence of methyl coenzyme M reductase, which catalyses the terminal step
                                                  34

in methanogenesis and seems to have a role also in reverse methanogenesis, being
characteristic of methane-metabolizing archaea. The genes encoding the subunits of
methyl coenzyme M from Methanosarcinabarkeri (McrABCDG) and those of the nickel
protein involved in the anaerobic oxidation of methane (McrABG) from an uncultured
archaeon have been used as seeds against the chosen metagenomes. However, no hits
were detected. This is in agreement with both, the fact that Ma29 corresponded to
 'normal', bottom sediment not strongly influenced by cold seep activity and with the fact
that it was collected from the surface of the sediment core and hence above the
methanogenesis layer.
 [0154]     As Planctomycetes are relatively abundant in sediment, one can determine the
presence of genes that could indicate the occurrence of anammox activity the Kuenenia
stuttgartensis gene encoding the hydroxylamine oxidoreductase, one of the key enzymes
of the anammox reaction. This marker and other similar markers can be used to identify
samples containing a large number of oxidoreductases as a source of electron carriers that
may be able to be accessed by electron siphons in a voltaic cell.
 [0155]     Sulfatases are abundant in the genome of R. baltica and, in general, marine
planctomycetes possess a large number of these enzymes, which they might use for the
initial breakdown of sulfated heteropolysaccharides, thus having an important role in
recycling these abundant oceanic compounds. These markers can be used to determine
sulfate-recyclers, which could provide a means of generating bio-useful sulfur sources to
other subsets in a voltaic cell.
 [0156]     The use of phosphonate compounds has been recently proposed as an important
source of phosphorous in P-depleted surface marine waters, as well as in more P-rich deep
waters. Known genes but also novel pathways for phosphonate utilization are abundant in
metagenomic picoplankton libraries as deduced from functional screenings. These markers
can be used to determine phosphonate use by microbes in a sample, which could provide a
means of generating bio-useful phosphate sources to other subsets in a voltaic cell.
 [0157]     The oxidation of CO to CO 2 as an alternative or supplementary energy source is
widespread in many marine bacteria including, notably, members of the highly versatile
and abundant Roseobacter clade. Carbon monoxide dehydrogenase genes were detected at
relative high abundance in deep Mediterranean waters, which suggested that deep-sea
microbes might perform a similar form of lithoheterotrophy to that showed by surface
bacterioplankton by oxidizing CO. The possible role of CO oxidation in deep waters has
                                                 35

been criticized because the source of CO would be unclear at that depth and because
carbon monoxide dehydrogenase is also involved in some pathways of central C
metabolism, for instance in acetogenic methanogens. However, hydrothermal activity
associated with oceanic ridges and to submarine volcanic areas, which are indeed rather
extensive in the Mediterranean, constitutes a very likely source of CO in the deep sea.
Furthermore, sequencing of metagenomic fosmids containing carbon monoxide
dehydrogenase genes has shown that they are organized in clusters having the typical
structure of CO oxidizing bacteria. Hence, lithoheterotrophy based on CO oxidation may
actually be a useful strategy to gain free energy also in the deep sea. This can be leveraged
in a voltaic cell, as selected microbes employing CO oxidation can reduce electron
siphons.
 [0158]     The ammonium monooxygenase is the key enzyme in the first step of
nitrification. Thaumarchaeota are major factors in the oxidation of ammonia to nitrite in
soil and oceans as suggested by the dominance of archaeal over bacterial amoA genes.
However, not all deep-sea Thaumarchaeota possess amoA, suggesting that many deep-sea
archaea are not chemolithoautotrophic ammonia oxidizers. Amo genes can thus be used as
a marker for oxidizing microbes, which may be used in a sub-compartment of a voltaic cell
to drive potentiation of the voltaic cell.
 [0159]     In addition, Ma101 Thaumarchaeotaseem to be chemolithoautotrophic, as they
can possess the gene for 4-hydroxybutyryl dehydratase, a key enzyme in the 3
hydroxypropionate/4-hydroxybutyrate pathway for autotrophic CO 2 fixation in group I
archaea. In addition to this C fixation pathway, a number of microbes in a sample may
contain the RuBisCO large subunit (rbcL), indicating the presence of the more
conventional Calvin cycle for CO 2 fixation. These microbes can be used in a voltaic cell
for nutrient generation for additional microbial subsets in the voltaic cell.
 [0160]     In another example, genomics and gene sequencing can identify compatible
microbes for use in a voltaic cell. From numerous studies utilizing phylogenetic analyses
of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences from gene libraries made from environmental
isolates, many of Delta-proteobacteria affiliate with the sulfate-reducing
Desulfobacteraceae,but also with several lineages without cultivated microbes, which
suggest that some of them may be sulfate reducers as well. Among the planktonic Delta
proteobacterial rDNA sequences, several have been identified from the uncultivated group
SAR324. The co-occurrence of genes for sulfate reduction in the same sample suggests
                                                 36

that the SAR324 are capable of reducing sulfate. Indeed, the presence of certain metabolic
genes in metagenomic clones and the relative abundance of this group in oxygen-depleted
waters suggested that SAR324 may correspond to anaerobic or microaerophilic
organisms. Advantages to using information and methods detailed here encompass the
selection and use of Desulfobacteraceaeand SAR324 microbes in a voltaic cell for
electrical current generation.
        Microbe Examples
 [0161]    In certain embodiments, the light-harvesting antennae component population is a
population of photosynthetic microbes, where the photosynthetic microbes can execute
non-oxygenic photosynthesis. In certain embodiments, the light-harvesting antennae
component population is a population of are oxygenic photosynthetic microbes. Yet in
other embodiments, the light-harvesting antennae component population is a mixture of
oxygenic and non-oxygenic photosynthetic microbes. The photosynthetic microbes may be
one species but may also be poly-species. Examples of such microbes and light-harvesting
antennae for use with the disclosed embodiments are listed in Table 1.
 [0162]    The microbial cell population may serve as an electron donor. The microbial cell
population may contain viable or non-viable photosynthetic microbes, non-photosynthetic
microbes, or a combination of photosynthetic microbes and non-photosynthetic microbes.
The microbial cell population may contain 0-100% photosynthetic microbes. In some
embodiments, the microbial cell population contains about 35-80 % photosynthetic
microbes. In some embodiments, the microbial cell population contains nearly about 100%
non-photosynthetic microbes. Photosynthetic microbes, if used, may be a population of
heterogeneous species and/or strains. In other embodiments, the photosynthetic microbial
population may contain a homogenous species or a homogenous strain. Non
photosynthetic microbes, if present, may contain a population of heterogeneous species
and/or strains. In other embodiments, the non-photosynthetic microbes may contain a
homogenous species or a homogenous strain.
 [0163]    In some embodiments, a composition of microbial cell population may be
generated by mixing ratios of different microbial species; different environmental isolates;
different environmental samples; or other where each species; isolate; environmental
sample has a distinct spectral wavelength absorbance(s) and growth requirement that may
be optimally compatible with a desired climate. Selection criteria for generating the
population of microbes may include: wavelength excitation spectra, thermophilicity,
                                                37

halophilicity, anaerobic profile, nutritional requirements, compatibility and other. In some
embodiments, a voltaic cell contains different microbial species or strains that complement
one another in terms of any one or more of these criteria. For example, two species may
have similar thermophilicities and halophilicities but different nutritional requirements.
 [0164]     A voltaic cell, used for the converting light energy to electrical energy, may
contain a microbial cell population including a combination of photosynthetic microbes
and non-photosynthetic microbes, where the photosynthetic microbes outnumber the non
photosynthetic microbes at about a 1.5:1 ratio; where the photosynthetic microbes
outnumber the non-photosynthetic microbes at about a 3:1 ratio; where the photosynthetic
microbes outnumber the non-photosynthetic microbes at about a 5:1 ratio; where the
photosynthetic microbes outnumber the non-photosynthetic microbes at about a 500:1
ratio; where the photosynthetic microbes outnumber the non-photosynthetic microbes at
about a 5,000,000:1 ratio; or ranges between any two of the above values. In some
implementations, the photosynthetic microbes outnumber the non-photosynthetic microbes
at a ratio of about 1.5:1 to about 100:1. A voltaic cell may be used for converting cellular
energy to electrical energy and contain a microbial cell population containing a
combination of non-photosynthetic microbes. A voltaic cell may be used in a flexible
manner to convert light energy to electrical energy from time-to-time and to convert
cellular energy to electrical energy from time-to-time contains a microbial cell population
containing a combination of non-photosynthetic microbes and photosynthetic microbes.
 [0165]     The arrangement of the microbial cell population in a voltaic cell may vary
based on use. Microbial cells may be arranged in solution; in a sediment layer; in more
than one layer; in a coating; conjugated to the surface of an electron siphon; conjugated to
the surface of an electron conductive material; conjugated to a wire or other current
collector; or other. Microbial cells may be arranged between electron conductive siphons
and other electron conductive material (which may be part of a siphon); may be arranged
in alternating layers with electron conductive siphon; may be arranged in alternating layers
with electron conductive material; may be arranged in alternating layers with electron
conductive siphon and electron conductive material. In some embodiments, the microbial
cell population may be arranged near the outermost surface of the vessel. In other
embodiments, the microbial cell population may be contained within a portion of the
vessel.
                                                  38

 [0166]     In some aspects of the disclosure, the microbial cell population may be arranged
in layers in a voltaic cell; the layers of which may contain microbes having similar light
absorbing wavelength range specificities. In some examples, the order of layers regarding
the outermost vessel layer may be: infra-red absorbing microbes then red light absorbing
microbes then orange light absorbing microbes then yellow light absorbing microbes then
green light absorbing microbes then blue light absorbing microbes then indigo light
absorbing microbes then violet light absorbing microbes then ultra-violet light absorbing
microbes, or other frequency progression along the electromagnetic spectrum. More
generally, other cascading wavelength arrangements may be employed for the light
harvesting antennae, microbes, and radiation absorbing characteristics of the buffer.
 [0167]     A diversity of microbes can donate electrons to an electrode or accept electrons
from an electrode, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some cases,
artificial electron transfer facilitation is not necessary. Shewanella oneidensis interacts
with electrodes primarily via flavins that function as soluble electron shuttles. Geobacter
sulfurreducens electrically contacts electrodes via outer-surface, c-type cytochromes. G.
sulfurreducens is also capable of long-range electron transport along pili, known as
microbial nanowires that have metallic-like conductivity similar to that previously
described in synthetic conducting polymers. Pili networks confer conductivity to G.
sulfurreducens biofilms, which function as a conducting polymer, with supercapacitor and
transistor functionalities. The mechanisms by which Geobactersulfurreducenstransfers
electrons through relatively thick (>50 micron) biofilms to electrodes acting as a sole
electron acceptor have recently been investigated. Biofilms of Geobactersulfurreducens
grown either in flow-through systems with graphite electrodes as the electron acceptor or
on the same graphite surface, but with fumarate as the sole electron acceptor have been
demonstrated to generate electrical current. Conductive microorganisms and/or their
nanowires have several potential practical applications, but additional basic research will
be necessary for rational optimization. Described are electron siphon devices for more
efficient electron transfer between a microbe and an electrode. Also described are electron
siphon devices for a voltaic cell. Last, described are voltaic cells for water.
         Liposome examples
 [0168]     A population of light-harvesting liposomes having light-harvesting antennae
molecules (such as those in Table 2).
                                                     39

[0169]     Examples liposomes components include steroyl and distearoyl types of
phosphatidyl choline, palmitoyl and dipalmitoyl types of phosphatidyl choline,
phosphatidyl glycerol and cholesterol. The phosphatidyl glycerol and/or cholesterol can
be added to the liposome to impart enhanced temperature stability.
[0170]     A population including a mixture of light-harvesting antennae liposomes, the
liposomes containing a molar ratio of 10:8:2 of distearoyl phosphatidyl choline:distearoyl
phosphatidyl glycerol:cholesterol; the light-harvesting antennae containing a mixture of
bacteriochlorophyll a, bacteriochlorophyll b, bacteriochlorophyll c, bacteriochlorophyll d,
spirilloxanthin, proteorhodopsin, chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b.
[0171]     A population can contain a 1:1 ratio of prepared membranes and liposomes.
Most optimally, the population contains a 1:10 ratio of prepared membrane to liposome.
[0172]     A population of photosynthetic microbes mixed with light-harvesting liposomes,
where the photosynthetic microbes can execute oxygenic and/or non-oxygenic
photosynthesis.
        Light Harvesting Antennae - Various Examples
[0173]     Exemplary organisms and their respective light-harvesting antennae are listed in
Table 1.
        TABLE 1. Examples of microbe-derived light-harvesting antennae components.
GROUP           EXEMPLARY          LIGHT                 ABSORP-      ELECTRON       HABITAT
                MICROBIAL          HARVESTING            TION         DONOR(S)
                SPECIES           ANTENNAE               MAXIMA
                                                         (nm)
Green sulfur    Chlorobium;        Bacteriochlorophyl                 Sulfide;       Volcanic hot
bacteria        Chloroherpeton 1 a; c; d; or e;                       Hydrogen;      springs; salt
                ; GSB1; others     chlorophyll a                      Ferrous iron   marsh
                                                                                     sediments;
                                                                                     deep
                                                                                     freshwater
                                                                                     lakes; high
                                                                                     temperature
                                                                                     and salinity
Green non-      Chloroflexus       Bacteriochlorophyl    865          P865 (dimer    Biological
sulfur          spp.; others       1 663; chlorophyll                 of bacterio-   waste
bacteria                           a                                  chlorophyll    (sludge)
                                                                      a)
Purple                             Bacteriochlorophyl    800; 820;
sulfur                             1a; b; carotenoids    850; 870
                                                 40

bacteria                                                 890; 1,020
Purple non
sulfur
bacteria
Pro
chlorophytes
Cyano-        Prochlorococcu                                                Hot springs
bacteria      s;
              Synechococcus
Other         Porphyrobacter OH-beta-carotene            460; 494;
                                   sulfate derivatives;  596; 800;
                                  nostoxanthin;          870
                                  bacteriorubixanthi
                                  nal
Brown algae
Green algae
Red algae      Cyanidium                                                    Hot springs
Diatoms       Phaeodactylum; Chlorophyll a; c1;          425; 440;
                                   c2; fucoxanthin       450; 490;
                                                         670; 680
         TABLE 2. Antennae and light-harvesting abilities
  LIGHT-HARVESTING ANTENNAE                             WAVELENGTH RANGES (nm)
                 TYPE
Allophycocyanin                               651 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll a                         805 nm, 830-890 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll b                         835-850 nm, 1020-1040 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll c                         745-755 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll d                         705-740 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll e                         719-726 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll f (currently found        700-710 nm
only through mutation; natural may exist)
Bacteriochlorophyll g                         670 nm, 788 nm
Bacteriochlorophyll 663                       663 nm
                                                 41

Rhodovibrin          510 nm
Spirilloxanthin      absorption peaks in acetone at 470, 497, and 530
                     nm.Assuming a shift toward longer wavelengths in
                     vivo, the three absorption peaks seen in the range of
                     480 to 550 nm are apparently a signature of the
                     optical activity of spirilloxanthin
Gamma-carotene       Absorption max: 437, 462, 494 nm (E1 %1Icm 2055,
                     3100, 2720). Natural form: minute, deep-red prisms
                     with bluish luster from benzene + methanol. mp
                     177.50. Absorption max (chloroform): 508.5, 475,
                     446 nm. Somewhat less so than -carotene.
Proteorhodopsin      Blue: 490 nm; Green: 525 nm
R-Phycoerythrin      498, 546, 566 nm
B-Phycoerythrin      546, 566 nm
C-Phycocyanin        620 nm
Flavocytochrome c552 absorption maxima at 419, 523 and 552 nm in the
                     reduced form. Reduced-minus-oxidized difference
                     millimolar absorption coefficient was 10.6 for the
                     wavelength pair, 552 minus 540 nm
Carotenoids          460 and 550 nm (maxima)
Chlorophyll a        Range: 400-500 and 650-700 nm; 430 and 662 nm
                     (maxima)
Chlorophyll b        Range: 450-500 and 600-650 nm; 453 and 642 nm
                     (maxima)
Chlorophyll c I      Peaks 642 nm and 630 nm
Chlorophyll c2       Peaks 444 nm and 630 nm
Chlorophyll d        Peaks 401 nm, 455 nm and 696 nm
Xanthophyll          Range: 400-530 nm
Anthocyanins         maxima in vivo 537 nm -542 nm
                         42

         Sources ofLight HarvestingAntennae
                Naturally OccurringSources
 [0174]    Light-harvesting antennae component populations can be cultivated and
harvested from natural or synthetic ponds, large-scale growth columns with culture medias
under conventional laboratory conditions, scaled-up manufacturing conditions, and
photovoltaic solar panel beds.
 [0175]    Microbes and microbe derivatives of the disclosed embodiments can be isolated
from one or more geographic location and from one or more climate by standard
microbiological methods including culturing with a defined media, cultivation in the
natural environment and cultivation in a solar panel farm.
                Preparationfor an Energy Conversion Cell
 [0176]    The light-harvesting antennae component population may include membranes
with light harvesting antennae derived from photosynthetic microbes. The membranes can
be prepared from microbes by sonication, hydraulic press, pressure press, enzymatic,
hypotonic bath or other conventional mechanical or chemico-mechanical method. The
membranes can be mixed with a buffered solvent and antioxidant mixture, such as a
nonionic surfactant prior to addition to the electrolyte-buffered solution of the disclosed
embodiments. The membranes can be prepared from one or more photosynthetic microbial
species capable of oxygenic and/or non-oxygenic photosynthesis. The membranes can be
prepared from specific photosynthetic microbes separately and can be mixed at a desired
ratio to enable light-harvesting capabilities over ranges wavelengths of light.
                Variants of Naturally OccurringSources
 [0177]    Microbes and microbe derivatives for use with the disclosed embodiments can
also be generated by genetic engineering to produce one or more microbial variants with
increased light harvesting antennae levels and increased light harvesting capabilities for
the enhanced harvest of light.
 [0178]    The light-harvesting antennae component may additionally include one or more
genetically-modulated photosynthetic microbial species with increased numbers of light
harvesting antennae components per unit area membrane. The genetically-modulated
microbes can be induced to enhance gene expression to increase the production of light
harvesting antennae in a population of microbes. Methods to induce the increased gene
                                                  43

expression include but are not limited to: gene knock-ins by transposons, DNA
recombination of transgenes by plasmid DNA, micro-RNAs, gene-activating RNAs, co
incubation with donor cells to promote conjugation and phage transduction.
         MEDIA FOR LIGHT HARVESTING ANTENNAE - BUFFERS
 [0179]    The buffer system may be in liquid, gel or paste form, and may, in certain
embodiments, contain salts, buffering agents, nutrients, thickening agents and one or more
other components. In some embodiments, a buffer system may also contain pigments or
similarly simple light harvesting antennae. In certain embodiments, a buffer includes an
electron donor, a reductant, a salt, an amino acid, a pH buffering agent, a carbon source, a
nitrogen source, a sulfur source, an oxygen source, trace minerals, a vitamin co-factor, or a
combination of any two or more of the foregoing. In general, the buffer composition
supports the maintenance of the light harvesting antennae population over time. Further,
the buffer may support the maintenance of the light harvesting antennae population in a
closed system in one or more climate.
 [0180]    Salts may be present in concentrations ranging from about 10 picgrams/L to
about 30 grams/L; from about 10 micrograms/L to about 500 milligrams/L; from about 50
micrograms/L to about 50 milligrams/L; and from about 15 micrograms/L to about 5
milligrams/L. In some embodiments, the salts are present at concentrations that promote
desired electrolyte properties such as ionic conductivity level, nutrient level, etc. In some
embodiments, the salts are chosen for their high ionic conductivity.
 [0181]    Examples of salts that may be used include aluminum chloride, aluminum
fluoride, ammonia, ammonium bicarbonate, ammonium chromate, ammonium chloride,
ammonium dichromate, ammonium hydroxide, ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfide,
ammonium sulfite, ammonium sulfate, ammonium persulfate, ammonium perchlorate,
boric acid, bromine pentafluoride, cadmium chloride, cadmium nitrate, cadmium selenide,
cadmium sulfate, cadmium sulfide, calcium chloride, calcium chromate, calcium
cyanamide, calcium fluoride, carbonic acid, chromium chloride, chromium sulfate,
chromium chloride, chromium oxide, chromium sulfate, cobalt carbonate, cobalt chloride,
cobalt sulfate, copper chloride, copper oxide, copper sulfide, copper carbonate, copper
nitrate, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen sulfide, iodic acid, iron chloride,
iron oxide, iron nitrate, iron thiocyanate, magnesium carbonate, magnesium chloride,
magnesium oxide, magnesium phosphate, magnesium sulfate, magnesium phosphate,
manganese oxide, manganese sulfate, manganese chloride, manganese fluoride,
                                                 44

manganese phosphate, nickel carbonate, nickel chloride, nickel nitrate, nickel hydroxide,
nickel oxide, nitric acid, perchloric acid, phosphorus pentabromide, phosphorus
pentafluoride, phosphorus pentasulfide, phosphorus tribromide, phosphorus trifluoride,
phosphorus triiodide, platinum chloride, potassium aluminium fluoride, potassium borate,
potassium bromide, potassium calcium chloride, potassium nitrate, potassium perchlorate,
potassium permanganate, potassium sulfate, potassium sulfide, silver chromate, silver
nitrate, silver oxide, silver sulfate, silver sulfide, sodium aluminate, sodium borate, sodium
bromate, sodium carbonate, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, sodium hydrosulfide,
sodium hydroxide, sodium hypochlorite, sodium manganite, sodium nitrate, sodium nitrite,
sodium periodate, sodium persulfate, sodium phosphate, sodium sulfate, sodium sulfide,
sodium thiocyanate, sulfur dioxide, sulfuric acid, tin chloride, titanium chloride, uranyl
carbonate, zinc bromide, zinc carbonate, zinc chloride, zinc fluoride, zinc iodide, zinc
oxide, zinc sulfate, zinc sulfide and others.
 [0182]     Nutrients in the buffer are chosen to maintain a microbial population in a
productive state. As examples, the nutrient component may contain all or some of:
nitrates, nitrites, ammonia, sulfate, sulfite, phosphate, carbonate, amino acids, sugars,
peptone, casitone, vitamins, minerals, metals and other components that support microbial
growth and metabolism. Nutrient concentrations may range from about 30 picgrams/L to
about 300 grams/L; from about 1 micrograms/L to about 500 milligrams/L; from about 50
micrograms/L to about 30 milligrams/L and from 15 micrograms/L to about 5
milligrams/L.
 [0183]     The pigments, if used, may be electron donors and/or provide other roles. They
absorb wavelength-specific light and reflect or transmit light at non-absorbed wavelengths.
Pigments may enhance light energy capture; may reflect light to the surrounding
environment within the vessel; may reflect light to a neighboring light harvesting
antennae; may reflect light to a neighboring microbe; may transmit light to the surrounding
environment within the vessel; may transmit light to a neighboring light harvesting
antennae; may transmit light to a neighboring microbe; may subtract out (filter) one or
more wavelength ranges of light; and/or serve other roles. As examples, pigments may be:
metal pigments such as cadmium-, chromium-, cobalt-, nickel-, manganese-, iron-,
titanium-, zinc-, copper-containing pigments and others; carbon-based pigments such as
carbon black, ivory black, and others; clay earth pigments; ultramarine pigments;
biological organic pigments such as indigo, Indian red, Tyrian purple, and others; and
                                                     45

other biologic and synthetic pigments. In some embodiments, pigments may be absent
from the buffer system. In some embodiments, pigments may be present in concentrations
ranging from about 5% to about 90% weight/volume (w/v); from about 15% to about 70%
(w/v); from about 25% to about 60% (w/v); from about 35% to about 50% (w/v) of the
buffer system.
 [0184]     The buffer may include nutrients otherwise treated as waste. One such example
is wastewater. Carbon-containing compounds in the wastewater may be used by microbes
to produce electrons.
         ELECTRON SIPHONS
 [0185]     Electron siphons may contain electron-accepting moieties that accept electrons
from other entities and transport such electrons by a conducting and/or semi-conducting
structure. The electron siphons may possess one or more such electron-accepting moiety
and may be capable of accepting one or more electrons concurrently. In certain
embodiments, electron siphons contain membrane docking sites for the efficient siphoning
of electrons from membrane-containing electron donors, which may be free entities or part
of another structure such as light harvesting antennae; microbes; electron carrier proteins;
and other moieties in or juxtaposed to membrane of a microbe; a membrane component; a
vesicle; a chloroplast; a mitochondria or other. More generally, electron siphons may
contain moieties to facilitate docking or simple contact with electron donors of any form.
 [0186]     The components of electron siphons may be made of material containing one or
more electron carrier proteins, polymers, composites, alloys and mixtures of carbon,
carbon, silicon, metals, colloidals, ceramic, copper, zinc, graphite, stainless steel, titanium
oxide, pigments, light harvesting antennae, chloroplasts, mitochondria, electron carrier
molecules, other electron recipient molecules, and combinations of any of these. In some
contexts, the electron siphons may be viewed as both electron acceptors and as electron
donors; they direct electron from donors in a buffer toward a current collector in a voltaic
cell. In some embodiments, the electron siphons serve as an electron relay system between
the initial electron donor and the current collector. Examples of electron siphon structural
materials include carbon, electron carrier proteins, polymers, composites, alloys and
mixtures of carbon, silica, metals, pigments, copper, zinc, stainless steel, titanium oxide
and the like.
 [0187]     Electron siphons may contain amorphous, crystalline, or partially crystalline
structures. The structures may have a thickness that is a single atom thick or multiple
                                                  46

atoms thick. In some embodiments, electron siphons have a unitary form, while in other
embodiments they are assembled, and sometimes assembled into a complex. Electron
siphons may be shaped as tubes, wires, spirals, bristles, plates, shavings, dots, particles,
spheres, sheets, membranes, mesh, webs, networks, and the like. The electron siphon
formats may include a mixed population of two or more of these. Furthermore, each
electron siphon may include one or more wire, thread, fiber, tube, dot, plate, particle or
other element containing one or more carbon polymer, metal, metalloid, colloidal or other
structure capable of electron transport. A population of electron siphons may include a
population of : tube, wire, particle, dot, fiber, plate, network or other.
 [0188]     Multiple electron siphons may be grouped in a superstructure such as an array, a
matrix, a suspension, one or more layer, a polymer, etc. With other elements of the voltaic
cell such as the buffer, the siphons may assume many types structure such as a gel, a co
polymer, a paste, a semi-solid, and any other ordered or random arrangement.
 [0189]     Electron siphons have a size appropriate for their role (e.g., conducting electrons
in the cell and/or accepting electrons from donors). Sometimes, they are sized to interface
with electron donors. In some embodiments, the siphons are on the order of the cell size,
or smaller, e.g., tens of microns down to nanometer scale. In some implementations, the
siphons have an average diameter of about 1-20 nm (e.g., about 4-5 nm) and an average
length of about 10-50 um (e.g., about 30 um). Siphons of this size can be arranged on the
external surface of a microbe. In certain implementations employing synthetic siphons,
the siphons may have diameters of about 2-10 nm. Assemblies of such siphons may have
dimensions of about 50-100 nm. Examples of synthetic siphons include recombinant pilA
polymers having 4-5 nm diameter and 30-80 um lengths. Other examples of synthetic
siphons include quantum dots, quantum wires, quantum wells, nanotubes, nanowires, and
the like. Electron siphons typically have dimensions on the order of nanometers, but other
size scales such as micrometers and millimeters may be employed.
 [0190]     Examples structures that can be used for electron conducting nanostructures
include nanoparticles, nanopowders, nanotubes, nanowires, nanorods, nanofibers, quantum
dots, dendrimers, nanoclusters, nanocrystals, and nanocomposites. The structures can be
made from any of various materials, including electron carrier proteins, polymers,
composites, carbon (e.g., fullerenes), silicon, metal (e.g., copper), metal alloys (e.g.,
stainless steel), ceramic, titanium oxide, etc.
                                                    47

 [0191]    The electron siphons may have a uniform or non-uniform composition. In a
purely uniform embodiment, the electron carrying component and electron accepting
element are intimately mixed through the siphon. As an example of a non-uniform
electron siphon, the structure contains a conductive rod as a support substrate and be
uniformly coated with an electron accepting moiety and docking moiety. In another
example, the docketing and/or electron accepting moieties may be localized on one side or
region of the conductive substrate. Such siphon structures may be produced by an
orientation specific processing mechanism such as a process that aligns ferromagnetic rods
(a collection of siphon support structures) in a common orientation during application of
an electron accepting moiety and/or docking moiety.
 [0192]    Electron siphons may contain one or more component subunit whereby the
component subunit is assembled with an electron donor. In some embodiments, an electron
siphon subunit is connected to an electron donor. In some embodiments, electron siphon
subunits are connected into a matrix or other assembly and connected to electron donors.
In some embodiments, electron siphon subunits are individually connected to electron
donors, the combination of which may then be connected to other electron siphons. As
explained, electron siphons may contain a conductive or semi-conductive material to
transport electrons accepted or coordinated with another structure of the siphon. An
electron siphon may accept and coordinate one or more electron simultaneously in the
presence of an electron donor. An electron siphon may donate one or more electron in the
presence of an electron acceptor.
 [0193]    The propensity of an electron siphon to accept and coordinate one or more
electron may, in part, determined by the potential energy required for the electron
accepting or coordination moieties to receive an electron from a donor. The electron
coordination moieties of the electron siphon may have overall negativity less than the
electron donors. Electron siphons may contain overall negativity less than the electron
donors and contain overall more negativity than the electron acceptors. Examples of
electron coordination moieties include : arginine, lysine, poly-arginine, poly-lysine,
ammonium, tetrabutylammonium, quinones, ubiquinones, biphenyls, 2,2'-bipyridines, azo
groups, amine groups, NO 2 groups, CN groups, naphthalimide, [60] fullerenes,
polythiophenes, terpyridine, imide groups, polyimide groups, derivative thereof, or other.
                                                  48

 [0194]     Electron coordination moieties may be conjugated to other components of an
electron siphon by various coupling chemistries to yield a covalent bond between the
electron siphon and the electron coordination moiety.
 [0195]     Electron siphons may be designed to dock with but not pierce (or otherwise
lyse) microbes or membranes they interface with. The siphons may act as benign
appendages that siphon electrons generated metabolically or photosynthetically. Electron
siphons may contain a coupling moiety. Coupling moieties may have an affinity for an
electron donor or a species containing an electron donor. Examples of coupling moieties
include antibodies and components thereof (e.g., F(ab) and F(ab')2 fragments), protein
domains, cholesterol, phosphoinositide, phospholipids, lipid A, lipopolysaccharide,
mannan, lipoarabinomannan, lipoteichoic acid, pilin, PilA, and the like. In certain
embodiments, the coupling moieties are conjugated to the electron siphon at one or more
surface residues to enable formation of a covalent bond.
 [0196]     In certain embodiments, to dock with a membrane, the siphon may have a
hydrophobic portion. However, the entire siphon structure should not be hydrophobic as
this may cause the structure to pierce the membrane. Therefore, in certain embodiments,
one portion of the siphon structure is hydrophobic and another portion is not hydrophobic.
In some implementations, the non-hydrophobic portion of the siphon structure is charged,
either positively charged or negatively charged. A positive charge may be employed to
attract electrons from the electron transport components in the membrane to the siphon.
 [0197]     If the base siphon structure is hydrophilic (e.g., metal siphon structures), it need
not be made positively charged. Instead, a portion is made hydrophobic to promote
membrane docking. If the base siphon structure is hydrophobic (e.g., a carbon siphon
structures), it needs no treatment to make it hydrophobic. Instead, it may be treated to
make a portion of positively charged.
 [0198]      In certain embodiments, the electron siphon base structure is treated to give it
an overall positive charge in a neutral buffer. This may be appropriate when the siphon is
hydrophobic. Examples of hydrophobic siphon materials include carbon (e.g., carbon
nanostructures), hydrophobic acrylics, amides, imides, carbonates, dienes, esters, ethers,
fluorocarbons, olefins, styrenes, vinyl acetals, vinyl chlorides, vinylidene chlorides, vinyl
esters, vinyl ethers, ketones, vinylpyridine polymers and vinylpyrrolidone polymers.
Electron siphon materials may be covalently conjugated to ac-type cytochrome, arginine,
polyarginine, lysine, polylysine, protamines, histones, iron (III), iron-sulfur clusters, and
                                                  49

the like Electron siphon materials may have their surfaces with metal moieties such as
cadmium, zinc, zirconium, molybdenum, manganese, magnesium, iron, platinum, copper,
rhodium, osmium, iridium, and the like. Further, electron siphon materials may have their
surfaces modified with other electron binding components having (i) an overall positive
charge, (ii) electron-binding capabilities, and (iii) capability of neutralizing the toxic
effects of conventional synthetic conductive materials (e.g., carbon nanotubes).
Modification of synthetic electron conductive materials can be performed by conventional
chemical conjugation techniques including click chemistry and chemical crosslinking
involving nucleophilic attack and covalent bond formation between the conductive
material and the positively-charged electron binding moiety. Other methods can include
the use of UV irradiation to induce activation of a nucleophile to generate a covalent bond
to form between the conductive material and the positively-charged electron binding
moiety, also known as photo-crosslinking. Generally, the modification covers only a
portion of the siphon structure (e.g., just an end portion of it).
 [0199]    As mentioned, electron siphons can have a hydrophobic portion to facilitate
interaction with a microbe, microbial membrane, vesicle, or other membrane derivative
containing electron carrier components. If the base material is not hydrophobic,
modification must produce a hydrophobic portion. Such hydrophobic portions can be
generated by the covalent conjugation of sterols such as cholesterol, glycerol-ether lipids
containing isoprenoid chains, cyclopropanes and cyclohexanes or glycerol-ester lipids such
as lipid A, phosphatindylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylserine,
phosphatidylinositol, sphingomyelin and phosphatidylglycerol. Examples of materials that
may require hydrophobic treatment include metal nanostructures, metalloids, colloidals,
composite nanostructures, hydrophilic polymers such as polysaccharides, polyamines,
proteoglycans, antibodies and the like.
 [0200]    In one example, coupling of biologic and biochemical moieties to enable
electron siphon activity and/or connectivity to one or more electron donor is achieved
through acid-activation followed by adding carbodiimide, amidation, 1-ethyl-3-(3
dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide hydrochloride, N-hydroxysuccinimide, or other.
 [0201]    In some aspects, a microbial cell population is mixed with the electron siphon
population. In some embodiments, the microbial cell population may be mixed with the
electron siphon population at about a 1:1 ratio; at about a 1:2 ratio; at about a 1:3 ratio; at
                                                   50

about a 1:4 ratio; at about a 1:5 ratio; at about a 1:6 ratio; at about a 1:7 ratio; at a 1:10
ratio and at about a 1:30 ratio.
 [0202]    In some embodiments, a light harvesting antennae population may be mixed
with the electron siphon population. In some embodiments, the light harvesting antennae
population may be mixed with the electron siphon population at about a 1:0.5 ratio; at
about a 1:1 ratio; at about a 1:2 ratio; at about a 1:3 ratio; and at about a 1:4 ratio.
 [0203]    In some embodiments, the electron siphon population may be mixed with the
microbial cell population and may be mixed with the light harvesting antennae population.
The light harvesting antennae population may contain artificial and/or naturally occurring
antennae that absorb light in wavelength ranges that complement the absorption pattern of
the microbial cell population. In some embodiments, the electron siphon population may
be mixed with the microbial cell population and may be mixed with light harvesting
antennae population at about a 0.5:1:1 ratio; at about a 1:1:1 ratio; at about a 2:1:1 ratio; at
about a 3:1:1 ratio; at about a 4:1:1 ratio; at about a 5:1:1 ratio; at about a 6:1:1 ratio; at
about a 10:1:1 ratio; at about a 15:1:1 ratio; at about a 30:1:1 ratio; at about a 40:1:1 ratio;
at about a 0.5:1:2 ratio; at about a 1:1:2 ratio; at about a 2:1:2 ratio; at about a 3:1:2 ratio;
at about a 4:1:2 ratio; at about a 5:1:2 ratio; at about a 6:1:2 ratio; at about a 10:1:2 ratio; at
about a 15:1:2 ratio; at about a 30:1:2 ratio; at about a 40:1:2 ratio; at about a 0.5:1:3 ratio;
at about a 1:1:3 ratio; at about a 2:1:3 ratio; at about a 3:1:3 ratio; at about a 4:1:3 ratio; at
about a 5:1:3 ratio; at about a 6:1:3 ratio; at about a 10:1:3 ratio; at about a 15:1:3 ratio; at
about a 30:1:3 ratio; at about a 40:1:3 ratio; at about a 0.5:1:4 ratio; at about a 1:1:4 ratio;
at about a 2:1:4 ratio; at about a 3:1:4 ratio; at about a 4:1:4 ratio; at about a 5:1:4 ratio; at
about a 6:1:4 ratio; at about a 10:1:4 ratio; at about a 15:1:4 ratio; at about a 30:1:4 ratio; at
about a 40:1:4 ratio; at about a 0.5:1:4 ratio; at about a 1:1:4 ratio; at about a 2:1:4 ratio; at
about a 3:1:4 ratio; at about a 4:1:4 ratio; at about a 5:1:4 ratio; at about a 6:1:4 ratio; at
about a 10:1:4 ratio; at about a 15:1:4 ratio; at about a 30:1:4 ratio; at about a 40:1:4 ratio;
at about a 0.5:1:5 ratio; at about a 1:1:5 ratio; at about a 2:1:5 ratio; at about a 3:1:5 ratio;
at about a 4:1:5 ratio; at about a 5:1:5 ratio; at about a 6:1:5 ratio; at about a 10:1:5 ratio; at
about a 15:1:5 ratio; at about a 30:1:5 ratio; at about a 40:1:5 ratio; at about a 1:1:5 ratio; at
about a 2:1:5 ratio; at about a 3:1:5 ratio; at about a 4:1:5 ratio; at about a 5:1:5 ratio; at
about a 6:1:5 ratio; at about a 10:1:5 ratio; at about a 15:1:5 ratio; at about a 30:1:5 ratio; at
about a 40:1:5 ratio; at about a 1:1:6 ratio; at about a 2:1:6 ratio; at about a 3:1:6 ratio; at
about a 4:1:6 ratio; at about a 5:1:6 ratio; at about a 6:1:6 ratio; at about a 10:1:6 ratio; at
                                                    51

about a 15:1:6 ratio; at about a 30:1:6 ratio; at about a 40:1:6 ratio; at about a 2:1:7 ratio; at
about a 3:1:7 ratio; at about a 4:1:7 ratio; at about a 5:1:7 ratio; at about a 6:1:7 ratio; at
about a 10:1:7 ratio; at about a 15:1:7 ratio; at about a 30:1:7 ratio; at about a 40:1:7 ratio;
at about a 2:1:8 ratio; at about a 3:1:8 ratio; at about a 4:1:8 ratio; at about a 5:1:8 ratio; at
about a 6:1:8 ratio; at about a 10:1:8 ratio; at about a 15:1:8 ratio; at about a 30:1:8 ratio; at
about a 40:1:8 ratio; at about a 2:1:9 ratio; at about a 3:1:9 ratio; at about a 4:1:9 ratio; at
about a 5:1:9 ratio; at about a 6:1:9 ratio; at about a 10:1:9 ratio; at about a 15:1:9 ratio; at
about a 30:1:9 ratio; at about a 40:1:9 ratio; at about a 2:1:10 ratio; at about a 3:1:10 ratio;
at about a 4:1:10 ratio; at about a 5:1:10 ratio; at about a 6:1:10 ratio; at about a 10:1:10
ratio; at about a 15:1:10 ratio; at about a 30:1:10 ratio; at about a 40:1:10 ratio; and up to
about a 40:1:20 ratio.
 [0204]     The electron siphons may be positioned directly adjacent to the light-harvesting
antennae component of the disclosed embodiments. Further, the electron siphons of the
disclosed embodiments can be positioned directly adjacent to an electron carrier
component for the scavenging of free electrons generated by photon-mediated excitement
of the light-harvesting antennae component population. Electron siphons can be
positioned along the surface of a microbe, a microbe-derived membrane component or a
vesicle with embedded light-harvesting antennae components.
 [0205]     The above treatments modify the electron siphons in a manner to maintain the
photo-activity of a microbe or microbe-derived membrane component when positioned
directly adjacently (i.e., docked, buried or bound (e.g., in an antibody-antigen immune
complex) or other). Further, the metabolic activity of a microbe and the electron transport
capabilities of electron carrier components in a microbial membrane may be preserved
when such electron siphons are docked.
 [0206]     Further, disclosed is a bio-safe modified nanostructure unit for electron
scavenging directly from a light-harvesting antennae component to enable directional
electron flow across a nano-scale unit. Further disclosed is a population of the bio-safe
modified nano-scale units for electron scavenging directly from a light-harvesting
antennae component population to enable directional electron flow across the population
of modified nano-scale components.
 [0207]     In some embodiments, electron siphons may include an electrically conducting
or semi-conducting material linked (e.g., covalently) to positively-charged electron
acceptor molecules capable of contacting a microbial membrane having one or more light
                                                    52

harvesting antennae. The positively-charged electron acceptor molecules of the disclosed
embodiments may include: arginine, lysine, poly-arginine, poly-lysine, thermo-stable
electron carrier protein or derivative thereof, or other.
 [0208]     The vessel can be fabricated in a manner to generate a layer of light-harvesting
antennae component population juxtaposed to the glass panel, which is juxtaposed to a
layer of modified conductive nano-scale components, which is juxtaposed to the electron
flow conduit plate, which is juxtaposed to the insulating injection-molded polymeric side
wall and backing unit. The modified conductive nano-scale components can apply to the
electron flow conduit plate by spraying, rolling, and printing. In some embodiments,
applying a pre-mixed solution includes: a light-harvesting antennae component population
and a modified conductive nano-scale components, where the solution is the pH-buffered
electrolyte solution of the disclosed embodiments directly to the electron flow conduit
plate of a light conversion system.
 [0209]     A light-conversion system of an embodiment includes: tempered glass top plate
(Figure 3, 1002) built to withstand large temperature ranges and optimized for light
penetration with minimal refractive properties; one or more UV-resistant gasket (1003) to
generate a leak-proof sealant around the glass top to prevent loss of the electrolyte
buffered solution (1004); a light-harvesting antennae component population in an
orientation to maximize light-absorptive efficiency (1005); that are juxtaposed to a layer of
conductive nanomaterial (1006) to maximize photon-excited electron scavenging and
funneling away from the light-harvesting antennae population towards a conductive back
plate (e.g., a current collector), which then directs current to an external circuit (1007). In
the depicted embodiment, a major portion of the light conversion system has an enclosure
of injection-molded polymeric insulating side walls and backing frame (1008) containing
one or more access port to enable access to the electrolyte buffer solution, light-harvesting
antennae component population and conductive nano-scale components contained within
the insulating walls.
 [0210]     Additionally, presented herein is the use of bio-safe modified nano-scale
components (Figure 4, 2002) to scavenge the excited electrons generated from light
mediated electron excitation on a light-harvesting antennae molecule through the direct
contact of the nano-scale components to the light-harvesting antennae component
population (2003).
                                                   53

 [0211]     In some embodiments, microbes may be selected to possess or induced to create
electron conducting nanostructures to remove excess electrons (produced
photosynthetically or metabolically). Such structures are anatomical extensions of
microbes. Such structures can be: fibrils, pili, secretion systems (types I, II, III, and IV)
and exosomes. Compositions of such structures can include protein, proteoglycan,
liposomal, lipopolysaccharide. In certain embodiments, such microbial nanostructures
couple directly to an electronically conductive anode or conductive network attached to the
anode. The structures can be induced by adding: exposure to light (increased intensity,
through lenses), exposure to nutrients or upregulation of the genes encoding the gene
products involved in generating the anatomical extensions through genetic engineering
approaches.
         Electron siphon matrix
 [0212]     In some embodiments, a voltaic cell may contain one or more electron siphon
matrixes. A matrix may contain an array of electron siphon subunits arranged into a
network or polymer. The network or polymeric matrix may be fabricated through the
covalent coupling of subunits and through the electrostatic interaction of subunits.
 [0213]     In some embodiments, a microbial cell population is directly conjugated to the
electron siphon matrix. In some embodiments, a microbial cell population is directly
absorbed onto the electron siphon matrix. In some embodiments, a light harvesting
antennae population is directly conjugated to the electron siphon matrix. In some
embodiments, a light harvesting antennae population is directly absorbed onto the electron
siphon matrix. In some embodiments, a microbial cell population and a light harvesting
antennae population are directly conjugated to the electron siphon matrix. In some
embodiments, a microbial cell population and a light harvesting antennae population are
absorbed to the electron siphon matrix.
 [0214]     In some embodiments, an additional electron conductive material is directly
conjugated to the electron siphon matrix. In some embodiments, electron conductive
material is directly absorbed to the electron siphon matrix. In some embodiments, electron
conductive material is separated from the electron siphon matrix by a semi-permeable
barrier.
                                                   54

        ELECTRON SIPHON AND VOLTAIC CELL ARRANGEMENTS
        Arrangement 1. Electron siphons and electron donor population arrangement.
 [0215]    In some examples, electrons originating from members of the electron donor
population in a voltaic cell may be excited into a higher energy state by photon energy
passage into the voltaic cell. In some examples, electrons originating from members of the
electron donor population in a voltaic cell may be generated by the hydrolysis of covalent
bond energy in a biochemical reaction. In some examples, the electron donor population
may contain light harvesting antennae. In some examples, the electron donor population
may contain pigments. In some examples, the electron donor population may contain
microbial cells. Electron(s) originating from members of the electron donor population
(Figure 6, 601 to 611) may be captured by members of the electron siphon population
(Figure 6, 612). The electron siphon population channels electrons toward a current
collector or electronically conductive portion of the voltaic cell, which provides the
electrons to an external load. Electrons captured from the electron donor population flow
in a direction (Figure 6, 613). The direction of electron flow, also referred to as a current,
may be established within a voltaic cell by an electrical potential difference generated
spontaneously within the voltaic cell and may be optionally facilitated by an external
device establishing polarity within the voltaic cell. The direction of current may be
generated, in part, by the arrangement of electron siphon population in the voltaic cell.
Direction of the current may further be influenced by an applied electrical potential across
a voltaic cell. Electron siphons may be arranged in a manner whereby various electron
siphons may directly connect a second electron siphon and whereby a first electron siphon
may accept an electron from an electron donor and whereby a second electron siphon may
be connected to a second electron siphon.
        Arrangement 2. A second arrangement of electron siphons and microbial cell
population.
 [0216]    In some examples, a simple arrangement of a mixture of electron siphons
(Figure 7, 706) and a mixture of members of the electron donor population (Figure 7, 701
to 705) may be placed in a voltaic cell. Electron donors of the electron donor population
may contain microbes, pigments, light harvesting antennae or other. Electron siphons of
the electron siphon population may contain conductive nanoparticles, conductive
nanowires, conductive nanotubes, conductive mesh, conductive plate, and/or other
                                                  55

elements. Electrons generated by the electron donor may be siphoned by the electron
siphon through a transfer event of the electron from the donor to the siphon (may also be
an intermediate electron recipient). Electron siphons may be arranged in a manner whereby
various electron siphons may be arranged juxtaposed to one or more electron donor.
Electron siphons may be arranged in a manner whereby one or more electron siphon may
directly connect one or more electron donor and accept an electron from the electron
donor. One or more electron donors serve as nodes or path elements in an electron
conductive pathway from donors to a current collector of a voltaic cell.
         Arrangement 3. Arrangements of several electron siphons.
[0217]       In some examples, a polymer of carbon (Figure 8 (A-C)) may be the conductive
material in an electron siphon. This form of carbon polymer may contain a sheet,
membrane, mesh, plate, fiber, tube, wire, dot, particle or other. In some examples, an
electron siphon may contain a nanotube, a nanowire, a nanofiber, a nanoparticle or other
(Figure 8A, 802). In some examples, an electron siphon may contain a hollow tube, a wire,
a fibril, a fiber, a braid or other (Figure 8B). In some examples, an electron siphon may
contain a dot, nanoparticle, microparticle, sphere, spheroid, polyhedron, a hollow
polyhedron or other (Figure 8C). Modification of the electron siphons may be made using
conventional activation techniques such as acid activation, which may generate reactive
chemical moieties on one or more residue of the electron siphon. Additional modifications
may be generated in the presence of NHS, sulfo-NHS, EDC, BMPH or other linkers.
         Arrangement 4. Varied array of electron siphons.
[0218]       Electron siphons may be conductive or semi-conductive in nature and may be
arranged in a manner to promote the travel of electron from one end of the array to the
other. Arrangement of electron siphons may be manipulated by natural properties such as
Van der Waals forces or may be manipulated by synthetic means such as covalent
coupling of electron siphons into an array. In one example, a homogeneous collection of
electron siphons (Figure 9A, 903) may be arrayed, whereby an electron siphon (901) may
be in contact with a second electron siphon in the array (903). In certain embodiments, the
electron siphons contain modifications (902) to promote a linkage between adjacent
electron siphons in the array, to promote the transport of electrons, to promote docking to
an electron donor, to serve as a docking site for electron conductive material or other.
Sometimes, the linkage is on the order of about 0 to 2 Angstroms. In another example, a
                                                    56

heterogeneous array of electron siphons (Figure 9B, 905) is arrayed in a manner whereby
an electron siphon type (901) having distinct electron siphon properties may be combined
with a second electron siphon type (904) having different electron siphon properties to
generate an array of electron siphons which promote the effective acceptance and transfer
of electrons from a heterogeneous electron donor population. These types of arrays may
serve various functions and depend on the presence of various modifications. In some
examples, modifications may contain direct conjugation: of a positively charged moiety
such as but not limited to a positively charged amino acid, cationic lipid, cation, or other;
of a neutrally charged moiety such as but not limited to hydrophobic agents, Zwitterions or
other; of dipolar molecules such as nitrones, 1,2-dipole, 1,3-dipole, amine oxides or others;
of binding molecules such as antibodies, receptors, ligands, NAD+, NADP+, FAD, FMN,
FeS clusters, heme, coenzyme     Q or others;  and of enzymes such as the oxygen-evolving
complex, oxidoreductase, or other.
         Arrangements 5. Use of electron siphon to capture electrons generated from
metabolic processes.
 [0219]    The movement of ions across a membrane depends on two factors: (i) the
diffusion force caused by an established concentration gradient of chemical species,
including ions, and (ii) the electrostatic force, caused by the electrical potential gradient,
whereby cations (for example, protons (H-)) diffuse down the electrical potential and
anions (for example, OH-) tend to diffuse in the opposite direction. These two gradients
taken together may be expressed as an electrochemical gradient. In biological cells and
liposomes the lipid layer may act as a barrier for ion passage. Potential energy may result
from the buildup of an electrochemical differential across a lipid layer and this energy may
be stored for use. In biological cellular membranes, protons flow in an active transport
manner to set up a pH and electric charge differential across a membrane. It may be
described as the measure of the potential energy stored as a combination of proton and
voltage gradients across a membrane (differences in proton concentration and electrical
potential). The electrical gradient is a consequence of the charge separation across the
membrane (when the protons H+ move without a counterion, such as chloride Cl-). In
biological systems, the electrochemical gradient often serves as the proton motive force
(PMF).
 [0220]    In some examples, an electron donor is a microbial cell. Usually of a microbial
cell, a PMF is generated by an electron transport chain in the microbial cell membrane
                                                   57

(Figure 5), which acts as a proton pump, using the energy of electrons from an oxidation
event of a reduced electron carrier (Figure 5) generating an oxidized electron carrier
(Figure 10A, 1004) to pump protons (hydrogen ions, Figure 10A, 1006) out across the
membrane into the environment (Figure 10 A, environmental electron, 1009; environment,
 1007), separating the charges across the membrane to generate a distinct electron (1005),
which may re-enter the microbial cell (1008) into the cell for energetic reactions (1002).
 [0221]    In some examples, an electron donor is a mitochondria, and energy released by
the electron transport chain is used to move protons from the mitochondrial matrix to the
inter-membrane space of the mitochondrion. Moving the protons out of the mitochondrion
creates a lower concentration of positively charged protons inside it, resulting in a slight
negative charge on the inside of the membrane. The electrical potential gradient is about
 170 mV. In mitochondria, the PMF is almost entirely made up of the electrical component,
but in chloroplasts, the PMF is made up mostly of the pH gradient because the charge of
protons H_ is neutralized by the movement of Cl and other anions. In either case, the PMF
must be about 50 kJ/mol for the ATP synthase to make ATP.
 [0222]    In one example, an electron siphon (Figure 1OB, 1010) may contact the exterior
surface of a membrane hosting an electron transport chain (Figure 1OB, 1001). The
electron transport chain is fed electrons and protons from biochemical and/or
photochemical reactions by reduced electron carriers (Figure 1OB, 1003), which may be
oxidized (1004) by members of the electron transport chain in the membrane. The
separation of the electron (1005) from the proton (1006) may occur in an intra-membrane
manner. The proton may be expelled (1009) in a conventional manner into the
environment (1007). The electron (1011) may be captured by an electron siphon (1010)
when the electron siphon may be next to, in contact with, may be covalently linked to or
may be embedded within the membrane (1001).
         Arrangement 6. Use of electron siphon to capture electrons generated from
liposomes.
 [0223]    A light-harvesting liposome containing light harvesting agents such as pigments,
light harvesting antennae, and reduced and oxidized electron carriers, respectively (Figure
 11 A, 1103 and 1104) on the inside of the liposome and components of an electron
transport chain in the liposome membrane (Figure 11 A, 1101) may serve as an electron
donor. Capture of light energy and subsequent translation of the energy into the form of a
high energy electron may enable the electron to be captured by an electron carrier (Figure
                                                 58

 11 A, 1103), which may then transfer the electron to the electron transport chain (Figure
 11 A, 1101) to regenerate an oxidized electron carrier (Figure 11 A, 1104). The agents of
the electron transport chain may be capable of separating a proton (Figure 11 A, 1106) and
an electron (Figure 11 A, 1105). Under these conditions, the liposome may not transmit an
electron to the environment (Figure 11 A, 1108) and the electron will be directed
intravesicularly. In the presence of an electron siphon (Figure 1 IB, 1110) may contact the
exterior surface of a liposomal membrane containing an electron transport chain (Figure
 1 IB, 1101). The electron siphon may be used to re-direct the path of the electron in an
electron transport chain and may promote capture of the electron (Figure 1 IB, 1111).
        Arrangement 7. Side view of a voltaic cell.
 [0224]    In this example, a voltaic cell includes a vessel (Figure 12, 1201) containing an
electron conductive material (1202) on one or more surfaces of the vessel. The vessel may
further contain a semi-permeable membrane (1203) to serve as a discriminative barrier
between the electron conductive material (1202) and a different electron conductive
material capable of contacting one or more electron donor (1206). A space (1207) ranging
from 2 Angstroms to 50 cm may exist between the semi-permeable membrane (1202) and
a current collector (1204). Electronically conductive features penetrate space (1207) to
permit conduction of electrons from membrane (1202) to current collector (1204). A buffer
or other ionically conductive medium may be present in the space. The vessel may further
include an arrangement of electron siphons (1205) which may contact electron donors and
may contact a buffer system (1208).
        Arrangement 8. Voltaic cell tube.
 [0225]    In one example, a flexible transparent tube (Figure 13, 1301) may contain a
voltaic cell (1302) containing electron conductive material (1304) that may be separated
by a semi-permeable membrane (1303) from the electron donor population (1305) to
generate an chemoelectric potential across a membrane. In this embodiment, the tube
serves as the voltain cell vessel and serves as a conduit for flowing buffer solution. The
tubular vessel may be wrapped or otherwise conformed to the shape of a pole or other
structure associated with the voltaic cell.
                                                  59

        Arrangement 9. Voltaic cell pillars.
 [0226]    In this example, voltaic cells (Figure 14, 1402) are arranged on an electron
conductive base (1401). The voltaic cells may each include a transparent vessel, each
vessel in a pillar or other vertical structure. Each vessel may contain electron donor
population (1406) mixed with an electron siphon arrangement (1405) surrounding the
electron conductive material (1403). There may be a semi-permeable membrane (1404)
surrounding the electron conductive material (1403) to promote an chemoelectric potential
across a membrane.
        Arrangement 10. Arrangement of circuit connectivity in a voltaic cell.
 [0227]    In one example, a voltaic cell may contain an electron conductive material (also
referred as a cathode) (Figure 15, 1503). The cathode may be connected to an electron
conductive wire lead (1507). The cathode may be coated by a semi-permeable membrane
(1502) to generate charge separation between a second electron conductive material
(referred as an anode) (1501). In this example, the electron siphon population (1505) may
be arranged to contact the anode (1501) and may serve as an interface with the electron
donor population (1504) to harvest electrons from the donor population and transmit the
electrons to the anode. The electrons may then travel into a second conductive wire (1506)
and eventually into the grid.
        Arrangement 11. Arrangement of electron donors on electron siphons in a parallel
manner.
 [0228]    In one example, electron donors (Figure 16, 1605) may be docked (1606) at an
electron siphon arrangement (1601). Docking may contain a covalent bond formation,
affinity mediated interaction (for example, antibody-ligand driven affinity, hydrophobic
hydrophobic interaction, or other), or other. Electron flow from an electron donor (1605)
may travel from the donor to the electron siphon (1601) and towards conductive electron
material in a voltaic cell.
 [0229]    In one example, more than one electron donor (1605 and 1607) may be docked
at an electron siphon arrangement (1602). Docking may be mediated by one or more
manner (1606 and 1605). Electron flow may occur from each electron donor onto the
electron siphon arrangement (1602) and towards conductive electron material in a voltaic
cell.
                                                   60

 [0230]    In one example, more than one docking site (1610) may exist between an
electron donor (1609) and an electron siphon arrangement (1603). Electron flow may
occur from the electron donor through more than one docking site to the electron siphon
arrangement.
 [0231]    In one example, more than one electron donor may be docked at an electron
siphon arrangement (1604). In this example, electron donors (1611 and 1612) may be
docked by more than one method and may transfer electrons to the same electron siphon
arrangement in a manner parallel in nature, with electron flow in one direction (1613) on
the electron siphon arrangement.
 [0232]    A docked arrangement of the electron donors at more than one point along the
surface of an electron siphon arrangement enables increased electron harvest and may
cause increased electron flow (also known as current). This example describes the design
of a parallel element to be used in a circuit to generate increased current.
        Arrangement 12. Arrangement of voltaic cells in series.
 [0233]    The arrangement of voltaic cells in a series may increase the voltage and the
current disproportionately. In this arrangement, a panel (Figure 17, 1701) may contain
various voltaic cells (1702), each having a cathodic wire (1706) and an anodic wire (1705)
to connect it to a grid of cathode (1704) and anode (1703), respectively. The panel may
contain an array of cathodes and anodes and may be connected to a master cathodic wire
(1707) and master anodic wire (1708), respectively.
        Arrangement 13. Voltaic panel and a battery.
 [0234]    In this arrangement, a voltaic panel (Figure 18, 1801) may be connected to the
grid (1804) and may also be connected through wires (1803) to a battery (1802). In some
examples, the battery is serving as an external polarity-generating agent whereby the
polarity of the voltaic panel may be determined by from the positive and negative
electrodes of the battery leading to the voltaic panel. The applied potential may activate or
enhance the activity certain microbes, light harvesting antennae, or other component of the
voltaic cell. In some examples, excess power generated from the voltaic panel may be
stored in the battery.
                                                   61

         Arrangement 14 - Immersible Voltaic Cell.
 [0235]     An immersible voltaic device for water-derived electricity may include two
electrodes connected through a load and having different electrochemical potentials when
immersed. In some examples, the device may be fully immersed in a body of water. In
other examples, a portion of the device may be immersed in a body of water. Examples of
bodies of water may include pools, ponds, lakes, streams, rivers, bays, oceans or manmade
waterways.
 [0236]     In some embodiments, a voltaic cell for electricity generation in a body of water
includes two electrodes, one electrode having a semi-permeable membrane surrounding
the electrode to prevent microbes from contacting the electrode but allow ions to pass. The
membrane may have an overall neutral or slight charge and may repel electrons and/or
anions of the surrounding medium from one electrode. The membrane may also have a
pore diameter of less than or equal to about 0.22 um. Examples of membrane materials
include polypropylene, nylon, silica, or other. Membranes may be directly attached to the
surface of the electrode or may be in a cage surrounding the electrode.
 [0237]     Electrodes may include solid or semi-solid forms and may be structured as
plates, mesh, lattices, bristles, foams, clusters, emulsions or other. Electrode surfaces may
be flat, stippled, rounded, circumferential, asymmetrical or other.
 [0238]     In some embodiments, electrodes may be arranged in a spatially separated
manner having about 10 Angstroms to about 10 mm of separation between the electrodes.
In other embodiments, electrodes may be arranged in a spatially separated manner having
about 10 mm to about 0.5 m of space between the electrodes. In yet other embodiments,
the electrodes may be spatially separated from about 0.5 m to about 2 m. In some
embodiments, the electrodes may be fixed to a stationary surface. In other embodiments,
the electrodes may be tethered by wire or other conductive material and may be moveable
in an aqueous environment.
 [0239]     In another form, one electrode contacts a population of electron siphons.
Sometimes, the electron siphons are attached to the electrode by covalent, electrostatic or
other force. The electron siphons may be arranged in a collection prior to attachment to an
electrode surface or arranged directly onto a surface. In some embodiments, electron
siphons may be coated onto an electrode surface. Coatings may be regularly or irregularly
deposited. Electron siphon coatings may be sequentially applied, whereby, a first layer of
electron siphons may be applied and a second layer of different electron siphons may be
                                                    62

applied. In some embodiments, an electrode surface is modified. In some embodiments, an
electrode surface is modified. Electrodes may first be treated prior to electron siphon
attachment. Treatments may include acid treatment, thermal treatment, oxidizing chemical
treatment or other. In some embodiments, an electrode surface may be treated with about
 1-500 mM HCl, perchloric acid, formic acid, acetic acid or other. In some embodiments,
an electrode surface may be treated with heat. In other embodiments, an electrode surface
may be treated with hydrogen peroxide, superoxide, hydroxide bases, and other chemical
capable of oxidizing an electrode surface. Desired treatments do not interrupt the electrical
conduction abilities of the electrode.
 [0240]    One purpose of electrode surface treatment is to generate reactive groups for
attachment of electron siphons. Examples of reactive groups on an electrode surface that
may be compatible for attachment of electron siphons include -OH, -SH, -S=O, epoxides,
-COOH, C=O, -H, -NH, -NHS, -NH2, -NH3, azides, fluorobenzenes, imides, and others.
In some embodiments, attachment of electron siphons to a treated electrode surface may
occur through van der Waals forces, electrostatic forces or covalent bonds. In some other
embodiments, attachment may be facilitated by a combination of bonding and forces.
Following treatment of an electrode surface, a second treatment of the electrode surface
may be performed to generate covalent attachment moieties as needed to further facilitate
electron siphon attachment by covalent bonding.
 [0241]    Electron siphons may include aromatic amino acids, benzenes, positively
charged amino acids, phenolic compounds, aromatic compounds, iron-sulfur clusters,
carotinoids, pigments, proteins, protein filaments and others. Electron siphons may also
include a structured arrangement including grapheme, carbon, metal, metalloid, composite,
colloids, or other. In some examples, electron siphons may be modified. Modification of
electron siphons may include the attachment of one or more additional electron siphon. In
some examples, modification to electron siphons may occur prior to their arrangement in a
voltaic cell. In other examples, electron siphon modification may occur following their
arrangement in a voltaic cell.
 [0242]    In one example, a portion of a pre-arrangement of electron siphons may be
activated and modified with aromatic amino acids, phenylalanine, tryptophan, tyrosine or
other. In another example, a portion of a pre-arrangement of electron siphons may be
activated and modified with pigments. In another example, a portion of a pre-arrangement
                                                 63

of electron siphons may be activated and modified with PilA, c-type cytochromes, OmcZ
and others.
 [0243]     Electrodes modified with electron siphons may harvest electrons from bodies of
water containing microbes. Emersion of the electrodes into the water can generate
measurable current. Increased current may be generated with an electrode modified with
electron siphons. Using electron siphons serve multiple purposes: (i) they may increase the
surface area of the electrode, (ii) they may provide a site of contact with a microbe in the
body of water, (iii) they may provide a site of electron harvesting, (iv) they may provide a
three dimensional surface to interface with a dynamic fluid, (v) they may serve as a solid
surface of impact when a mechanical force is applied, or other.
 [0244]     A moving body of water containing microbes may increase the collision
frequency between a microbial surface and an electrode. An electrode containing electron
siphons may further increase the surface area and thus increase the number of collisions
that can occur between microbes and an electrode. Optimal number, arrangement and
composition of electron siphons on an electrode may further increase the electron transfer
from the membrane of an aquatic microbe to the surface of the electrode. Examples of
moving bodies of water include oceans, lakes, ponds, streams, and rivers, and man-made
waterways such as dams, viaducts, aquaducts, canals, or other.
 [0245]     In one example, a voltaic cell includes 2 electrodes, one of which is coated with
a semi-permeable membrane, the membrane of which has an exclusion limit of about 0.2
um (to keep microbes from contacting the electrode). The other electrode may be coated
with electron siphons. A portion of the voltaic cell including the electrodes is immersed in
an aqueous environment. Interaction of the aquatic microbes with an electrode may be
passive or facilitated. Electron transfer from the microbial membrane to the electrode may
occur at a rate that may be increased when an external physical force is applied, such as
wave action. Force applied to the microbial surface may dislodge additional electrons,
which may be captured by the electron siphons on an electrode. In one example, a voltaic
cell includes multiple electrodes, a subset of which is coated with semi-permeable
membranes. The other subset of which, may be modified by electron siphons.
         OPTICAL COMPONENTS FOR DIRECTING EXTERNAL RADIATION
 [0246]     Mirrors, lens, filters, refraction elements, or other geometric optic components
may be positioned in a vessel of a voltaic cell or may be positioned external to the vessel
to reflect or concentrate light energy into the vessel. In some embodiments, mirrors may be
                                                    64

used in a voltaic cell containing photosynthetic microbial cell population. Mirrors may
contain a reflective surface capable of reflecting or concentrating light. Voltaic cells with
photovoltaic properties may contain more than one mirror and more than one lens for
directing light and focusing light for maximal light capture ability.
        REGULATORS
 [0247]    A voltaic cell may include a regulator subsystem containing a regulating
component to affect one or more features of a voltaic cell. In some embodiments, a
regulator subsystem is used to affect one or more of the following features: electron
conduction rate, ion conduction rate, light polarization, reductant concentration, oxidant
concentration, carbon source concentration, nitrogen concentration, phosphorus
concentration, sulfur concentration, trace mineral concentration, co-factor concentration,
chelator concentration, pH, electron siphon, light harvesting antennae concentration and/or
other voltaic cell parameter. Regulator subsystems may also release or bind one or more of
the features to/from the voltaic cell on a regular or periodic basis. Regulators may release
or bind one or more feature to/from the voltaic cell in response to a sensed condition to
serve as one or more feedback response to one or more condition within the voltaic cell.
Examples of features to bind or release include acids or hydrogen ions, bases or hydroxyl
ions, or other species that inhibit or potentiate microbe metabolism. In some
embodiments, a regulator releases or scavenges one or more species on a periodic basis,
e.g., on the order of minutes, hours, days, or weeks.
 [0248]    In some embodiments, a regulator subsystem may contain one or more regulator
components. Regulator components may contain one or more of the following: sensors,
detectors, pumps, injectors, containers, or other components in a feedback system. The
regulators may monitor one or more feature of the voltaic cell including but not limited to:
power, current, voltage, resistance, pH, reduction potential, oxidation potential, nutrient
concentration, waste concentration, optical density, refractive index, absorbance,
luminosity, temperature, viscosity, ionic strength, and the like.
 [0249]    In some embodiments, a regulator subsystem may contain one or more sensors.
The sensor may monitor conditions of the buffer; products of the microbial population;
products of the light harvesting antennae population; and/or products of the conductive
terminal electron acceptor population of a voltaic cell. Examples of sensing that a sensor
may perform include but are not limited to: pH, reductant concentration, oxidant
concentration, redox potential, voltage, current, resistance, electrical power output, current,
                                                   65

viscosity, turbidity, gas concentration, pressure, temperature, amino acid concentration,
mineral concentration, carbon concentration, gas concentration or other. In some
implementations, the regulator subsystem will be implemented as a feedback system that
automatically adjusts parameters in the voltaic cell. In some implementations, the
regulator system provides notifications or alarms when a sensed cell parameter. Such
notifications or alarms may be presented in a computational system for observation by a
process manager or other person responsible for monitoring and/or correcting the voltaic
cell's operation.
        EXAMPLES
        Example 1
 [0250]    A light-conversion system containing a thermophilic photosynthetic mixed
microbial population as the light-harvesting antennae component population
 [0251]    Presented herein is a mixed-microbial population as the light-harvesting
antennae component population for use in a light-conversion system. The mixed-microbial
population contains part Chromatium spp., part Chloroflexus spp., part Roseiflexus spp.
and part Porphyrobacterspp. having optimal synergy in a light-conversion system.
Microbes are cultivated separately using standard techniques and then mixed into stock
concentrations prior to dilution in buffered electrolyte solution, which is ready for
administration to a prepared light-conversion system through a sample inlet port.
 [0252]     Chromatiumspp. belong to the photosynthetic bacterial genus Chromatium,
which can inhabit a plurality of environments. The species Chromatium tepidum is a high
G-C gram-negative rod-shaped photosynthetic thermophilic bacterium. This organism
grows photoautotrophically at an optimum temperature of 48-50 degrees Celsius and uses
sulfide as the electron donor. The bacterium synthesizes bacteriochlorophyll ap and
carotinoids rhodovibrin and spirilloxanthin, which are located in the membrane portion of
the organism.
 [0253]     Chloroflexus spp. are members of the green non-sulfur bacteria. Chloroflexus
aurantiacusis a filamentous thermophilic anoxygenic photoheterotrophic bacterium with
optimal growth temperatures of 54-57 degrees Celsius but can grow at temperatures above
70 degrees Celsius. Additionally, C. aurantiacuscan survive in the presence of oxygen
and can fix inorganic carbon if necessary. C. aurantiacussynthesizes bacteriochlorophyll a
and bacteriochlorophyll c, which are located in the membrane portion of the organism.
                                                  66

 [0254]     Roseiflexus spp. are members of the photosynthetic green non-sulfur bacteria.
Roseiflexus spp. are unbranched multicellular filamentous thermophiles with optimal
growth temperature ranges spanning 45-55 degrees Celsius. Many Roseiflexus spp.
synthesize bacteriorhodopsins and bacteriochlorophyll a, gamma carotene derivatives as
light pigments in their membrane portion.
 [0255]     Porphyrobactertepidarius is a moderately thermophilic aerobic heterotrophic
and photosynthetic bacterium having an optimal growth temperature of 40 to 48 degrees
Celsius and uses organic carbon sources for growth. The bacterium synthesizes OH-beta
carotene sulfate derivatives, nostoxanthin and bacteriorubixanthinal as light-absorbing
pigments.
         Example 2.
 [0256]     A light-conversion system containing membranes containing Fenna-Matthews
Olson pigment-protein complexes isolated from green sulfur bacteria as the light
harvesting antennae component population
 [0257]     Photosynthetic microbes use a network of pigments juxtaposed to structural
proteins in their membranes to use light energy to generate and harvest electrons from a
donor molecule. In most microbes, energy is lost as the electrons move through the
pigment-protein complexes. In green sulfur bacteria, the efficiency of electron passage
through the system (called the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex) is highly efficient and
very little energy is lost in the electron transfer process.
 [0258]     Presented herein is a light-conversion system containing membranes prepared
from green sulfur bacteria that are cultivated under anaerobic conditions by standard
methods (Wahlund, 1991; Buttner, 1992). The membranes are then prepared by French
press under anoxic conditions to preserve the light-harvesting nature of the pigments and
structural protein complexes associated with the membrane. Recovered membrane content
is then mixed with buffered electrolyte solution and then administered to a prepared light
conversion system through a sample inlet port.
         Example 3.
 [0259]     A light-conversion system containing modified single-walled carbon nanotubes
as the conductive nano-scale components
 [0260]     Cytochrome complex (Cyt c) is a small heme protein (100-104 amino acids)
belonging to the cytochrome c protein family. Cyt c is a very soluble protein that has been
                                                    67

successfully over-expressed in E. coli and purified by conventional purification methods
(Jeng, 2002). Cyt c is normally a significant component of mammalian mitochondrial
membranes, plants and many microbes. Cyt c has significant redox potential (0.246 Volts)
and electron transfer abilities, as it is an essential component of the electron transport
chain.
 [0261]    Presented herein is a light-conversion system containing single-walled carbon
nanotubes (SWNTs) functionalized asymmetrically with recombinant Cyt c to generate a
bio-safe interface for electron scavenging from a light-harvesting antennae component
population. The SWNTs are prepared for functionalization by spraying diazonium salts on
one portion of the SWNTs to generate carboxylic acid moieties. EDC is then applied to the
SWNTs to activate the -COOH moieties and are stabilized in the presence of sulfo-NHS.
The sulfo-NHS is then displaced by primary amines on surface lysine residues of Cyt c
prior to quenching (based on methods from Lerner, 2013). Conditions for maximal
electron scavenging activity for Cyt c functionalization of SWNTs lies in generating
covalent bonds between SWNT-specific active sites and 1-2 lysine residues of Cyt c to
preserve the remaining lysine residues to coordinate electron binding properties.
 [0262]    The naked end of the Cyt c functionalized SWNTs are applied directly to the
back plate in a manner to enable the Cyt c enriched end of the SWNTs to have an outward
facing orientation to enable the Cyt c enriched end to interact directly with the light
harvesting antennae component population.
        Example 4
 [0263]    Synthetic conductive and/or semi-conductive materials used to conduct a current
may be hostile to a biological cell. In the example of Figure 19, a population of
photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic microbes isolated from a brackish water source was
mixed with an ionic buffer system and was then introduced into a clear polyethylene vessel
with a removable lid. Placed inside the vessel were a conductive copper plate and a heat
treated conductive copper oxide plate with the face of each plate positioned parallel to one
another and perpendicular with respect to the microbial population/buffer system. Both
conductive metal plates had portions that were immersed in the microbial
population/buffer system (0.25 inches) with the remaining portion exposed to the air.
Measurement of voltage and current produced by the cell immediately upon introduction
of the microbial population into the vessel at time 0 was 0. The cell was then exposed to
constant incandescent light and the amount of voltage and current was measured at regular
                                                     68

intervals up to 1 hour as measured by voltmeter and ammeter every 15 minutes. At hour 1,
unmodified synthetic carbon nanotubes were added to the conversion cell and a drop in
current and voltage was measured concomitant with the appearance of lysed microbial
debris on the surface of the buffer in the conversion cell. This example suggests that
modified nanotubes are needed to provide biologically safe electron siphons.
        Example 5
 [0264]    Further, in Figure 20, a population of photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic
microbes isolated from a brackish water source was mixed with an ionic buffer system and
was then introduced into a clear polyethylene vessel with a removable lid. Placed inside
the vessel were a conductive copper plate and a heat-treated conductive copper oxide plate
with the face of each plate positioned parallel to one another and perpendicular with
respect to the microbial population/buffer system. Both conductive metal plates had
portions that were immersed in the microbial population/buffer system (0.25 inches) with
the remaining portion exposed to the air. Measurement of voltage and current produced by
the cell immediately upon introduction of the microbial population into the vessel is
represented at time 0. The cell was then exposed to constant incandescent light and the
amount of voltage and current was measured at regular intervals. At 4 hours, biologically
compatible L-Arginine-modified single-walled carbon nanotubes were introduced 701 to
the microbial population in the energy conversion cell and resulted in a marked increase in
detectable voltage and current. At 5 hours, the light was turned off 703 and the resulting
power generated by the conversion cell decreased but did not return to baseline levels over
several hours of darkness suggesting that the energy conversion cell was producing power
from non-photosynthetic microbial metabolism.
 [0265]    Although the foregoing has been described in some detail to facilitate
understanding, the described embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not
limiting. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that certain changes and
modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.
                                                  69

                                             CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A voltaic cell comprising:
        (a) a buffer comprising an ionically conductive medium with an electron donor
population provided therein, wherein the electron donor population comprises a first
species of microbe having a first primary metabolic pathway and a second species of
microbe having a second primary metabolic pathway, which is complementary to the first
primary metabolic pathway, wherein neither primary metabolic pathway is primarily
glucose fermentative;
        (b) a vessel at least partially containing the buffer electron donor population;
        (c) an anode for receiving electrons from the electron donor population and
providing electrons to an external circuit or load; and
        (d) a cathode for donating electrons to a species in the buffer.
2.      The voltaic cell of claim 1, further comprising an ion permeable and electron donor
impermeable barrier separating the buffer into an anode compartment and a cathode
compartment, thereby preventing the electron donor population from contacting the
cathode.
3.      The voltaic cell of claim 2, wherein the barrier is electronically conductive.
4.      The voltaic cell of claim 2, wherein the barrier contacts the anode.
5.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, further comprising a current
collector in electrical communication with the anode.
6.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first species of microbe
and/or the second species of microbe comprises light harvesting antennae.
7.      The voltaic cell of claim 6, wherein the first species of microbe is excited by
electromagnetic radiation in a first band, and wherein at least one other species of microbe
in the buffer is excited by electromagnetic radiation in a second band, wherein the first
band and the second band do not substantially overlap.
8.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first species of microbe
comprises a phototrophic or chemo-trophic microbe.
9.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first species of microbe
is a chemotroph and the second species of microbe is a phototroph.
                                                    70

10.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first primary metabolic
pathway oxidizes a compound containing carbon, nitrogen, phosphorous, or sulfur, and the
second primary metabolic pathway reduces the oxidized compound produced the first
primary metabolic pathway.
11.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first species of microbe
has pili, fibrils, flagella, and/or a filamentous shape.
12.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first species of microbe
has a plurality of metabolic pathways.
13.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first species of microbe
is a naturally occurring microbial species.
14.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, further comprising a population of
electron siphons, wherein each electron siphon comprises an electron accepting component
for receiving electrons from the electron donor population, and an electron conducting
element for directly or indirectly conducting electrons from the electron accepting
component to the anode.
15.      The voltaic cell of claim 14, wherein the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers.
16.      The voltaic cell of claim 14, wherein the electron siphons comprise an assembly
within the buffer, said assembly configured to conduct electrons from the electron donor
population to the anode.
17.      The voltaic cell of any of the foregoing claims, wherein the first primary metabolic
pathway and the second primary metabolic pathway each participate in cellular respiration.
18.     A method of converting chemical and/or light energy to electrical energy, the
method comprising:
         operating the voltaic cell of any of the preceding claims.
19.     A buffer for a voltaic cell, the buffer comprising:
         an ionically conductive medium; and
         an electron donor population provided in the ionically conductive medium, wherein
        the electron donor population comprises:
                  a first species of microbe having a first primary metabolic pathway, and
                  a second species of microbe having a second primary metabolic pathway,
        which is complementary to the first primary metabolic pathway,
                                                    71

                   wherein neither primary metabolic pathway is primarily glucose
          fermentative.
20.       The buffer of claim 19, wherein the first species of microbe and/or the second
species of microbe comprises light harvesting antennae.
21.       The buffer of claim 20, wherein the first species of microbe is excited by
electromagnetic radiation in a first band, and wherein at least one other species of microbe
in the buffer is excited by electromagnetic radiation in a second band, wherein the first
band and the second band do not substantially overlap.
22.       The buffer of any of claims 19-2 1, wherein the first species of microbe comprises a
phototrophic or chemo-trophic microbe.
23.       The buffer of any of claims 19-22, wherein the first species of microbe is a
chemotroph and the second species of microbe is a phototroph.
24.       The buffer of any of claims 19-23, wherein the first primary metabolic pathway
oxidizes a compound containing carbon, nitrogen, phosphorous, or sulfur, and the second
primary metabolic pathway reduces the oxidized compound produced the first primary
metabolic pathway.
25.       The buffer of any of claims 19-24, wherein the first primary metabolic pathway
and the second primary metabolic pathway each participate in cellular respiration.
26.       The buffer of any of claims 19-25, wherein the first species of microbe has pili,
fibrils, flagella, and/or a filamentous shape.
27.       The buffer of any of claims 19-26, wherein the first or second species of microbe
has a plurality of metabolic pathways.
28.       The buffer of any of claims 19-27, wherein the first species of microbe is a
naturally occurring microbial species.
29.       The buffer of claims 19-28, further comprising a population of electron siphons,
wherein each electron siphon comprises an electron accepting component for receiving
electrons from the electron donor population, and an electron conducting element for
directly or indirectly conducting electrons from the electron accepting component to the
anode.
30.       The buffer of claim 29, wherein the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers.
                                                   72

31.     The buffer of claim 29, wherein the electron siphons comprise an assembly within
the buffer, said assembly configured to conduct electrons from the electron donor
population to the anode.
32.     The voltaic cell of claim 31, wherein the first primary metabolic pathway and the
second primary metabolic pathway each participate in cellular respiration.
33.     A voltaic cell comprising:
        (a) a buffer comprising an ionically conductive medium with (i) an electron donor
population provided therein, and (ii) an electron siphon population provided therein,
wherein each electron siphon comprises an electron accepting component for receiving
electrons from the electron donor population, and an electron conducting element for
directly or indirectly conducting electrons from the electron accepting component to the
anode;
        (b) a vessel at least partially containing the buffer electron donor population;
        (c) an anode for receiving electrons from the electron donor population and
providing electrons to an external circuit or load; and
        (d) a cathode for donating electrons to a species in the buffer.
34.     The voltaic cell of claim 33, wherein the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers.
35.     The voltaic cell of claim 33, wherein the electron siphons comprise an assembly
within the buffer, said assembly configured to conduct electrons from the electron donor
population to the anode.
36.     The voltaic cell of claim 33, further comprising an ion permeable and electron
donor impermeable barrier separating the buffer into an anode compartment and a cathode
compartment, thereby preventing the electron donor population from contacting the
cathode.
37.     The voltaic cell of any of claims 33-36, further comprising a current collector in
electrical communication with the anode.
38.     The voltaic cell of any of claims 33-37, wherein the electron siphons comprise a
docking moiety for docketing with the electron donor population, but not lysing cells
containing the electron donor population.
39.     A buffer for a voltaic cell, the buffer comprising an ionically conductive medium
comprising:
        (i) an electron donor population; and
                                                    73

        (ii) an electron siphon population, wherein each electron siphon comprises an
        electron accepting component for receiving electrons from the electron donor
        population, and an electron conducting element for directly or indirectly
        conducting electrons from the electron accepting component to the anode.
40.     The buffer of claim 39, wherein the electron siphons have a median principal
dimension of at most about 500 micrometers.
41.     The buffer of claim 39, wherein the electron siphons comprise an assembly within
the buffer, said assembly configured to conduct electrons from the electron donor
population to the anode.
42.     The buffer of any of claims 39-41, wherein the electron siphons comprise a
docking moiety for docketing with the electron donor population, but not lysing cells
containing the electron donor population.
                                  Bugsy Solar LLC
        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                            SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                 74

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           21/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           22/23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           23/23

