A retrofit adaption to a folding wheel chair consisting of motors clamped to the frame of the
wheel chair, exerting power through a friction drive to the main wheels of the chair, with the
motors engaged through an over centre clutch system and electrical controlled through a
joystick.

0
   I- - .0
0-
t

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Description
The Wheely-Easy is a retrofit adaption to a folding wheel chair, designed to give the aged or
disabled person more independence and mobility in an indoor situation.
This in no way infringes on the natural use of the wheelchair.
The Wheely-Easy consists of motors clamped to the frame of the wheel chair exerting power
(independently to each wheel), through a friction drive to the main wheels of the chair.
The motors are engaged through an over centre clutch system and electrical controlled through
a joystick.
Under normal circumstances, the motors are permanently engaged and act as a brake.
The motors can only be activated when the pressure is applied to a pressure switch located on
the back rest of the chair ensuring that the motors will not be activated should the joystick be
bumped when exiting the chair.
The chair moves at a fixed speed, equivalent to a slow walking pace - acceptable to nursing
homes or interior scenarios.
This adaption is a D.I.Y. unit, requiring little or no skill to install.
No holes require drilling and the tool requirement is, 2 x 6mm spanners, 1 alen key and a Philips
screwdriver.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
   (1) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, utilising two independent motors.
   (2) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair as claimed in claim 1 utilising a friction wheel
       against the main wheels.
   (3) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, as in claim 1, using fixed, variable, or
        reversible speed motors.
   (4) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair utilising a clutch system to engage the
       friction wheel to each of the main wheels of the wheel chair.
   (5) A retrofit adaption system for powering a wheel chair, where the clutch is activated by a
        lever accessible to the rider.
   (6) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, utilising a bolt or clamp to attach said clutch
       system to the frame of the wheel chair.
   (7) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, controlled by one joystick controller, or two
        independent motor switches.
   (8) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, powered by a rechargeable battery.
   (9) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, utilising a battery, as claimed in claim 8,
       suspended from the back of the wheel chair.
   (10) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, incorporating a pressure switch to ensure
       that power to the motors is disabled, when the rider exits the wheel chair.
   (11) A retrofit adaption for powering a wheel chair, allowing a carer access from the handles to
        power the motors.

                   Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are three pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
