                                        ABSTRACT
        Flame resistant fabrics are formed by warp and fill yarns having different fiber
contents. The fabrics are constructed, for example, by selection of a suitable weaving
pattern, such that the body side of the fabric and the face side of the fabric have different
properties. The fabrics described herein can be printable and dyeable on both sides of the
fabric and are suitable for use in military and industrial garments. Methods of forming
flame resistant fabrics, and methods for forming garments from the fabrics, are also
described.
                                              20
US2008 4041918 1

                  Flame Resistant Fabric With Anisotropic Properties
                                    Field of the Invention
[0001]      This invention relates to a flame resistant fabric, and more specifically to a
flame resistant fabric having different properties on each side of the fabric.
                                Background of the Invention
[0002]      Flame resistant fabrics, and in particular garments, are desirable in many
military and industrial applications. Military personnel in the field, for example, can be
exposed to flash fire or electrical arc situations and it is therefore desirable that their
combat uniforms provide protection from such conditions. While many fabrics provide
suitable flame resistance properties and can be incorporated into combat uniforms and
other industrial protective gear, flame resistance is not the only requirement for such
fabrics.   Other factors, such as comfort, durability, thermal performance, printability,
dyeability and cost are also considered when evaluating the suitability of a fabric for
military or industrial applications.
[0003]      Not all protective fabrics are the same. Fabrics made entirely from inherently
flame resistant fibers such as para-aramids and meta-aramids, for example, provide
excellent flame resistance but garments made therefrom do not naturally absorb water and
thus have poor moisture management properties.              These garments can thus be
uncomfortable on the skin of the wearer. This drawback can be tempered by the inclusion
of softer and more absorbent fiber, such as cellulosic fibers. Such fibers, however, are
less durable than inherently flame resistant fibers.
                                               1
US2008 4041918 1

[0004]      Fabrics made from blends of different fibers can have some of the beneficial
properties of the individual fibers, but with those benefits come the drawbacks of each
fiber.   Thus, it has traditionally been necessary to select fiber blends for a fabric to
maximize the desirable properties in the fabric while minimizing the undesirable effects
of these fibers. This balancing act has not always been successfully performed.
[0005]      Thus, a need exists for a fabric in which desirable properties can more easily
be imparted to the fabric and in which negative effects due to use of particular fibers can
be minimized.
                        Summary of Embodiments of the Invention
[0006]      The terms "invention," "the invention," "this invention" and "the present
invention" used in this patent are intended to refer broadly to all of the subject matter of
this patent and the patent claims below.      Statements containing these terms should be
understood not to limit the subject matter described herein or to limit the meaning or
scope of the patent claims below. Embodiments of the invention covered by this patent
are defined by the claims below, not this summary.           This summary is a high-level
overview of various aspects of the invention and introduces some of the concepts that are
further described in the Detailed Description section below. This summary is not intended
to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be
used in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. The subject matter
should be understood by reference to appropriate portions of the entire specification of
this patent, any or all drawings and each claim.
[0007]      The present invention is directed to flame resistant fabrics formed by warp and
fill yarns having different fiber contents. The fabrics are constructed such that the body
                                               2
US2008 4041918 1

side of the fabric (the side of the fabric on the side of the body of the wearer (assuming
the fabric will be incorporated into a garment)) and the face side of the fabric (the side of
the fabric facing away from the body of the wearer) have different properties.           For
example, it may be desirable for the body side of the fabric to be relatively softer and
more absorbent, and thus more comfortable, for contact with the skin of the wearer, and
for the face side of the fabric to have improved durability at the expense of comfort (since
comfort is not as much of a consideration on the face side of the fabric).
[0008]      In one embodiment, a flame resistant fabric includes warp yarns and fill yarns
and has a body side and a face side. Either of the warp yarns or the fill yarns comprises a
first fiber content and the other of the warp yarns or the fill yarns comprises a second
fiber content different from the first fiber content. Fibers of the first fiber content are
predominantly exposed on the body side of the fabric; and fibers of the second fiber
content are predominantly exposed on the face side of the fabric.
[0009]      In some embodiments, the warp yarns and fill yarns can have different
amounts of the same fibers or, in yet other embodiments, can have different fibers or
different blends of fibers.
[0010]      In still another embodiment, the body fibers and the face fibers are woven in
the fabric. The weave can be one or more of a twill, satin or sateen weave.
[0011]      In other embodiments, garments formed from the flame resistant fabric
described above are provided. The garments are suitable for use in military and industrial
applications, and are particularly suitable for use in a military battle dress uniform.
[0012]      In yet other embodiments, methods of making the flame resistant fabric and
methods of making garments from the flame resistant fabric are provided.
                                               3
US2008 4041918 1

                  Detailed Description of Embodiments of the Invention
[0013]      The subject matter of embodiments of the present invention is described here
with specificity to meet statutory requirements, but this description is not necessarily
intended to limit the scope of the claims. The claimed subject matter may be embodied in
other ways, may include different elements or steps, and may be used in conjunction with
other existing or future technologies. This description should not be interpreted as
implying any particular order or arrangement among or between various steps or elements
except when the order of individual steps or arrangement of elements is explicitly
described.
[0014]      The fabrics described herein have anisotropic properties, i.e., they have
different properties on the body side of the fabric and the face side of the fabric. This is
accomplished by providing warp yarns having a first fiber content and fill yarns having a
second fiber content different from the first fiber content. In other words, either the warp
yarns and fill yarns do not have identical fibers or blends of fibers, or the warp yarns and
fill yarns contain different amounts of the same fibers. By way of example, the warp
yarns could contain 30% FR cellulosic fibers and 70% para-aramid fibers and the fill
yarns could contain 65% FR cellulosic fibers and 35% para-aramid fibers (i.e., identical
fibers but in different amounts).      Alternatively, the warp yarns could contain 65%
modacrylic fibers and 35% para-aramid fibers and the fill yarns could contain 65% FR
cellulosic fibers and 35% para-aramid fibers (i.e., different blends of fibers). Exemplary
fiber blends are discussed in more detail below.
[0015]      Suitable fiber blends according to the present invention include any of the fiber
blends contemplated in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 11/847,993 (the "'993
                                              4
US2008 4041918 1

Application"), entitled "Flame Resistant Fabrics and Garments Made From Same" and
published as US-2008-0057807-A1,         as well as U.S. Patent No. 6,867,154 (the "'154
Patent"), entitled "Patterned, Flame Resistant Fabrics and Method For Making Same" and
issued March 15, 2005, the entire contents of each of which are herein incorporated by
reference.
[0016]      In some embodiments, the warp yarns and the fill yarns are formed from fibers
or blends of fibers that include one or more of modacrylic fibers, cellulosic fibers (natural
and synthetic, FR and non-FR), inherently FR fibers (e.g., aramids, PBI, PBO, etc.) and
other non-FR fibers.
[0017]      Suitable modacrylic fibers include, but are not limited to, PROTEXTM fibers
(including but not limited to PROTEX WTM , PROTEX CTM and PROTEX MTM fibers)
available from Kaneka Corporation of Osaka, Japan, and SEFTM fibers, available from
Solutia.
[0018]      The cellulosic fibers may be natural or synthetic. Suitable natural cellulosic
fibers include, but are not limited to, cotton, flax, hemp or blends thereof. The synthetic
cellulosic fibers may be, but are not limited to, rayon, FR rayon, lyocell, cellulose acetate,
or blends thereof.    An example of a suitable rayon fiber is MODALTM by Lenzing,
available from Lenzing Fibers Corporation.             Examples of lyocell fibers include
TENCELTM, available from Lenzing Fibers Corporation. Examples of FR rayon fibers
include Lenzing FRTM, also available from Lenzing Fibers Corporation.
[0019]      Cellulosic fibers (natural or synthetic) are not naturally resistant to flame. To
increase the flame resistance of these fibers, one or more flame retardants may be
incorporated into the fibers during the manufacturing process. Effective flame retardants
                                               5
US2008 4041918 1

include phosphorus compounds and antimony compounds. However, the cellulosic fibers
need not always be rendered flame resistant. For example, if the cellulosic fibers are
being blended with FR modacrylic fibers that control and counteract the flammability of
the cellulosic fibers to prevent such fibers from burning, they need not be flame resistant.
Use of non-FR cellulosic fibers instead of FR cellulosics significantly reduces the cost of
fabrics made from such fibers. Again, however, both FR and non-FR cellulosic fibers are
contemplated herein.
[0020]      Other non FR fibers (natural or synthetic) can also be used as long as they are
added in low enough levels (typically less than about 15% by weight) such that they will
not detrimentally affect the thermal characteristics of fabric. Examples of such non-flame
resistant fibers include, but are not limited to: (1) anti-static fibers to dissipate or
minimize static, (2) anti-microbial fibers, (3) stretch fibers (e.g., spandex), (4) other fibers
such as nylon and/or polyester fibers, and/or (5) other fibers that are added to the blends
to improve the abrasion resistance of the fabrics.
[0021]      Suitable inherently FR fibers include, but are not limited to, para-aramid fibers,
meta-aramid fibers, polybenzimidazole (PBI) fibers, polybenzoxazole (PBO) fibers,
melamine fibers, carbon fibers, pre-oxidized acrylic fibers, polyacrylonitrile (PAN)
fibers, TANLONTM (available from Shanghai Tanlon Fiber Company), polyamide-imide
fibers such as KERMELTM, and blends thereof. Examples of para-aramid fibers include
KEVLARTM (available from DuPont), TECHNORATM (available from Teijin Twaron BV
of Arnheim, Netherlands), and TWARONTM (also available from Teijin Twaron BV).
Examples of meta-aramid fibers include NOMEXTM (available from DuPont) and
CONEXTM (available from Teijin).         An example of melamine fibers is BASOFILTM
                                               6
US2008 4041918 1

(available from Basofil Fibers). An example of PAN fibers is Panox@ (available from the
SGL Group). As explained above, such inherently FR fibers impart the requisite thermal
stability to the blend to enable fabrics made from such blends to be used in protective
garments.
[0022]      The yarns can be formed in conventional ways well known in the industry.
The yarns may be spun yarns and can comprise a single yarn or two or more individual
yarns that are twisted, or otherwise combined, together. In one embodiment, the yarns are
air jet spun yarns. Typically, the yarns comprise one or more yarns that each have a yarn
count in the range of approximately 5 to 60 cc. In other embodiments, the yarns comprise
two yarns that are twisted together, each having a yarn count in the range of
approximately 10 to 60 cc.
[0023]      The FR fabrics formed with the blends disclosed herein preferably, but not
necessarily, have a weight between approximately 3-12 ounces per square yard ("osy")
and more preferably between approximately 5-9 osy.
[0024]      As discussed above, it may be desirable for the body side of the fabric to be
relatively softer and more absorbent, and thus more comfortable, for contact with the skin
of the wearer, and for the face side of the fabric to have improved durability at the
expense of comfort (since comfort is not as much of a consideration on the face side of
the fabric).     Such fabric constructions can be achieved using weaving and knitting
processes.
[0025]      In a typical weaving process according to the present invention, the fibers on
the face side of the fabric will predominantly comprise the warp yarns and the fibers on
the body side of the fabric will predominantly comprise the fill yarns. The fabric may be
                                             7
US2008 4041918 1

constructed with the warp and fill yarns in a variety of ways, including but not limited to,
one or more of twill weave (2x1, 3x1, etc.), satin weave (4x1, 5x1, etc.), and sateen
weave constructions, or any other weave where yarn is predominantly more on one side
of the fabric than the other side of the fabric. A person skilled in the art would be familiar
with and could utilize suitable fabric constructions.
[0026]       Notwithstanding the above, it will be understood that the fabric can be
constructed such that the fibers on the face side of the fabric predominantly comprise the
fill yarns and the fibers on the body side of the fabric predominantly comprise the warp
yarns. In such a construction, a weave will be selected such that a comfortable fiber
blend (e.g., a blend including one or more cellulosic fibers) is predominantly exposed on
the body side of the fabric. A person skilled in the art would understand how to select an
appropriate weave pattern so as to locate predominantly more of either the warp or fill
yarns on one side of the fabric.
[0027]       It should be noted that plain or ripstop weaves will typically not be used,
because in such weaves there are an equal number of warp yarns and fill yarns on each
side (i.e., the body side and face side) of the fabric, and both sides of the fabric would
thus have the same properties.
[0028]       It will also be recognized that any woven fabric will have both warp and fill
yarns visible on each side of the fabric. Fabrics woven in accordance with the present
invention, however, are woven such that more of either the warp yarns or the fill yarns are
located on the face side of the fabric, and thus more of either the fill yarns or the warp
yarns are located on the body side of the fabric.           Thus, in an exemplary fabric
construction in which more of the warp yarns are located on the face side of the fabric
                                                8
US2008 4041918 1

and more of the fill yarns are located, or exposed, on the body side of the fabric, the warp
yarns are "predominantly" located, or exposed, on the face side of the fabric (even though
some warp yarns would be visible from the body side of the fabric) and the fill yarns are
"predominantly" located, or exposed, on the body side of the fabric (even though some
fill yarns would be visible from the face side of the fabric).
[0029]      In other embodiments of the invention, a knit fabric that has different
properties on each side of the fabric can be constructed.          Such a fabric could be
constructed using a double-knit circular knitting machine.       These machines have two
needles, a dial needle and a cylinder needle, that work together to form the double-knit
fabric.   When utilized to make fabrics according to embodiments of the invention,
different yarns can be used in each of the dial needle and cylinder needle such that the
two yarns become inter-stitched with one yarn predominantly exposed on one side of the
knit fabric and the other yarn predominantly exposed on the other side of the fabric. A
yarn comprising cellulosic fibers could be knit into a fabric by at least one of the dial
needle or cylinder needle so that a cellulosic-containing yarn is predominantly exposed on
the body side of the fabric. Garments could be constructed from knit fabrics according to
the embodiments described above.
[0030]      As discussed above, in some embodiments the yarns of the present invention
are formed from fibers or blends of fibers that include one or more of modacrylic fibers,
cellulosic fibers (natural and synthetic, FR and non-FR), inherently FR fibers (e.g.,
aramids, PBI, PBO, etc.) and other non-FR fibers. In a more specific embodiment, a
blend of fibers intended for a yarn that is predominantly exposed on the body side of a
fabric includes approximately 20-80% by weight cellulosic fibers, approximately 0-55%
                                               9
US2008 4041918 1

by weight modacrylic fibers, approximately 0-80% by weight inherently FR fibers, and
approximately 0-15% by weight other non-FR fibers (such as nylon).
[0031]      In yet another embodiment, fibers or a blend of fibers intended for a yarn that
is predominantly exposed on the face side of a fabric includes 0-100% of one or more of
modacrylic fibers, cellulosic fibers (natural and synthetic, FR and non-FR), inherently FR
fibers and other non-FR fibers. Thus, any suitable fiber or blend of fibers can be selected
as long as the overall fabric remains flame resistant.
[0032]      Dyeing and printing of such fabrics may be carried out in accordance with
standard methods, all of which are known to those of skill in the art. Such methods
include, but are not limited to, those dyeing and/or printing methods disclosed in the '154
Patent and the '993 Application. Although it will be recognized that certain fibers and
fiber blends are more dyeable than others, it is desirable that both sides of the fabric be at
least somewhat dyeable and printable. If only one side (i.e., the face side) of the fabric
were dyeable and/or printable, the fabric is susceptible to "grin-through" or contrasting
shades from the non-dyed/non-printed fibers that, though predominantly on the body side
of the fabric, would also be at least partially visible on the face side of the fabric.
Moreover, it is more difficult to produce a fabric that will pass military infra-red
reflectance requirements if the fabric has "grin through."      Another benefit of having a
garment, such as a shirt, that includes a fabric that is dyed and/or printed on both sides is
the wearer can roll their shirt sleeves up and still have color or a print pattern on the body
side of the fabric.
[0033]      Suitable dyes for the fabrics described herein include direct, reactive, and vat
dyes. Of these, vat dyes may be particularly useful for fabrics of the present invention
                                              10
US2008 4041918 1

because they satisfy military requirements GL-PD-07-12, Revision 4 (as referenced
below).
[0034]      In yet other embodiments, the fabric described herein may include at least 10%
para-aramid fibers (including fibers in both the warp and fill yarns), and may include up
to 30% para-aramid fibers.
[0035]      In some embodiments, the yarns predominantly on the face side of the fabric
(e.g., the warp yarns) include no more than about 15% para-aramid fibers and the yarns
predominantly on the body side of the fabric (e.g., the fill yarns) include no more than
about 60% para-aramid fibers and at least about 20% comfort fibers such as the cellulosic
fibers described above. All, some or none of the comfort fibers may be treated with a
flame retardant, as long as the overall fabric remains flame resistant and meets flame
resistant standards described herein.
[0036]      Fabrics described herein and dyed as described above may also have improved
colorfastness as compared to previously known fabrics. Fabrics formed from fiber blends
of the construction described in the previous paragraph may have relatively high para
aramid fiber content on the body side of the fabric (up to about 60%). Para-aramid fibers
are desirable because they are inherently flame resistant and because they are high
tenacity fibers that impart strength to the resulting yarns and fabrics. Para-aramid fibers,
however, have a tendency to fibrillate after washing, and fibrillation of fiber blends
having a high para-aramid content may impart a frosted appearance to the yarn. While
such a frosted appearance may not be desirable if these blends were predominantly on the
face side of the fabric, the frosted appearance is not a substantial issue when it occurs
predominantly on the body side of the fabric.
                                              11
US2008 4041918 1

[0037]      In contrast to para-aramid fibers, meta-aramid fibers do not fibrillate after
washing. As a result, it may be desirable to include meta-aramid fibers on the face side of
the fabric for improved after-wash appearance.
[0038]      Fabrics formed in accordance with the embodiments described herein
preferably meet certain industrial and/or military standards for flame resistance.         In
particular, the fabrics preferably have an after-flame of less than 2 seconds and less than a
4-inch char length when tested in accordance with ASTM D 6413 ("Standard Test
Method for Flame Resistance of Textiles"). In addition, such fabrics preferably comply
with National Fire Protection Association ("NFPA") 2112 ("Standard on Flame-Resistant
Garments for Protection of Industrial Personnel Against Flash Fire").               In other
embodiments, fabrics according to the present invention satisfy the U.S. Army
requirements for the flame resistant Advanced Combat Uniform as specified in GL-PD
07-12, Revision 4. These test methods and standards are incorporated by reference herein
in their entirety.
[0039]      The fabrics with anisotropic properties described herein, having different
properties on the body side and face side of the fabric, can thus be customized so that a
particular desirable property can be achieved on one side of the fabric without
substantially affecting the properties on the other side of the fabric. For example, a cost
effective fabric having desirable comfort, flame resistance, durability, thermal stability,
and other properties can be optimized for one side of the fabric without substantially
affecting other desirable properties on the other side of the fabric.
[0040]      In addition, while the fibers described above for the warp yarns and fill yarns
are primarily described as being a blend of fibers, it will be recognized that in some
                                              12
US2008 4041918 1

embodiments these yarns need not be blended at all. In other words, the warp yarns could
be 100% of one fiber type and/or the fill yarns could be 100% of another fiber type. The
warp and fill yarns should not, of course, each have 100% of the same fiber (e.g., 100%
FR Rayon for both the warp and fill yarns), otherwise no matter how the fabric is woven
both sides of the fabric would have the same properties.
[0041]      The fabrics described herein can be incorporated into military or industrial
garments, including but not limited to combat uniforms, shirts, jackets, trousers and
coveralls.
[0042]      In another embodiment, a method of making a fabric having anisotropic
properties is provided.     In the method, a woven fabric according to embodiments
described above is formed such that the warp yarns have a fiber content that is different
than the fiber content of the fill yarns. In other words, either the warp yarns and fill yarns
do not have identical fibers or blends of fibers, or the warp yarns and fill yarns contain
different amounts of the same fibers.
[0043]      In yet another embodiment, a method of making a garment from a fabric
having anisotropic properties is provided. In the method, a fabric formed according to
embodiments described above is incorporated into a garment.
[0044]      The present invention is further illustrated by way of the examples contained
herein, which are provided for clarity of understanding.       The exemplary embodiments
should not to be construed in any way as imposing limitations upon the scope thereof. On
the contrary, it is to be clearly understood that resort may be had to various other
embodiments, modifications, and equivalents thereof which, after reading the description
                                               13
US2008 4041918 1

herein, may suggest themselves to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit
of the present invention and/or the scope of the appended claims.
                                          Examples
[0045]      Fabrics having the fiber blends listed in Table 1 were prepared:
                                           Table 1
Fabric Warp blend (predominantly                 Fill blend (predominantly         Weave
No.       face side)                             body side)
1         50/45/5                                40/30/20/5                        3x1
          FR rayon/T-450 NomexTM/para_           Modacrylic/TencelTM/para_         Twill
          aramid                                 aramid/nylon
2         50/35/5/10                             65/25/10                          3x1
          FR rayon/T-450 NomexTM/para_           FR rayon/para-aramid/nylon        Twill
          aramid/nylon
3         55/35/10                               50/50                             3x1
          FR rayon/Nomex IIIA*/nylon             FR rayon/para-aramid              Twill
4         55/35/10                               50/40/10                          3x1
          FR rayon/Nomex IIIA*/nylon             FR rayon/para-aramid/nylon        Twill
5         55/35/10                               50/50                             2x1
          FR rayon/Nomex IIIA*/nylon             FR rayon/para-aramid              Twill
6         55/35/10                               50/40/10                          2x1
          FR rayon/Nomex IIIA*/nylon             FR rayon/para-aramid/nylon        Twill
 *Nomex IIIA contains 93/5/2 meta-aramid fibers/para-aramid fibers/antistatic fibers
[0046]      The warp and fill yarns of Fabric Nos. 1-6 each had a different fiber content,
and the fill blend (i.e., predominantly exposed on the body side of the fabric) included
cellulosic fibers (FR rayon).
[0047]      The fabrics of Examples 3-6 were made using 64% warp yarns and 36% fill
yarns. The fabrics of Examples 3 and 5 thus have approximately 19% para-aramid fibers
(64% of 1.75% para-aramid fibers in the warp blend (5% of 35%) and 36% of 50% para
aramid fibers in the fill blend), and the fabrics of Examples 4 and 6 thus have
approximately 16% para-aramid fibers (64% of 1.75% para-aramid fibers in the warp
blend and 36% of 40% para-aramid fibers in the fill blend). Both sides of these fabrics
                                              14
US2008 4041918 1

are dyeable and/or printable to dark shades, and any frosting appearance due to washing
in the para-aramid fibers is most pronounced in the fill blend, which is predominantly
located on the body side of the fabric. The fabrics thus have good after-wash appearance.
[0048]      Different arrangements of the components described above, as well as
components and steps not described are possible.            Similarly, some features and
subcombinations are useful and may be employed without reference to other features and
subcombinations. Embodiments of the invention have been described for illustrative and
not restrictive purposes, and alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of
this patent.     Accordingly, the present invention is not limited to the embodiments
described above, and various embodiments and modifications can be made without
departing from the scope of the claims below.
                                             15
US2008 4041918 1

                                               Claims
1.      A flame resistant fabric formed of warp yarns and fill yarns and comprising a body
side and a face side, wherein:
        (a)      either of the warp yarns or the fill yarns comprise a first fiber content;
        (b)       the other of the warp yarns or the fill yarns comprise a second fiber content
different from the first fiber content;
        (c)      fibers of the first fiber content are predominantly exposed on a body side of
the fabric;
        (d)      fibers of the second fiber content are predominantly exposed on a face side
of the fabric; and
        (e)      the fabric comprises at least 10% para-aramid fibers.
2.      The fabric of claim 1, wherein the fabric is dyeable and printable.
3.      The fabric of claim 1, wherein the warp yarns and fill yarns comprise different
amounts of the same fibers.
4.      The fabric of claim 1, wherein the warp yarns and fill yarns comprise different
fibers or different blends of fibers.
5.      The fabric of claim 1, wherein the warp yarns and fill yarns are woven using one
or more of a twill weave, a satin weave and a sateen weave.
                                                  16
US2008 4041918 1

6.      The fabric of claim 1, wherein the first fiber content comprises approximately 20
80% cellulosic fibers.
7.      The fabric of claim 6, wherein the first fiber content further comprises one or more
of modacrylic fibers, inherently flame resistant fibers, and nylon fibers.
8.      A garment formed from the fabric of claim 1.
9.      The garment of claim 8, wherein the garment is a military combat uniform.
10.     The fabric of claim 1, wherein the fabric has an after-flame of less than 2 seconds
and less than a 4-inch char length when tested in accordance with ASTM D 6413.
11.     The fabric of claim 1, wherein the fabric complies with NFPA 2112.
12.     The fabric of claim 1, where in the fabric complies with GL-PD-07-12, Revision
4.
13.     A method for forming a flame resistant fabric comprising a body side and a face
side, the method comprising:
        a)     providing a plurality of first yarns, each having a first fiber content;
        (b)    providing a plurality of second yarns, each having a second fiber content
different from the first fiber content;
                                               17

        (c)     weaving the plurality of first yams with the plurality of second yarns so
that:
                i.      fibers of the first fiber content are predominantly exposed on the
body side of the fabric;
                ii.     fibers of the second fiber content are predominantly exposed on the
face side of the fabric; and
        wherein the fabric comprises at least 10% para-aramid fibers.
14.     The method of claim 13, further comprising dyeing or printing the fabric.
15.     The method of claim 13, wherein the first yarns and second yarns comprise
different amounts of the same fibers.
16.     The method of claim 13, wherein the first yarns and second yarns comprise
different fibers or different blends of fibers.
17.     The method of claim 13, wherein weaving the plurality of first yarns with the
plurality of second yarns comprises using one or more of a twill weave, a satin weave and
a sateen weave.
18.     The method of claim 13, wherein the first fiber content comprises approximately
20-80% cellulosic fibers.
                                                18

19.   The method of claim 18, wherein the first fiber content further comprises one or
more of modacrylic fibers, inherently flame resistant fibers, and nylon fibers.
20.   A garment formed from fabric produced according to the method of claim 13.
                                            19

21.     A flame resistant fabric formed of warp yarns interwoven with fill yarns and
comprising a body side and a face side, wherein:
        (a)    one of the warp yarns or the fill yarns comprises a first fiber content
comprising aramid fibers;
        (b)    the other of the warp yarns or the fill yarns are spun yarns comprising a
second fiber content different from the first fiber content;
        (c)    fibers of the first fiber content are predominantly exposed on the body side
of the fabric;
        (d)    fibers of the second fiber content are predominantly exposed on the face
side of the fabric;
        (e)    the fabric comprises at least 10% aramid fibers, more aramid fibers are
located in the first fiber content than in the second fiber content, and more aramid fibers
are located on the body side than on the face side of the fabric;
        (f)    the fabric is a single layer fabric;
        (g)    the first and second fiber contents together comprise at least two different
types of flame resistant fibers, wherein the at least two different types of flame resistant
fibers are selected from the group consisting of para-aramid fibers, meta-aramid fibers,
flame resistant cellulosic fibers, and modacrylic fibers;
        (h)    the second fiber content comprises a blend of flame resistant cellulosic
fibers and inherently flame resistant fibers; and
        (i)    wherein the fabric:
               a. has an after-flame of less than 2 seconds and less than a 4-inch char length
        when tested in accordance with ASTM D 6413; or
               b. complies with NFPA 2112.
22.     The fabric of claim 21, wherein the first fiber content comprises 100% aramid
fibers.

23.      The fabric of claim 22, wherein the second fiber content comprises a blend of flame
resistant cellulosic fibers and aramid fibers.
24.      The fabric of claim 23, wherein the second fiber content comprises a blend of flame
resistant cellulosic fibers and meta-aramid fibers.
25.      The fabric of claim 24, wherein the second fiber content comprises a blend of flame
resistant rayon fibers and meta-aramid fibers.
26.      The fabric of any preceding claim, wherein all of either of the warp yarns or the
fill yarns comprise the first fiber content.
27.      The fabric of claim 26, wherein all of the other of the warp yarns or the fill yarns
comprise the second fiber content.
28.      The fabric of any of claims 21 to 25, wherein all of the other of the warp yarns or
the fill yarns comprise the second fiber content.
29.      The fabric of claim 28, wherein all of either of the warp yarns or the fill yarns
comprise the first fiber content.
30.      The fabric of any preceding claim, wherein the warp yarns and fill yarns are
interwoven using at least one of a twill weave, a satin weave, and a sateen weave.
31.      The fabric of claim 30, wherein the warp yarns and fill yarns are interwoven using
a twill weave.
32.      A garment comprising the fabric of any preceding claim.

33.     A method of forming a flame resistant fabric comprising a body side and a face
side, the method comprising:
        (a)   providing warp yarns and fill yarns, wherein:
              i.      one of the warp yarns or the fill yarns comprises a first fiber content
              comprising aramid fibers;
              ii.     the other of the warp yarns or the fill yarns are spun yarns
              comprising a second fiber content different from the first fiber content,
              wherein the second fiber content comprises a blend of flame resistant
              cellulosic fibers and aramid fibers; and
              iii.    the first and second fiber contents together comprise at least two
              different types of flame resistant fibers, wherein the at least two different
              types of flame resistant fibers are selected from the group consisting of
              para-aramid fibers, meta-aramid fibers, flame resistant cellulosic fibers, and
              modacrylic fibers; and
              iv.     more aramid fibers are located in the first fiber content than in the
              second fiber content; and
        (b)   interweaving the warp yarns with the fills yarns to form the flame resistant
fabric such that:
              i.      the fabric is a single layer fabric;
              ii.     fibers of the first fiber content are predominantly exposed on the
              body side of the fabric;
              iii.    fibers of the second fiber content are predominantly exposed on the
              face side of the fabric;
              iv.     the fabric comprises at least 10% aramid fibers;
              v.      more aramid fibers are located on the body side than on the face side
              of the fabric; and
              vi.     the fabric has an after-flame of less than 2 seconds and less than a 4
              inch char length when tested in accordance with ASTM D 6413 or the fabric
              complies with NFPA 2112.

34.      The method of claim 33, wherein interweaving the warp yarns with the fill yarns
comprises interweaving the warp yarns with the fill yarns using at least one of a twill
weave, a satin weave, and a sateen weave.
35.    The method of claim 34, wherein interweaving the warp yarns with the fill yarns
comprises interweaving the warp yarns with the fill yarns using a twill weave.
36.    The method of any of claims 33 to 35, wherein the second fiber content comprises
a blend of flame resistant cellulosic fibers and meta-aramid fibers.
37.    The method of claim 36, wherein the second fiber content comprises a blend of
flame resistant rayon fibers and meta-aramid fibers.
38.    The method of any of claims 33 to 37, further comprising incorporating the flame
resistant fabric into a garment.

