A METHOD AND A SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING A MESSAGE FROM A VEHICLE
                                            Abstract
        A method for displaying a message from a vehicle, comprises steps of receiving an
input corresponding to a message to be displayed at a display device installed with the vehicle,
wherein the message is selected from a group comprising predefined messages. user defined
messages and combinations thereof, transmitting a signal to the display device, the signal
instructing the display device to display the message and displaying the message at the display
device.

             2/15
 1152
           Fig. 1B
     1164
16as               164
                   164
          Fig. 1C

                                                   1
A METHOD AND A SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING A MESSAGE FROM A VEHICLE
Technical Field
[001]     The present invention generally relates to communication between a vehicle driver and
another driver or a bystander and in particular to a method and a system for displaying a
message from a vehicle.
Background
[002]    It is not always possible for a vehicle driver to communicate effectively or safely with
a person behind or outside of the vehicle, especially when the vehicle is in motion. The person
outside may be another driver of another vehicle or a bystander. The conventional methods of
having any kind of a concern or a message or a signal conveyed, are through use of horns,
indicator lights and hand signals. While horns cause noise pollution and are increasingly being
seen as an urban nuisance, indicator lights are not always reliable in sunny conditions. Further,
the incorrect or accidental use of indicators can cause misinformation for other drivers.
Moreover, there is only a small set of signals that can be conveyed through the indicator lights,
if at all they are able to catch the attention of the other driver or the bystander. When it comes
to hand signals, not a lot of them can be caught from a speeding vehicle and use of hand signals
can also be dangerous.
[003]    Lack in clarity of communication can lead to wastage of time and fuel in the best case
and possibly life threatening situations in the worst of scenarios. In some instances, it can also
lead to arguments and fights between drivers. It is therefore desirable to have a method and a
system for displaying a message from an vehicle, that does not suffer from above mentioned
deficiencies.
[004]     Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words
"comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element
or group of steps or elements.
[005]      Any one of the terms: "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used
herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow
the term, but not excluding others.

[006]    Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no way
be considered as an admission that such background art is prior art nor that such background
art is widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field in Australia
or worldwide.
Summary
[007]   There is provided a method for displaying a message from a vehicle, the method
comprising steps of receiving an input corresponding to a message to be displayed at a display
device installed with the vehicle, wherein the message is selected from a group comprising
predefined messages, user defined messages and combinations thereof, transmitting a signal to
the display device, the signal instructing the display device to display the message and
displaying the message at the display device.
[008] It is an advantage of the invention that, the invention offers an option for quick,
convenient and precise communications for safer and/or smarter and/or more pleasurable
driving. Additionally, in cases such as the vehicle being an ambulance, it allows for actions to
be taken or solutions to be had, that ensure safety and recovery of the other occupants of the
vehicle as well.
[009] The method may further comprise a step of displaying an auxiliary indication
corresponding to the message, along with message, at the display device.
[010]   There is provided a system for displaying a message from a vehicle, the system
comprising a display device installed with the vehicle, an input device operably connected with
the display device through a communication network, wherein the input device is configured
to receive an input corresponding to a message to be displayed at the display device installed
with the vehicle, the message being selected from a group comprising predefined messages,
user defined messages and combinations thereof and transmit a signal to the display device,
the signal instructing the display device to display the message and wherein the display device
is configured to display the message.
[011]   The input device may be selected from a group comprising mobile handheld devices
and dedicated input devices.
[012]   The display device may be a Light Emitting Diode (LED) based display device, Liquid
Crystal Display (LCD),Transparent Display (TD), Glass Transparent Visual Design (GTVD)
or Heads Up Display or Wireless Laser Message and Logo Projector ( WLMLP).

                                               3
[013]   The communication network may be a short range communication network.
[014]   The display device may further comprise one or more auxiliary indicators configured
to display an auxiliary indication corresponding to the message.
[015]   There is provided a display device for displaying a message from a vehicle, the display
device being configured to receive a signal instructing the display device to display the
message, the display device comprising a screen configured to display the message.
[016]   The display device may further comprise one or more auxiliary indicators configured
to display an auxiliary indication corresponding to the message.
Brief Description of Drawings
[017] At least one example of the invention will be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[018] Figure IA illustrates a vehicle with a display device installed with the vehicle, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[019] Figure lB illustrates a rear side view of the vehicle of Figure IA;
[020] Figure IC illustrates a user interface of a standalone application installed with a mobile
handheld device, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[021] Figure ID illustrates a dedicated input device attached with a steering wheel of the
vehicle, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention
[022] Figure IE illustrates the dedicated input device, in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention;
[023] Figure IF illustrates a vehicle display device in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention;
[024] Figure 1G illustrates a vehicle display device in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention;
[025] Figure 2A illustrates a front side of the display device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[026] Figure 2B illustrates a rear side of the display device, in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;

                                                 4
[027]   Figures 3A, 3B and 3C illustrate a plurality of modes of message delivery to the display
device, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[028]   Figure 4 illustrates a method for displaying a message from a vehicle, in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
[029]   Figure 5 illustrates various elements in accordance with embodiments of the present
invention;
[030]   Figure 6 illustrates various elements in accordance with embodiments of the present
invention;
[031]   Figure 7 illustrates various elements in accordance with embodiments of the present
invention;
[032]    Figure 8a, 8b and 8c illustrates various Glass Transparent Visual Design (GTVD)
displays in accordance with embodiments of the present invention; and
[033]   Figure 9 illustrates a Wireless Laser Message and Logo Projector (WLMLP) in
accordance with embodiments of the present invention.
[034]   It should be noted that the same numeral represents the same or similar elements
throughout the drawings.
Description of Embodiments
[035]   It should be understood that the vehicle refers to any man made form of transportation
including: vehicles (cars), buses, motorbikes, bicycles, tractors, all-terrain vehicles, golf carts,
wagons, boats, trains to name but a few. Modifications can be made to embodiments of the
invention so as to adapt the invention to suit any type of vehicle.
[036]   It is desirable here that there may be provided a method, a system and a display device
that allows a message to be effectively delivered from a vehicle such as an automobile to a
person that is outside of the vehicle. For achieving such an objective the display device may be
installed with the vehicle. The display device can be located at various locations depending
upon specific applications. Further, the display device should be able to display a message to
the person on receiving such instructions from an input device associated with a user (in this
case a driver of the vehicle or may be someone else accompanying the driver). The message in
that manner may be in form of text or animations or any other form that offers a visual appeal
to the person. In this regard the invention below has been discussed with the help of figures for

                                                   5
clarity. However, a skilled addressee would appreciate that the invention is not limited to
particular types of implementations that have been discussed below.
[037] Figure 1A illustrates a vehicle 102 with a display device 110 installed with the vehicle
102, in accordance with an embodiment 100 of the present invention. The vehicle may be a
car, a bus, a truck or a train etc. The display device 110 in that manner, may be a Light Emitting
Diode (LED) based display device, a Transparent Display (TD), Glass Transparent Visual
Design (GTVD) or Heads Up Display, a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), an Organic Light
Emitting Diode (OLED) display device, a Surface-Conduction Electron Emitter Display
(SED), a Field Emission Display (FED) or a Wireless Laser Message and Logo Projector (
WLMLP).
[038] Figure lB illustrates a rear side view of a vehicle 152, in accordance with an
embodiment 150 of the present invention. It can be seen from Figure lB that the display device
110 has been installed in the rear of the vehicle 152. However, the display device 110 may also
be installed at other locations as well. For example, for an ambulance, it would make more
sense to install the device both in the rear and the front. The display device 110 may also be
installed at side windows of the vehicle 102 or 152, for example, for conveying the message to
a bystander on the road.
[039] Further an input device can be operably connected with the display device 110 through
a communication network. The input device is configured to receive an input corresponding to
the message to be displayed at the display device 110. The message in that manner may be
selected from a group comprising predefined messages, user defined messages and
combinations thereof. Examples of predefined messages may include "Turning Left" or
"Turning Light" or "Please Wait for Pass", assuming that the display device 110 is installed in
the rear. In case of the ambulance, the predefined messages may include, "Patient On-board"
or "En route to an Emergency" etc. The user defined messages may include for example
"Congestion Ahead" or "Available for Hire" etc. In further embodiments the user is able to
combine the predefined messages with the user defined messages, for example, "Congestion
Ahead, Please Wait for Pass".
[040]    The number of messages stored in the memory of the device is not limited and can
include any suitable number of predetermined or use determined messages depending on the
size of the memory of the device. Example messages include: "Thanks" for a driver showing
appreciation to a driver behind them; "Please" to request that another vehicle give way to the

                                                 6
driver; "Sorry" to apologise to another vehicle in the case of driver error; "Slow down" to
indicate a safety warning and to suggest vehicles slow down; and "Reversing" to indicate that
the driver intends to reverse. The input device as such and the communication network in
configuration may vary depending upon various embodiments of the present invention. For
example, in one embodiment, the input device may be a mobile handheld device 106 associated
with the user, such as, a cellular phone or a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA). For example, the
mobile handheld device 106 may have a standalone application installed that allows
communication with the display device 110.
[041] Figure IC illustrates a user interface 162 of the standalone application installed with
the mobile handheld device 106, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
The user interface 162 depicts a plurality of predefined messages 164 that may be scrolled up
and down along a scroll bar 166. A touch based interface or a joystick etc. of the mobile
handheld device 106 may allow scrolling and selection of a predefined message from the
plurality of predefined messages 164. The advantages of using the cellular phone is that cellular
phones usually come with several input options preinstalled. Such as a cellular phone may be
expected to have a keyboard, a microphone or a camera and other input options pre-installed.
In other embodiments, the input device may be a dedicated input device 104 that may or may
not be installed with the vehicle 102. The dedicated input device 104 may be designed to
specifically include the input options such as the keyboard or the microphone or the camera or
all three, for cases where it is not always possible for the user to type the messages.
[042] Figure ID illustrates the dedicated input device 104 attached with a steering wheel 177
of the vehicle 102, in accordance with an embodiment 175 of the present invention. The
dedicated input device 104 is attached with the steering wheel 177 through an attachment
means 179. The attachment means 179 may include clips, clamps, straps, magnetic couplers
and the like. Mounting the dedicated input device 104 on to the steering wheel 177 keeps the
dedicated input device 104 in access of the driver. Figure iE illustrates the dedicated input
device 104 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Figure
IE, the dedicated input device 104 includes several keys 181 designated to predefined
messages for quick and convenient message delivery. The dedicated input device 104 is further
configured to transmit a signal to the display device 110, through the communication network.
The signal instructs the display device 110 to display the message.

                                                7
[043] Figure IF illustrates an embodiment of display device 110 where a single word is
displayed. The word in this example is "PLEASE" and the text may be any predetermined
colour as supported by the display. In some embodiments if the text is too large, the text may
scroll across the display.
[044] Figure IG illustrates an embodiment of display device 110 where a single word is
displayed. The word in this example is "THANKS" and the text may be any predetermined
colour as supported by the display.
[045] When it comes to the communication network, there may be several variations possible,
without departing from the scope of the invention. In one embodiment, the communication
network is a long range telecommunication network 112, such as Internet or other dedicated or
widely available Wide Area Network (WAN), such as GSM, CDMA, HSDPA, LTE or the like.
In such scenarios, the message may be routed through a remote server 114, such as a dedicated
remote server of an Enterprise Network or a Cloud-Based Server. However, since the fact that
the vehicles are generally mobile and often in areas where there may not be enough
connectivity for the long range telecommunication network 112, the communication network
may also be a short range communication network 108. The short range communication
network 108 may be implemented through protocols such as 802.x, WIFL, Radio Frequency
(RF), NFC, Bluetooth and ZigBee etc. In several embodiments, the communication network
108 may also be based on Radio Frequency (RF) based communications. Although, it is
preferable that the communication network be a wireless network, however, within confines of
an vehicle, a wired network may also be used. The display device 110 in turn is configured to
display the message.
[046] Figure 2A illustrates a front side of the display device 110 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. The display device 110 includes a screen 202 for
displaying messages 204. In one embodiment the display device screen size is 30 cm by 5 cm
and 1cm thick and the screen can display a plurality of colours such as green, yellow, orange,
red, blue and any combination thereof for any message. As would be understood, the size of
the display device can be varied to suit any desired application and any display sizes should be
considered within the scope of the invention. As would be understood, the size of the input
device can be varied to suit any desired application and any input device size should be
considered within the scope of the invention. Although Figure 2A illustrates the messages in
text, the messages may also be in form of animations, emoticons, symbols, graphics or

                                                  8
standardized sign language (with or without text), so that the person that is outside of the
vehicle, need not have to spend a lot of effort in receiving the message. This is highly desirable
in scenarios where the vehicle is speeding or if the person outside themselves is driving another
vehicle and should not be distracted for too long from looking at the road ahead. The display
device 110 further includes one or more auxiliary indicators 206 configured to display an
auxiliary indication corresponding to the message. The auxiliary indicators 206 may be, for
example, LEDs of red 208, yellow 210 and green 212 colours. In that manner, the different
colours of the LEDs may correspond to the criticality of the message, for example, red 208
may denote "Severe", yellow 210 may denote "Important but not Severe" and green 212 may
denote "Not Severe" etc. In one embodiment the displayed message is displayed for between
1 to 5 seconds and preferably between 2-4 seconds and more preferably for 3 seconds.
Preferably the displayed message flashes 3 times, once per second. In one embodiment the
displayed message is shown for 3 seconds and flashes 4 times.
[047] Figure 2B illustrates a rear side of the display device 110, in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. The rear side of the display device 110 depicts a plurality
of buttons (for example 214, 216 and 218) for selecting a plurality of respective modes of
message delivery to the display device 110. For example: on selection of a first button 214, the
display device 110 may receive messages from the dedicated input device 104, via the short
range communication network 108, as illustrated in Figure 3A; on selection of a second button
216, the display device 110 will receive messages from the mobile handheld device 106 via the
short range communication network 108, as illustrated in Figure 3B; and on selection of a third
button 218, the display device will receive messages from the mobile handheld device 106 via
the long range telecommunication network 112 and the remote server 114, as illustrated in
Figure 3C.
[048]    Of course, there may be other elements that may be required for the functioning of the
input device and more specifically the display device 110. For example, a battery may also be
installed with the vehicle 102. The battery may in turn be a Lithium-Ion (Polymer) type or
Nickel-Metal-Hydride type. Although in several embodiments, the display device 110 may be
powered by the in-built battery of the vehicle 102. The device may be powered using the DC
12V car lighter outlet via a power cord. In some embodiments the device includes solar panel
that charges the battery device reducing or eliminating the need for further charging via the
vehicle or mains power in the case where the battery is removable and recharged. In some
embodiments the battery for the input device and display device is installed within the vehicle.

                                                  9
In some embodiments the batteries for the input device and display device are rechargeable
and installed or built in to the input and display device. In some instances they are replaceable
and in some instances they can be removed to be recharged, or recharged while still being
installed by way of a solar panel or connection to the car battery. The display device 110 may
further include a fabric or a polymer based encasing for additional protection. The display
device 110 may also be coded to provide support such as translation into several languages
making it a viable option to be sold in several jurisdictions.
[049] Figure 4 illustrates a method 400 for displaying a message from the vehicle 102, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step 410, the input device receives
the input corresponding to the message to be displayed at the display device 110. At step 420,
the input device transmits the signal to the display device 110, the signal instructing the display
device 110 to display the message. At step 430, the display device 110 displays the message.
Further, in several embodiments, the one or more auxiliary indicators 206 display the auxiliary
indication corresponding to the message, along with message. at the display device 110.
[050] Figure 5 shows various elements according to embodiments of the invention.                  A
messaging display device allows a user to select one of a number of predetermined messages
to display. The message to be displayed is transmitted to the display and then displayed at the
display.
[051] Figure 6 shows various elements according to embodiments of the invention and shows
the display installed on a variety of vehicles including cars, trucks, motorbikes, scoopers and
bicycles.
[052] Figure 7 shows various elements according to embodiments of the invention. Input
devices can be installed on any convenient location in a vehicle by way of straps, double sided
tape, clips and the like.
[053] Figures 8a, 8b and 8c show various Glass Transparent Visual Design (GTVD) or heads
up displays that may be used in various embodiments of the invention. The GTVD may be
used to hold mobile phones or other tablets devices during the implementation of various
aspects of the invention.
[054]   The present invention offers a number of advantages, such as, offering an option for
quick, convenient and precise communications for safer and more pleasurable driving.
Additionally, in cases such as the vehicle being ambulance, it allows for actions to be taken or

                                                  10
solutions to be had, that ensure safety and recovery of the other occupants of the vehicle as
well.
[055]     The present invention offers further advantages to promote safer driving, to promote
smarter driving, to create a new driving culture that emphasises courtesy, kindness and
appreciation. In some embodiments the device is waterproof and can be installed on outdoor
vehicles such as tractors and farm equipment.
[056]     The display device 110 may be attached to the vehicle in a desired location using
magnets, suction cups, double sided tape or any other suitable sticking mechanism to ensure
that it is secured to the vehicle in a useful location.
[057] It should be understood that the techniques of the present disclosure might be
implemented using a variety of technologies. For example, the methods described herein may
be implemented by a series of computer executable instructions residing on a suitable computer
readable medium. Suitable computer readable media may include volatile (e.g. RAM) and/or
non-volatile (e.g. ROM, disk) memory, carrier waves and transmission media. Exemplary
carrier waves may take the form of electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals conveying
digital data steams along a local network or a publically accessible network such as the Internet.
[058] It should also be understood that, unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from
the following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing
terms such as "controlling" or "obtaining" or "computing" or "storing" or "receiving" or
"determining" or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar
electronic computing device, that processes and transforms data represented as physical
(electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data
similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers
or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.

                                               11
CLAIMS:
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1. A method for displaying a message from a vehicle, the method comprising steps of:
               receiving an input corresponding to a message to be displayed at a display
           device installed with the vehicle, wherein the message is selected from a group
           comprising predefined messages, user defined messages and combinations thereof;
               transmitting a signal to the display device, the signal instructing the display
           device to display the message; and
               displaying the message at the display device.
       2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a step of displaying an
           auxiliary indication corresponding to the message, along with message, at the
           display device.
       3. A system for displaying a message from a vehicle, the system comprising:
               a display device installed with the vehicle;
               an input device operably connected with the display device through a
           communication network;
               wherein the input device is configured to receive an input corresponding to a
           message to be displayed at the display device installed with the vehicle, the message
           being selected from a group comprising predefined messages, user defined
           messages and combinations thereof and transmit a signal to the display device, the
           signal instructing the display device to display the message; and
               wherein the display device is configured to display the message.
       4. The system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the input device is selected from a group
           comprising mobile handheld devices and dedicated input devices.
       5. The system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the display device is one or a Light
           Emitting Diode (LED) based display device, Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), Glass
           Transparent Visual Design (GTVD), Heads Up Display,Transparent Display (TD)
           or Wireless Laser Message and Logo Projector ( WLMLP)..
       6. The system as claimed claim 3, wherein the communication network is a short range
           communication network.

                                       12
7. The system as claimed in claim 3. wherein the display device further comprises one
   or more auxiliary indicators configured to display an auxiliary indication
   corresponding to the message.
8. A display device for displaying a message from a vehicle, the display device being
   configured to receive a signal instructing the display device to display the message,
   the display device comprising a screen configured to display the message.
9. The display device as claimed in claim 8, further comprising one or more auxiliary
   indicators configured to display an auxiliary indication corresponding to the
   message.

                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1A
          100                                              114
                                    112
                            106   110
                      104
                                                                 1/15
                102
                                        108

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                      3/15
              175
                                                                 177
<removed-apn>
                                                         179
                                                           104
                                    Fig. 1D
                    104
                                    Emergency
                           Slowly      Sorry
                                                Thanks
                                      Please
                          181
                                    Fig. 1E

<removed-date>
                           4/15
                110
<removed-apn>            PLEASE
                       Fig. 1F
              110
                      THANKS
                       Fig. 1G

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                             6/15
                    214
<removed-apn>
               104                     108
                           message                  message
                                                                110
                                       Fig. 3A
                     216
              106                        108
                             message                  message
                                                                  110
                                        Fig. 3B

                                                            <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
Fig. 3C   218
                      106
                            message         114
                112                                            112
                                      message     message                             7/15
                                                                message
                                                                          110

<removed-date>
                                                  8/15
<removed-apn>
                       400
                             RECEIVE AN INPUT CORRESPONDING TO A MESSAGE
                             TO BE DISPLAYED AT A DISPLAY DEVICE INSTALLED
                                         WITH THE AUTOMOBILE
                                                                             410
                             TRANSMIT A SIGNAL TO THE DISPLAY DEVICE, THE
                              SIGNAL INSTRUCTING THE DISPLAY DEVICE TO
                                         DISPLAY THE MESSAGE
                                                                             420
                              DISPLAY THE MESSAGE AT THE DISPLAY DEVICE
                                                                             430
              Fig. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 5                      9/15

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 6                      10/15

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 7                      11/15

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 8a                      12/15

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 8b                      13/15

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 8c                      14/15

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 9                      15/15

