                                              31
  Abstract
  A method of a waste collection comprises receiving a signal representing a rubbish
  level of a bin; indicating to a personal device carried by a waste collector the level of
5 rubbish in the bin or whether the bin is to be emptied based on the rubbish level
  signal.

                                            3/4
      START                                     Wireless                  Variable level
                                       Yes      network (node)            transmission
                               RbihWiFi              or GPRS              (daily, twice
                         detected?              via dongle                daily etc)
     Ultrasonic
     analogue                                           128,,
             senor124                         126
                                                                      Level indication &
                                                                      GPS location to
 122               No    -system                                               software ie
                                                          130         Process Logic
                                                                      Controller (PLC)
                                                                      or PC
        120                               FIG. 5                                END
226                                                              22
                                                                          154
                 BIN SURROUND
                                                              rMatrix           Management
    Other sensors)             Communications        -         series           System
                               Electronics
    Level sensor                                       -+      Hand held communication
                      --                                       device/Heads Up display
                                                               unit/Smart watch
                                                                                      152
   26                       40
                                          FIG. 6
     150
                       Y-Receiver              Processor     ___Memory
        162
                         Transmitter                       160                    166
                                                                            16
                                             164
                    168
                                          FIG. 7

                                                 1
         Distributed Monitoring System and Waste Management System and Method
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a distributed monitoring system based around
 5 rubbish bins and management of the collection of rubbish from rubbish bins.
   Background
   In areas of higher density population, such as residential/office, retail and
   entertainment precincts, municipal organisations, such as local governments provide
10 public rubbish bins for disposal of rubbish. Rubbish bins are also known as litter
   bins, trash cans and garbage cans. Traditionally these bins are fixed in location and
   emptied on a regular basis which depends on the extent of use of the bins in an
   overall sense. Typically this is weekly or daily. However each bin in an area will be
   used in differing amounts depending on the location of the bin within the collection
15 area, special events and other factors. Aside from one-off collections during or after
   a special event at a specific location, the timing of collection from the bins, generally,
   does not vary. As a result the frequency of collection is usually sub-optimum and the
   frequency does not account for the waste level in each individual bin. This can result
   in bins that are not full being emptied unnecessarily and bins overfilling. In turn this
20 results in poor use of the bins, the creation of litter and inefficient management of
   waste collection from the bins.
   It is noted that rubbish is also known as trash, waste, refuse, litter, and garbage.
25 The present invention seeks to provide more effective waste collection.
   The present invention seeks to provide distributed monitoring system.
   Summary of the Present Invention
30 According to the present invention there is provided a method of a waste collection
   comprising
   receiving a signal representing a rubbish level of a bin;
   indicating to a personal device carried by a waste collector the level of rubbish in the
   bin or whether the bin is to be emptied based on the rubbish level signal.
35

                                               2
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to a personal device carried by a waste
   collector is triggered when the waste collector is proximal to the bin.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises display an
 5 indicia on an augmented reality display device.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises display an
   indicia on a map display device.
10 In an embodiment the indicating step comprises indicating the level of rubbish in the
   bin or whether to empty the bin as an overlaid image on an image of the bin.
   In an embodiment the method further comprises transmitting a signal representing
   attendance to the bin by a waste collector.
15
   According to the present invention there is provided a method of a waste collection
   comprising
   receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from each
   bin;
20 determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is proximate to
   the waste collector has reached the predetermined level based on the received level
   signals and bin identifiers;
   indicating to the waste collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied based on
   whether the proximate bin has reached the predetermined level; and
25 determining whether the waste collector has attended to the collection.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display on a personal device.
30 In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display on an in-vehicle device.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display as an electronic map on a display
35 device.

                                                3
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display as an augmented reality on a display
   device.
 5 In an embodiment the augmented reality display indicates the level of rubbish in the
   bin or whether the bin is to be emptied or not as am image overlaid on an image of
   the bin.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to a personal device carried by a waste
10 collector is triggered when the waste collector is proximal to the bin.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the personal device of the waste collector
   comprises displaying an indicia on an augmented reality display device.
15 In an embodiment the step of indicating to the personal device of the waste collector
   comprises displaying an indicia on a map display device.
   According to the present invention there is provided a method of waste collection
   comprising
20 receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from each
   bin;
   determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish therein from
   the received level signals and bin identifiers;
   determining the location of those bins that have reached the predetermined level;
25 determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that has reached the
   predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector;
   indicating to the waste collector whether a respective bin determined to the proximate
   to the waste collector is to be emptied based on whether the proximate bin has
   reached the predetermined level; and
30 determining whether the waste collector has attended to the collection.
   According to the present invention there is provided a detection system for a rubbish
   receiving bin, the detection system comprising:
   a sensor positioned so as to sense the level of rubbish in the bin and for creating a
35 signal representing the sensed rubbish level in the bin;
   the sensor further comprising an output for transmitting the level of rubbish in the bin;

                                                4
   a receiver of the transmitted output;
   a transmitter for sending a signal to a personal device of a rubbish collector, the
   signal comprising a representation of the level of rubbish;
   wherein the personal device comprises a display configured to present the level of
 5 rubbish in the bin as an overlaid image on an image of the bin.
   In an embodiment the transmitter is configured to transmit the signal to the personal
   device when the personal device is proximal to the bin.
10 According to the present invention there is provided a system for a waste collection
   comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level of a bin;
   means for indicating to a personal device carried by a waste collector the level of
   rubbish in the bin or whether the bin is to be emptied based on the rubbish level
15 signal.
   According to the present invention there is provided a system for a waste collection
   comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin
20 from each bin;
   means for determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is
   proximate to the waste collector has reached the predetermined level based on the
   received level signals and bin identifiers;
   means for indicating to the waste collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied
25 based on whether the proximate bin has reached the predetermined level; and
   means for determining whether the waste collector has attended to the collection.
   According to the present invention there is provided a system for waste collection
   comprising
30 means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin
   from each bin;
   means for determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish
   therein from the received level signals and bin identifiers;
   means for determining the location of those bins that have reached the
35 predetermined level;

                                                 5
   means for determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that has
   reached the predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector;
   means for indicating to the waste collector whether a respective bin determined to
   the proximate to the waste collector is to be emptied based on whether the proximate
 5 bin has reached the predetermined level; and
   means for determining the attendance of the bin by the waste collector.
   According to the present invention there is provided a method of monitoring a
   plurality of locations comprising providing a plurality of monitoring stations disposed
10 in or associated with a respective rubbish bin housing or surround,
   each monitoring station transmitting a signal representing a detectable quality of the
   environment surrounding the bin in which the respective bin is located; and
   receiving the transmitted signals from the bins.
15 According to the present invention there is provided a system for monitoring a
   plurality of locations comprising
   a plurality of monitoring stations disposed in or associated with a respective rubbish
   bin housing or surround,
   each monitoring station comprising means for transmitting a signal representing a
20 detectable quality of the environment surrounding the bin in which the respective bin
   is located; and
   means for receiving the transmitted signals from the bins.
   According to the present invention there is provided a detector for a rubbish receiving
25 bin, wherein the detector is installed in a bin surround for housing the bin inside of
   the bin surround, the detector comprising:
   a first sensor positioned inside of the bin surround so as to sense the level of rubbish
   in the bin and for creating a first signal representing the sensed rubbish level in the
   bin;
30 a second sensor positioned outwardly of the bin surround so as to sense a plurality of
   forms of the local environment surrounding the bin surround and for creating a
   second signal representing the local environment surrounding the bin surround;
   a processor configured to receive the first signal and determine the level of rubbish in
   the bin based on the received first signal as at least two discrete representations of
35 the level of rubbish in the bin or as a representation of no rubbish in the bin;
   a processor configured to receive the second signal and determine a plurality of local

                                                  6
   environment factors based on the received second signal;
   an output for indicating the level of rubbish in the bin and the determined local
   environmental factors.
 5 In an embodiment the first sensor is configured to determine the distance a beam
   travels before being reflected by rubbish in the bin. In one embodiment the beam is
   an ultrasonic beam. In another embodiment the beam is a light beam. In another
   embodiment the first sensor is configured to determine the weight of rubbish in the
   bin.
10
   In an embodiment the second sensor is configured to sense pollution external to the
   bin and the second signal represents a pollution level in the local environment
   surrounding the bin. In an embodiment the second sensor is configured to sense a
   plurality of types of air pollution external to the bin surround and the second signal
15 comprises a representation of air pollution level in the local environment surrounding
   the bin surround.
   In an embodiment the second sensor is configured to sense ultraviolet (UV) radiation
   external to the bin and the second signal represents a UV radiation level in the local
20 environment surrounding the bin. In an embodiment the second sensor is configured
   to sense the amount of ultraviolet (UV) radiation external to the bin surround and the
   second signal comprises a representation of a UV radiation level in the local
   environment surrounding the bin surround.
25 In an embodiment the second sensor is configured to sense a fire external to the bin
   and the second signal represents a fire in the local environment surrounding the bin.
   In an embodiment the processor is configured to determine whether the level of
   rubbish in a bin has reached a predetermined level. In an embodiment the processor
30 is configured to determine whether the level of rubbish in a bin has reached one of at
   least two predetermined levels.
   In an embodiment the output is a visual indicator. In an embodiment the output is a
   transmitter for transmitting a level signal representing the level of rubbish in the bin
35 and the determined local environmental factor(s).

                                                 7
   In an embodiment the processor is configured to periodically receive the first sensor
   signal.
   In an embodiment the transmitter is configured to periodically transmit the first signal.
 5
   In an embodiment the processor is configured to cause the transmitter to transmit the
   level first signal when the level of rubbish in the bin reaches one of the
   predetermined levels or when an environmental factor meets a condition.
10 In an embodiment the processor is configured to receive a poll signal prompting the
   processor to receive the sensor signals and to cause the transmitter to transmit the
   level signal and environmental factor.
   In an embodiment the processor is configured to receive a poll signal prompting the
15 processor to retrieve a stored sensor signal and to cause the transmitter to transmit
   the retrieved level signal and environmental factor.
   In an embodiment the transmitter is configured to transmit an identifier of the bin with
   the level signal and environmental factor.
20
   In an embodiment the environmental conditions comprise one or more of the
   following: whether a door of a bin surround is open, whether a near field transmitter is
   proximate to the bin; whether there is a fire detected in or near the bin; levels of
   gases, particles, noise level, temperature, humidity, pollen count, radiation or UV light
25 in the vicinity of the bin.
   In an embodiment the second sensor comprises a pollution sensor, and the
   processor is also configured to receive a signal form the pollution sensor indicating a
   pollution level as one or more elements of the environmental factor, and the
30 processor is further configured to periodically transmit the pollution level signal, and
   or to transmit the pollution level signal upon command. In an embodiment the
   pollution sensor is arranged to measure air pollution external to the bin.
   In an embodiment the second sensor comprises a "door open" sensor for sensing
35 when a cover or door of the bin surround is open, and the processor is also
   configured to receive a signal form the "door open" sensor as one or more elements

                                                  8
   of the environmental factor, and the processor is further configured to monitor for the
   door open sensor to activate and/or to deactivate, and if a condition in relation to the
   door sensor is met to transmit a door open signal.
 5 In an embodiment the second sensor comprises a near field identification sensor,
   and the processor is also configured to receive a signal form the near field
   identification sensor indicating whether a near field identifier is proximate to the bin
   as one or more elements of the environmental factor(s). In an embodiment, the
   processor is further configured to transmit an identification signal of the near field
10 identifier when a condition in relation to the near field identifier being proximate to the
   bin is met to transmit an identification signal, and/or to transmit the identification
   signal upon command. In an embodiment the condition is that the near field identifier
   is sensed for more than a predetermined period of time. In this example the waste
   collector will have a near field identifier, such as an RFID tag, and the timing of the
15 waste collector can be monitored.
   In an embodiment the detector further comprises a receiver for receiving a signal
   from another bin detector, and the processor is configured to receive the other bin's
   signal and the processor is further configured to cause the transmitter to retransmit
20 the other bin's signal.
   In an embodiment the output is configured to provide a local visual indicator
   representing the determined local environmental factors.
25 In an embodiment the output is configured to provide a local visual indicator
   representing the level of rubbish in the bin.
   In an embodiment the plurality of forms of the local environment surrounding the bin
   surround comprise at least two of the amount of: airborne particles, methane, carbon
30 monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and sulphur dioxide.
   According to the present invention there is provided a bin surround for housing a
   rubbish receiving bin, said bin surround comprising:
   a first sensor positioned inwardly of the bin surround to sense the level of rubbish in a
35 bin and for creating a first signal representing the sensed rubbish level in the bin;
   a second sensor positioned outwardly of the bin surround to sense air pollution in the

                                                9
   local environment surrounding the bin surround and for creating a second signal
   representing the pollution in the local environment surrounding the bin surround;
   a third sensor positioned outwardly of the surround to sense the amount of UV
   radiation received by the bin surround and for creating a third signal representing the
 5 amount of UV radiation in the local environment of the bin surround
   a processor configured to receive the first signal and determine the level of rubbish in
   the bin based on the received first signal as at least two discrete representations of
   the level of rubbish in the bin or as a representation of no rubbish in the bin;
   a processor configured to receive the second signal and determine a local air
10 pollution factor based on the received second signal;
   a processor configured to receive the third signal and determine a UV radiation factor
   based on the received third signal;
   an output for indicating the level of rubbish in the bin, the determined local air
   pollution factor and the UV radiation factor.
15
   According to the present invention there is provided a detector for a bin comprising:
   a first sensor positioned to sense the level of rubbish in a bin and for creating a first
   signal representing the sensed rubbish level in the bin;
   a second sensor positioned to sense a bin surround cover or door is open and for
20 creating a second signal from the second sensor, wherein the bin surround cover or
   door is not a bin lid covering an opening of the bin;
   a processor configured to receive the first signal and determine the level of rubbish in
   the bin based on the received first signal as at least two discrete representations of
   the level of rubbish in the bin or as a representation of no rubbish in the bin;
25 a processor configured to receive the second signal and determine whether the door
   is open based on the received second signal;
   an output for indicating the level of rubbish in the bin and the determination of
   whether the door is open.
30 According to the present invention there is provided a detector for a bin comprising:
   a first sensor positioned to sense the level of rubbish in a bin and for creating a first
   signal representing the sensed rubbish level in the bin;
   a second sensor positioned to sense whether there is a fire in or around the bin and
   for creating a second signal from the second sensor;
35 a processor configured to receive the first signal and determine the level of rubbish in
   the bin based on the received first signal as at least two discrete representations of

                                                10
   the level of rubbish in the bin or as a representation of no rubbish in the bin;
   a processor configured to receive the second signal and determine whether there is a
   fire in or around the bin based on the received second signal;
   an output for indicating the level of rubbish in the bin and the determined state of
 5 whether there is a fire in or around the bin.
   According to the present invention there is provided a waste management system
   comprising
   a plurality of bins each having a rubbish level detector configured to transmit a level
10 signal representing the level of rubbish in the respective bin, an environmental
   sensor configured to transmit a signal representing a plurality of surrounding
   environmental factors relevant to the surrounds of the respective bin and an identifier
   of the respective bin;
   a system receiver for receiving the level of rubbish in each bin, the surrounding
15 environmental factors and the identifier of the respective bin;
   a system processor for determining which bins have reached a predetermined level
   of rubbish therein from the received level signals and bin identifiers and which bins
   need attention due to the received surrounding environmental factors and bin
   identifiers.
20
   In an embodiment each bin also comprises a pollution detector configured to transmit
   a pollution level signal of the external environment surrounding the bin to the system
   receiver, and the system processor is also configured to determine when a pollution
   level at a location identified by the respective bin's identifier reaches a specified level.
25
   In an embodiment each bin also comprises a "door open" detector configured to
   transmit a bin surround "door open" signal to the system receiver, and the system
   processor is also configured to determine whether the open door of the bin identified
   by the respective bin's identifier should be open according to a set of criteria and in
30 the event that it should be open raises and alarm.
   In an embodiment each bin also comprises a waste collector proximity detector
   configured to transmit a waste collector timing signal to the system receiver when
   waste collector is proximate to the bin, and the system processor is also configured
35 to record the timing signal.

                                               11
   In an embodiment the system processor is configured to map environmental
   conditions over an area in which the bin surrounds are located.
   In an embodiment the environmental conditions comprise types of air pollution and
 5 the system processor is configured to map levels of each type of air pollution
   detected by each of the bin surrounds.
   In an embodiment the system processor is configured to map areas of air pollution
   intensity.
10
   According to the present invention there is provided a method of reading a rubbish
   level in a bin comprising
   determining a distance of rubbish in a bin from a sensor;
   determining the level of rubbish in the bin based on the distance as at least two
15 discrete representations of the level of rubbish in the bin or of no rubbish in the bin;
   outputting the level of rubbish in the bin and an identifier of the bin to a personal
   device of a waste collector such that the waste collector can be informed by the
   device whether the bin needs to be emptied when the waste collector is proximate to
   the bin.
20
   According to the present invention there is provided a method of scheduling waste
   collection from or maintenance of a plurality of bins comprising
   receiving a signal representing a rubbish level, a signal representing a plurality of
   local environmental factors surrounding the bin and an identifier of the bin from each
25 bin;
   determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish therein from
   the received level signals and bin identifiers;
   determining which bins have may require maintenance from the received local
   environmental factors signals and bin identifiers;
30 scheduling waste collection for those bins that have reached the predetermined level
   and maintenance for those bins that have local environmental factors indicative of the
   need for maintenance.
   In an embodiment the environmental factor signal is a signal representing that a door
35 to a surround of the bin is open and maintenance is scheduled when the door should
   not be open.

                                               12
   In an embodiment the environmental factor signal is a signal representing a fire in or
   in the vicinity of the bin.
 5 According to the present invention there is provided a method of waste collection
   comprising
   receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from each
   bin;
   determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish therein from
10 the received level signals and bin identifiers;
   determining the location of those bins that have reached the predetermined level;
   determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that has reached the
   predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector;
   indicating to the waste collector whether a respective bin determined to the proximate
15 to the waste collector is to be emptied based on whether the proximate bin has
   reached the predetermined level.
   According to the present invention there is provided a method of a waste collection
   comprising
20 receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from each
   bin;
   determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is proximate to
   the waste collector has reached the predetermined level based on the received level
   signals and bin identifiers;
25 indicating to the waste collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied based on
   whether the proximate bin has reached the predetermined level.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display on a personal device.
30
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display on an in-vehicle device.
   In an embodiment the display is one or more of a metered level display, a screen, a
35 projected head-up-display.

                                                13
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display as a LED readout on a display device.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
 5 information to the waste collector for display as an electronic map on a display device
   such as an electronic rear vision mirror.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display as an augmented reality on a display
10 device.
   In an embodiment the augmented reality display indicates the level of rubbish in the
   bin or whether the bin is to be emptied or not. For example the bin may be
   augmented with an overlaid colour, say green, if the bin can be bypassed (it is
15 empty) or a different colour, say red, if the bin if to have rubbish collected (it is full).
   According to the present invention there is provided a rubbish level detector for a bin
   comprising:
   a plurality of outwardly directed sensors configured to sense local environmental
20 conditions of the bin surround, and for creating a signal representing the local
   environmental conditions;
   a transmitter configured to transmit a signal representative of the local environmental
   conditions and an identifier of the bin and/or a location of the bin.
25 In an embodiment one of the sensors detects air pollution surrounding the bin
   surround.
   In an embodiment one of the sensors detects UV radiation incident on the bin
   surround.
30
   In an embodiment one of the sensors detects a fire in or external to the bin surround.
   In an embodiment one of the sensors detects a bin surround door is open, wherein
   the bin surround door is not a bin lid covering an opening of the bin.
35

                                               14
   According to the present invention there is provided a system for reading a rubbish
   level in a bin comprising
   means for determining a distance of rubbish in a bin from a sensor;
   means for determining the level of rubbish in the bin based on the distance as at
 5 least two discrete representations of the level of rubbish in the bin or of no rubbish in
   the bin;
   means for sensing local environmental conditions surrounding the bin;
   means for outputting the level of rubbish in the bin, the local environmental conditions
   and an identifier of the bin.
10
   According to the present invention there is provided a system for scheduling waste
   collection from or maintenance of a plurality of bins comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level, a signal representing a
   local environmental factor surrounding the bin and an identifier of the bin from each
15 bin;
   means for determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish
   therein from the received level signals and bin identifiers;
   means for determining which bins have may require maintenance from the received
   local environmental factor signals and bin identifiers;
20 means for scheduling waste collection for those bins that have reached the
   predetermined level and maintenance for those bins that have local environmental
   factors indicative of the need for maintenance.
   According to the present invention there is provided a system for waste collection
25 comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin
   from each bin;
   means for determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish
   therein from the received level signals and bin identifiers;
30 means for determining the location of those bins that have reached the
   predetermined level;
   means for determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that has
   reached the predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector;
   means for indicating to the waste collector whether a respective bin determined to
35 the proximate to the waste collector is to be emptied based on whether the proximate
   bin has reached the predetermined level.

                                               15
   According to the present invention there is provided a system for a waste collection
   comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin
 5 from each bin;
   means for determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is
   proximate to the waste collector has reached the predetermined level based on the
   received level signals and bin identifiers;
   means for indicating to the waste collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied
10 based on whether the proximate bin has reached the predetermined level.
   According to the present invention there is provided a monitoring system comprising
   a plurality of monitoring stations disposed in or associated with a respective rubbish
   bin housing or surround, each monitoring station comprising an identifier, a sensor
15 for monitoring the bin and a detectable quality of the environment in which the bin is
   located, a processor for receiving a signal from the sensor a transmitter for
   transmitting the signal, wherein the system also comprises a receiver for receiving
   the transmitted signals from the bins.
20 According to the present invention there is provided a method of monitoring a
   plurality of locations comprising providing a plurality of monitoring stations disposed
   in or associated with a respective rubbish bin housing or surround,
   each monitoring station transmitting a signal representing a detectable quality of the
   environment surrounding the bin in which the respective bin is located; and
25 receiving the transmitted signals from the bins.
   In this specification the terms "comprising" or "comprises" are used inclusively and
   not exclusively or exhaustively.
30 Any references to documents that are made in this specification are not intended to
   be an admission that the information contained in those documents form part of the
   common general knowledge known to a person skilled in the field of the invention,
   unless explicitly stated as such.
35 Description of Drawings

                                               16
   In order to provide a better understanding of the present invention, preferred
   embodiments will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings in which
   Figure 1 is a schematic representation of an area in which there are a plurality of
 5 bins;
   Figure 2 is a schematic representation of a side cross section of a bin and surround
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of an embodiment of a rubbish level detector according to
   the present invention;
10 Figure 4 is a flow chart of an embodiment of a method of reading a rubbish level in a
   bin according to the present invention;
   Figure 5 is a flow chart of an embodiment of a method of reading a rubbish level in a
   bin according to the present invention;
   Figure 6 is a block diagram of a waste management system according to an
15 embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 7 is a block diagram of a management system according to an embodiment of
   the present invention;
   Figure 8 is a block diagram of a waste management system according to an
   embodiment of the present invention; and
20 Figure 9 is a block diagram of a waste management system according to an
   embodiment of the present invention.
   Description of Embodiment of the Invention
   Referring to Figure 1, there is shown an area 10 in which there are a plurality of
25 rubbish bins (12A, 12B, 12C, 12D, 12E and 12F). Bins 12A and 12E are indicated as
   being empty (no shading). Bins 12B and 12F are indicated as being half full
   (horizontal shading) and bins 12C and 12D are indicated as being full (vertical
   shading).
30 In prior rubbish collection systems, at the end of a period of time a rubbish collector
   would collect the rubbish from all of these bins.
   In the present invention bins 12C and 12D would be emptied, bins 12A and 12E
   would not be emptied and the remaining bins 12 B and 12F may be emptied
35 according to a set of criteria. For example a driver of a rubbish collection truck may
   be directed to take a path from bin 12C to bin 12B, travel past bin 12E to bin 12D.

                                                17
   On this route bins 12C and 12D would be emptied, 12B could be emptied as the
   truck is travelling past, but the truck would not stop at 12E.
   Alternatively the driver may go past all the bins, but the invention indicates the level
 5 to the driver and s/he can avoid stopping at empty bins 12A and 12E, could stop to
   empty half full bins 12D and 12F and would stop to empty full bins 12C and 12D.
   This is able to be achieved by the driver receiving an indication of which bins to
   collect rubbish from. Each bin is installed with a detector for monitoring the bin
10 and/or a quality of the environment in which the bin is located. In this embodiment
   the detector 40 comprises a rubbish level detector. In an embodiment each detector
   40 is able to communicate the level of rubbish in each bin (12A-1 2F) to a monitoring
   system, which in this embodiment has a management system 16 for coordinating the
   collection of rubbish from the bins or for indicating to the waste collector 185 which
15 bins to collect rubbish from.
   Referring to Figures 2 and 3 a rubbish level detector 40 is schematically shown and
   comprises a sensor 26 positioned at the top of the bin cover 24 or bin surround 22.
   In this embodiment the sensor 26 is able to sense the level of rubbish 32 in a bin 20.
20 The bin cover 24 is mounted to the bin surround 22. A bin surround 22 is used as it
   makes a more pleasant view than the bin 20 inside. In an embodiment the sensor 26
   emits a beam 28 that reflects off the rubbish. The sensor 26 generates a signal
   representing the distance from the sensor 26 to the rubbish level in the bin based on
   the travel time of the beam and its refection. In one embodiment the beam is an
25 ultrasonic beam. In another embodiment the beam is a light beam.
   As an alternative other types of sensor 26 could be used. For example the sensor
   could be configured to determine the weight of rubbish in the bin and an inference of
   the amount of rubbish in the bin determined according to its weight. Further there
30 may be more than one sensor as will be described further below, including a sensor
   for measuring an environmental condition in the vicinity of the bin.
   A processor 42 (housed in housing 30) receives a signal from the sensor(s) 26 and in
   this embodiment determines the level of rubbish 32 in the bin based on the received
35 signal as one or more discrete representations of the level of rubbish 32 in the bin.
   For example the discrete representation could be a binary the bin is "empty" or "full"

                                                 18
   ("full" might mean near full as opposed to literally so as to avoid rubbish spilling over
   and "empty" is not full) or trinary indication such as "empty", "half-full" and "full".
   Other discrete levels can also be used, such as a level out of 10.
 5 The processor 42 also determines environmental factors about the bin or its
   environment from the one or more other sensors.
   The processor 42 controls an output for indicating the level of rubbish 32 in the bin
   and environmental factors. In this embodiment the output is a transmitter 50 in
10 housing 30 which transmits data representing the level from an antenna 34 as a radio
   transmission 36. The radio transmission may be for example by WIFI, cellular
   network, "ZigBee" network, or otherwise. Alternatively the transmitter 50 may make a
   wired transmission. The housing 30 may be located on a top of the bin cover 24 or
   be raised above the cover by a pole.
15
   In an embodiment the processor 42 is configured to determine whether the level of
   rubbish in a bin has reached a predetermined level. In an embodiment the processor
   42 is configured to determine whether the level of rubbish in a bin has reached a
   plurality of predetermined levels. In an embodiment the processor 42 is configured to
20 determine whether a door to the surround 22 of the bin is open. In an embodiment
   the processor 42 is configured to determine whether a near field device, such as an
   NFID transmitter is proximate to the bin.
   In an embodiment the processor 42 is configured by a set of instructions stored on a
25 storage device, the instructions controlling the processor 42 to operate as described
   herein.
   The processor 42 receives a clock signal input from a clock 44. The processor 42 is
   able to store and retrieve information from memory 46. In one embodiment the clock
30 44 is used to determine the passage of a predetermined amount of time, such as
   hourly, to take a sensor measurement of the level of rubbish in the bin and of the
   environmental factors. These measurements can be stored in the memory 46. In an
   embodiment the clock 44 is also used to determine the passage of a second
   predetermined amount of time, such as 6 hours, after which the stored
35 measurements are transmitted. The processor 42 interfaces with the sensor 26 and

                                                 19
   the transmitter 50 via an 1/O interface 48. The elements of the detector 40 are shown
   coupled by a system bus or other mechanism.
   In an embodiment the transmission used Internet Protocol packets, but other
 5 protocols may be used.
   In an embodiment the processor is configured to cause the transmitter to transmit the
   level signal and/or environmental factors when the level of rubbish in the bin reaches
   predetermined level or when one or more of the environmental factors meets one or
10 more conditions, such as for example the bin is being moved, the bin is on or near
   fire or pollution levels are above a certain level.
   In an embodiment the processor is configured to receive a poll signal prompting the
   processor 42 to receive the sensor signal and to cause the transmitter to transmit the
15 level signal.
   In an embodiment the transmitter is configured to transmit an identifier of the bin with
   the level signal. Generally each bin will be allocated a number and this can be used
   as the identifier. Alternatively a GPS reading may be used.
20
   In an alternative or in addition to transmitting the rubbish level the level may be
   output to a visual indicator mounted on the bin, such as a display or one or more
   lights.
25 The detector 40 may comprise other detectors, such as a pollution detectors, a
   temperature sensor (such as DHT22 or BMP085)), a UV sensor (such as UVI-01), a
   noise level sensor (such as a microphone), a humidity sensor (such as DHT22), an
   air pressure sensor (such as BMP085), a light sensor (such as an LDR with an ADC
   such as MCP3008), a particle sensor, a "door open" detector or a near field
30 identification detector. Each of these detectors comprises another sensor 226 of the
   appropriate type which generates a signal representing the type of thing detected
   which is received and processed by the processor 42. The processor 42 may also
   transmit the signal or may only transmit a signal when certain criteria are met. These
   example detectors will be described in more detail further below. Pollution detectors
35 may include gas and or particle sensors, such as carbon monoxide (such as MiCS-

                                                  20
   5525), carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide (such as MiCS-2710), ozone, sulphur dioxide
   measuring devices.
   Referring to Figure 4 there is shown a method 100 of reading a rubbish level in a bin
 5 according to an embodiment of the present invention. This method is repeated every
   period for reading the rubbish level. This may be for example every 15 min. Sensor
   26 is read at 102. The processor 42 performs a check of whether rubbish is detected
   at 104. If the distance to the level of the rubbish is less than a first predetermined
   amount, for example 1/3 of the height of the bin, then it registers as not detected, that
10 is, "empty" (which differs from literally empty). If the reading is "empty" the process
   end. For housekeeping purposes the empty reading may be recorded in the memory
   46.
   Then if more than the first predetermined amount is detected, for example        1/4 of the
15 height of the bin, but less than a second predetermined amount, for example 2/3 of
   the height of the bin, then it registers as "half-full" as indicated by 106 and this
   reading is recorded in the memory 46.
   If more than the second predetermined amount is detected, for example more than
20 2/3 of the height of the bin, then it registers as "full" as indicated by 108 and this
   reading is recorded in the memory 46.
   In an embodiment until the next time the bin is emptied the first time the level gets to
   "half-full" and "full" the level and bin identifier (and in some cases a time stamp) are
25 collected at 110 and transmitted at 112 to a receiver 162 of a waste management
   system 16 or to a device such as a device worn by the waste collection worker or
   mounted to a waste collection vehicle 185.
   Referring to Figure 5 there is a method 120 of collecting information on bin levels,
30 which commences with the sensor 26 taking a reading at step 122 and then checking
   124 whether rubbish has be detected. If it has not been detected the process returns
   for another check after a suitable period of time. A similar process can be used by
   other types of detector.
35 If rubbish has been detected the amount is recorded. In this embodiment the level is
   not categorised and the measured level is sent. The transmitter 28 preferably

                                               21
   wirelessly establishes communication with a wireless communications network at 126
   and sends the information to the management system 16 at a variable time, such as
   daily or twice daily, as indicated by 128. The information transmitted to the
   management system 16 at 130 included the level indication and a location or bin
 5 identifier, such as GPS co-ordinates, or a bin identification number. The
   management system 16 may categorise the level (eg empty, half-full or full) or retain
   the level as a measurement.
   Referring to Figure 6 a system 150 is shown comprising the sensor 26, other
10 sensor(s) 226 and other components of the detector(s) 40 in the bin surround 22
   communicating via a matrix series link 154 with the management system 16 and with
   a personal device 152, which as a hand held device, heads up display unit or smart
   watch. Communication with the personal device 152 is in this embodiment
   established via local transmission, say within 50m. The matrix series link 154
15 comprises a network of devices, such as other detectors on other bins, which are for
   example configured as a ZigBee network, which pass on the information from an
   individual bin through the network to a node, and which in turn communicates with
   the management system 16.
20 Referring to Figure 7, in an embodiment there is a monitoring system, configured as
   a waste management system 16, comprising a system receiver 162 for receiving a
   signal from the detectors of the bins. In this embodiment the signals represent the
   level of rubbish in each bin (12A-1 2F) along with the identifier of the respective bin.
   The system 16 further comprises a system processor 160 for processing the signals.
25 In this embodiment, processing the signals is for determining which bins have
   reached a predetermined level of rubbish, such as "half-full" or "full", from the
   received level signals and bin identifiers. In an other embodiment processing the
   signals is to determine if an environmental condition is met. With this information the
   processor 160 can follow a set of rules or be manually controlled to coordinate the
30 collection of rubbish form the bins and/or indicate to the waste collector which bins to
   collect rubbish from or which bins may require maintenance. For example if a bin
   that is meant to be stationary is moved then this may trigger an alert. Alternatively if
   environmental conditions indicate that the bin may be on fire (such as a high
   temperature reading or detection of combustion gases above normal background
35 levels), then this may trigger an alert.

                                                22
   The system 16 also has a memory 166 for storing the received information for the
   bins and a transmitter 164 for transmission of collection information and/or bin levels
   to a waste collector 185 via a communications medium 168, such as the Internet.
 5 The processor 160 may also be configured to transmit via transmitter a polling signal
   to the detectors 40 to receive on command signals from the detectors.
   Referring to Figure 8 there is shown a system 180 comprising the sensor 26 and
   other components of the detection 40 in the bin surround 22 communicating via a
10 matrix series link 184 with the management system 16. In this case the management
   system communicates with the personal device 182, such as a hand held device, a
   an electronic rear view mirror (RVM) display unit, heads up display unit 186 and/or
   smart watch 188. This communication may be for example via a cellular data
   network. One or more of the devices 182, 186 and 188 will typically be used in a
15 rubbish truck/garbage truck 185 to inform the driver of whether a bin needs to be
   emptied on a set route, or to indicate a route required to be taken to attend to those
   bins in need of emptying and bypassing those bins that don't.
   Referring to Figure 9 there is shown an alternative system 180' to the system 180, in
20 which each bin is treated as a single node and it communicates directly with the
   management system 16. Alternatively another device may act as a node for many
   detectors 40.
   Using these systems there can be a method of reading a rubbish level in a bin
25 determining a distance of rubbish in a bin 20 from a sensor 26; determining the level
   of rubbish 30 in the bin 20 based on the distance as one or more discrete
   representations of the level of rubbish in the bin; outputting the level of rubbish in the
   bin and an identifier of the bin using a transmitter 28 or a device 152, or otherwise.
30 Using these systems there can be a method of scheduling waste collection from a
   plurality of bins comprising receiving a signal 36 representing a rubbish level and an
   identifier of the bin from each bin; determining which bins (12C and 12D) have
   reached a predetermined level of rubbish therein from the received level signals and
   bin identifiers; and scheduling waste collection for those bins that have reached the
35 predetermined level.

                                               23
   Using these systems there can be a method of creating a waste collection route
   comprising receiving a signal 36 representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the
   bin from each bin; determining which bins (12C and 12D) have reached a
   predetermined level of rubbish therein from the received level signals and bin
 5 identifiers; determining the location of those bins that have reached the
   predetermined level; and determining a waste collection route (via bins 12C, 12B and
   then to 12D) to collect rubbish from those bins that have reached the predetermined
   level.
10 Using these systems there can be a method of a waste collection comprising
   receiving a signal 36 representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from
   each bin; determining which bins (12C and 12D) have reached a predetermined level
   of rubbish therein from the received level signals and bin identifiers; determining the
   location of those bins that have reached the predetermined level; determining the
15 position of a waste collector 185 and whether a bin that has reached the
   predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector; and indicating to the waste
   collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied based on whether the proximate
   bin has reached the predetermined level.
20 Using these systems there can be a method of a waste collection comprising
   receiving a signal 36 representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from
   each bin; determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is
   proximate to the waste collector 185 has reached the predetermined level based on
   the received level signals and bin identifiers; and indicating to the waste collector
25 whether the proximate bin is to be emptied based on whether the proximate bin has
   reached the predetermined level.
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display on a personal device 182, 186 or 188.
30
   In an embodiment the step of indicating to the waste collector comprises transmitting
   information to the waste collector for display as an augmented reality on a display
   device, such as goggles or a heads up display device. In an embodiment the
   augmented reality display indicates the level of rubbish in the bin or whether the bin
35 is to be emptied or not.

                                              24
   The augmented reality may be provided using an augmented reality browser on a
   mobile device, such as LAYAR.
   In an embodiment the hand-held, wearable or dashboard mounted communication
 5 device on collector 185 may initiate communications with management system 16
   over the communications link to query information including the height of waste within
   the bin surround. If the processor does not receive a signal the process repeats as
   determined by the settings of the processor. If the processor does receive a signal
   indicating query from a device the bin surround device communicates this
10 information.
   In an embodiment the management system 16 may initiate communications to the
   detector 40 over the communications link to query information including the height of
   waste within the bin surround. If the management system 16 does not receive a
15 response it may repeat the request as determined by the settings. If the detector 40
   does receive a signal indicating query from the management system 16 the detector
   may initiate communication.
   In an embodiment where the detector comprises a pollution detector, one of the other
20 sensors 226 of each bin is a pollution sensor for sensing one or more pollutants in
   the atmosphere in the vicinity of the respective bin surround.
   The pollution sensor may comprise a carbon dioxide sensor, a nitrogen dioxide
   sensor, an airbourne particle sensor, a radiation sensor, a methane sensor, a poison
25 sensor, a pollen sensor, a noise level sensor and/or a carbon monoxide sensor.
   These are intended to be examples only.
   In an embodiment the pollution detector is configured to periodically transmit the air
   pollution levels to the processor.
30
   In an embodiment the system processor 160 is configured to indicate to display on
   the electronic map as a "hotpsot" when pollution is detected above predetermined
   levels. The collected data relating to the environment of each bin may be combined
   into a map of the environmental conditions over an area.
35

                                                25
   In some instances the pollution detection may be tied to the waste management
   system as it may indicate a bin has overflowed, the contents of the bin is rotting,
   someone has dumped a pollutant in the bin instead of normal rubbish, that rubbish
   must be collected from this site as a priority or a certain time or that decontamination
 5 treatment of the bin may be required.
   The "door open" detector may comprise a "door open" sensor, which may be in the
   form of a reed switch, for sensing when the bin cover is open.
10 In an embodiment the door detector is configured to periodically transmit the status of
   the door (open/shut) to the system processor 160.
   In an embodiment the system processor determine if the door should be open or
   have stayed open for too long, and in which case may display an indicia of such on
15 the electronic map on a display device such as an electronic rear view mirror and/or
   hand-held device and/or on the management system.
   If the bin cover is left open after rubbish collection or is opened by someone else the
   bin will need attendance to close the cover so as to ensure protection of electronics &
20 for suburban aesthetics.
   In an embodiment the near field identification detector comprises a sensor for
   reading a near field identifier (NFI) is proximate to the bin. A NFl is for example a
   Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag that may be positioned in a waste
25 collector's hand held device. Detection of the NFI will indicate attendance by the
   waste collector. Cessation of detecting the NFl will indicate departure of the waste
   collector. The time of attendance can be determined by the difference in the times
   between first detection and the time of cessation of detection.
30 In an embodiment the processor may be configured to transmit the attendance to the
   bin by the waste collector. In an embodiment the processor may be configured to
   transmit departure by the waste collector.
   The NFC may also be held by maintenance personal which will indicate to the
35 management system that a warning has been attended to or a scheduled
   maintenance has been performed. As an alternative to or in addition, other wireless

                                               26
   technologies may be used to communicate with the waste collector or maintenance
   personnel, such as Bluetooth Low Energy.
   Bins are usually relatively evenly distributed in urban areas which enabled them to be
 5 a convenient station for monitoring. The detector can be configured with a modular
   sensor pack that can have the required sensor installed according to the monitoring
   requirements.
   Modifications may be made to the present invention within the context of that
10 described and shown in the drawings. Such modifications are intended to form part
   of the invention described in this specification.

                                                27
   CLAIMS
   1.      A method of a waste collection comprising
   receiving a signal representing a rubbish level of a bin;
   indicating to a personal device carried by a waste collector the level of rubbish in the
 5 bin or whether the bin is to be emptied based on the rubbish level signal.
   2.      A method according to claim 1, wherein the indicating step comprises
   indicating the level of rubbish in the bin or whether to empty the bin as an overlaid
   image on an image of the bin.
10
   3.      A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the method further comprises
   transmitting a signal representing attendance to the bin by a waste collector.
   4.      A method of a waste collection comprising
15 receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from each
   bin;
   determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is proximate to
   the waste collector has reached the predetermined level based on the received level
   signals and bin identifiers;
20 indicating to the waste collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied based on
   whether the proximate bin has reached the predetermined level; and
   determining whether the waste collector has attended to the collection.
   5.      A method according to claim 4, wherein the step of indicating to the waste
25 collector comprises transmitting information to the waste collector for display on a
   personal device.
   6.      A method according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the step of indicating to the
   waste collector comprises transmitting information to the waste collector for display
30 on an in-vehicle device.
   7.      A method according to claim 4, 5, or 6, wherein the step of indicating to the
   waste collector comprises transmitting information to the waste collector for display
   as an electronic map on a display device.
35

                                                28
   8.      A method according to any of claims 4 to 7, wherein the step of indicating to
   the waste collector comprises transmitting information to the waste collector for
   display as an augmented reality on a display device.
 5 9.      A method according to claim 8, wherein the augmented reality display
   indicates the level of rubbish in the bin or whether the bin is to be emptied or not as
   am image overlaid on an image of the bin.
   10.     A method according to claim 9, wherein the step of indicating to a personal
10 device carried by a waste collector is triggered when the waste collector is proximal
   to the bin.
   11.     A method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the step of indicating to the
   personal device of the waste collector comprises displaying an indicia on an
15 augmented reality display device.
   12.     A method according to claim 7 or 10, wherein the step of indicating to the
   personal device of the waste collector comprises displaying an indicia on a map
   display device.
20
   13.     A method of waste collection comprising
   receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin from each
   bin;
   determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish therein from
25 the received level signals and bin identifiers;
   determining the location of those bins that have reached the predetermined level;
   determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that has reached the
   predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector;
   indicating to the waste collector whether a respective bin determined to the proximate
30 to the waste collector is to be emptied based on whether the proximate bin has
   reached the predetermined level; and
   determining whether the waste collector has attended to the collection.
   14.     A detection system for a rubbish receiving bin, the detection system
35 comprising:

                                               29
   a sensor positioned so as to sense the level of rubbish in the bin and for creating a
   signal representing the sensed rubbish level in the bin;
   the sensor further comprising an output for transmitting the level of rubbish in the bin;
   a receiver of the transmitted output;
 5 a transmitter for sending a signal to a personal device of a rubbish collector, the
   signal comprising a representation of the level of rubbish;
   wherein the personal device comprises a display configured to present the level of
   rubbish in the bin as an overlaid image on an image of the bin.
10 15.     A system according to claim 14, wherein the transmitter is configured to
   transmit the signal to the personal device when the personal device is proximal to the
   bin.
   16.     A system for a waste collection comprising
15 means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level of a bin;
   means for indicating to a personal device carried by a waste collector the level of
   rubbish in the bin or whether the bin is to be emptied based on the rubbish level
   signal.
20 17.     A system for a waste collection comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin
   from each bin;
   means for determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that is
   proximate to the waste collector has reached the predetermined level based on the
25 received level signals and bin identifiers;
   means for indicating to the waste collector whether the proximate bin is to be emptied
   based on whether the proximate bin has reached the predetermined level; and
   means for determining whether the waste collector has attended to the collection.
30 18.     A system for waste collection comprising
   means for receiving a signal representing a rubbish level and an identifier of the bin
   from each bin;
   means for determining which bins have reached a predetermined level of rubbish
   therein from the received level signals and bin identifiers;
35 means for determining the location of those bins that have reached the
   predetermined level;

                                              30
   means for determining the position of a waste collector and whether a bin that has
   reached the predetermined level is proximate to the waste collector;
   means for indicating to the waste collector whether a respective bin determined to
   the proximate to the waste collector is to be emptied based on whether the proximate
 5 bin has reached the predetermined level; and
   means for determining the attendance of the bin by the waste collector.
   19.     A method of monitoring a plurality of locations comprising providing a plurality
   of monitoring stations disposed in or associated with a respective rubbish bin housing
10 or surround,
   each monitoring station transmitting a signal representing a detectable quality of the
   environment surrounding the bin in which the respective bin is located; and
   receiving the transmitted signals from the bins.
15 20.     A system for monitoring a plurality of locations comprising
   a plurality of monitoring stations disposed in or associated with a respective rubbish
   bin housing or surround,
   each monitoring station comprising means for transmitting a signal representing a
   detectable quality of the environment surrounding the bin in which the respective bin
20 is located; and
   means for receiving the transmitted signals from the bins.

                                             <U+2736><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>               <U+2737><U+2746>                   <U+2737><U+2747>                <U+2737><U+2748>
<removed-apn>               <U+2737><U+2749>                    <U+2737><U+274A>                 <U+2737><U+274B>
                                                             <U+2735>
                                        <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2763><U+2761><U+2660><U+2761><U+2665>t
                                          <U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>         <U+273B>
                                          <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                    <U+2737><U+2701>         <U+2737><U+273B>
                    <U+2738><U+2701>
                                             <U+2737><U+2737>
                                                    <U+2737><U+273D>
              <U+2738><U+273B>
                                                    <U+2737>
               <U+2738><U+2735>                         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                        <U+2737><U+2735>
                               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2737>

                                                             <U+2737><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>
              <U+2739>                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                              <U+2739><U+273D>
                                               <U+276F><U+2767>tr<U+275B>s<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D> s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                   Pr<U+2666><U+275D><U+2761>ss
                                                                                            <U+2734><U+2756> <U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2766> <U+2747><U+276F><U+2759>
<removed-apn>
                                                 <U+2756>t<U+2764><U+2761>r s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r<U+272D>s<U+272E>
                         <U+2759>t<U+2666>r<U+2761> <U+273B> <U+2764><U+2666><U+2709>rs t<U+2764><U+2761><U+2665> tr<U+275B><U+2665>s<U+2660><U+2710>t           <U+273B>                <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2665><U+2761>t P
              <U+2748><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766>                     <U+25BC><U+2761><U+2660><U+2666>r<U+2461>
                                                           <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
              <U+2701><U+2701>             <U+2739><U+273B>                            <U+2761><U+2767><U+2761><U+275D>tr<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>s <U+2710><U+2761> P<U+2748>
                                                           <U+275A><U+2666> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2766>
                                                 <U+273A><U+2735>                                                        <U+2739><U+2735>
                                                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2738>
                                                                   <U+2736><U+2735><U+273B>
                    <U+2759><U+275A><U+2746>|<U+275A>
                                                      <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767> <U+2736>
                                        <U+25BC><U+2710><U+275E> <U+2767><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>     <U+2710><U+2665><U+275E><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>                      <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>             <U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2749><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761>
              <U+272D>s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r<U+2734><U+2707><U+2710>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2761>ss            |<U+2709><U+275C><U+275C><U+2710>s<U+2764>                            <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>               <U+2747><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B>r<U+2461>
              <U+275D><U+2666><U+2709><U+2663><U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>                   <U+275E><U+2761>t<U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2761><U+275E><U+2744>                           <U+2710><U+2665><U+275E><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+272B>        <U+272D><U+275E><U+2710><U+2763><U+2710>t<U+275B><U+2767><U+272E> <U+2767><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>
                                                                             <U+25CF>P<U+2759> <U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>        tr<U+275B><U+2665>s<U+2660><U+2710>ss<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                                             t<U+2666> s<U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                                                             s<U+2666><U+2762>t<U+2707><U+275B>r<U+2761>
               <U+2736><U+2735>
                                  <U+2736><U+2735><U+2739>       <U+274B><U+2709><U+2767><U+2767> <U+2767><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>
                                                      <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>                                         <U+274A><U+25C6><U+2749>
                                                      <U+2710><U+2665><U+275E><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                               <U+2736><U+2735><U+273D>
               <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>
                                                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2701>

                                                                  <U+2738><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2759><U+275A><U+2746>|<U+275A>
                                                                        <U+2772><U+2710>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2761>ss             <U+2771><U+275B>r<U+2710><U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2761> <U+2767><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>
                                                            <U+2768><U+2761>s         <U+2665><U+2761>t<U+2707><U+2666>r<U+2766> <U+272D><U+2665><U+2666><U+275E><U+2761><U+272E>       tr<U+275B><U+2665>s<U+2660><U+2710>ss<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                              |<U+2709><U+275C><U+275C><U+2710>s<U+2764>                   <U+2772><U+2710><U+274B><U+2710> <U+2666>r <U+25CF>P|<U+2759>         <U+272D><U+275E><U+275B><U+2710><U+2767><U+2461><U+2731> t<U+2707><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761>
                                              <U+275E><U+2761>t<U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2761><U+275E><U+2744>                 <U+2708><U+2710><U+275B> <U+275E><U+2666><U+2665><U+2763><U+2767><U+2761>           <U+275E><U+275B><U+2710><U+2767><U+2461> <U+2761>t<U+275D><U+272E>
                      <U+276F><U+2767>tr<U+275B>s<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>
                      <U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2767><U+2666><U+2763><U+2709><U+2761>                                                <U+2736> <U+273D>
                      s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                              <U+2736> <U+2739>       <U+2736> <U+273B>
                                                                                         <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2665><U+275E><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+272B>
                                                                                         <U+25CF>P<U+2759> <U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> t<U+2666>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2736>                     <U+25C6><U+2666>                                                   s<U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660> s<U+2666><U+2762>t<U+2707><U+275B>r<U+2761> <U+2710><U+2761>
                                                                                <U+2736> <U+2735>      Pr<U+2666><U+275D><U+2761>ss <U+25B2><U+2666><U+2763><U+2710><U+275D>
                                                                                         <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r <U+272D>P<U+25B2><U+2748><U+272E>
                                                                                         <U+2666>r P<U+2748>
                           <U+2736> <U+2735>                                  <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+273A>                             <U+274A><U+25C6><U+2749>
                  <U+273B>
                                                                                             <U+2736><U+273A><U+2739>
                                                                                                              <U+2736><U+273B>
                                   <U+2747><U+25C6> <U+2759><U+276F>||<U+2756><U+276F><U+25C6><U+2749>
                                                                                    <U+25BC><U+275B>tr<U+2710><U+2460>         <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2763><U+2761><U+2660><U+2761><U+2665>t
                                                     <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>s                 s<U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2761>s         <U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                  <U+2756>t<U+2764><U+2761>r s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r<U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                                     <U+274A><U+2767><U+2761><U+275D>tr<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>s                    <U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2766>
                  <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767> s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                      <U+274D><U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+2764><U+2761><U+2767><U+275E> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                                                    <U+275E><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761><U+2734><U+274D><U+2761><U+275B><U+275E>s <U+276F><U+2663> <U+275E><U+2710>s<U+2663><U+2767><U+275B><U+2461>
                                                                                    <U+2709><U+2665><U+2710>t<U+2734><U+2759><U+2660><U+275B>rt <U+2707><U+275B>t<U+275D><U+2764>
                                                                                                         <U+2736><U+273A>
                      <U+273B>                         <U+2739><U+2735>
                                                                <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+273B>
                      <U+2736><U+273A><U+2735>
                                               |<U+2761><U+275D><U+2761><U+2710><U+2708><U+2761>r             Pr<U+2666><U+275D><U+2761>ss<U+2666>r            <U+25BC><U+2761><U+2660><U+2666>r<U+2461>
                            <U+273B><U+2737>
                                          <U+275A>r<U+275B><U+2665>s<U+2660><U+2710>tt<U+2761>r                                                <U+273B><U+273B>
                                                                                    <U+273B><U+2735>
                                                                                               <U+273B>
                                                                    <U+273B><U+2701>
                                         <U+273B><U+273D>
                                                                <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+273C>

                                               <U+2739><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>
                                                           <U+2736><U+273D><U+2739>                            <U+2736><U+273B>
                      <U+2747><U+25C6> <U+2759><U+276F>||<U+2756><U+276F><U+25C6><U+2749>
              <U+276F><U+2767>tr<U+275B>s<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>      <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>s
                                                         <U+25BC><U+275B>tr<U+2710><U+2460>
<removed-apn>
              s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r          <U+274A><U+2767><U+2761><U+275D>tr<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>s                                      <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2763><U+2761><U+2660><U+2761><U+2665>t
                                                         s<U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2761>s <U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2766>           <U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                                                              <U+274D><U+2761><U+275B><U+275E>s <U+276F><U+2663>
                                                                              <U+275E><U+2710>s<U+2663><U+2767><U+275B><U+2461>
                                                                        <U+2736><U+273D><U+273B>
                      <U+273B>
                               <U+2739><U+2735>
                                                                              <U+2759><U+2660><U+275B>rt <U+2772> <U+275B>t<U+275D><U+2764>
                                                                       <U+2736><U+273D><U+273D>
                                                                              <U+274D><U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+2764><U+2761><U+2767><U+275E>
               <U+2736><U+273D><U+2735>                                            <U+2736><U+273D><U+273A>             <U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                                              <U+275E><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761>
                                                                        <U+2736><U+273D>
                                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+273D>
                                                             <U+2736><U+273D><U+273A>                          <U+2736><U+273B>
                      <U+2747><U+25C6> <U+2759><U+276F>||<U+2756><U+276F><U+25C6><U+2749>
              <U+276F><U+2767>tr<U+275B>s<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>      <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>s
              s<U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r          <U+274A><U+2767><U+2761><U+275D>tr<U+2666><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D>s                <U+25C6><U+2666><U+275E><U+2761>                  <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2763><U+2761><U+2660><U+2761><U+2665>t
                                                                               <U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                                                              <U+274D><U+2761><U+275B><U+275E>s <U+276F><U+2663>
                                                                              <U+275E><U+2710>s<U+2663><U+2767><U+275B><U+2461>
                      <U+273B>                                                <U+2736><U+273D><U+273B>
                               <U+2739><U+2735>
                                                                              <U+2759><U+2660><U+275B>rt <U+2772> <U+275B>t<U+275D><U+2764>
                                                                       <U+2736><U+273D><U+273D>
                                                                              <U+274D><U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+2764><U+2761><U+2767><U+275E>
               <U+2736><U+273D><U+2735><U+2786>                                          <U+2736><U+273D><U+273A>              <U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                                              <U+275E><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761>
                                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>      <U+273E>                 <U+2736><U+273D>

