                                 ABSTRACT
The present invention is directed to non-dairy almond based formulae for the
preparation of infant or toddler formula or other types of supplemental or
functional food.

                                              -1
                                 NON-DAIRY FORMULAE
   TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
           This invention is directed to non-dairy almond based formulae for the
 5 preparation of infant or toddler formula or other types of supplemental or functional
   food.
   BACKGROUND
           Infant formula is a manufactured food designed and marketed for feeding babies
   and infants under 12 months of age, usually prepared for bottle-feeding or cup-feeding
10 from powder (mixed with water) or liquid (with or without additional water). The U.S.
   Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) defines infant formula as "a food
   which purports to be or is represented for special dietary use solely as a food for infants
   by reason of its simulation of human milk or its suitability as a complete or partial
   substitute for human milk".
15
           The composition of infant formula is designed to be roughly based on a human
   mother's milk at approximately one to three months postpartum, although there are
   significant differences in the nutrient content of these products. The most commonly
   used infant formulas contain purified cow's milk whey and casein and/or skimmed milk
20 powder as a protein source, a blend of vegetable oils as a fat source, lactose as a
   carbohydrate source, a vitamin-mineral mix, and other ingredients depending on the
   manufacturer.
           A 2001 World Health Organization (WHO) report found that infant formula
25 prepared in accordance with applicable Codex Alimentarius standards was a safe
   complementary food and a suitable breast milk substitute.
           As most of the infant formulas are based on cow's milk whey and casein as a
   protein source, many babies develop allergy or intolerance condition that may be at
30 times, life threatening.

                                               -2
           Cow's milk allergy is a food allergy, an adverse immune reaction to one or more
   of the constituents of Cow's milk (most commonly the protein alpha Si-casein). This
   milk-induced allergic reaction can involve anaphylaxis, a potentially life-threatening
 5 condition.
           The principal symptoms are gastrointestinal, dermatological and respiratory.
   These can translate to: skin rash, hives, vomiting, and gastric distress such as diarrhea,
   constipation, stomach pain or flatulence. The clinical spectrum extends to diverse
10 disorders:   anaphylactic    reactions,  atopic   dermatitis,  wheeze,    infantile  colic,
   gastroesophageal reflux (GER), oesophagitis, allergic colitis, headache, oral irritation,
   and constipation. The symptoms may occur within a few minutes after exposure in
   immediate reactions, or after hours (and in some cases after several days) in delayed
   reactions.
15
           Some babies may develop or are born with lactose intolerance which is a non
   allergic food sensitivity, and comes from a lack of production of the enzyme lactase,
   required to digest the predominant sugar in milk. Adverse effects of lactose intolerance
   generally occur after much higher levels of milk consumption than do adverse effects of
20 milk allergy. Milk protein intolerance (MPI) is delayed reaction to a food protein that is
   normally harmless to the non-allergic,          non-intolerant individual.   Milk protein
   intolerance produces a non-IgE antibody and is not detected by allergy blood tests. Milk
   protein intolerance produces a range of symptoms very similar to milk allergy
   symptoms, but can also include blood and/or mucus in the stool. Treatment for milk
25 protein intolerance is the same as for milk allergy. Milk protein intolerance is also
   referred to as milk soy protein intolerance (MSPI).
           For formula fed infants, milk substitute formulas are used to provide a complete
   source of nutrition. Milk substitutes include soy based formulas; hypoallergenic
30 formulas based on partially or extensively hydrolyzed protein, and free amino acid
   based formulas.

                                               -3
            Non-milk derived amino acid-based formulas, known as amino acid formulas or
   elemental formulas, are considered the gold standard in the treatment of cows milk
   allergy when the mother is unable to breastfeed.
 5          Hydrolyzed formulas come in partially hydrolyzed and extensively hydrolyzed
   varieties. Partially hydrolyzed formulas (PHFs) are characterized by a larger proportion
   of long chain peptides and are considered more palatable. However, they are intended
   for milder cases and are not considered suitable for treatment of moderate to severe
   milk allergy or intolerance. Extensively hydrolyzed formulas (EHFs) are composed of
10 proteins that have been largely broken down into free amino acids and short peptides.
   Casein and whey are the most commonly used sources of protein in hydrolyzed
   formulas because of their high nutritional quality and their amino acid composition.
            Soy based formula may or may not pose a risk of allergic sensitivity, as some
15 infants who are allergic to milk may also be allergic to soy. Also soy based formulas are
   not recommended for infants under 6 months.
            Infant formulas also come in a variety of types:
            Cow's milk formula is the most commonly used type (e.g.: Similac, Enfamil).
20          Soy protein based formulas are frequently used for infants allergic to cow's milk
   (e.g.: Isomil, ProSobee).
            Partially hydrolyzed formulas (e.g.: Good Start and Gentlease brands) are
   marketed as having improved digestibility.
            Extensively    hydrolyzed    formulas   (e.g.:   Alimentum,    Nutramigen,   and
25 Pregestimil)are considered "hypoallergenic". One study reported that 90% of children
   with cow's milk allergies will tolerate them.
            Amino acid based formulas (e.g.: Neocate, EleCare, and Nutramigen AA) are
   more expensive, but are reported least likely to cause allergic reactions.
30          Hypoallergenic formulas, such as those containing free individual amino acids,
   and sometimes referred to as elemental infant formula, are considered to reduce the
   likelihood of certain medical complications in babies with specific health problems,
   such as severe allergies to cow's milk and soy. Made of purely synthetic monomeric

                                               -4
   amino acids, they are often considered quite foul-tasting, and it is not uncommon for
   infants to reject elemental formulas after having been established on a sweeter-tasting
   regular formula, thus the level of compliance of infants in an age wherein feeding is
   crucial, such incompliance is life threatening.
 5
           SPIFs    (Soy   Protein    Infant  Formulae)    contain  phytoestrogens,   mostly
   isoflavonoids (particularly diadzein, genistein). It was shown that these substances tend
   to bind to estrogen receptors and behave as pro- or anti-estrogens. The amount of
   phytoestrogens in SPIF (32-47 mg/liter) is 40 times higher than the amount in breast
10 milk. Consumption of isoflavonoids from SPIF reaches 11 mg/kg body weight per day,
   and their levels in infant blood were 13,000 to 22,000 times higher than the blood levels
   of estrogen-like substances in the first years of life. Infants who are fed only on SPIF
   are exposed to a daily consumption of isoflavonoids that is 4-13 times the amount
   presumed to have a physiological effect on balancing the menstrual cycle in women.
15 Recently the scientific literature has raised some concerns regarding            the vast
   consumption of SPIFs regarding the fact that phytoestrogens could have an adverse
   effect on infant and child growth (they are not recommended for premature infants
   weighing less than 1800 grams), development and puberty, bone health and thyroid
   function. In addition, the fact that most of the soy crops are genetically engineered the
20 use of SPIF is not recommended in certain countries and is regulated to the extent of
   requiring a prescription for administration for infants having severe allergies.
           There is therefore a true need in the art for a non-dairy formula for infants that
   can provide all essential nutritional needs similar to the gold standard of breast milk
25 nutritional profile without the disadvantages of currently known non-dairy formula.
   GENERAL DESCRIPTION
           In the first of its aspects the present invention provides a composition
   comprising almond and at least one non-dairy component comprising all essential
   amino acids, wherein said composition is a non-dairy composition for use in the
30 nutrition of an infant and/or a toddler.

                                                -5
            In some embodiments of the invention said composition provides a nutritional
   dose for a single feeding portion to an infant and/or a toddler in a dry form (in some
   embodiments a portion of 9 - 10 grams ready for use upon mixing and dissolved with
   water (in some embodiments a potion of 60ml, capable of being administered by a
 5 feeding bottle, i.e. drinkable hence consistency and viscosity is low). The inventors of
   the present application have found that a composition comprising at least the above two
   components provides to an infant or a toddler or a subject in need thereof a regulated
   nutritional feeding that provides the necessary proteins, amino-acids, and other nutrients
   needed for a single serving of food.
10
            When referring to almond, it should be understood to encompass any type of
   almond tree shelled drupe (Prunus dulcis, syn. Prunus amygdalus Batsch., Amygdalus
   communis L., Amygdalus dulcis Mill), in any type of form (peeled from seedcoat,
   unpeeled, grounded, powdered, milled and so forth). The almond provides the lipid
15 component of the composition (including, among others the essential linolenic and
   alpha linolenic acids).
            In some aspects of the invention said almond can be replaced with at least one
   other nut selected from the following list: brazil nut, candlenut, cashew, Chilean
20 hazelnut, macadamia, Malabar chestnut, mongongo, peanut, pine nut, pistachio, walnut
   and yeheb nut, or any combinations thereof with or without almond.
            In some embodiments said almond component of a composition of the invention
   is pre-treated (i.e. prior to the addition of almond component to the composition of the
25 invention) to lower the levels (amount) of phytic acid in said almond. Said pre
   treatment of the almond component is performed by at least one of the following:
   treatment of almond component with phytase enzyme, soaking of said almond
   component in water, heating of almond component, pealing of almond, steaming of said
   almond, bleaching and roasting and any combinations thereof.
30
            Under some embodiments, said reduction or lowering of phytic acid levels is for
   the removal of substantially all phytic acid from the almond component of a

                                                 -6
   composition of the invention (i.e. said composition comprising no more than 0.001
   0.5% wt of phytic acid).
            In some embodiments said almond component of a composition of the invention
 5 is pre-treated, prior to its addition to the composition, said pre-treatment includes, but is
   not limited to: pealing of almond peal, steaming of said almond, heating, grounding,
   hydrolyzing, bleaching, roasting and so forth.
            In some further embodiments           said almond and/or non-dairy component
10 comprising all essential amino acids are pre-treatment prior to their mixture in said
   composition of the invention for removal of fibers to the suitable levels for the intended
   population of subjects to be treated.
            The term "non-dairy component" refers to a component of a composition of the
15 invention which does not come from any dairy producing animal source, however
   comprises all essential amino acids needed for a composition for the nutrition of an
   infant, a toddler, an adult or an elderly person.
            When referring to "essential amino acids" (or indispensable amino acids) it
20 should be understood to encompass the amino acids that cannot be synthesized de novo
   by humans, and therefore must be supplied in the diet. In the context of the present
   application the list of essential amino acids include histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine,
   methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine.
25          When referring to an "infant" it should be understood to encompass a newborn
   neonate between the ages of 0 and 1 year old. This term includes both full term and
   premature neonates at any body weight.
            When referring to a "toddler" it should be understood to encompass a human
30 between the ages of 1 and 3 years. This term includes humans in this age range at any
   cognitive or health condition.

                                                -7
            In the context of the present application when referring to nutrition of infants it
   should be understood to refer to the nourishment of infants by the use of food
   compositions that can substantially simulate human milk or its suitability as a complete
   or partial substitute for human milk. These food compositions (infant formula) can be
 5 used as the sole food source of an infant.
            In the context of the present application when referring to nutrition of toddlers it
   should be understood to refer to the nourishment of toddlers by the use of food
   compositions that can provides all required nutritional values for the age group
10 considering the fact that toddler food compositions (toddler formula or follow-on
   formula or growing up formula) are not the sole food source of a toddler.
            In a further aspect the invention provides a composition comprising almond and
   at least one non-dairy component comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said
15 composition is a non-dairy composition for use in supplementing the nutrition of a
   subject.
            When referring to "supplementation of the nutrition of a subject" it should be
   understood to encompass qualitative and quantitative complementation of the nutrition
20 of a subject (whether a human infant, toddler, child, adolescent, adult, elderly person at
   any health or physical condition) by the necessary recommended nutrients.
            In yet another aspect the invention provides a composition comprising almond
   and at least one non-dairy component comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said
25 composition is a non-dairy infant and/or toddler formula.
            In another aspect the invention provides a composition comprising almond and
   at least one non-dairy component comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said
   composition is a non-dairy functional food formula.
30
            When referring to "functional food formula" it should be understood to
   encompass a food or nutritional formula that serves to promote the health of a subject
   (in any condition of health, such as for example healthy subjects that participate in

                                                -8
   exercise and training of any kind) and/or prevent/treat/ameliorate at least one disease or
   a symptom thereof (such as for example bowl diseases, malnutrition diseases,
   inflammatory diseases, cognitive and neurological diseases, cardiovascular diseases and
   so forth). Additionally, functional food may serve to supplement the nutrition of a
 5 subject recovering from a condition or disease in need of supplemental nutrients since
   their condition does not allow said subject to receive all dietary required for recovery.
   Functional food may also serve as additional supplemental food for patient population
   that are more vulnerable to malnutrition, subjects having lean body mass and declining
   basal metabolic rate, such as for example elderly subjects (age 65 and above).
10
           The invention further provides a composition comprising almond and at least
   one   non-dairy component comprising all essential amino acids,             wherein said
   composition is a non-dairy composition for use in whole balance nutrition of a subject.
15         When referring to "whole balance nutrition of a subject" it should be understood
   to encompass the necessary essential ingredients needed by a subject (whether a human
   infant, toddler, child, adolescent, adult, elderly person at any health or physical
   condition) to sustain health and function.
20         The required nutritional levels, allowed supplements and additional additives are
   typically regulated in each country by the health authority responsible for food and drug
   regulation. Thus, compositions of the invention may further include any additional
   components required under each territorial regulation requirements, such as for
   example:
25         -   US Code of Federal Regulations Title 21, Part 107 (Infant formula)
           -   Dietary reference intake of US National Academy of Sciences. Institute of
               Medicine. Food and Nutrition Board
           -   European Commission Directive 2006/141/EC
30         In some embodiments said at least one non-dairy component comprising all
   essential amino acids further comprises semi-essential amino acids.

                                               -9
           In some embodiments said at least one non-dairy component comprising all
   essential amino acids is a single non-dairy component comprising all essential amino
   acids.
 5         In other embodiments said at least one non-dairy component comprising all
   essential amino acids further comprises carbohydrates.
           In other embodiments said at least one non-dairy component comprising all
   essential amino acids is pre-hydrolyzed (i.e. prior to addition to the composition of the
10 invention). This hydrolyzation is performed for the purpose of hydrolyzing the
   carbohydrates of said at least one non-dairy component comprising all essential amino
   acids (such as for example        buckwheat), thus reducing its viscosity. In some
   embodiments, said hydrolization of said at least one non-dairy component comprising
   all essential amino acids is performed by use of an acid or an enzyme (for example
15 amylase).
           In some other embodiments said at least one non-dairy component (such as for
   example buckwheat) is pre-gelatinized prior to its addition of a composition of the
   invention. This pre-gelatinization process is intended for making the carbohydrates in
20 said non-dairy component to be biologically available to the subject treated with said
   composition. In some embodiments said pre-gelatinization is performed by at least one
   of heating, roasting, steaming said at least one non-dairy component prior to its addition
   to the composition of the invention.
25         In further embodiments a composition of the invention may include additional
   non-dairy sources of protein and/or fat including but not limited to pumpkin seeds,
   sunflower seeds, pinecone seeds, sesame seeds, flax seeds.
           In other embodiments said at least one non-dairy component is selected from
30 grain, fabaceae (including but not limited to beans, broad beans, chickpeas, peas,
   trigonella, caraway and so forth).

                                              - 10
            In some embodiments, said at least one non-dairy component is at least one type
   of grain.
            In other embodiments said at least one type of grain is cereal grain or
 5 pseudocereal grain.
            In some embodiments said almond is pre-treated to lower the level of phytic acid
   in said almond component or composition.
10          In other embodiments the ratio between almond and said at least one non-dairy
   component is from about 10:90 to about 90:10.
            In other embodiments the ratio between almond and said at least one non-dairy
   component is from about 30:70 to about 70:30.
15
            In yet further embodiments, almond is present in an amount of at least 10% by
   weight from the total weight of the composition.
            In further embodiments said at least one non-dairy component is present in an
20 amount of at least 5% by weight from the total weight of the composition.
            Infant formulas come in powder, liquid concentrate, and ready-to-feed forms.
   They are designed to be prepared by the parent or caregiver in small batches and fed to
   the infant.
25
            In some other embodiments said composition is in the form of a dry
   composition. In other embodiments, said composition is in the form of a water soluble
   dry powder. In other embodiments a composition of the invention further comprises a
   liquid. In some embodiments said liquid is water.
30
            In some embodiments said at least one type of grain is cereal grain selected from
   the group consisting of maize (corn), rice, wheat, barley, sorghum, millet, oats, triticale,
   rye, fonio and any combinations thereof.

                                              - 11
           In other embodiments, said at least one type of grain is pseudocereal grain
   selected from buckwheat, amaranth and quinoa. In some embodiments said at least one
   type of grain is buckwheat. In some further embodiments said at least one type of grain
 5 is a whole grain.
           In some embodiments a composition of the invention further comprises at least
   one additive selected from vitamins, minerals, trace elements, carbohydrates, lipids,
   proteins, probiotic agents (micro-organisms which, when administered in adequate
10 amounts, confer a health benefit on the host), prebiotic agents (non-digestible food
   ingredients that stimulate the growth and/or activity of bacteria in the digestive system
   in ways claimed to be beneficial to health), nucleotides, poly-unsaturated fatty acids,
   fluoride, choline, and any combinations thereof (as required by the above noted Codex).
15         In other embodiments a composition of the invention further comprises at least
   one additive selected from nucleotides, poly-unsaturated fatty acids, fluoride, choline
   and any combinations thereof (as required by the above noted Codex).
           In other embodiments a composition of the invention further comprises at least
20 one additive selected from a flavoring agent, an oil protective colloid, a plasticizer, an
   antioxidant, a pro-biotic agent, a pre-biotic agent, an emulsifier, a thickener, an acidity
   regulator, a packaging gas and any combinations thereof (as required by the above
   noted Codex).
25         In some embodiments, said at least one additive is between about 0.001% to
   about 5% by weight of composition.
           In some embodiments a composition of the invention is an infant or toddler
   formula.
30
           In other embodiments a composition of the invention is an adult nutritional
   supplemental formula.

                                             - 12
           The invention further provides a process for the preparation of a formulation
   comprising the steps of: (a) mixing almond with at least one non-dairy component; (b)
   adding water to the mixture obtained in step (a) to obtain a suspension; (c) drying the
   suspension obtained in step (b), thereby obtaining a dry composition.
 5
           In some embodiments of a process of the invention the ratio between the almond
   and the said at least one non-dairy component is from about 10:90 to about 90:10.
           In some embodiments of a process of the invention the ratio between the almond
10 and the said at least one non-dairy component is from about 30:70 to about 70:30.
           In other embodiments a process of the invention further comprises adding to the
   mixture obtained in step (a) from about 0.001% to about 5% of at least one additive.
15         In other embodiments of a process of the invention drying is by bed drying,
   drum drying, freeze drying, shelf dryers or spray drying.
           In some embodiments said at least one non-dairy component is hydrolized prior
   to said mixing in step (a). In some other embodiments, said at least one non-dairy
20 component is pre-treated prior to said mixing in step (a) with at least one of: grounding,
   steaming, roasting, heating, bleaching, pealing, hydrolization (enzymatic, using for
   example amylaze, or chemical hydrolization) or any combination thereof.
           In other embodiments said almond is treated for lowering (reducing or
25 removing) the levels of phytic acid prior to said mixing in step (a). In some other
   embodiments, said almond is pre-treated prior to said mixing in step (a) with at least
   one of: grounding, steaming, heating, bleaching, roasting, pealing, removal of phytic
   acid (enzymatic, using for example phytase or a chemical removal of the acid) or any
   combination thereof.
30
           In some embodiments said almond and/or non-dairy component are treated prior
   to said mixing in step (a) by at least one of pealing (for example of shell of said
   component), steaming, heating, gelatinization (also known as pre-gelatinization),

                                              - 13
   grounding, hydrolyzing (for example using enzymes), bleaching, roasting and any
   combinations thereof.
           In some other embodiments said at least one non-dairy component (such as for
 5 example buckwheat) is pre-gelatinized prior to step (a) of a process of the invention.
           In some embodiments a composition of the invention comprises between 30
   60wt% (in some embodiments 45%wt) almonds, 20-50%wt (in some embodiments
   33%wt) buckwheat, 10-30%wt (in some embodiments 20%wt) maltodextrine, 0.5
10  10%wt (in some embodiments 5%wt) mineral and vitamins, 0.5-10%wt (in some
   embodiments 5%wt) fatty acids (such as for example LCPUFA). In some other
   embodiments, said composition is a dry composition ready to be used upon dissolving
   in water or any other liquid (such as for example milk, almond milk, soy milk, fruit
   juice and so forth). In some further embodiments said composition dose is between
15 about 5 to 15 grams capable of being dissolved in 50 to 60 ml of liquid to produce a
   drinkable feeding portion (i.e. a feeding portion that provides a single serving portion
   for the nutrition of a subject that is flowing to the extent that it can be administered
   through a feeding bottle or a feeding device). Feeding dose 8-15 times.

                                        - 14
   Example 1
    .      Almond component
        a. Almonds are pasteurized during drying in two steps: (a) in the slurry
           before the drum dryer. (72 C, 40 sec) and (b) on the drum dryer as part of
 5         the pre gelatinized.
        b. Reduction of the phytic acid content is performed by marinating and
           washing the almond component or by using phytase enzyme (process is
           controlled by heating the slurry to inactivate the phytase enzyme).
        c. Bleaching the almond component.
10
   II.     Buckwheat component
        a. The buckwheat should be pre gelatinized in order to be available for
           babies' consumption. The pre gelatinized process causes a high viscosity
           when the powder is mixed with water.
15      b.  The buckwheat can be hydrolyzed with enzymes (such as for example
           Amylase) in order to reduce its viscosity. The hydrolization process
           gives an ability to control fiber content to the levels required.
        c. The hydrolyzed process is taken place when the buckwheat is dissolved
           with water before drum drying.
20      d. Amylase is added to the solution at 30-37 C.
        e. The enzyme is inactivated by raising the temperature to above 50 C.
   III.    Production process
        a. The Buckwheat is mixed in water.
25      b. Heat the slurry to 37C.
        c. Add and mix the enzymes.
        d.  The slurry heated up to 55 C in order to inactivated the enzymes activity
        e. Add to the hydrolizated buckwheat and mix all other ingredients, that
           are: almonds, minerals, vitamins.
30      f. Feed the slurry to the drum dryer.
        g. Drying conditions
        h. Dry mixing stage: with reactive metals Zn, Cu, Mg.

                                           - 15
CLAIMS:
1.      A composition comprising almond and at least one non-dairy component
comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said composition is a non-dairy
composition for use in the nutrition of an infant and/or a toddler.
2.      A composition comprising almond and at least one non-dairy component
comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said composition is a non-dairy
composition for use in supplementing the nutrition of a subject.
3.      A composition comprising almond and at least one non-dairy component
comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said composition is a non-dairy infant
and/or toddler formula.
4.      A composition comprising almond and at least one non-dairy component
comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said composition is a non-dairy functional
food formula.
5.      A composition comprising almond and at least one non-dairy component
comprising all essential amino acids, wherein said composition is a non-dairy
composition for use in whole balance nutrition of a subject.
6.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said at least one
non-dairy component comprising all essential amino acids further comprises semi
essential amino acids.
7.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said at least one
non-dairy   component     comprising    all essential   amino   acids further comprises
carbohydrates.
8.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said at least one
non-dairy component is selected from grain, fabaceae.
9.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said at least one
non-dairy component is at least one type of grain.
10.     A composition according to claim 9, wherein said at least one type of grain is
cereal grain or pseudocereal grain.

                                             - 16
11.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the ratio between
almond and said at least one non-dairy component is from about 10:90 to about 90:10.
12.      A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
almond is present in an amount of at least 10% by weight from the total weight of the
composition.
13.      A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said at
least one non-dairy component is present in an amount of at least 5% by weight from
the total weight of the composition.
14.      A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, being in the form
of a dry composition.
15.      A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, being in the form
of a water soluble dry powder.
16.      A composition according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
water.
17.      A composition according to claim 9, wherein at least one type of grain is cereal
grain selected from the group consisting of maize (corn), rice, wheat, barley, sorghum,
millet, oats, triticale, rye, fonio and any combinations thereof.
18.      A composition according to claim 9, wherein at least one type of grain is
pseudocereal grain selected from buckwheat, amaranth or quinoa.
19.      A composition according to claim 9, wherein said at least one type of grain is
buckwheat.
20.      A composition according to claim 9, wherein at least one type of grain is a
whole grain.
21.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 20, further comprising at
least one additive selected from vitamins, minerals, trace elements, carbohydrates,
lipids, proteins and any combinations thereof.
22.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 21, further comprising at
least one additive selected from nucleotides, poly-unsaturated fatty acids, fluoride,
choline, a probiotic agent, prebiotic agent, and any combinations thereof.

                                            - 17
23.      A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, further comprising at
least one additive selected from a flavoring agent, an oil protective colloid, a plasticizer,
an antioxidant, an emulsifier, a thickener, an acidity regulator, a packaging gas and any
combinations thereof.
24.      A composition according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein said at least one
additive is between about 0.001% to about 5% by weight of composition.
25.      A composition according to claim 1, being an infant or toddler formula.
26.      A composition according to claim 2, being an adult nutritional supplemental
formula.
27.      A process for the preparation of a formulation comprising the steps of:
         (a) mixing almond with at least one non-dairy component;
         (b) adding water to the mixture obtained in step (a) to obtain a suspension;
         (c) drying the suspension obtained in step (b), thereby obtaining a dry
         composition.
28.      A process according to claim 27, wherein the ratio between the almond and the
said at least one non-dairy component is from about 10:90 to about 90:10.
29.      A process according to claim 27, further adding to the mixture obtained in step
(a) from about 0.001% to about 5% of at least one additive.
30.      A process according to claim 27, wherein drying is by bed drying, drum drying,
freeze drying, shelf dryers or spray drying.
31.      A process according to claim 27, wherein said at least one non-dairy component
is hydrolized prior to said mixing in step (a).
32.      A process according to claim 27, wherein said almond is treated for lowering the
levels of phytic acid prior to said mixing in step (a).
33.      A process according to claim 27, wherein said almond and/or non-dairy
component are treated for the reduction of fiber content prior to said mixing in step (a).
34.      A process according to claim 27, wherein said almond and/or non-dairy
component are treated prior to said mixing in step (a) by at least one of pealing of shell,
steaming, heating, grounding, gelatinization, hydrolyzing, bleaching, roasting and any
combination thereof.

