                                           ABSTRACT
        A friction shoe for a railway car truck is provided. The railway truck comprises two
parallel sideframes, a suspension spring assembly supported by the sideframes, and a
bolster transversely mounted between the sideframes and supported by the suspension
spring assembly. Each sideframe has at least one vertical support face, and the bolster has
at least one sloped support face. The friction shoe comprises a bottom base engaging and
supported by a suspension control spring, a sloped face engaging the sloped wall of the
bolster. The friction shoe further includes a vertical face including a pocket, with a friction
liner in the pocket. The friction liner engaging the vertical column of the sideframe. The
friction shoe friction liner comprised of a material providing a damping force of between 700
and 16,250 pounds and a normal force of between 2000 and 12,000 pounds.

            1/2
                 CY)
   C"*4
                                  LO
                              LID
                        co
                                         C14
                     CN
                           C)
                  co
        C.0
             LID
LL                                   CY)

                                                   1
RAILWAY CAR TRUCK FRICTION SHOE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]         The invention relates generally to railway car truck friction damping
arrangements, and more particularly to a railway car truck friction shoe.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]         Railroad car trucks of a design known as a three piece railway car truck include
a pair of spaced apart side frames and a bolster that extends transversely between the side
frames. The bolster is resiliently supported at each end on a respective side frame by a
plurality of suspension springs comprised of a combination of load and control springs.
Wedge shaped friction shoes are used in such railroad car trucks to dampen movement of
the bolster with respect to the side frame of the railroad car truck. Friction shoes are usually
generally triangular wedge shaped such that the friction shoe sloped face in contact with a
sloped wall of the bolster pocket can act as a motion damping wedge between the bolster
and a wear plate on a vertical column of the side frame.
[0003]         The column wear plate on the side frame vertical column is usually comprised
of steel. The friction shoe is wedged into engagement between a sloped wall of the bolster
pocket and the side frame vertical column by a suspension control spring. Resistance to
sliding movement of the friction shoe with respect to the side frame, which in turn provides
dampening of vertical bolster movement, is provided by the frictional forces generated
between the friction shoe and the column wear plate on the side frame vertical column.
[0004]         It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved railway car truck
friction shoe that, with a rigid molded friction liner, the damping frictional force on the vertical
movement of the bolster is better controlled with greater energy dissipation.
[0005]         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                   2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]          The present invention is directed to a friction wedge or shoe for a railroad car
truck and in particular to a friction shoe including a body having a sloped face and a vertical
face. The vertical face includes an indentation or pocket over most of its surface. A generally
planar friction liner is inserted into the pocket. The friction liner is bonded to the friction shoe
body.
[0007]          The friction liner is usually comprised of a rigid molded material having selected
friction characteristics. Such friction characteristics include a consistent friction coefficient
with a small difference between static and dynamic friction. The total energy dissipation of
the friction liner and thusly the friction shoe is greater than in prior friction shoes. The friction
shoe dissipates greater energy throughout the range of suspension travel and friction shoe
and bolster velocities moving vertically along the sideframe column wear plate.
[0008]          In one aspect, the present invention provides a friction shoe for a railway car
truck, the railway car truck including two parallel sideframes, a suspension spring assembly
supported by the sideframes, and a bolster transversely mounted between the sideframes
and supported by the suspension spring assembly, each sideframe having at least one
vertical column, the bolster having at least one sloped wall, the friction shoe including a
bottom surface engaging and supported by a suspension control spring, a sloped face
engaging the sloped wall of the bolster, and a vertical face including a liner pocket, a friction
liner bonded in the liner pocket on the vertical face of the friction shoe, the friction liner
engaging the vertical column of the sideframe, the friction shoe friction liner providing a
damping force of between 7500 and 16,250 pounds when the friction shoe is moving
downward at a velocity of between 0 and 19 inches per second.
[0009]          In another aspect, the present invention provides a friction shoe for a railway
car truck, the railway car truck including two parallel sideframes, a suspension spring
assembly supported by the sideframes, and a bolster transversely mounted between the
sideframes and supported by the suspension spring assembly, each sideframe having at
least one vertical column, the bolster having at least one sloped wall, the friction shoe
including a bottom surface engaging and supported by a suspension control spring, a sloped

                                               3
face engaging the sloped wall of the bolster, and a vertical face including a liner pocket, a
friction liner bonded in the liner pocket on the vertical face of the friction shoe, the friction
liner engaging the vertical column of the sideframe, the friction shoe friction liner including a
material providing a damping force of between 700 and 10,000 pounds when the friction
shoe is moving upward at a velocity of between 0 and 19 inches per second.

                                              4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]       FIG. 1 is an exploded perspective view of a railway car truck in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0011]       FIG. 2 is a detailed partial perspective view of a portion of a railway car truck
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

                                                   5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0012]         Referring now to Fig. 1, a friction shoe 8 of the present invention is shown in a
railroad car truck. The railway car truck includes two side frames 2 which are spaced apart
and generally parallel to one another. Each side frame 2 includes a window 13 formed by a
pair of spaced apart vertical columns 14. A planar column wear plate 15 is connected to the
interior surface of each side frame vertical column 14. The railway car truck also includes a
bolster 1 which extends generally transversely between the side frames 2. Each end 12 of
the bolster 1 is located within a respective side frame window 13 and is vertically supported
on a side frame 2 by a plurality of helical coil suspension load springs 10. Suspension load
springs 10 are themselves supported on a spring seat 16 of each sideframe 2. Suspension
load springs 10 are resiliently compressible to thereby allow the ends of the bolster 1 to move
vertically upwardly and downwardly within the windows 13 and with respect to the side
frames 2. Each bolster end 12 includes a plurality of sloped walls 23. Each sloped wall 23 is
adapted to engage a sloped face 20 of a respective friction shoe 8. Friction shoe 8 is seen
to provide a damping force to the vertical motion of bolster 1 while supported on suspension
control springs 9 as the railway car travels on the rails. Suspension control springs 9 are also
supported on the spring seat 16 of each sideframe 2.
[0013]         Railway wheels 4 are mounted on axles 3. Axle bearings 5 are mounted on the
ends of axles 3. Bearing spacer 6 and spacer pad 7 are provided to receive axle bearings in
sideframe pedestal openings 24. Center bowl 11 on the top surface of bolster 1 is provided
to help support the railway freight car on the truck.
[0014]         As best shown in Fig. 2, Friction shoe 8 includes a body 17 and a friction liner
18. The friction shoe body 17 includes a generally vertical liner pocket 21 that is adapted to
receive the friction liner 18. The friction liner 18 functions as the vertical face 19 of the friction
shoe 8. The friction shoe body 17 is generally triangular or wedge-shaped. The friction shoe
body 17 includes a base having a generally horizontal bottom surface 22. The bottom surface
22 is adapted to engage the top end of a suspension control spring 9. The friction shoe body
17 also includes a sloped face 20 that extend at an inclined angle between the bottom
surface 22 and the vertical face 19. Friction shoe sloped faces 20 are adapted to engage the
sloped walls 23 of the bolster 1.

                                                6
[0015]        Friction shoe friction liner material of choice is RF-55 from Scan-Pac
Manufacturing.
[0016]        The damping force by the friction shoe friction liner material can vary as may
be selected from the various materials for friction liner 18 and the thickness of friction liner
18 and degree the vertical face is impinged against side frame column wear plate 15 and the
angle of the bolster pocket slope wall 23.
[0017]        Such damping forces can vary from 700 to 16,250 pounds with a velocity range
of movement of the friction shoe friction liner of between 0 and 19 inches per second.
[0018]        Normal force to the friction liner 18 can vary from 2000 to 12,000 pounds.
[0019]        Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.

                                                   7
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A friction shoe for a railway car truck, the railway car truck including:
       two parallel sideframes, a suspension spring assembly supported by the sideframes,
and a bolster transversely mounted between the sideframes and supported by the
suspension spring assembly,
       each sideframe having at least one vertical column,
       the bolster having at least one sloped wall,
       the friction shoe including:
                a bottom surface engaging and supported by a suspension control spring,
                a sloped face engaging the sloped wall of the bolster, and
                a vertical face including a liner pocket,
                a friction liner bonded in the liner pocket on the vertical face of the friction shoe,
                the friction liner engaging the vertical column of the sideframe,
                the friction shoe friction liner providing a damping force of between 7500 and
       16,250 pounds when the friction shoe is moving downward at a velocity of between 0
       and 19 inches per second.
2.     A friction shoe according to claim 1 wherein the friction shoe friction liner includes a
material providing a normal force of between 2000 and 12,000 pounds.
3.     A friction shoe according to either one of claims 1 or 2 wherein the friction liner is a
molded material such as RF-55.
4.     A friction shoe according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the friction liner
includes one or more of the following:
       carbon/graphite, ceramic, or polymer blend material.
5.     A friction shoe according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the friction liner
includes sintered iron or alloyed steel.

                                                    8
6.     A friction shoe according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the friction liner
is bonded without a pocket on the friction shoe body or un-bonded with a pocket in the friction
shoe body.
7.     A friction shoe for a railway car truck,the railway car truck including:
       two parallel sideframes, a suspension spring assembly supported by the sideframes,
and a bolster transversely mounted between the sideframes and supported by the
suspension spring assembly,
       each sideframe having at least one vertical column,
       the bolster having at least one sloped wall,
       the friction shoe including:
                a bottom surface engaging and supported by a suspension control spring,
                a sloped face engaging the sloped wall of the bolster, and
                a vertical face including a liner pocket,
                a friction liner bonded in the liner pocket on the vertical face of the friction shoe,
                the friction liner engaging the vertical column of the sideframe,
                the friction shoe friction liner including a material providing a damping force of
       between 700 and 10,000 pounds when the friction shoe is moving upward at a velocity
       of between 0 and 19 inches per second.
8.     A friction shoe according to claim 7 wherein the friction shoe friction liner includes a
material providing a normal force of between 2000 and 12,000 pounds.
9.     A friction shoe according to either one of claims 7 or 8 wherein the friction liner is a
molded material such as RF-55.
10.    A friction shoe according to any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the friction liner includes
one or more of the following:
       carbon/graphite, ceramic, or polymer blend material.

                                               9
11.    A friction shoe according to any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein the friction liner includes
sintered iron or alloyed steel.
12.    A friction shoe according to any one of claims 7 to 11 wherein the friction liner is
bonded without a pocket on the friction shoe body or un-bonded with a pocket in the friction
shoe body.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
