            ABSTRACT
   Disclosed is rail transport bogie configured to operate on a track having track
   surfaces on opposite sides thereof and an slot extending along substantially the
 5 centre of the track, the bogie comprising a load-bearing wheel to run on a first of the
   two track surfaces, a support shaft extending from the load-bearing wheel
   operatively through the slot in the track and terminating in load support means, a
   first pinch wheel rotatably secured in a forward position in respect of the support
   shaft and a second pinch wheel rotatably secured in rearward position in respect of
10 the support shaft, with both the first and second pinch wheels located between the
   load-bearing wheel and load support means to run on the second of the two track
   surfaces, the load-bearing wheel and pinch wheels clamping between them the
   bogie to the opposing track surfaces, and at least one of the load-bearing wheel and
   either or both of the pinch wheels connected to a motor operatively to be driven
15 thereby to comprise a driven wheel for the bogie. Also disclosed are a rail
   transportation system and a track for a rail transportation system using such a
   bogie.
20                                        (Figure 3)

WO 2014/184780                                   PCT/IB2014/061492
                           3/8
                       52  29     51
                                               54
               28
                  31 D                    55
31 C                                    9B
                                        3A
                                     14  113B
                                                   NA.        3 1B
                                                -z      31 A
     19A
                                           123
                               19
                       FIGURE 3

        WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                     1
 5
 0           A RAIL TRANSPORT BOGIE AND A RAIL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   This invention relates to a rail transport bogie and a rail transportation system.
 5
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
   Conventional transportation systems utilise several means to move goods and people. These
   include conventional rail transport systems that are typically powered by one or more
 0 locomotives that pull, or push, interconnected railcars. Locomotives typically have to be
   heavy enough to get sufficient traction on the rail track in order for it to accelerate the weight
   of the entire train from standstill to a specified speed, pull it up inclines and to decelerate the
   train from speed down to standstill again.
25 This is problematic due to the high relative weight of the locomotives to the overall weight of
   the load. To get traction, a train has to be heavy or extra motors have to be added to each
   and every rail cart being pulled by the locomotive or locomotives. This increases the cost and
   complexity of the train. The heavier the train itself has to be to get traction, the less efficient
   it is because weight is being carried around unnecessarily. For example, a train with freight
30 cars dedicated to the movement of ore from a mine to a processing plant will typically be
   laden in one direction and empty in the opposite direction. The unnecessary weight is now
   being carried twice the distance.
   Of course it would be easier to obtain better traction if trains used wheels made from a
35 material with a higher friction coefficient with respect to steel rails, for example rubber or
   polymers. However, such wheels will not have the durability required for rail transport. Such

       WO 2014/184780                                                            PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    2
   wheels would wear much faster than steel wheels and may fail under compression of the
   loads they have to support (in circumstances where steel wheels do not fail). Trains often
   have to transport heavy loads over very long distances and it will be extremely disruptive if a
   train has to have a wheel changed along the way. Considering that a train cannot simply pull
 5 over to change a wheel like a truck can do, it becomes clear why trains are forced to use
   wheels made from highly durable and reliable material, such as steel.
   When moving people or goods in high volumes using conventional public transport systems
   and bulk good transport systems such as busses, trucks, and trains three major problems
 0 are experienced:
        1. Conventional systems include batch-based systems. This means a batch of people or
           goods are moved between two points. This is less efficient than a continuous
           movement system, because people and goods have to wait before they can be
 5         grouped into a batch that is moved, and if the batch is completed then the people or
           goods have to wait for the next batch to be filled before they can be moved. Typically,
           for example with people transport, in peak times there is not enough capacity to move
           the batches fast enough, resulting in long waiting periods. In off-peak times, bulk
           transport system operators typically downscale the number of batches per time unit
 0         thus reducing the active capacity of the system, also resulting in long waiting periods.
        2. Conventional systems also include movement in accordance with a predetermined
           schedule, and not on demand. This results in batches often not being filled and the
           vehicles often having to transit well below their optimum load capacity, and on other
           times for there to be a higher demand than the number of batches scheduled can
25         accommodate, again leading to sub-optimum movement.
        3. Conventional systems moving in accordance to a schedule often do not run from a
           starting point straight to a destination point, but rather from a starting point to and end
           point while stopping at various points, such as stations, in between. This increases
           travel time and also results in sub-optimum utilization of transport capacity.
30
   Conventional logic dictates that the solution to these problems is to move larger volumes of
   people and goods together in order to improve economies of scale, and then to optimise the
   scheduling of the vehicles so that the movement of empty or half full vehicles are minimised,
   and then to limit the number of stops the vehicle makes along the scheduled route so that
35 overall time is saved where possible. A train operator hitching more railcars during peak
   hours to the same locomotive provides evidence of this. It is also evidenced, in trucks

        WO 2014/184780                                                         PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    3
   carrying greater numbers of containers each. In trains handling raw materials such as ore, it
   is not uncommon to observe trains having a length of several hundreds of meters, even in
   excess of a kilometre, and for that ore transportation track to then only have a single starting
   point and a single destination point. This is also replicated in, for example, the road trains of
 5 the Australian outback.
   A problem with this approach is that due to the sheer bulk the drive unit for such high
   capacity transport unit has to be increased. This comes at an increased cost and strain on
   the equipment. Due to the sheer weight and inertia of the system, it takes longer to
 0 accelerate and decelerate, which actually increases the actual travel time of the unit. In
   addition, if the unit suffers a malfunction then a larger volume of people or bulk material is
   delayed whilst the problem is sorted out.
   It is proposed by the applicant that people and bulk goods may be transported much more
 5 efficiently in small transportation units, and for the transportation system as a whole to have
   the ability to allow individual transportation units to move independently, or in small groups,
   from any station along the transportation network to any other station without having to stop
   at stations in between this departing station and the specific destination station. This is
   particularly true if the movements are provided on demand rather than according to a
 o predetermined schedule, and when the units are moved in an automated manner as
   opposed to requiring a driver.
   It is believed, as an example, that it would be highly efficient for commuters to be transported
   in small transportation units catering for as few as 6 people or less at a time, from any
25 position on a pre-established transportation network, for example a grid of intersecting
   tracks, to any other selected position on this network on demand when those people want to
   be moved from the one position to the other, without them having to abide by a schedule or
   having to waste transit time by having to stop at other positions along the network in between
   their departing and destination positions.
30
   In such an instance it is recognized that it would be necessary for the individual
   transportation units to be able to, in traveling from one location to another, switch safely and
   at reasonable speed from one track to another in the grid.
35 The same should apply to the transport of goods between positions on the grid.

        WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   4
   OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
   It is an object of the invention to provide a rail transport bogie, a rail transport system and a
   track for such a bogie and transport system, which at least partly overcome the
 5 abovementioned problems.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   In accordance with this invention there is provided a rail transport bogie configured to
 0 operate on a track having track surfaces on opposite sides thereof and a slot through the
   track extending along substantially the centre of the track, the bogie comprising a load
   bearing wheel to run on a first of the two track surfaces, a support shaft extending from the
   load-bearing wheel operatively through the slot in the track and terminating in load support
   means, a first pinch wheel rotatably secured in a forward position in respect of the support
 5 shaft and a second pinch wheel rotatably secured in rearward position in respect of the
   support shaft, with both the first and second pinch wheels located between the load-bearing
   wheel and load support means to run on the second of the two track surfaces, the load
   bearing wheel and pinch wheels clamping between them the bogie to the opposing track
   surfaces, and at least one of the load-bearing wheel and either or both of the pinch wheels
 o connected to a motor operatively to be driven thereby to comprise a driven wheel for the
   bogie.
   There is further provided for movement of the bogie in a forward or rearward direction to be
   effected by forward or rearward driving of the driven wheel.
25
   There is further provided for the bogie to be configured, upon acceleration thereof as a result
   of rotation of the driven wheel, for inertia of a load operatively secured to the load support
   means to pivot the bogie on the axis of the load-bearing wheel to force the pinch wheel
   located in the then rearward position relative to the direction of movement of the bogie
30 against the second of the track surfaces, operatively increasing the clamping force between
   the load-bearing wheel and the rearward pinch wheel to increase friction between the load
   bearing wheel and first of the two track surfaces to assist with acceleration of the bogie and
   the load secured to it.
35 There is also provided for the bogie to be configured, upon deceleration thereof as a result of
   braking of any of the wheels of the bogie, for inertia of a load operatively secured to the load

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    5
   support means to pivot the bogie on the axis of the load-bearing wheel to force the pinch
   wheel located in the then forward position relative to the direction of movement of the bogie
   against the second of the track surfaces, operatively increasing the clamping force between
   the load-bearing wheel and the forward pinch wheel to increase friction between the load
 5 bearing wheel and first of the two track surfaces to assist with deceleration of the bogie and
   load secured to it, either to reduce its speed or bring it to rest.
   There is further provided for the bogie to be configured, upon reaching a steady speed at
   which the force required to maintain the forward speed of the bogie is lower than the force
 0 required to accelerate the bogie from rest, for the rearward pinch wheel to be forced with a
   lesser force, or not to be forced at all, against the second of the track surfaces and
   respectively for the clamping force to be commensurately lower compared to when the bogie
   is accelerated from rest or for the clamping force to be zero, operatively allowing the bogie to
   move with a lower clamping force between the load-bearing wheel and the then rearward
 5 pinch wheel at steady speed than at acceleration of the bogie.
   There is further provided for the driven wheel to comprise a set of two axially aligned,
   preferably axially connected, driven wheels, with the driven wheels configured such that they
   both run on either the first or the second of the two track surfaces on opposing sides of the
 0 slot in the track.
   There is still further provided for each pinch wheel to comprise a set of two axially aligned,
   preferably axially connected, pinch wheels, with each pinch wheel set configured such that in
   each set the two pinch wheels run on the second of the two track surfaces on opposing sides
25 of the slot in the track.
   There is further provided for a pinch wheel bracket to be secured to the load support shaft
   and for the bracket to extend to two opposing ends, a first end to a forward position in
   respect of the support shaft and second end to a rearward position in respect of the support
30 shaft, and for the first pinch wheel to be rotatably secured to the first end, and for the second
   pinch wheel to be rotatably secured to the second end of the pinch wheel bracket.
   There is still further provided for the load-bearing wheel to comprise the driven wheel.
35 There is further provided for the ratio of the distance between the axis of the rearward pinch
   wheel and the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket to the load support shaft to the distance

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   6
   between the axis of the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket and the load support means to
   be variable depending upon how much friction is required between the driven wheels and the
   two track surfaces to create the optimum amount of traction that is required for any specific
   set of circumstances, the ratio preferably being between 1:2 and 1:5, and most preferably to
 5 be about 1:3 where the bogie is predominantly operated horizontally.
   There is further provided for the ratio of the distance between the axis of the rearward pinch
   wheel and the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket to the load support shaft to the distance
   between the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket and the load support means to be at
 0 least 1:5, where the bogie is operated, at least on part of a track, at steep angles.
   There is still further provided for the load-bearing wheel and the pinch wheels to have
   resiliently compressible running surfaces, preferably comprised of rubber or plastics material,
   alternatively for the load-bearing wheel and the pinch wheels to have substantially
 5 incompressible running surfaces, preferably comprised of metal, further preferably steel.
   There is further provided for the motor to comprise a linear motor or a rotary motor, and
   preferably for a linear motor reaction plate or reaction plates forming part of the linear motor
   to be secured to the load support shaft, preferably above the pinch wheel bracket, and
 0 alternatively for the rotary motor to be secured to the load support shaft, preferably below the
   pinch wheels.
   According to a further feature of the invention there is provided for the bogie to include
   guidance means operable at each track intersection to move the bogie laterally across the
25 track towards one side of the track or another, depending on which track the bogie is to
   follow leading from the track intersection, the guidance means comprising at least one guide
   wheel being movable between a neutral position and a guiding position, with the guide wheel
   configured in its guiding position to interact with a guide member that extends along a track
   leading from a track intersection to cause the bogie to follow such track, and the guide wheel
30 configured to not interact with any guide member when it is located in its neutral position.
   According to a yet further feature of the invention there is provided for the bogie to include
   guidance means operable at each track intersection to move the bogie laterally across the
   track towards one side of the track or another, depending on which track the bogie is to
35 follow leading from the track intersection, the guidance means comprising at least two guide
   wheels located on opposing sides of a longitudinal axis of the bogie and being movable

       WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                     7
   between a neutral position and a guiding position, with each guide wheel configured in its
   guiding position to interact with a guide member on its side of the longitudinal axis of the
   bogie that extends along a track leading from a track intersection to cause the bogie to follow
   such track, and the guide wheels configured to not interact with a guide member when they
 5 are located in their neutral positions.
   There is further provided for the two guide wheels to be connected and configured such that
   both guide wheels cannot simultaneously be in their respective guiding positions.
 o There is also provided for the bogie to include an electrical contact configured complimentary
   to an electrical rail associated with the track operatively to electrically connect the bogie with
   the rail, preferably for the electrical contact to extend from above and to the side of the driven
   wheel, and further preferably for the contact to be electrically connected and configured to
   charge the battery or power the motor.
 5
   There is still further provided for the bogie to include drive control means secured to the load
   support shaft proximate the motor, preferably on an opposing side of the load support shaft
   relative to the motor.
 o There is further provided for the motor and the driven wheel to be rotatably secured by
   means of a drive belt or drive shaft, preferably a chain extending around sprockets on each
   of a motor drive shaft and the axis of the driven wheel, alternatively when a chain is not best
   suited for the bogie to include a secondary drive shaft that is connected from the motor drive
   shaft to the axis of the driven wheel using a coupling, preferably a differential coupling.
25
   In an alternative configuration there is provided for the motor to be connected to the driven
   wheel via a sprocket secured to a secondary axis proximate the axis of the driven wheel, with
   the secondary axis and the axis of the driven wheel being rotatably secured to each other by
   meshed gears having a predetermined gear ratio.
30
   There is further provided for the load support means to comprise a load bearing secured to
   the end of the load support shaft, and preferably for the load to be securable to the load
   bearing enabling the load to be suspended from the bogie, pulled behind the bogie or pushed
   in front of the bogie.
35

       WO 2014/184780                                                         PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    8
   There is still further provided for the bogie to include a frame secured proximate the load
   support shaft end, for the frame to extend to two opposing ends, a first end to a forward
   position in respect of the support shaft and second end to a rearward position in respect of
   the support shaft, and for each end to extend into an arm directed towards the pinch wheel
 5 on its side of the load support shaft, with each arm carrying a battery.
   There is further provided for each arm to terminate in at least one directional control wheel
   operatively running on the sides of the slot in the track, and preferably for each arm to
   terminate in a set of spaced apart directional control wheels operatively running on opposing
 0 sides of the slot between the opposing track surfaces, the running surfaces of the directional
   control wheels spaced apart by a distance complimentary to the width of the slot.
   According to a further feature of the invention there is provided a rail transportation system
   comprising a network of tracks, a plurality of bogies as defined above each of which has a
 5 driven wheel arranged to run on and be supported by the track and which are capable of
   supporting, pulling or pushing a load secured to the bogie, each bogie being driven along the
   track and including guidance means which allows it to switch from a track leading to a track
   intersection to a preselected track leaving the track intersection without any load-bearing
   wheel of the bogie being unsupported by the track.
 0
   There is further provided for at least some of the tracks to meet one another at track
   intersections, for the system to include guidance means which allows each bogie to switch
   from a track leading to a track intersection to a preselected track leaving the track
   intersection without any driven wheel of the bogie being unsupported by the track.
25
   There is further provided for the track intersection to include no moving parts to enable bogie
   switching.
   There is further provided for the guidance means to comprise a rib that extends along each
30 track leading from a track intersection, the rib being shaped and configured to direct a raised
   guide wheel on its side of the bogie to its operative outside.
   There is still further provided for the track to comprise an elongate set of races spaced apart
   by an elongate slot with the set of races kept in spatial relation to each other by means of a
35 frame extending from the sides of the races, the load support shaft of the bogie operatively
   extending through the elongate slot.

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    9
   The invention also provides for the track to include an electrical rail extending at least for part
   of the length of the track above the first of the two track surfaces complimentary shaped and
   configured to the electrical contact of the bogie to allow the bogie electrical contact
 5 operatively to contact the rail.
   According to a yet further feature of the invention there is provided a track for the rail
   transportation system defined above, the track being modular, the modules including straight
   sections and curved sections, and for each module to include a set of races spaced apart by
 0 an elongate slot through the track operatively allowing the load support shaft of a bogie to
   extend through the slot, with the set of races kept in spatial relation to each other by means
   of a frame extending across the track, preferably from the sides of the races, with each race
   being provided with a wear resistant lining removably secured to its top, bottom and side
   facing the slot.
 5
   There is further provided for the frame to include a brace proximate the end of each module
   with each brace having a set of spaced apart legs each of which is secured to a side of the
   track, with covers secured between the braces to enclose at least part of the track, and with
   braces of adjoining modules substantially sealing against each other.
 0
   There is still further provided for each end brace of a module to include a flange securable to
   a complimentary flange of an end brace of an adjoining module, operatively allowing
   modules to be secured end to end.
25 The invention further provided for the race of the track to be comprised of an elongate beam,
   preferably a hollow beam, preferably a hollow steel beam.
   These and other features of the invention are described in more detail below.
30 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   A preferred embodiment of a bogie, a rail transportation system using such a bogie, and a
   track for such a rail transportation system according to the invention is described by way of
   example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
35

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                     10
   Figure 1         is an isometric view first embodiment of a bogie according to the invention
                   shown on a track according to the invention;
   Figure 2         is a cross sectional view of the bogie of Figure 1;
   Figure 3         is a side elevation of the bogie of Figure 1;
 5 Figure 4         is a side view of the bogie of Figure 1 on a track according to the invention
                   with a load suspended from it;
   Figure 5         is a side elevation view of a bogie according to Figure 1 accelerating from
                    rest;
   Figure 6         is a side elevation view of a bogie according to Figure 1 decelerating;
 0 Figure 7         is a side elevation view of a bogie according to Figure 1 traveling up an
                    incline;
   Figure 8         is an isometric view of an intersection in a track according to the invention;
                   and
   Figure 9         is a plan view of the intersection of Figure 8.
 5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   A bogie (1) according to the invention is, shown in detail in Figures 1 to 3, is configured to
   operate on a track (2) having track surfaces (3, 4) on opposite sides thereof and a slot (5)
 0 extending along substantially the centre of the track (2). The track (2) is provided with track
   intersections (6) at which guidance means (37) associated with the bogie (1) is operable to
   guide the bogie (1) onto a selected track (2A, 2B) leading from the track intersection (6).
   The bogie (1) is designed to carry a load (7) and be driven and guided on its own. Several of
25 the bogies may also be connected to work in unison and carry greater loads.
   Each bogie (1) is however configured to be able to operate independently from other bogies
   and to be driven along the track (2). It therefore needs only to carry its own weight and that of
   its load (7). The bogie (1) also includes load attachment means (8) that allows different types
30 of loads to be carried by the bogie (1), allowing the bogie (1) to perform multiple transport
   functions. This includes allowing the bogie to transport a load by it being suspended form
   the bogie (1), it being pulled by the bogie (1) and it being pushed by the bogie (1).
   To achieve this, the bogie (1) comprises a load-bearing driven wheel (9) connected to a
35 motor (10) operatively to be driven thereby on a first (3) of the two track surfaces. This first
   track surface (3) is the upper track surface in this embodiment.       A load support shaft (11)

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   11
   extends from the driven wheel (10) operatively through the slot (5) in the track (2) and
   terminates in the load support means (8).
   The bogie (1) further includes a first pinch wheel (12) rotatably secured in a forward position
 5 (20) in respect of the support shaft (11) and a second pinch wheel (13) rotatably secured in
   rearward position (21) in respect of the support shaft (11). Both the first (12) and second (13)
   pinch wheels are located between the driven wheel (9) and the load support means (8) to run
   on the second (4) of the two track surfaces. This second track surface (4) is the bottom track
   surface in this embodiment.
 0
   Between them the driven wheel (9) and pinch wheels (12, 13) clamp the bogie (1) to the
   opposing track surfaces (3, 4), and thus to the track (2).
   The driven wheel (9) comprises a set of two axially aligned driven wheels (9A, 9B) configured
 5 such that they both run on the first (3) of the two track surfaces on opposing sides of the slot
   (5) in the track (2). The two driven wheels (9A, 9B) are axially connected.
   Similarly, each pinch wheel (12, 13) comprises a set of two axially aligned and connected
   pinch wheels (12A, 12B; and 13A, 13B), to form two pinch wheel sets (12, 13). Each pinch
 0 wheel set (12, 13) is configured such that in each set the two pinch wheels run on the second
   (4) of the two track surfaces on opposing sides of the slot (5) in the track (5), in other words
   the right pinch wheels (12A, 13A) run on the right side of the slot (5) and the left pinch
   wheels (12B, 13B) run on the left side of the slot (5), on the second (4) of the track surfaces .
25 The bogie (1) includes on its load support shaft (11) a pinch wheel bracket (14), with a
   forward end and rearward end, extending aligned with the longitudinal axis of the bogie (1)
   thus they are operatively aligned with the slot (5) in the track (2).
   The pinch wheels sets (12, 13) are rotatably secured (15) to the respective ends of the pinch
30 wheel bracket (14).
   The two pinch wheel sets (12, 13) are orientated parallel to the track (2), at least when the
   bogie (1) is at rest as will be explained in more detail below.
35 The pinch wheel bracket (14) is secured just below the bottom (4) of the track (2).

        WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    12
   The ratio of the distance between the axis (15) of the rear pinch wheel set (12) and the
   attachment of the pinch wheel bracket (14) to the load support shaft (11) to the distance
   between the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket (14) and the load support means (8) is
   variable depending upon how much friction is required between the driven wheels (9) and the
 5 first (3) of the two track surfaces to create the optimum amount of traction that is required for
   any specific set of circumstances.
   More specifically, the ratio is determined by taking into consideration the friction coefficient
   between the running surface of the (18) driven wheel (9) and the track races (17) of the track
 0 (2) on which the bogie (1) is intended for use, specifically whether it is predominantly
   horizontal or whether it also includes some steep angles (incline or decline).
   If the bogie (1) is predominantly operated horizontally, then the ratio is selected to be
   between 1:2 and 1:5.
 5
   If the bogie (1) is operated, at least on part of a track, at steep angles then the ratio is
   selected to be about 1:5.
   In this embodiment the bogie (1) is intended to be used on a track (2) which includes steep
 0 angles, and the ratio is thus predetermined to be about 1:5.
   It should be further noted that the specific ratio is also dependant on the choice of material
   for the running surface (18) of the driven wheel (9). If it is made of a resiliently compressible
   material such as rubber or plastics material as compared to a substantially incompressible
25 material such as metal, more specifically steel, then the ratio may be reduced.
   As will be further apparent from viewing Figures 1 to 3, the bogie (1) includes a frame (19)
   secured proximate the end of the load support shaft (11). The frame (19) extends to two
   opposing ends (19A, 19B), both of which are aligned with the longitudinal axis of the bogie
30 (1) and thus aligned with the slot (5) in the track (2). A first end (19A) of the frame (19) is thus
   directed to a forward position (20) in respect of the bogie (1) and its load support shaft (11)
   and second end (19B) to the rearward position (21) in respect of the load support shaft (11).
   Each end (19A, 19B) of the frame (19) is directed towards the pinch wheel (12, 13) on its
   side (20, 21) of the load support shaft (11).
35

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   13
   The frame (19) is configured to carry further equipment associated with the bogie (1). Each
   arm (19A, 19B) carries a battery (22A, 22B) secured to it. The frame (19) further carries the
   motor (10) and control equipment (23) associated with the bogie (1). The control equipment
   (23) includes electronic control for the drive and communications equipment.
 5
   The motor (10) may be a linear motor or a rotary motor, and in this embodiment it is a rotary
   motor (10). The motor (10) and the driven wheel (9) are rotatably secured by means of a
   drive belt, in this embodiment comprising a drive chain (24), that is rotatably located around
   sprockets (25, 26) on each of a drive shaft of the motor (10) and a secondary axis (27)
 0 proximate the axis (16) of the driven wheel (9). The secondary axis (27) and the axis (16) of
   the driven wheel (9) are both provided with gears (not shown) that are meshed together
   which provides an effective predetermined gear ratio between the rotary motor (10) and the
   driven wheel (9).
 5 The bogie (1) is further provided with an electrical contact (28) extending from its top, as
   shown in Figures 1 to 3. The electrical contact (28) is configured to be in resiliently biased
   contact with an electrical rail (30) extending along the top of the track (2). The electrical
   contact (28) is connected to the control system (23) of the bogie (1) and charges the
   batteries (22A, 22B). The bogie (1) is configured such that the motor (10) is powered from
 0 the batteries (22A, 22B) and these are charged by the electrical connection (28, 30). This
   allows the bogie (1) to continue driving even if there is an interruption in power supply to the
   track (2) or through sections of the track that may not be electrical powered. This also allows
   the transport system to operate through remote areas where electrical supply may not be
   available.
25
   The bogie (1) is also provided with a hoist lug (29) from its operative top, to assist in
   removing it for maintenance and placing it on the track (2) again.
   As will further be apparent from Figures 1 to 3 the arms (19A, 19B) terminate in directional
30 control wheels (31A and 31 B; 31C and 31D). These directional control wheels (31A and 31 B;
   31C and 31 D) extend above the pinch wheels into the slot (5), where they run on opposite
   sides of the inside the slot (5). These directional control wheels (31A and 31 B; 31C and 31D)
   prevent sideways movement of the bogie during forward or rearward motion, by guiding the
   bogie (1) against the inside of the slot (5).
35

        WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                     14
   The load support means (8) comprises a load bearing secured to the end of the load support
   shaft (11), extending through the sides of the frame (19). This allows a load (7) to be
   suspended from the load support shaft (11) and to remain vertically orientated irrespective of
   the inclination that the track (2) follows, freely pivoting on the load bearing (8).
 5
   In use the bogie (1) may be operated with or without a load (7), and in solo or in-line with one
   or more other bogies.
   When used alone the bogie (7) is, for example, loaded by suspending a load (7) from the
 0 load support shaft (8), on the load support bearing (8). This load (7) may comprise a bucket
   filled with ore, as shown in Figures 4 to 7. In this example the bogie (1) is used to move the
   load of ore (7) between two points, for example from a mine to an ore processing plant.
   Initially after being loaded, the bogie (1) is at rest and the load (7) is suspended vertically
 5 from it. In this position, the pinch wheels (12, 13) are all spaced apart (42) from the bottom of
   the track, i.e. the second (4) of the track surfaces. This is shown in Figure 4.
   With the bogie (1) loaded it is brought into motion by activation of the motor (10), to drive the
   driven wheel (9) through the chain (24). With the load (7) initially completely vertically
 0 suspended from the bogie (1), the running surface (18) of the driven wheel (9) is forced onto
   the upper race (17) of the track (2). The static coefficient of friction between the driven wheel
   running surface (18) and the upper race (17) is sufficient to allow the electric rotary motor
   (10) to drive the bogie (1) forward, even though the running surface (18) of the driven wheel
   (9) is steel.
25
   As shown in Figure 5, when the bogie (1) moves forward (32), the inertia of the load (7)
   causes the load (7) to effectively swing (33) behind the longitudinal axis (34) of the load
   support shaft (11), which at rest on a horizontal track is of course vertical.
30 This pivots the bogie (1) clockwise in this embodiment around the axis (16) of the driven
   wheel (9) and forces the then rearward pinch wheel (12) against (44) the second (4) of the
   two track surfaces, i.e. up against the bottom of the track behind the load support shaft (11).
   The forward pinch wheel (13) moves slightly further away (43) from the second (4) of the
   track surfaces. As mentioned above, initially, at rest, the two pinch wheels (12, 13) do not
35 actually touch the bottom (4) of the track, but as soon as the bogie (1) comes into the motion,

        WO 2014/184780                                                         PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    15
   the inertia of the load (7) forces the rearward pinch wheel (12) into contact (44) with bottom
   (4) of the track (2).
   The rearward rotation of the bogie (1) thus forces the rearward pinch wheel set (12) into
 5 contact (44) with the bottom (4) of the track (2). This clamps the bogie (1) to the track (2) and
   increases the friction between the driven wheel running surfaces (18) and the upper race
   (17) of the track (2). With increased friction the bogie (1) overcomes any potential slippage
   on the track (2) and is thus able to pull greater loads.
 o The greater the load the greater the rearward rotation of the bogie (1) around the axis of the
   driven wheel (9) and the greater the increase in clamping force. This translates to greater
   friction and a greater ability to pull a load. The clamping force of the bogie (1) onto the track
   (2) is thus dependant on the weight of the load (7), with a greater load generating a greater
   clamping force, which overcomes the greater likelihood of slippage. As will be shown below it
 5 is also dependant on the inclination of the track (2).
   The clamping force is determined by the ratio of the distance between the axis (15) of the
   rearward pinch wheel (12) and the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket (14) to the load
   support shaft (11) to the distance between the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket (14)
 0 and the load support means (8). As mentioned above, for a bogie (1) that is operated, at
   least on part of a track (2), with steep angles such as in the present embodiment, the ratio is
   set at 1:5.
   The force with which the bogie (1) is clamped to the track also depends on the weight of its
25 load (7), the incline or decline at which it is moving and whether it is accelerating,
   decelerating or driving at a steady speed.
   As mentioned above, upon acceleration of the bogie (1), the rearward pinch wheels (12) are
   forced against (44) the second (4) of the track surfaces, operatively increasing the clamping
30 force between the driven wheel (9) and the rearward pinch wheel (12) to increase friction
   between the driven wheel running surface (18) and the race (17) of the first (3) of the two
   track surfaces to assist with acceleration of the bogie (1) and the load (7) secured to it.
   Upon reaching a steady speed the force required to maintain the forward speed of the bogie
35 (1) is lower than the force required to accelerate the bogie (1) from rest. The rearward pinch
   wheel set (12) is then forced with a lesser force, or not at all, against the second (3) of the

       WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   16
   track surfaces compared to when the bogie (1) is accelerated from rest. The clamping force
   is thus commensurately lower compared to when the bogie (1) is accelerated from rest, and
   may on a horizontal section of the track (2) be zero. This will be similar to the situation shown
   in Figure 4 where the bogie is at rest. This allows the bogie (1) to continue moving with a
 5 lower clamping force between the driven wheel (9) and the then rearward pinch wheel (13) at
   steady speed than during acceleration or a zero clamping force. This improves the energy
   efficiency of the bogie (1), since it uses less electrical power to be driven forward at steady
   speed than required for acceleration.
 o As shown in Figure 6, upon deceleration of the bogie (1) as a result of braking of the driven
   wheel (9) - which reduces the forward (32) speed of the bogie (1) - the inertia (35) of the load
   (7) pivots the bogie (1) anti-clockwise in this embodiment, which is the reverse of what
   happens under acceleration.
 5 This pivoting of the bogie (1) forces the pinch wheel (13) located in the then forward position
   (20) relative to the direction of movement (32) of the bogie (1) against (46) the second (4) of
   the track surfaces. This increases the clamping force between the driven wheel (9) and the
   forward pinch wheel set (13) to increase friction between the driven wheel running surface
   (18) and race (17) of the first (3) of the two track surfaces to assist with deceleration of the
 0 bogie (1) and load (7) secured to it, either to reduce its speed or bring it to rest. The rearward
   pinch wheel (12) moves slightly further away (45) from the second (4) of the track surfaces.
   The forward (13) and rearward (12) pinch wheels thus both act to increase the clamping
   force of the bogie (1) onto the track (2) during acceleration, steady driving and deceleration.
25
   The bogie (1) can also be turned around and driven in the opposite direction, loaded or
   unloaded, and the pinch wheels (12, 13) will perform in the same manner, with the then
   rearward pinch wheel set (13) being forced against the second (4) of the track surfaces upon
   acceleration and traveling at steady speed, and the leading pinch wheel doing the same
30 upon deceleration.
   Considering the design of the bogie and the track, it should be evident that the track (2) can
   be inclined or declined. In fact, the track can be to completely vertical up or down. The
   limitation here will only be the dimensions of the load (7) secured to the load support shaft
35 (11), it being necessary that the length of the load container is limited to not extend beyond

       WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   17
   the pinch wheels (12, 13) when the track (2) is at vertical. This is to prevent the load
   container from contacting the second (4) of the track surfaces.
   As will be appreciated, to have the bogie (1) with a load (7) climb or descend a vertical
 5 incline or decline it requires sufficient clamping force of the bogie (1) to the track (2). This is
   achieved by the increased clamping force of the bogie (1) to the track as described above.
   When the track (2) is at vertical the clamping force for a specific load will be at its greatest. If
   the load (7) is heavier the clamping force will be greater, and vice versa. Again, the clamping
   force is provided as much as is required by the bogie (1) to move along the track (2).
 0
   An example of the bogie (1) driving up an incline is shown in Figure 7. It can be seen that
   gravity causes the load (7) to swing by the same angle (0) to the longitudinal axis of the load
   support shaft as the angle (0) of the incline (36). This pivoting of the load (7) causes the
   bogie (1) to pivot clockwise, in this embodiment, around the axis (16) of the driven wheel (9),
 5 which has the same effect of increasing the clamping force between the rearward pinch
   wheel set (12) as is experienced during acceleration.
   The rearward pinch wheel (12) is thus forced against (47) the second of the two track
   surfaces, and the forward pinch wheel (13) moves slightly further away (48) from the second
 0 (4) of the track surfaces.
   Similarly, if the bogie (1) travels down an incline (not shown) the load (7) will pivot forward to
   pivot the bogie, in this embodiment, in an anticlockwise direction with the same effect as is
   experienced during deceleration.
25
   When the bogie (2) has climbed up or down a vertical section of the track (2) and travels at
   steady speed and on a level part of the track the clamping force will again reduce to the
   lower amount required to move the bogie (2) and its load (7) forward, being even zero if the
   track (2) is complete horizontal. The clamping force therefore dynamically and automatically
30 adjusts depending on track (2) inclination and the weight of the load (7), ensuring that the
   bogie (1) can continue to move the load (7) on the track (2).
   When the track (2) comes to a track intersection (6) as shown in Figures 8 and 9, the
   guidance means (37) is activated to force the bogie (2) into one of the two tracks (2A, 2B)
35 leading from the intersection (6). As shown in Figures 8 and 9, leading up to the intersection
   (6) the track widens (56), and the elongate slot (5) spits into two, one slot (38, 39) leading

       WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    18
   into the centre of each of the two tracks (2A, 2B) leading from the intersection (6). Aligned
   with each slot (38, 39) is a guide member (40, 41) located above the track (2). Each guide
   member comprises a rib (40, 41) that includes a lead-in section.
 5 In respect of the bogie (1), as shown in Figures 1 to 3, the guide means (37) comprises a
   frame (49) secured to the top of the bogie (1), above the driven wheel (9). Secured to the
   frame (49) is a first transverse bracket (50) which extends towards the sides of the bogie (1).
   Proximate each of the opposed ends of this transverse bracket (50) are secured rear guide
   wheels (51, 52).
 0
   The frame (49) further extends away from its connection point the bogie (1) longitudinally
   aligned with the bogie (1). At the forward end of frame (49) there is secured a second
   transverse bracket (53). Proximate each of the opposed ends of this second transverse
   bracket (53) are secured forward guide wheels (54, 55).
 5
   The forward and rearward guide wheels (51, 52, 54, and 55) are arranged that the forward
   and rearward guide wheels (51 and 54; 52 and 55) operate in concert. Each of the sets of
   guide wheels is axially movable between a lowered position and a raised position, with an
   intermediary neutral position.
 0
   In addition, the guide wheels (51 and 54; 52 and 55) are interconnected by a chain drive (not
   shown) secured to an electrical motor (not shown), to move them between the lowered and
   raised positions. The guide wheels (51 and 54; 52 and 55) are configured that if they are
   raised on one side, then the guide wheels on the opposing side are lowered. Both sets of
25 guide wheels may be in the neutral position at the same time, but only one set of guide
   wheels (51 and 54; or 52 and 55) can be raised at any time.
   In the raised position the guide wheels (51 and 54; 52 and 55) are aligned with the outside of
   the guide member rib (40, 41) on its side of the track (2). For example, if the bogie (1) needs
30 to take the track (2A) leading to the right of a track intersection (6) then the right side's guide
   wheels (52, 55) are raised The guide wheels (52 55) will against the right side, i.e. the
   outside, of the guide rib (40) of the right track (2A).
   The guide rib (40) follows the right track (2A) and the bogie (1) is thus forced to the right side
35 of the track intersection (6). As mentioned above the driven wheel (9) is set of two driven
   wheels (9A, 9B), each of which is wider than the slot (5) extending along the track (2). The

        WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                    19
   right driven wheel (9B) stays on the race (17B) on the right side of the track (2), and
   continues traveling along this.
   The left driven wheel (9A) travels across the slot (38) that leads into the left track (2A) to
 5 follow to the right track (2B). Since the driven wheels (9A, 9B) are wider than the slots (5, 38,
   39) the right side, i.e. the inside with respect to the bogie (1), of the left driven wheel (9A)
   engages the left race (17A) of the right track (2A) before the outside of the left driven wheel
   (9A) passes over the slot (5, 38), which is at the intersection (6), as shown in Figure 9. The
   left driven wheel (9A) is thus always supported by the track (2).
 0
   With the left side guide wheels (51, 54) in the lowered position the left side guide rib (41) is
   not interacted with.
   If the bogie (1) had to turn left the process would just be changed with right for left.
 5
   The guide means (37) may be controlled remotely from a central control room. Each bogie
   (1) includes a control system which is preloaded with directions. When it arrives at a specific
   track intersection (6) it receives from a track transponder a signal identifying the track
   intersection (6) which is then correlated to the planned route stored on the bogie control
 0 system (23). The bogie (1) then transmits a signal which is received by a receiver associated
   with one of the electromagnetic elements - essentially just a left or right signal. In the
   example above it would be a "right" signal.
   In another configuration the bogie (1) has a unique identifier that announces its arrival at a
25 track intersection (6), for example by way of a transponder. This will allow the control system
   to know when a specific bogie approaches a track intersection (6) which will then allow the
   control system to determine from a planned route into which direction the bogie (1) should be
   directed. A control signal is then transmitted to a track control system which activates the
   guide means (37).
30
   When the bogie (1) has passed through the intersection (6) it awaits the next intersection
   identifier to determine further instructions to be sent.
   A track intersection (6) is designed to include always one track that continues straight (2B),
35 and one track (2A) that diverts from it, as shown in Figure 9. This ensures that in the event

        WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   20
   the guide means (37) experiences a failure that the bogie continues driving on its original
   track, instead of crashing into the split between the two tracks (2A, 2B).
   If the bogie (1) has to come to a halt or accelerate the remote control system or the on-board
 5 control system can similarly control the drive means to slow down or speed up. For this it will
   receive a signal from a transponder which is interpreted by the bogie control system (23) as
   a "stop", "change speed to X kph", or "accelerate to normal travel speed". There are many
   permutations of predetermined instructions that may be coded into a track transponder which
   provides passive instructions to each bogie passing it.
 0
   The bogie (1) will also be provided with a receiver which receives transponder signals from
   other bogies. This will allow the on-board control system (23) to bring a bogie (1) to a
   standstill before driving into another bogie, for example if bogies are waiting to be offloaded
   or in the event that a bogie (1) develop a mechanical problem on a track (2).
 5
   This control over the bogies may also be used to allow one or more bogies to line up behind
   another bogie and assist it, if for example the first bogie has a breakdown. Using this logic,
   and empty bogie may also be sent back to assist from the front of broken down bogie.
 o For this the bogies are fitted with couplings (not shown) to their front and rears allowing for
   such assisted movement. This may also be used pre-planned, where a load exceeds the
   drive capability of one bogie.
   For such planned multi-bogie operations the load (7) may be supported between two bogies
25 by being suspended between both their load support shafts (11). This allows two bogies to
   be driven optimally in terms of clamping force with the load (7) working equally onto both
   bogies.
   The track does not only have to be elevated as shown in the drawings. The bogie (1) may
30 also be used on a track located on the ground. The load support shaft will still extend below
   the pinch wheels (12, 13) but the load may be trailed behind the bogie on the track. The end
   of the load support shaft needs to extend below the pinch wheels to provide the
   predetermined ratio between the axis of the driven wheel and the attachment of the pinch
   wheel bracket to the load support shaft to the distance between the axis of the driven wheel
35 and the load support bearing.

        WO 2014/184780                                                           PCT/IB2014/061492
                                                   21
   It should be appreciated that the track height need not be enormous to achieve clamping The
   distance between the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket and end of the load support
   shaft need not be enormous to achieve effective clamping and hence the bogie can operate
   with clearance as little as 100 mm to 250mm under the track (i.e. below the second of the
 5 track surfaces). This allows the system to easily be installed on the ground.
   It will be appreciated that the above described embodiment is given by way of example only
   and it not intended to limit the scope of the invention. It is possible to alter aspects thereof, as
   already indicated above in respect of the linear motor and ground based track, without
 0 departing from the essence of the invention.
   It is for example also possible to drive the pinch wheels, alone or in combination with the
   load-bearing wheel.
 5 It is also possible to pull a load behind the bogie, where it may run on wheels on the track. A
   load may also be pushed in front of the bogie. The bogie may be used thus essentially as a
   locomotive pulling or pushing one or more other bogies or freight cars.
   It is also possible for the electrical rail to power, through the electrical contact, the motor
 0 directly and for the batteries to be dispensed with completely. This would be useful in
   applications where there is a consistent power supply to the track, and the bogie can then be
   operated without batteries which reduce the weight of the bogie.
25

     WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                               22
   CLAIMS
      1.   A rail transport bogie configured to operate on a track having track surfaces on
            opposite sides thereof and a slot through the slot extending along substantially
 5         the centre of the track, the bogie comprising a load-bearing wheel to run on a first
            of the two track surfaces, a support shaft extending from the load-bearing wheel
            operatively through the slot in the track and terminating in load support means, a
           first pinch wheel rotatably secured in a forward position in respect of the support
            shaft and a second pinch wheel rotatably secured in rearward position in respect
 0          of the support shaft, with both the first and second pinch wheels located between
           the load-bearing wheel and load support means to run on the second of the two
           track surfaces, the load-bearing wheel and pinch wheels clamping between them
           the bogie to the opposing track surfaces, and at least one of the load-bearing
           wheel and either or both of the pinch wheels connected to a motor operatively to
 5          be driven thereby to comprise a driven wheel for the bogie.
      2.   A bogie as claimed in claim 1 in which movement of the bogie in a forward or
            rearward direction is effected by forward or rearward driving of the driven wheel.
 0    3.   A bogie as claimed in claim 1 or 2 configured, upon acceleration thereof as a
            result of rotation of the driven wheel, for inertia of a load operatively secured to
           the load support means to pivot the bogie on the axis of the load-bearing wheel to
           force the pinch wheel located in the then rearward position relative to the direction
            of movement of the bogie against the second of the track surfaces, operatively
25          increasing the clamping force between the load-bearing wheel and the rearward
            pinch wheel to increase friction between the load-bearing wheel and first of the
           two track surfaces to assist with acceleration of the bogie and the load secured to
            it.
30    4.   A bogie as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 configured, upon deceleration
           thereof as a result of braking of any of the wheels of the bogie, for inertia of a load
            operatively secured to the load support means to pivot the bogie on the axis of the
            load-bearing wheel to force the pinch wheel located in the then forward position
            relative to the direction of movement of the bogie against the second of the track
35          surfaces, operatively increasing the clamping force between the load-bearing
           wheel and the forward pinch wheel to increase friction between the load-bearing

   WO 2014/184780                                                          PCT/IB2014/061492
                                              23
         wheel and first of the two track surfaces to assist with deceleration of the bogie
          and load secured to it, either to reduce its speed or bring it to rest.
   5.    A bogie as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 configured, upon reaching a steady
 5        speed at which the force required to maintain the forward speed of the bogie is
          lower than the force required to accelerate the bogie from rest, for the rearward
          pinch wheel to be forced with a lesser force, or not to be forced at all, against the
          second of the track surfaces and respectively for the clamping force to be
         commensurately lower compared to when the bogie is accelerated from rest or for
 0       the clamping force to be zero, operatively allowing the bogie to move with a lower
         clamping force between the load-bearing wheel and the then rearward pinch
         wheel at steady speed than at acceleration of the bogie.
   6.    A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the driven wheel
 5       comprises a set of two axially aligned driven wheels, with the driven wheels
         configured such that they both run on either the first or the second of the two track
          surfaces on opposing sides of the slot in the track.
   7.    A bogie as claimed in claim 6 in which the two driven wheels are axially
 0       connected.
   8.    A bogie as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which each pinch wheel
         comprises a set of two axially aligned pinch wheels, with each pinch wheel set
         configured such that in each set the two pinch wheels run on the second of the
25       two track surfaces on opposing sides of the slot in the track.
   9.    A bogie as claimed in claim 8 in which of each pinch wheel set the two pinch
         wheels are axially connected.
30 10.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims which includes a pinch
         wheel bracket secured to the load support shaft, with the bracket extending to two
          opposing ends, a first end to a forward position in respect of the support shaft and
          second end to a rearward position in respect of the support shaft, with the first
          pinch wheel rotatably secured to the first end and the second pinch wheel
35        rotatably secured to the second end of the pinch wheel bracket.

   WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                              24
   11.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the load-bearing
         wheel comprises the driven wheel.
   12.   A bogie as claimed in claim 10 or 11 in which the ratio of the distance between
 5       the axis of the rearward pinch wheel and the attachment of the pinch wheel
          bracket to the load support shaft to the distance between the attachment of the
          pinch wheel bracket and the load support means is variable depending upon how
          much friction is required between the driven wheels and the track surfaces to
         create the optimum amount of traction that is required for any specific set of
 0       circumstances.
   13.   A bogie as claimed in claim 10 or 11 in which the bogie is predominantly operated
          horizontally, and the ratio of the distance between the axis of the rearward pinch
         wheel and the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket to the load support shaft to
 5       the distance between the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket and the load
          support means is between 1:2 and 1:5.
   14.   A bogie as claimed in claim 13 in which the ratio is about 1:3.
 0 15.   A bogie as claimed in claim 10 or 11 in which the bogie is operated, at least on
          part of a track, at steep angles, and the ratio of the distance between the axis of
         the rearward pinch wheel and the attachment of the pinch wheel bracket to the
          load support shaft to the distance between the attachment of the pinch wheel
          bracket and the load support means is at least 1:5.
25
   16.   A bogie as claimed in claim 15 in which load-bearing wheel and the pinch wheels
          have resiliently compressible running surfaces, preferably comprised of rubber or
          plastics material, alternatively the load-bearing wheel and the pinch wheels have
          substantially incompressible running surfaces, preferably comprised of metal,
30       further preferably steel.
   17.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the motor
         comprises a linear motor or a rotary motor.

   WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                             25
   18.   A bogie as claimed in claim 17 in which a linear motor reaction plate or reaction
          plates forming part of the linear motor is secured to the load support shaft,
          preferably above the pinch wheel bracket.
 5 19.   A bogie as claimed in claim 17 in which the motor comprises a rotary motor
         secured to the load support shaft, preferably below the pinch wheels.
   20.   A bogie as claimed in any of the preceding claims which includes guidance
          means operable at each track intersection to move the bogie laterally across the
 0       track towards one side of the track or another, depending on which track the
         bogie is to follow leading from the track intersection, the guidance means
         comprising at least one guide wheel being movable between a neutral position
         and a guiding position, with the guide wheel configured in its guiding position to
          interact with a guide member that extends along a track leading from a track
 5        intersection to cause the bogie to follow such track, and the guide wheel
         configured to not interact with any guide member when it is located in its neutral
         position.
   21.   A bogie as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19 which includes guidance means
 0       operable at each track intersection to move the bogie laterally across the track
         towards one side of the track or another, depending on which track the bogie is to
         follow leading from the track intersection, the guidance means comprising at least
         two guide wheels located on opposing sides of a longitudinal axis of the bogie and
         being movable between a neutral position and a guiding position, with each guide
25       wheel configured in its guiding position to interact with a guide member on its side
         of the longitudinal axis of the bogie that extends along a track leading from a track
          intersection to cause the bogie to follow such track, and the guide wheels
         configured to not interact with any guide member when they are located in their
          neutral positions.
30
   22.   A bogie as claimed in claim 21 in which the two guide wheels are connected and
         configured such that both guide wheels cannot simultaneously be in their
          respective guiding positions.

   WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                              26
   23.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims that includes an electrical
         contact configured complimentary to an electrical rail associated with the track
          operatively to electrically connect the bogie with the rail.
 5 24.   A bogie as claimed in claim 23 in which the electrical contact extends from above
          and to the side of the driven wheel.
   25.   A bogie as claimed in claim 23 or 24 in which the contact is electrically connected
         and configured to charge the battery or power the motor.
 0
   26.   A bogie as claimed claim in any one of claims 17 to 25 which include drive control
          means secured to the load support shaft proximate the motor, preferably on an
          opposing side of the load support shaft relative to the motor.
 5 27.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the motor and the
         driven wheel are rotatably secured by means of a drive belt or a drive shaft.
   28.   A bogie as claimed in claim 27 in which the drive belt comprises a chain
          extending around sprockets on each of a drive shaft motor and the axis of the
 o       driven wheel.
   29.   A bogie as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 26 in which the motor is connected to
         the driven wheel via a sprocket secured to a secondary axis proximate the axis of
         the driven wheel, with the secondary axis and the axis of the driven wheel being
25        rotatably secured to each other by meshed gears having a predetermined gear
          ratio.
   30.   A bogie as claimed in claim 27 in which the drive shaft comprises a secondary
         drive shaft connected from the motor drive shaft to the axis of the driven wheel
30        using a coupling, preferably a differential coupling.
   31.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the load support
          means comprises a load bearing secured to the end of the load support shaft.

   WO 2014/184780                                                        PCT/IB2014/061492
                                             27
   32.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the load may be
          secured to the load support means enabling the load to be suspended from the
          bogie, pulled behind the bogie or pushed in front of the bogie.
 5 33.   A bogie as claimed in any one of the preceding claims which includes a frame
         secured proximate the load support shaft end, the frame extending to two
         opposing ends, a first end to a forward position in respect of the support shaft and
         second end to a rearward position in respect of the support shaft, and each end
         extends into an arm directed towards the pinch wheel on its side of the load
 0       support shaft, with each arm carrying a battery.
   34.   A bogie as claimed in claim 33 in which each arm terminates in at least one
         directional control wheel operatively running on the sides of the slot in the track.
 5 35.   A bogie as claimed in claim 32 or 34 in which each arm terminates in a set of
         spaced apart directional control wheels operatively running on opposing sides of
         the slot in the track, the running surfaces of the directional control wheels spaced
         apart by a distance complimentary to the width of the slot.
 0 36.   A rail transportation system comprising a network of tracks, a plurality of bogies
         as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 35 each of which has a driven wheel
         arranged to run on and be supported by the track and which are capable of
         supporting, pulling or pushing a load secured to the bogie, each bogie being
         driven along the track and including guidance means which allows it to switch
25       from a track leading to a track intersection to a preselected track leaving the track
          intersection without any load-bearing wheel of the bogie being unsupported by the
         track.
   37.   A system as claimed in claim 36 in which the track intersection includes no
30        moving parts to enable bogie switching.
   38.   A system as claimed in claim 36 or 37 in which the track comprises an elongate
         set of races spaced apart by an elongate slot with the set of races kept in spatial
          relation to each other by means of a frame extending from the sides of the races.
35

   WO 2014/184780                                                         PCT/IB2014/061492
                                            28
   39.   A track for a system as claimed in any one of claims 36 to 38 that is modular and
         the modules include straight sections and curved sections, and each module
         comprises a set of races spaced apart by an elongate slot through the track
         operatively allowing the support shaft of a bogie to extend through the slot, with
 5       the set of races kept in spatial relation to each other by means of a frame
         extending across the track, and with each race being provided with a wear
          resistant lining removably secured to its top, bottom and its side facing the slot.
   40.   A track as claimed in claim 39 in which the frame includes a brace proximate the
 0       end of each module with each brace having a set of spaced apart legs, each of
         which is secured to a side of the track, with covers secured between the braces to
         enclose at least part of the track, and with braces of adjoining modules
         substantially sealing against each other.
 5 41.   A track as claimed in claim 40 in which each end brace of a module includes a
         flange securable to a complimentary flange of an end brace of an adjoining
          module, operatively allowing modules to be secured end to end.
   42.   A track as claimed in any one of claims 39 to 41 in which the race of the track is
 0       comprised of an elongate beam, preferably a hollow beam, preferably a hollow
         steel beam.
25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
