         COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR TREATING OR
             PREVENTING SKELETAL MUSCLE FIBROSIS
                                      Abstract
  -                                                   Rc
        A compound in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, the
compound having a formula: wherein: RI is a member of the group consisting of
hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo, lower alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R2 is a
member of the group consisting of hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a
member of the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl; and n is
either I or 2; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; for use in treatment of or
prevention of skeletal muscle fibrosis and/or for inducing skeletal muscle
regeneration.

  5
                    COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR TREATING OR
                    PREVENTING SKELETAL MUSCLE FIBROSIS
 10
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to a method of treating fibrosis, and more
     particularly to treatment, prevention or amelioration of skeletal muscle fibrosis by
 15  use of halofuginone or related compounds.
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Muscle fibrosis is a phenomenon that frequently occurs in diseased or
     damaged muscle. It is characterized by the excessive growth of fibrous tissue, which
20   usually results from the body's attempt to recover from injury. Fibrosis impairs
    muscle function and causes weakness. The amount of muscle function loss generally
    increases with the extent of fibrosis. Fibrosis is usually progressive and can
    contribute to the patient's inability to carry out ordinary tasks of independent living,
    such as grasping objects or walking. Fibrosis commonly occurs as a result of
25  muscular dystrophy, as well as due to other afflictions, such as denervation atrophy,
    a degradation of muscle tissue caused by loss of neural contact to a muscle. For
    some types of muscular dystrophy, such as Duchenne, fibrosis can result in death as
    the muscles of the diaphragm are affected (the diaphragm is a skeletal muscle which
    is involuntary rather than voluntary).
                                                 1

           Muscular dystrophies are a heterogeneous         group of genetic disorders
   characterized by the progressive loss of muscle strength and integrity. Dystrophic
   muscle shows variation in muscle fiber size, infiltration of connective and fatty
   tissue, and centrally located nuclei. The membranes of the fibers are fragile and
 5 extensive damage occurs, leading to necrosis and muscle wasting.
           Victims of muscular dystrophies, particularly Becker muscular dystrophy
   (BMD) and Duchenne           muscular dystrophy (DMD), frequently suffer from
   increasing skeletal muscle fibrosis as the disease progresses.
           The most common form of muscle dystrophy is the X-linked recessive DMD,
10 a severely penetrating allelic manifestation which affects 1 in 3500 live males at
   birth; about a third of cases occur as de novo mutations in the infant (Emery AE.
    (1991) Neuromusc. Disord. 1:19-29).
            Usually the disease is diagnosed at 4-5 years of age and by 8-10 years,
    deterioration of the patient's condition necessitates wheelchair use. By their early
15 teens, further neurological and cardiological symptoms are apparent. Progression of
   muscle degeneration and worsening clinical symptoms, lead to death in the late
   teens or early twenties, typically as a result of cardio-pulmonary complications due
   to fibrosis of the diaphragm.
            The leading causes of death in DMD victims, respiratory and heart failure,
20  result from weakness in diaphragm and myocardium muscles that are most affected
    by fibrosis (Finsterer, (2003) Cardiology 99:1-19). Fibrosis is characterised by an
    increase in extra-cellular matrix (ECM) constituents especially collagen type I. Both
    in DMD and Congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD), an increase in type I and III
    collagens were observed in the skeletal muscle (Hantai et al. (1985) Connect Tissue
25  Res. 13:273-81 and Dunace, et al. (1980) Nature 284:470-472) leading to fibrosis,
    which correlated with muscle destruction (Zhao, et al. (2003) J. Patho. 201:149-59).
    The cardiac involvement in DMD is characterized pathologically by degeneration
                                               2

       and fibrosis of the myocardium, probably due to myofibroblast activity, centering
       around the posterolateral wall of the left ventricle.
              BMD is a less severe condition than DMD,              characterized by slowly
      progressive muscle weakness of the legs and pelvis, again due to fibrosis of the
   5  muscles (although for BMD the skeletal muscles are more greatly affected). The
      advance of fibrosis often causes ever greater loss of mobility and a reduced life
      expectancy. At some point, the patient may become too weak to walk and takes to a
      wheelchair.
             Both BMD and DMD are associated with defects in the dystrophin gene, the
 10   gene responsible for the production of dystrophin protein, which is a vital part of the
      dystrophin-glycoprotein complex. DMD is characterized by the near absence of
      dystrophin protein in skeletal muscles, while BMD results from different mutations
      in the same gene, resulting in decreased or damaged dystrophin. The presence of
      some dystrophin protects the muscles of those with BMD from degenerating as
 15   badly or as quickly as those of DMD victims.
             The dystrophin-glycoprotein complex connects the actin cytoskeleton of
      myofibres to the extracellular matrix (ECM) and is therefore integral to the
      contractile structure of muscle (Yue Y, et al. (2003) Circulation, 108:1626-32 and
     Michele et al. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278:15457-60). The preliminary stage of DMD
20   is characterized by the presence of focal groups of necrotic myofibres, muscle
     hypertrophy and abnormally high levels of muscle creatine kinase (CK). In the
     pathological phase, repeated cycles of degeneration exhaust the regenerative
     capacity of muscle-specific progenitor cells (satellite cells) and fibrotic mechanisms
     cause the progressive replacement of the muscle tissue with collagenous connective
25   tissue (Rafael et al., 1997). These processes lead to joint contraction, loss of
     ambulation and death from respiratory or cardiac failure (Wells, et al. (2002)
     Neuromuscle Disord. 12 Suppl 1: S11-22).
                                                  3

          The perfect solution for DMD and BMD patients would be to place a normal
   copy of the dystrophin gene into muscle cells, and hence restore sufficient protein
   expression to improve structure and function (Khurana, et al. (2003) Nat Rev Drug
   Discov. 2:379-90). At 3.0 MB the dystrophin gene is vast, and successful therapy
 5 would require massive and sustained gene transfer (Hffman, et al. (1987) Cell
   51:919-28 and Skuk, et al. (2002) Curr. Opin. Neurol. 15:563-9 and Thioudellet, et
   al. (2002) Neuromuscul Disord. 12 Suppl 1:S49-51). Muscle fibrosis is a major
   obstacle in gene therapy since it hampers gene delivery.
           An alternative to replacing the faulty gene is to modulate its expression by
10 employing antisense oligonucleotides that alter RNA stability, or splicing (Lu Ql, et
   al. (2003) Nat. Med. 9(8):1009-14 and Rando TA. (2002) Am. J. Phy. Med. Rehabil.
   81(11Suppl):S175-86), thereby resulting in the production of a functional protein.
   Transplantation of muscle precursor cells (myoblast transfer) has also been explored
   as a method for restoring dystrophin protein to dystrophic muscle (Law PK et al.
15 (1997) Transplant Proc. 29(4):2234-7). This technique is constrained by the
   difficulties associated with treating large volumes of muscle with long-lasting effect.
   An alternative approach is to up-regulate the expression of an endogenous protein
   that effects some functional replacement (Krag TO, et al. (2001) Acta Physiol
   Scand. 171:349-58).     However, all of these treatments are ineffective unless the
20 progression of the underlying fibrotic condition can be halted or at least ameliorated
   somewhat.
           The crucial role of collagen in fibrosis has prompted attempts to develop
   agents that inhibit or modulate its accumulation. Several unique post-transcriptional
   enzymes of the collagen biosynthesis pathway appear to be attractive targets for
25 reducing the formation of collagen fibers or for the accumulation of fibers with
   altered properties (Prockop DJ, (1995) Annu Rev Biochem. 64:403-34).
                                               4

           The major disadvantage of these inhibitors is that they are not collagen-type
   specific and may inhibit the biosynthesis of other collagens with serious toxic
   consequences.
           To date there is no effective therapy for reducing skeletal muscle fibrosis. No
 5 treatment which affects fibrotic tissue without adversely affecting healthy muscle
   tissue or other body functions is currently known. The only treatment to have shown
   clinical efficacy is a prednisone/prednisolone treatment that results in a modest
   increase in strength, and delays, but does not halt, the progress of the disease
   (Backman, et al. Neuromuscul Disord. 5:233-41 and Dubowitz, (2002) Neuromuscul
10 Disord. 12:113-6).
           There is thus a widely recognized need for, and it would be highly
   advantageous to have, a method of preventing or retarding the build up of skeletal
   muscle fibrosis that accompanies disorders such as Duchenne and Becker muscular
   dystrophies an d other muscle dystrophies with extensive fibrosis, as well as to
15 reduce the effect on muscles of the diaphragm for Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
   Quinazolinone derivatives
           Quinazolinone derivatives were first taught in U.S. Patent No. 3,320,124 to
   American Cyanamid as a treatment for the intestinal parasitic disease, coccidiosis.
   Halofuginone,        (7-bromo-6-chloro-3-[3-(3-hydroxy-2-piperidinyl)-2-oxopropyl]
20 4(3H)-quinazolinone), an analog of a plant alkaloid originally isolated from the plant
   Dichroa febrifuga, was described as the preferred quinazolinone derivative.
   Subsequently, U.S. Patents Nos. 4,824,847; 4,855,299; 4,861,758 and 5,215,993 all
   relate to the coccidiocidal properties of halofuginone.
           More recently, it was disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,449,678 that these
25 quinazolinone derivatives are unexpectedly useful for the treatment of a fibrotic
   condition such as scleroderma and graft-versus-host           disease (GVHD).       This
                                               5

      disclosure provided compositions of a specific inhibitor comprising a therapeutically
      effective amount of a pharmaceutically active compound of the formula:
                               N
         Rin                              ON
                                                      N
     (I)                       o                      R3
  5  wherein: n=1-2
     Rl is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo, lower
     alkyl, phenyl and lower alkoxy;
      R2 is a member of the group consisting of hydroxy, acetoxy and lower alkoxy; and
     R3 is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl.
 10  Pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are also included.         Of this group of
     compounds, halofuginone has been found to be particularly effective for the
     disclosed treatment.
             The clinical potential of halofuginone in anti-fibrotic therapy has also been
    described in Pines, et al. Drug of the Future 21:569-599 and Pines, et al.(1997) Gen.
15  Pharmaco. 30:445-450 and Pines, et al.(2000) Drug Develop. Res. 50, 371-378 ).
    Halofuginone, an inhibitor of collagen type I synthesis has been found to inhibit the
    gene expression of collagen type 1,but not of type II (Granot, et al. Biochim Biophys
    Acta 1156:107-112) or type III (Choi, et al. (1995) Arch Surg 130:257-261).
             U.S. Patent No. 5,891,879 further discloses that the quinazolinone derivatives
20  are effective     in treating restenosis.    The two     earlier-described  conditions,
    scleroderma and graft-versus-host disease, are associated with excessive collagen
    deposition, which can be inhibited by halofuginone. Restenosis is characterized by
    smooth muscle cell proliferation and extracellular matrix accumulation within the
                                               6

   lumen of affected blood vessels in response to a vascular injury (Choi et al., Arch.
   Surg., 130:257-261 (1995)). One hallmark of such smooth muscle cell proliferation
   is a phenotypic alteration, from the normal contractile phenotype to a synthetic one.
   Type I collagen has been shown to support such a phenotypic alteration, which can
 5 be blocked by halofuginone (Choi et al., Arch. Surg., 130: 257-261, (1995); U.S.
   Patent No. 5,449,678).
           Notably, the in vitro action of halofuginone does not always predict its in vivo
   effects. For example, as demonstrated in U.S. Patent No. 5,449,678, halofuginone
   inhibits the synthesis of collagen type I in bone chrondrocytes in vitro. However,
10 chickens treated with halofuginone were not reported to have an increased rate of
   bone breakage, indicating that the effect is not seen in vivo. In addition, even though
   halofuginone inhibits collagen synthesis by fibroblasts in vitro, it promotes wound
   healing in vivo (WO 01/17531). Thus, the exact behavior of halofuginone in vivo
   cannot always be accurately predicted from in vitro studies.
15        Quinazolinone-containing        pharmaceutical       compositions,      including
   halofuginone, have been disclosed and claimed as effective for treating malignancies
   (US 6,028,075), for prevention of neovascularization (US 6,090,814), as well as for
   treating hepatic fibrosis (US 6,562,829), pulmonary fibrosis (WO 98/43642) and
   renal fibrosis (WO 02/094178), scleroderma and a variety of other serious diseases,
20 exhibit excessive production of connective tissue, which results in the destruction of
   normal tissue architecture and function.
          WO 00/09070 relates to a method for treating and preventing fibrotic process,
   which results from pathophysiological responses to tissue trauma, preferably cardiac
   fibrosis.
25        In most animal models of fibrosis, regardless of the tissue, halofuginone has a
   minimal effect on collagen content in the non-fibrotic animals, whereas it exhibits a
   profound inhibitory effect in the fibrotic organs. This suggests a different regulation
   of the low level house-keeping expression of collagen type I genes on the one hand
                                                7

   and the over-expression induced by the fibrogenic stimulus which is usually an
   aggressive and a rapid process, on the other.
 5 Muscle tissue
         Muscle is a very specialized tissue that has both the ability to contract and the
   ability to conduct electrical impulses. Muscles are classified both functionally as
   either voluntary or involuntary, and structurally as either striated or smooth. From
   this, there emerge three types of muscles: smooth muscle (involuntary), skeletal
10 voluntary muscle (voluntary and involuntary) and cardiac muscle. Skeletal and
   cardiac muscle are called striated muscle because of their striped appearance under a
   microscope.
         Skeletal muscle may be of the voluntary or involuntary muscle type, being
   innervated by neurons that originate from the somatic or voluntary branch of the
15 nervous system, providing willful control of the skeletal muscles, or, as in the case
   of the diaphragm muscles, being controlled by efferent nerves from the respiratory
   centre which pass down the spinal cord to the diaphragm.
         Skeletal muscle cells are long multi-nucleated cylinders, which acquired this
   characteristic because they develop from the fusion of small single cells into long
20 units. The cells may vary in diameter, averaging between 100 and 150 microns.
   Skeletal muscle cells are independent cells separated from one another by
   connective tissue and must each be stimulated by axons of a neuron. All the cells
   innervated by branches from the same neuron will contract at the same time and are
   referred to as a motor unit. Motor units vary in size: large motor units with more
25 than 100 cells are typical of the slow acting postural muscles. Very small motor
   units with around 10 cells or so are typical of fast acting muscles with very precise
   control such as those which move the eye. Most human muscles have a mixture of
   motor units of different sizes.
                                              8

            Skeletal muscles have distinct stripes or striations that identify them and are
     related to the organization of protein myofilaments inside the cell. Skeletal muscle
     cells are associated with a type of stem cell known as a satellite cell. These cells are
     believed to aid in recovery of muscle fibers from damage and can contribute their
  5  nuclei to replace and supplement the nuclei of the damaged cells. This occurs in
     response to the "microtears" produced by strenuous exercise and results in increased
     production of proteins and myofibrils.
           Voluntary muscles comprise a variety of fiber types which are specialized for
     particular tasks. Most voluntary muscles contain a mixture of fiber types although
10   one type may predominate.
           Type 1 or slow oxidative fibers have a slow contraction speed and a low
     myosin ATPase activity. These cells are specialized for steady, continuous activity
     and are highly resistant to fatigue. Their motor neurons are often active, with a low
     firing frequency. These cells are thin (high surface to volume ratio) with a good
15   capillary supply for efficient gas exchange. They are rich in mitochondria and
    myoglobin, which gives them a red color. They are built for aerobic metabolism and
    prefer to use fat as a source of energy. These are the marathon runner's muscle
     fibers.
           Type 2A or fast oxidative-glycolytic fibers have a fast contraction speed and a
20  high myosin ATPase activity. They are progressively recruited when additional
    effort is required, but are still very resistant to fatigue. Their motor neurons show
    bursts of intermittent activity. These cells are thin (high surface to volume ratio)
    with a good capillary supply for efficient gas exchange. They are rich in
    mitochondria and myoglobin which gives them a red color. They are built for
25  aerobic metabolism and can use either glucose or fats as a source of energy. These
    are general purpose muscle fibers which give the edge in athletic performance, but
    they are more expensive to operate than type 1.
                                                9

          Type 2B or fast glycolytic fibers have a fast contraction speed and a high
   myosin ATPase activity. They are only recruited for brief maximal efforts and are
   easily fatigued. Their motor neurons transmit occasional bursts of very high
   frequency impulses. These are large cells with a poor surface to volume ratio and
 5 their limited capillary supply slows the delivery of oxygen and removal of waste
   products. They have few mitochondria and little myoglobin, resulting in a white
   color (e.g. chicken breast). They generate ATP by the anaerobic fermentation of
   glucose to lactic acid. These are sprinter's muscle fibers, no use for sustained
   performance.
10        Cardiac muscle is the muscle found in the heart. It is composed of much
   shorter cells than skeletal muscle that branch to connect to one another. These
   connections are by means of gap junctions called intercalated disks that allow an
    electrochemical impulse to pass to all the connected cells. This causes the cells to
    form a functional network called a syncytium in which the cells work as a unit.
15 Many cardiac muscle cells are myogenic which means that the impulse arises from
    the muscle, not from the nervous system. This causes the heart muscle and the heart
    itself to beat with its own natural rhythm. But the autonomic nervous system
    controls the rate of the heart and allows it to respond to stress and other demands. As
    such the heart is said to be involuntary.
20      The cardiac muscle has a number of unique features that reflect its function of
    pumping blood.
        -   The myofibrils of each cell (and cardiac muscle is made of single cells
            each with a single nucleus) are branched.
        .   The branches interlock with those of adjacent fibers by adherens junctions.
25          These strong junctions enable the heart to contract forcefully without ripping
            the fibers apart.
                                                10

       .   The action potential that triggers the heartbeat is generated within the heart
           itself. Motor nerves (of the autonomic nervous system) do run to the heart, but
           their effect is simply to modulate -    increase or decrease -  the intrinsic rate
           and the strength of the heartbeat. Even if the nerves are destroyed (as they are
 5         in a transplanted heart), the heart continues to beat.
       .   The action potential that drives contraction of the heart passes from fiber to
           fiber through gap junctions.
       Due to the numerous structural and functional differences between various
   muscle types, the effect of an active pharmaceutical ingredient on a particular
10 muscle type cannot be predicted with any degree of reliability according to the effect
   of that ingredient on a different muscle type.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention successfully addresses the shortcomings              of the
15 presently known methods of treating and/or preventing skeletal muscle fibrosis by
   providing compositions and methods comprising a quinizolinone derivative.
           As used herein, the quinazolinone derivative comprises a compound having a
   formula:
20
                               NR
                 R'n                       0
                                    N
                                                       N
                              0                        R3
                                                11

       wherein:
          RI is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo,
   lower alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R2 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a member of the group consisting of
 5 hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl; and n is either 1 or 2; and pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts thereof.
          According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   pharmaceutical composition for treating and/or preventing and/or at least reducing
   the rate of progression of skeletal muscle fibrosis in a subject in need thereof, the
10 composition comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of a quinizolinone
   derivative and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier.
          According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   pharmaceutical composition for improving skeletal muscle regeneration in a subject
15 in need thereof, the composition comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of
   a quinazolinone derivative and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
          According to yet another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method for reducing the progression of skeletal muscle fibrosis in a subject in need
20 thereof, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of
   a quinazolinone derivative and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
          According to still another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method for improving and/or inducing skeletal muscle regeneration in a subject in
25 need thereof, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective
   amount of a quinazolinone derivative, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof;
   and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The improving of skeletal muscle
                                            12

   regeneration optionally occurs through inhibiting the TGF3 pathway and/or by
   inhibiting the Myostatin Smad3-dependent pathway.
           According to an additional aspect of the present invention there is provided
   the use of a quinazolinone derivative, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof;
 5 in the manufacture of a medicament for reducing the progression of skeletal muscle
   fibrosis in a subject in need thereof
           According to further features in preferred embodiments of the invention
   described below, quinazolinone derivative is optionally and preferably halofuginone.
           According to still further features in the described preferred embodiments, the
10 subject in need of treatment by the compositions and methods of the present
   invention is suffering from a disorder which targets skeletal muscle tissue, such as,
   for example muscular dystrophy, including Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker
   muscular dystrophy, Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy, Limb-Girdle Muscular
   Dystrophy,     Facioscapulohumeral      Muscular Dystrophy,       Myotonic   Dystrophy,
15  Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy, Distal Muscular Dystrophy, and congenital
    muscular dystrophy.
           Alternatively, the subject may be suffering from denervation atrophy.
           Optionally, the skeletal muscle tissue targeted by the disorder may comprise
    diaphragm muscle.
20         Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
    the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to
    which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent
    to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present
    invention, suitable methods and materials are described below. In case of conflict,
25  the patent specification, including definitions, will control.         In addition, the
    materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be
    limiting.
                                                13

            As used herein, the term "treating"        includes abrogating, substantially
    inhibiting, slowing or reversing the progression of a condition, substantially
    ameliorating clinical or aesthetical symptoms of a condition or substantially
    preventing the appearance of clinical or aesthetical symptoms of a condition.
  5         The term "comprising" means that other steps and ingredients that do not
    affect the final result can be added. This term encompasses the terms "consisting
    of' and "consisting essentially of'.
            The phrase "consisting essentially of' means that the composition or method
    may include additional ingredients and/or steps, but only if the additional ingredients
10  and/or steps do not materially alter the basic and novel characteristics of the claimed
    composition or method.
            The term "method" refers to manners, means, techniques and procedures for
    accomplishing a given task including, but not limited to, those manners, means,
    techniques and procedures either known to, or readily developed from known
15  manners, means, techniques and procedures by practitioners of the chemical,
    pharmacological, biological, biochemical and medical arts.
            The term "active ingredient" refers to a pharmaceutical agent including any
    natural or synthetic chemical substance that subsequent to its application has, at the
    very least, at least one desired pharmaceutical or therapeutic effect.
20          The term "therapeutically effective amount" or "pharmaceutically effective
    amount" denotes that dose of an active ingredient or a composition comprising the
    active ingredient that will provide the therapeutic effect for which the active
    ingredient is indicated.
            As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable" means approved by a
25  regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S.
    Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals, and
    more particularly in humans. Herein, the phrases "physiologically suitable carrier"
    and "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" are interchangeably used and refer to an
                                               14

   approved carrier or a diluent that does not cause significant irritation to an organism
   and does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the administered
   conjugate.
           As used herein, the term "carrier" refers to a diluent, adjuvant, excipient, or
 5 vehicle with which the therapeutic is administered.
           Herein the term "excipient" refers to an inert substance added to a
   pharmaceutical composition to further facilitate processes and administration of the
   active ingredients.
           As used herein, the singular form "a," "an," and "the" include plural
10 references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example, the term "a
   compound" or "at least one compound" may include a plurality of compounds,
   including mixtures thereof.
           Throughout this disclosure, various aspects of this invention can be presented
   in a range format. It should be understood that the description in range format is
15 merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an inflexible
   limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the description of a range
   should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as well
   as individual numerical values within that range.       For example, description of a
   range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed
20 subranges such as from 1 to 3, from 1 to 4, from 1 to 5, from 2 to 4, from 2 to 6,
   from 3 to 6 etc., as well as individual numbers within that range, for example, 1, 2,
   3, 4, 5, and 6. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.
           Whenever a numerical range is indicated herein, it is meant to include any
   cited numeral (fractional or integral) within the indicated range.          The phrases
25 "ranging/ranges between" a first indicate number and a second indicate number and
   "ranging/ranges from" a first indicate number "to" a second indicate number are
   used herein interchangeably and are meant to include the first and second indicated
   numbers and all the fractional and integral numerals there between.
                                               15

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The invention is herein described, by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings. With specific reference now to the drawings in detail, it
 5 is stressed that the particulars shown are by way of example and for purposes of
   illustrative discussion of the preferred embodiments of the present invention only,
   and are presented in the cause of providing what is believed to be the most useful and
   readily understood description of the principles and conceptual aspects of the
   invention.     In this regard, no attempt is made to show structural details of the
10 invention in more detail than is necessary for a fundamental understanding of the
   invention, the description taken with the drawings making apparent to those skilled
   in the art how the several forms of the invention may be embodied in practice.
            In the drawings:
            FIG. 1 shows the effect of halofuginone on fibrosis and myogenesis via
15  Smad3-dependent pathways;
            FIG. 2 presents the results of Sirius red staining for collagen content and in
   situ hybridization of collagen al(I) gene expression in Mdx mice and C57B control
   mice, in the presence and absence of halofuginone;
            FIG. 3 is a bar chart demonstrating the effect of halofuginone on muscle
20  fibrosis using staining and quantification by Image analysis; and
            FIG. 4 is a bar chart illustrating muscle regeneration after halofuginone
   treatment.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
25          The present invention is of a method and pharmaceutical composition for
   treating or preventing skeletal muscle fibrosis in a subject, or at least reducing the
   progression thereof, by using a quinazolinone derivative, preferably halofuginone.
   According to preferred embodiments, the present invention relates to a method and
                                               16

   pharmaceutical compositions for at least reducing the progressive loss of muscle
   strength and/or function associated with skeletal muscle fibrosis in a subject.
   Optionally and preferably, such at least reduction of the progressive loss of muscle
   strength and/or function and/or treatment and/or prevention occurs       in a subject
 5 suffering from skeletal muscle fibrosis associated with a disease of which directly or
   indirectly causes such fibrosis, including but not limited to muscular dystrophy or
   denervation atrophy. Muscular dystrophy includes Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy;
   Becker Muscular Dystrophy; Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy; Limb-Girdle
   Muscular Dystrophy; Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy (also known as
10 Landouzy-Dejerine); Myotonic Dystrophy; Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy;
   Distal Muscular Dystrophy; and Congenital Muscular Dystrophy.
           Unexpectedly, according to preferred embodiments of the present invention, a
   quinazolinone derivative, preferably halofuginone, may optionally and preferably be
   used to at least delay the progression of fibrosis of the diaphragm in a subject
15 suffering from a disease which affects this involuntary muscle, including but not
   limited to Duchenne muscular dystrophy. More preferably, the present invention
   relates to treating and/or preventing fibrosis of the diaphragm in a subject suffering
   from such a disease.
           According to preferred embodiments of the present invention and as
20 demonstrated below, one or more types of muscle cells may optionally and
   preferably be able to regenerate themselves as a result of administration of a
   quinazolinone derivative, preferably halofuginone, to a subject in need thereof.
           The principles and operation of the compositions and methods according to
   the present invention may be better understood with reference to the drawings and
25 accompanying descriptions.
           Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to
   be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details set
    forth in the following description or exemplified by the Examples. The invention is
                                              17

   capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways.
   Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is
   for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
           Myostatin is a transforming growth factor-p (TGF-p) family member that
 5 plays an essential role in regulating skeletal muscle growth, by inhibition of the
   proliferation and differentiation of myeloblasts, via inhibition of muscle-specific
   MyoD and myogenin genes. Signaling occurs via            activation of Smad3 proteins
   (Langley, et al. (2002) J Biol Chem. 277:49831-40 and Zhang, et al. (2000) J. Biol.
   Chem. 275:39237-45 and Zhu, et al. (2004) Cytokine. 26(6):262-72; Fig. 1).
10         TGFp is the major stimulator of collagen synthesis, particularly collagen type
   I, in fibroblasts leading to fibrosis. The inverse correlation between fibrosis and
   muscle formation in dystrophy has been demonstrated (Wanger, et al. (2002) Ann
   Neurol. 52:832-6).
           It has been demonstrated that halofuginone, an inhibitor of Smad3 activity
15 (McGaha, et al. (2002) J Invest Dermatol. 118(3):461-70), is a potent inhibitor of
   fibrosis due to its effect on collagen biosynthesis and degradation in variety of tissues
   (Levi- Schaffer, et al. (1996) J Invest Dermatol 106:84-88). The tissue types studied
   did not include skeletal muscle. Furthermore, the prior art does not teach the use of
   halofuginone in regeneration of muscle.
20         Preliminary experiments by the present inventors have demonstrated a
   halofuginone-dependent inhibition in myostatin gene expression in fibrotic liver.
   Halofuginone is to date the only known collagen type-specific inhibitor on the
   transcriptional level. Inhibition of collagen synthesis on the transcriptional level is
   more effective than attempting to treat the consequences of collagen overproduction,
25 which is the aim of other antifibrotic drugs.
           Due to the numerous structural and functional differences between various
   muscle types, the effect of an active pharmaceutical ingredient on a particular muscle
   type cannot be predicted with any degree of reliability.
                                               18

             Therefore, it was hypothesized that halofuginone may improve skeletal
   muscle integrity and inhibit fibrosis in a subject, as a consequence of its combined
   effect on inhibition of collagen type I synthesis, increase in collagen degradation and
   improved muscle regeneration by inhibiting TGFP and myostatin Smad3-dependent
 5 pathways, as shown in Fig. 1. Also, halofuginone may inhibit myostatin gene
   expression in muscle as well as was shown in other tissues causing a further increase
   in muscle regeneration.
             Hereinafter, the term "halofuginone" is defined as a compound having the
   formula:
10
              Br                 N         HO,,
                    o                 NO
             CI                                         N
                                 OH
    and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
             The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to a charged species of
15   the parent compound and its counter ion, which is typically used to modify the
     solubility characteristics of the parent compound and/or to reduce any significant
     irritation to an organism by the parent compound, while not abrogating the
     biological activity and properties of the administered compound.
             Although the specific quinazolinone derivative "halofuginone" is referred to
20 throughout the specification, it is understood that other quinazolinone derivatives
   may be used in its place, these derivatives having the general formula:
                                                19

                          N           R2,
   R'n                                0
                          O                        R3
   wherein: n=1-2
   Ri is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo, lower
 5 alkyl, phenyl and lower alkoxy;
   R2 is a member of the group consisting of hydroxy, acetoxy and lower alkoxy; and
   R3 is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl,
   and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
           The terms "skeletal muscle fibrosis" "muscle fibrosis" and "fibrosis" as used
10 herein refer to a phenomenon that frequently occurs in diseased or damaged muscle,
   characterized by the excessive growth of fibrous tissue, and impairment of muscle
   function.
           Hereinafter, the term "a subject" refers to a human or animal to whom
   halofuginone was administered.
15         The term "reducing the extent of' includes both substantially preventing the
   process of skeletal muscle fibrosis from starting and slowing or halting the
   progression of skeletal muscle fibrosis once it has arisen.
            Compounds which are intended for the inhibition of skeletal muscle fibrosis
   were tested by an in vivo model for their ability to slow or halt the pathological
20 process leading to deposition of fibrotic tissue. Such experiments were conducted
    for the collagen type I synthesis inhibitor halofuginone, as described in greater detail
    in the Examples section below.
                                                20

           The mdx mouse was selected as a model to evaluate the efficacy of
   halofuginone in prevention and treatment of dystrophy by inhibiting muscle fibrosis
   (by decreasing collagen synthesis and increasing collagen degradation) and delaying
   muscle degeneration, and in improving muscle regeneration by inhibiting myostatin
 5 signaling.
           As shown in the Examples section below, halofuginone was shown to be
   highly effective in reducing the extent of skeletal muscle fibrosis, and in improving
   skeletal muscle regeneration, in both skeletal muscle and in muscles of the
   diaphragm.
10          The present invention therefore provides a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a quinazolinone derivative, such as halofuginone, for reducing the extent
   of skeletal muscle fibrosis and for improving skeletal muscle regeneration.
            The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention comprises, in
    addition to the quinazolinone derivative, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and
15 may optionally       further comprise one or more pharmaceutically           acceptable
    excipients, such as, for example, binding agents, stabilizers, diluents, surfactants,
    flavors, and odorants.
            Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be sterile liquids, such as water and
    oils, including those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, such as
20  peanut oil, soybean oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and the like. Water is a preferred
    carrier when the pharmaceutical composition is administered intravenously. Saline
    solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as
    liquid carriers, particularly for injectable solutions.
            Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be manufactured
25  by processes well known in the art, e.g., by means of conventional mixing,
    dissolving, granulating, dragee-making, levigating, emulsifying,         encapsulating,
    entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Further techniques for formulation and
    administration of active ingredients may be found in "Remington's Pharmaceutical
                                                 21

   Sciences," Mack Publishing Co., Easton, PA, latest edition, which is incorporated
   herein by reference as if fully set forth herein. Pharmaceutical compositions for use
   in accordance with the present invention thus may be formulated in conventional
   manmer using one or more pharmaceutically              acceptable carriers comprising
 5 excipients and auxiliaries, which facilitate processing of the active ingredients into
   preparations which, can be used pharmaceutically. Proper formulation is dependent
   upon the route of administration chosen.
           The   pharmaceutical     composition     of the   present   invention   may    be
   administered by any route selected from the oral, parenteral,               transdermal,
10 intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intranasal, intraauricular, sublingual,
   rectal, transmucosal, intestinal, intraauricular, buccal, intramedullar, intrathecal,
   direct   intraventricular,  intraperitoneal,    or  intraocular   routes.     Preferably,
   administration is by the oral or parenteral routes.
           Hereinafter, the term "oral administration" includes, but is not limited to,
15 administration by mouth for absorption through the gastrointestinal tract, buccal
   administration and sublingual administration.
           For oral administration, the active ingredients can be formulated readily by
   combining the active ingredients with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well
   known in the art. Such carriers enable the active ingredients of the invention to be
20 formulated as tablets, pills, dragees, capsules, liquids, gels, syrups, slurries,
   powders or granules, suspensions or solutions in water or non-aqueous media, and
   the like, for oral ingestion by a patient. Pharmacological preparations for oral use
    can be made using a solid excipient, optionally grinding the resulting mixture, and
   processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired, to
25  obtain tablets or dragee cores.     Suitable excipients such as thickeners, diluents,
    flavorings, dispersing aids, emulsifiers, binders or preservatives may be desirable.
           Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings.             For this purpose,
    concentrated sugar solutions may be used which may optionally contain gum arabic,
                                                22

   talc, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, titanium dioxide,
   lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or
   pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to
   characterize different combinations of active ingredient doses.
 5          Pharmaceutical compositions, which can be used orally, include push-fit
   capsules made of gelatin as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a
   plasticizer, such as glycerol or sorbitol.     The push-fit capsules may contain the
   active ingredients in admixture with filler such as lactose, binders such as starches,
   lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and, optionally, stabilizers.       In soft
10 capsules, the active ingredients may be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids,
   such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols.         In addition,
   stabilizers may be added.       All formulations for oral administration should be in
   dosages suitable for the chosen route of administration.
            The term "parenteral      administration" includes, but is not limited to,
15  administration by intravenous drip or bolus injection, subcutaneous, or intra
   muscular injection. Formulations for parenteral administration may be presented in
   unit dosage form, e.g., in ampoules or in multidose containers with optionally, an
    added preservative. The compositions may be suspensions, solutions or emulsions
    in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending,
20  stabilizing and/or dispersing agents.
            Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration include aqueous
    solutions of the active preparation in water-soluble form. Additionally, suspensions
    of the active ingredients may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions.
    Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils such as sesame oil, or
25  synthetic fatty acids esters such as ethyl oleate, triglycerides or liposomes. Aqueous
    injection suspensions may contain substances, which increase the viscosity of the
    suspension,    such   as sodium     carboxymethyl      cellulose,  sorbitol or dextran.
    Optionally, the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents which
                                               23

   increase the solubility of the active ingredients to allow for the preparation of highly
   concentrated solutions.
          The dosage may vary depending upon the dosage form employed and the
   route of administration utilized. The exact formulation, route of administration and
 5 dosage can be chosen by the individual physician in view of the patient's condition.
   (See e.g., Fingl, et al., 1975, in "The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics", Ch. 1
   p.1).
           Compositions of the present invention may, if desired, be presented in a pack
   or dispenser device, such as an FDA approved kit, which may contain one or more
10 unit dosage forms containing the active ingredient.       The pack may, for example,
   comprise metal or plastic foil, such as a blister pack. The pack or dispenser device
   may be accompanied by instructions for administration. The pack or dispenser may
   also be accompanied by a notice associated with the container in a form prescribed
   by    a governmental       agency   regulating   the  manufacture,    use   or  sale   of
15 pharmaceuticals, which notice is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of
   the compositions or human or veterinary administration. Such notice, for example,
   may be of labeling approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
   prescription drugs or of an approved product insert.
           Additional objects, advantages, and novel features of the present invention
20 will become apparent to one ordinarily skilled in the art upon examination of the
    following examples, which are not intended to be limiting. Additionally, each of the
    various embodiments and aspects of the present invention as delineated hereinabove
    and as claimed in the claims section below finds experimental support in the
    following examples.
25
                                                24

                                         EXAMPLES
           Reference is now made to the following examples, which together with the
   above descriptions, illustrate the invention in a non limiting fashion.
 5 Example 1: Collagen content and collagen al(I) gene expression                  (in the
   quadriceps and tibialis muscles
           Mdx mice were treated either with halofuginone by I.P. injection every other
   day (3ptg/mouse) starting at 5 weeks of age for 4 weeks, or with saline vehicle.
   C57B mice were used as controls.
10         At the end of the 4 week period, tibialis anterior (fast) and quadriceps (slow)
   muscles were removed for evaluation of fibrosis by Sirius red staining for collagen
   content, and by in situ hybridization of collagen al(I) gene expression.
   Example 2: Effect of halofuginone on fibrosis in the diaphragm, gastrocnemius
15 and tibialis muscles
            Halofuginone was administered by I.P injection to mdx mice (n=7) from 3
   weeks of age every other day at a concentration of 5ptg/mouse. The wild type
   (C57/BL) and mdx mice without halofuginone served as controls. At the age of 7
   and 11 weeks the mice were sacrificed and the diaphragm, gastrochnemius and the
20 tibialis were fixed for histology and samples were frozen for further analysis.
    Sections were stained for collagen by Sirius red and with methyl green as a counter
    stain. Image analysis using the Image Pro software was performed for statistical
    evaluation of the effect of halofuginone on collagen content. For the image analysis,
    images were taken from 3 animals/group and 4 replicates from each animal/tissue.
25 The results are the ratio of red (R) to green color (G).
                                               25

   Example 3: Effect of halofuginone on muscle regeneration
            Mdx mice were treated with halofuginone 5tg or 7.5tg for 1 or 2 months
   starting at age of 3 weeks. The untreated mdx mice served as controls. At the end of
   the experiment, the diaphragms were taken for hematoxyline & eosine staining
 5 before central nuclei counting. The results are the mean + SE of 20 photos taken
   from 3 different mice. Each photo contained approximately 120 fibers
   Results
            As shown in Fig. 2, the quadriceps (slow) and tibialis (fast) muscles of the
10 C57B controls showed almost no cells expressing the collagen al(I) gene, and low
    levels of collagen surrounding the fibers were observed. A significant increase was
    observed both in the expression of collagen al1 (I) gene and in the amount of collagen
    fibers in the mdx quadriceps and tibialis muscles compared to the controls. This
    increase was almost completely prevented by halofuginone treatment.
15          Fig. 3 demonstrates that in the wild-type mice, the level of collagen was low
    in diaphragm, gastrochnemius and tibialis whereas in the mdx mice, an increase in
    the collagen content was observed in all muscles. The main increase was observed in
    the diaphragm; this was already evident at 3 weeks of age and reached 9 and 15
    fold increase compared to the wild type at 7 and 11 weeks, respectively. In the
20  gastrochnemius, an increase in the collagen content was observed already at 3 weeks
    of age with further increase at 7 weeks. At older ages, a decline in the collagen
    content was observed although the level was still higher than that in the wild type.
    Only a minute increase in collagen was observed in the tibialis. In the diaphragm,
    halofuginone reduced the collagen levels by 25% at 7 weeks (4 weeks of treatment)
25  and by 53%       at 11 weeks (8 weeks of treatment). In the gastrochnemius,
    halofuginone reduced the collagen content by 25% and 33% at 7 and 11 weeks,
    respectively. No effect of halofuginone on the collagen content was observed in the
    tibialis muscle.
                                               26

           Fig. 4 shows the effect of halofuginone 5tg (purple) or 7.5tg (off white) on
   muscle regeneration, with untreated mdx mice (blue) as control. In the wild type
   mice, the nucleus of each muscle fiber is located at the periphery of the cell. In the
   mdx mice small immature centrally nucleated fibers are observed, reflecting muscle
 5 regeneration from myoblasts that results in a balance between necrotic and
   regenerative processes in the early phase of the disease. After halofuginone
   treatment a major reduction in the number of diaphragm central nuclei was observed
   that was dose-dependent. These results suggest that halofuginone improved the
   muscle physiology and reduced the pressure on the mdx mice muscle to regenerate.
10
   Discussion
           In different muscalar dystrophies and dystrophic syndromes, different muscle
   types are affected by fibrosis to a different extent. In the mdx mouse, which serves
   as a model for Duchenne muscle dystrophy (DMD), the most affected muscle is the
15 diaphragm although other muscles are also affected. Consequently, the greatest
   effect of halofuginone in mdx mice was shown with regard to fibrotic diaphragm
   muscles, resulting in 53% inhibition of fibrosis and of the fibrotic process.
           Together, the above results suggest that halofuginone is a potent inhibitor of
20 muscle fibrosis in mdx mice by inhibiting collagen type I synthesis and may inhibit
   the need for muscle degeneration by inhibiting the myostatin pathway.
           The above results further show that the extent of inhibition of fibrosis by
    halofuginone is dependent upon the extent of fibrosis. Halofuginone has been shown
    to inhibit fibrosis by inhibition of collagen synthesis in every muscle that is affected
25  by fibrosis, but in muscles in which only minute increases in collagen synthesis
    occur, the inhibition of collagen synthesis caused by halofuginone may not be
    clearly demonstrable in the context of the experiment, for example during the time
    period tested.
                                                27

          It is appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity,
   described in the context of separate embodiments, may also be provided in
 5 combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention,
   which are, for brevity, described in the context of a single embodiment, may also be
   provided separately or in any suitable subcombination.
          Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific
   embodiments thereof, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and
10 variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, it is intended to
   embrace all such alternatives, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit
   and broad scope of the appended claims.
           All   publications,  patents   and patent    applications mentioned     in this
   specification are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference into the
15 specification, to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent or patent
   application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by
   reference. In addition, citation or identification of any reference in this application
   shall not be construed as an admission that such reference is available as prior art to
   the present invention.
20
25
                                               28

   CLAIMS:
      1. A pharmaceutical composition for treating and/or preventing skeletal muscle
      fibrosis   in   a subject in need       thereof, the composition  comprising   a
 5    pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound in combination with a
      pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, the compound having a formula:
                             N           R2/,
                R'n                      0
                                  N
                             0                        R3
10
      wherein: n is either 1 or 2
      Ri is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo, lower
      alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R2 is a member of the group consisting of
      hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a member of the group consisting
15    of hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
      thereof.
          2.      A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein said
20 compound is halofuginone.
          3.      A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, wherein said
   subject is suffering from a disorder which encompasses skeletal muscle tissue.
                                               29

          4.     A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, wherein said
   disorder is muscular dystrophy.
 5        5.     A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 4, wherein said
   muscular dystrophy is selected from the group consisting of Duchenne muscular
   dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy, Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy, Limb
   Girdle Muscular Dystrophy, Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy, Myotonic
   Dystrophy, Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy, Distal Muscular Dystrophy, and
10 congenital muscular dystrophy.
           6.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, wherein said
   disorder is denervation atrophy.
15         7.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, wherein said
   skeletal muscle tissue is diaphragm muscle.
       8. A pharmaceutical compositions for improving or inducing skeletal muscle
       regeneration in a subject in need thereof, the composition comprising a
20     pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound in combination with a
       pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, the compound having a formula:
                              NR
                R'n                     0
                                   N
                              0                      3
                                              30

      wherein: n is either 1 or 2
          RI is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo,
   lower alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R 2 is a member of the group consisting of
 5 hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl;         and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof.
          9.      A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 8, wherein said
10 compound is halofuginone.
          10.     A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 8, wherein said
   subject is suffering from a disorder which targets skeletal muscle tissue.
15         11.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said
   disorder is muscular dystrophy.
           12.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 11, wherein said
   muscular dystrophy is selected from the group consisting of Duchenne muscular
20 dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy, Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy, Limb
   Girdle Muscular Dystrophy, Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy, Myotonic
   Dystrophy, Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy, Distal Muscular Dystrophy, and
   congenital muscular dystrophy.
25         13.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said
   disorder is denervation atrophy.
                                             31

            14.   A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, wherein said
   skeletal muscle tissue is diaphragm muscle.
 5     15. A method for reducing the progression of skeletal muscle fibrosis in a subject
       in need thereof, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically
       effective amount of a compound in combination with a pharmaceutically
       acceptable carrier, the compound having a formula:
10
                               NR
        R in                            0
                                   N
                                 YN
                              0                    R3
       wherein: n is either 1 or 2
            RI is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo,
15 lower alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R2 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof.
20           16.   A method according to claim       15, wherein said compound is
   halofuginone.
                                            32

           17.     A method according to claim 15, wherein said subject is suffering
   from a disorder which targets skeletal muscle tissue.
            18.    A method according to claim 17, wherein said disorder is muscular
 5 dystrophy.
            19.    A method according to claim 18, wherein said muscular dystrophy is
   selected from the group consisting of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker
   muscular dystrophy, Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy, Limb-Girdle Muscular
10 Dystrophy,     Facioscapulohumeral    Muscular    Dystrophy,  Myotonic   Dystrophy,
   Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy, Distal Muscular Dystrophy, and congenital
   muscular dystrophy.
            20.    A method according to claim 17, wherein said disorder is denervation
15  atrophy.
            21.    A method according to claim 17, wherein said skeletal muscle tissue is
    diaphragm muscle.
20          22.    A method for improving or inducing skeletal muscle regeneration in a
    subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically
    effective amount of a compound in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier, the compound having a formula:
25
                                             33

                              NR2,,
        Rin                              0
                                   Na
                              0                      K3
       wherein: n is either 1 or 2
           Ri is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo,
 5 lower alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R 2 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl; and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof.
10          23.   A method according to claim 22, wherein said compound is
   halofuginone.
            24.   A method according to claim 22, wherein said subject is suffering
    from a disorder which targets skeletal muscle tissue.
15
            25.   A method according to claim 24, wherein said disorder is muscular
    dystrophy.
            26.   A method according to claim 25, wherein said muscular dystrophy is
20  selected from the group consisting of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker
    muscular dystrophy, Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy, Limb-Girdle Muscular
    Dystrophy,   Facioscapulohumeral      Muscular   Dystrophy, Myotonic  Dystrophy,
                                             34

   Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy, Distal Muscular Dystrophy, and congenital
   muscular dystrophy.
           27.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 24, wherein said
 5 disorder is denervation atrophy.
           28.    A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 24, wherein said
   skeletal muscle tissue is diaphragm muscle.
10         29.    A method according to claim 22, wherein the improving of skeletal
   muscle regeneration occurs through inhibiting the TGF3 pathway and/or by
   inhibiting the Myostatin Smad3-dependent pathway.
      30.         Use of a compound having a formula:
15
                              N'R
                R'n                     0
                                   Nj.
                             0                    R3
      wherein: n is either 1 or 2
20         Ri is a member of the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, nitro, benzo,
   lower alkyl, phenyl, and lower alkoxy; R 2 is a member of the group consisting of
   hydroxy, acetoxy, and lower alkoxy; and R3 is a member of the group consisting of
                                            35

   hydrogen and lower alkenoxy-carbonyl;               and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof;
           in the manufacture of a medicament for reducing the progression of skeletal
   muscle fibrosis in a subject in need thereof
 5
           31.    The    use according         to claim 30,       wherein   said compound   is
   halofuginone.
           32.    The use according to claim 30, wherein said subject is suffering from a
10 disorder which targets skeletal muscle tissue.
           33.    The use according to claim 32, wherein said disorder is muscular
    dystrophy.
15         34.    The use according to claim 33, wherein said muscular dystrophy is
    selected from the group consisting of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker
   muscular dystrophy, Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy, Limb-Girdle Muscular
    Dystrophy, Facioscapulohumeral            Muscular      Dystrophy,    Myotonic  Dystrophy,
    Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy, Distal Muscular Dystrophy, and congenital
20  muscular dystrophy.
           35.    The use according to claim 32, wherein said disorder is denervation
    atrophy.
25         36.    The use according to claim 32, wherein said skeletal muscle tissue is
    diaphragm muscle.
                                 Agricultural Research Organization
                 Hadasit Medical Research Services and Development Company Ltd.
                        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                   36

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
