                                           ABSTRACT
         A device, including one or more processors that receive operation information that
identifies a plurality of operations to be performed with regard to a client by a plurality of
workers, generate, based on the operation information, a program that identifies the plurality
of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to be performed, the
program including assignment information that identifies one or more workers, of the plurality
of workers, that have been assigned to perform respective operations of the plurality of
operations, and the order based on logical relationships between the plurality of operations
and automatically determined according to one or more of a dependency of a first operation,
of the plurality of operations, on a second operation of the plurality of operations, and/or a
conditional relationship between a first operation, of the plurality of operations, and a second
operation of the plurality of operations, provide a graphical user interface to one or more user
devices associated with the one or more workers, the graphical user interface providing, to
the one or more workers, information regarding the respective operations and/or the
program, provide, to the one or more user devices, respective portions of the program
associated with the respective operations that are assigned to the one or more workers,
cause the one or more user devices to automatically collect information, including information
available from a sensor associated with a user device of the one or more user devices, that
identifies completion states of the respective operations and provides the collected
information as performance information; automatically generate an updated program based
on the performance information, the updated program including one or more modified
operations that are determined based on one or more of the plurality of operations and the
performance information, and the updated program identifying a modification to the order in
which the plurality of operations are to be performed, and provide the updated program to
the one or more user devices associated with the plurality of workers to thereby synchronize
the user devices regarding a status of the operation to which each worker has been
assigned, wherein providing the updated program includes modifying the graphical user
interface on one or more of the user devices, based on the performance information, to
generate an updated graphical user interface.

                      U)      1             1/8
           'o            o
          "js      o:U)U
                   a)                           0
 m)
[j, El             a)CZ!(D)                      1                         (D
                           Z-~a                                   -)/
                   CZ~~.        /       0     0
                 cz~          ~         0)c
     El~ CLU     ~ E-
                   a- C                                                  C
                                                                      00
                                    ol                                       LoL
                                                   L.CL
                                                     aa)
                                       0
                                       .02
                                    0                                        LL
              E           a1
                         a)                                    a)
                                                    a          0
              0~                  0                         CZ
                           a)                            _0     0
CD                     0

                                                 1
          CLOUD-BASED OPERATION ADMINISTRATION PLATFORM
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application Number
<removed-apn> filed 10 December 2016, the content of which is incorporated by reference
herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     Health related services may be provided by multiple different entities that perform
different tasks with respect to a client. For example, different healthcare providers may
perform different tasks with regard to a patient. The different entities may be associated with
different companies, different functions, different locations, or the like.

                                                2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that receive operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to be
performed with regard to a client by a plurality of workers, generate, based on the operation
information, a program that identifies the plurality of operations and an order in which the
plurality of operations are to be performed, the program including assignment information
that identifies one or more workers, of the plurality of workers, that have been assigned to
perform respective operations of the plurality of operations, and the order being based on
logical relationships between the plurality of operations and automatically determined
according to one or more of a dependency of a first operation, of the plurality of operations,
on a second operation of the plurality of operations, and/or a conditional relationship between
a first operation, of the plurality of operations, and a second operation of the plurality of
operations, provide a graphical user interface to one or more user devices associated with
the one or more workers, the graphical user interface providing, to the one or more workers,
information regarding the respective operations and/or the program, provide, to the one or
more user devices, respective portions of the program associated with the respective
operations that are assigned to the one or more workers, cause the one or more user devices
to automatically collect information, including information available from a sensor associated
with a user device of the one or more user devices, that identifies completion states of the
respective operations and to provide the collected information as performance information,
automatically generate an updated program based on the performance information, the
updated program including one or more modified operations that are determined based on
one or more of the plurality of operations and the performance information, and the updated
program identifying a modification to the order in which the plurality of operations are to be
performed, and provide the updated program to the one or more user devices associated
with the plurality of workers to thereby synchronize the user devices regarding a status of
the operation to which each worker has been assigned, wherein providing the updated
program includes modifying the graphical user interface on one or more of the user devices,
based on the performance information, to generate an updated graphical user interface.

                                               3
[0004]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method, including receiving, by a device, operation information that identifies a plurality of
operations to be performed with regard to a client by one or more workers, generating, by
the device and based on the operation information, a program that identifies the plurality of
operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to be performed, the program
including assignment information that identifies particular operations, of the plurality of
operations, that have been assigned to be performed by the one or more workers, and the
order based on logical relationships between the plurality of operations and automatically
performed according to one or more of a dependency of a first operation, of the plurality of
operations, on a second operation of the plurality of operations, and/or a conditional
relationship between a first operation, of the plurality of operations, and a second operation
of the plurality of operations, providing, by the device and to one or more user devices
associated with the one or more workers, a graphical user interface, the graphical user
interface being generated based on the program, and the graphical user interface providing
information relevant to performing the operations that have been assigned to the one or more
workers, causing the one or more user devices to automatically collect information, including
information available from a sensor associated with a user device of the one or more user
devices, that identifies completion states of the respective operations and to provide the
collected information as performance information, generating, by the device, an updated
program based on the performance information, the updated program identifying one or more
incomplete operations of the plurality of operations and one or more completed operations
of the plurality of operations, and the updated program identifying a modification to the order
in which the incomplete operations are to be performed, and providing, by the device and to
the one or more user devices associated with the plurality of workers, the updated program
to thereby synchronize the user devices regarding a status of the operation to which each
worker has been assigned, wherein providing the updated program includes modifying the
graphical user interface on one or more of the user devices based on the performance
information, to generate an updated graphical user interface.
[0005]     In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,

                                                 4
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive
operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to be performed with regard to
a client by a plurality of workers, generate, based on the operation information, a program
that identifies the plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are
to be performed, the program including assignment information that identifies one or more
workers, of the plurality of workers, that have been assigned to perform respective operations
of the plurality of operations, the order based on logical relationships between the plurality
of operations and automatically determined according to one or more of a dependency of a
first operation, of the plurality of operations, on a second operation of the plurality of
operations, and/or a conditional relationship between a first operation, of the plurality of
operations, and a second operation of the plurality of operations, provide a graphical user
interface to one or more user devices associated with the one or more workers, the graphical
user interface to provide, to the one or more workers, information regarding the respective
operations and/or the program, provide, to the one or more user devices, respective portions
of the program associated with the respective operations that are assigned to the one or
more workers, cause the one or more user devices to automatically collect information,
including information available from a sensor associated with a user device of the one or
more user devices, that identifies completion states of the respective operations and to
provide the collected information as performance information, automatically generate an
updated program based on the performance information, the updated program identifying
one or more incomplete operations, of the plurality of operations, and one or more completed
operations of the plurality of operations, and the updated program identifying a modification
to the order in which the incomplete operations are to be performed, and provide the updated
program to the one or more user devices associated with the plurality of workers to thereby
synchronize the user devices regarding a status of the operation to which each worker has
been assigned, wherein providing the updated program includes modifying the graphical
user interface on one or more of the user devices, based on the performance information, to
generate an updated graphical user interface.

                                             5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]    Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of overviews of an example implementation
described herein;
[0007]    Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0008]    Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0009]    Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for generating a program based on
operations to be performed with regard to a client;
[0010]    Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process for providing an updated program
based on completion of operations to be performed with regard to a client; and
[0011]    Figs. 6A and 6B are diagrams of example graphical user interfaces that may be
generated based on the examples shown in Figs. 4 and 5.

                                               6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0012]     The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0013]     An entity, such as a life sciences entity, a health care entity, a pharmaceutical
company, an insurance company, a hospital, a rehabilitation facility, or the like, may offer
one or more services to a client (e.g., a patient, a person associated with a patient, etc.),
aimed at enhancing a client experience.         For example, the entity may offer services
associated with providing support throughout a treatment, such as a service associated with
enrolling the client for the treatment, a service associated with ensuring that the client
adheres to the treatment, a service associated with supporting the client throughout the
treatment, or the like.
[0014]      However, provisioning of such client services may be disjointed and/or separate
(e.g., between various teams associated with providing each service), which may negatively
impact the client experience. This may be problematic when a workflow of client services is
complex and includes parallel operations, dependencies, conditional relationships, or the
like. Moreover, the disjointed and/or separate provisioning of the client services may prevent
the entity from gathering information, associated with the treatment (e.g., client data,
treatment data, data associated with the services, etc.), that, if analyzed, may provide insight
into improvement of the patient services.
[0015]      Implementations   described herein     may provide a workflow orchestration
component (herein referred to as an operations platform) to support one or more computer
implemented client services related to a set of operations (e.g., a workflow). The set of
operations may include conditional relationships, operations to be performed in parallel,
particular information to be gathered, a particular order of operations to be performed, or the
like.
[0016]      In some implementations, the operations platform may generate a program (e.g.,
a sequence of activities, tasks, events, etc.) associated with the set of operations. Further,

                                              7
the operations platform may automatically determine an order of the set of operations based
on information associated with the set of operations and/or the operation information. Based
on the program, the operations platform may cause the set of operations to be performed,
and may monitor performance of the set of operations. For example, the operations platform
may automatically assign operations to be performed, may automatically determine that the
operations have been performed, and may update the program to automatically cause
remaining operations of the program to be performed.           In some implementations, the
operations platform may be associated with security measures that improve security of the
program and/or client information associated with the program. The operations platform may
further provide users (e.g., nurses, physicians, patients, etc.) with a visualization of the set
of operations as related to the one or more client services.
[0017]     In this way, the operations platform facilitates generation, performance, and
administration of complex workflows that include parallel, hierarchical, and/or conditional
operations. By automatically assigning operations to be performed and providing information
relevant to performance of the assigned operations, the operations platform conserves
computational resources that would otherwise be used to manually identify operations to be
performed and to obtain information relevant to performing the operations.          Further, the
operations platform may reconfigure operations based on previously performed operations
(e.g., based on results of the previously performed operations and/or information gathered
based on the previously performed operations) which improves provision of health related
services.
[0018]     Furthermore, by automatically assigning particular tasks to be performed by
particular workers, and by controlling the manner in which information is provided to and
obtained from the particular workers, the operations platform improves security of the
information (e.g., based on providing and obtaining the information via a secure connection,
based on providing and obtaining the information when the worker is located in a particular
location, etc.).
[0019]     Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of overviews of an example implementation 100
described herein. As shown in Fig. 1A, example implementation 100 may include a user

                                                8
device which may store operation information related to operations to be performed with
regard to a client. Example implementation 100 may further include an operations platform
which may generate a program (e.g., a sequence of activities, tasks, events, or the like)
based on the operation information, and one or more user devices, each which may be used
by a worker to perform operations identified by the program.
[0020]     As shown by reference number 105, the user device may receive or store
operation information and/or client information relating to the client. As shown by reference
number 110, the operation information may identify a set of operations (e.g., operations 1-7,
as shown).     An operation may include, for example, training a client, mailing a letter,
performing a medical procedure, inputting information, automatically obtaining a sensor
measurement, or the like.       As further shown, the operation information may identify
dependencies of the operations (e.g., prerequisites, inputs for particular operations that are
outputs of other operations, etc.).
[0021]      In some    implementations, the operation information        may further identify
requirements associated with the operations (e.g., indicated here by ellipses). For example,
for a particular operation, a requirement may identify particular information that is required
to perform the particular operation, a particular tool or component that is required to perform
the particular operation, a quantity of workers required to perform the operation, or the like.
Additionally, or alternatively, the operation information may identify a hierarchy of the
operations, an order in which the operations are to be performed, types associated with the
operations, or the like.
[0022]     As shown by reference number 115, the user device may also store or have
access to client information (e.g., medical information, location information, worker
comments regarding the client, or the like). As shown by reference number 120, the user
device may provide the operation information and/or the client information to the operations
platform.
[0023]     As shown by reference number 125, the operations platform may generate, based
on the operation information, a program that identifies the operations to be performed. The
program may also identify an order in which to perform the operations, logical relationships

                                                9
between the operations, workers to perform the operations, criteria based on which workers
are to be selected, client information associated with the operations, geographical location
of the operations, information to be gathered during performance of the operations, or the
like. For example, here, the program identifies the logical relationship between operations 2
and 3 (i.e., perform one of operation 2 or operation 3 based on a result of performing
operation 1) and the hierarchical relationship between each of the operations.        In some
cases, the operations platform may determine client information that relates to particular
operations, and may generate the program based on the client information. For example,
the program may identify client information that is relevant and/or useful for a worker that is
to perform each operation (e.g., based on an operation type, etc.).
[0024]      As shown by reference number 130, the operations platform may assign
operations of the program to user devices associated with workers who are to perform the
operations. As shown by reference number 135, the operations platform may generate a
graphical user interface to provide information regarding the program and/or the operations
to be performed.     Additionally, or alternatively, the operations platform may generate a
template for a graphical user interface, and a user device may generate the graphical user
interface based on the template. Additionally, or alternatively, the operations platform may
provide user devices with access to the graphical user interface (e.g., based on a credential,
based on locations of the user devices, etc.). For example, the graphical user interface may
provide information relating to client information and operations to be performed by a worker
with regard to the client.
[0025]      As shown by reference number 140, the operations platform may provide the
program and/or the graphical user interface to user devices associated with workers who are
to perform the operations (e.g., field nurses, traveling medical professionals, technicians,
etc.), and/or to user devices associated with entities who may utilize the client information
(e.g., administrative workers, insurance representatives, medical professionals, etc.). For
example, the operations platform may assign one or more operations of the program to be
performed by a particular worker that is associated with a particular user device. The
operations platform may provide, to the particular worker, a graphical user interface that
identifies the one or more operations, and that provides client information regarding a client

                                              10
for which the one or more operations are to be performed. In some cases, the operations
platform may provide the graphical user interface via a secure connection. Additionally, or
alternatively, the operations platform may provide the graphical user interface based on the
user device being located at a particular location (e.g., a secure location).
[0026]     As shown in Fig. 1B, and as shown by reference number 145, a worker may
perform assigned operations, and may provide performance information to the user device.
The performance information may identify a completion state of each operation assigned to
the worker. For example, the performance information may indicate whether an operation is
complete, incomplete, impossible to complete (e.g., based on a changed circumstance or a
lack of required information or tools), or the like. As another example, the performance
information may include information or data relating to performing the one or more
operations.     For example, when a worker is to gather particular information based on
performing the action, the performance information may include the particular information.
[0027]     As shown by reference number 150, the operations platform may receive the
performance information from the user device. For example, the performance information
may indicate that operation 1 has been completed, and may further include condition
information indicating that operation 2 should be performed instead of operation 3 (e.g.,
based on the logical relationship identified by the program, and based on a result of
performing operation 1).
[0028]     As shown by reference number 155, the operations platform may generate and
provide an updated program based on the performance information. The updated program
may identify operations of the original program that have been performed, operations that
are no longer to be performed (e.g., based on condition information), operations that have
yet to be performed, operations that are to be newly performed (e.g., operations that are not
included in the original program and are included in the updated program), updated client
information associated with the set of operations, or the like. Here, the operations platform
determines that operation 1 has been performed, and determines that a conditional or logical
relationship of the program indicates to perform operation 2 instead of operation 3. As an
example, operation 1 may include determining a measurement, and the program may

                                               11
indicate to selectively perform operation 2 or operation 3 based on whether the measurement
satisfies a threshold.     In some implementations, the operations platform may modify
operations to be performed in association with the updated program (e.g., based on
performance information associated with one or more operations).
[0029]      As further shown, the operations platform may assign operations of the updated
program to be performed by one or more workers (e.g., the same workers that performed
the operations of the original program, or different workers than those that performed the
operations of the original program). In some implementations, the operations platform may
update a graphical user interface based on the updated program.
[0030]      As shown by reference number 160, the operations platform may provide the
updated program (e.g., part of or all of the updated program) to a user device associated
with a worker that is assigned to perform at least a portion of remaining operations of the
updated program. As further shown, the operations platform may provide information that
identifies the operations assigned to the worker. As shown by reference number 165, the
operations platform may provide an updated graphical user interface to the user device.
[0031]      As further shown, the updated graphical user interface for the worker may identify
remaining assigned operations for the worker to perform. For example, a particular worker
may be available (e.g., qualified, suitable, located appropriately) to be assigned to perform
operations 2, 3, and 4. In this case, as the performance information indicated that operation
2 and not operation 3 is to be performed, the graphical user interface may provide an
indication to the particular worker that operations 2 and 4 are to be performed by the
particular worker, as shown.
[0032]      As shown by reference number 170, the operations platform may also provide part
of or all of the updated program to a user device associated with an administrator (e.g., an
administrator of the program, an insurance entity, a health care administrator, etc.). As
shown by reference number 175, the operations platform may provide an updated graphical
user interface to the user device associated with the administrator. As further shown, the
updated graphical user interface provided to the administrator user device may be different
than the updated graphical user interface provided to the user device associated with the

                                               12
worker. For example, the operations platform may determine that the administrator user
device is associated with an administrator (e.g., based on a credential associated with the
administrator user device, based on a device identifier associated with the administrator user
device, etc.), and may generate and/or provide an updated graphical user interface that
provides information relevant to or useful to the administrator. Thus, the operations platform
conserves processor and/or other computer resources that would otherwise be used to
obtain information regard the program via a graphical user interface that is not properly
configured for the administrator.
[0033]     As shown by reference number 180, the updated graphical user interface may
provide information indicating operation 1 has been completed (e.g., based on a displayed
check mark), that operation 2 has been selected over operation 3 (e.g., based on a displayed
star), and that operations 3 and 6 are, therefore, not to be performed (e.g., based on x marks
displayed in association with operations 3 and 6). As shown by reference number 185, the
updated graphical user interface may also include notes regarding operation 1 (e.g.,
information gathered by the worker who performed operation 1). As shown by reference
number 190, the updated graphical user interface may also include information identifying
workers that are assigned to the remaining operations to be performed with regard to the
client.
[0034]     Thus, the updated graphical user interface associated with the administrator user
device may provide information that is relevant to an administrator, whereas the updated
graphical user interface associated with the worker may provide information that is relevant
to a worker that is assigned to perform operations.       In this way, performance of a set of
operations that includes conditionals, dependencies, and/or a hierarchical order of tasks is
improved.    Furthermore, security of information associated with the set of operations is
improved based on using the operations platform to manage the information associated with
the set of operations.     For example, the program may require that particular security
protocols be followed, may use secure sessions to transfer information relating to the set of
operations, or the like.

                                               13
[0035]     By automatically tracking and administering performance of operations, the
operations platform improves efficiency of performance of the operations and enables
reconfiguration of the operations in real-time or near real-time (e.g., real-time or substantially
real-time) relative to when the operations are reconfigured manually.           Furthermore, by
providing information regarding an updated program to one or more user devices, the
operations platform may synchronize the user devices of multiple workers, clients, and/or
administrators with regard to the status of the operations.          In this way, uniformity of
performance of operations is improved.         Further, the operations platform may enable
analysis of performance information relating to performance of operations, which improves
provision of health related services.
[0036]     As indicated above, Figs. 1A and 1B are provided merely as examples. Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A and
1B.
[0037]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods described herein may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 205, one or more server devices 210, an operations
platform 215 hosted within a cloud computing environment 220, and a network 225. Devices
of environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a
combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0038]     User device 205 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with operations platform 215,
such as information associated with one or more applications of operations platform 215.
For example, user device 205 may include a communication and computing device, such as
a mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone, a radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a wearable communication device (e.g.,
a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, etc.), or a similar type of device. In some
implementations, user device 205 may include one or more medical devices (e.g., sensors,
monitors, etc.) via which data may be gathered.

                                               14
[0039]     Server device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, collecting,
obtaining, gathering, storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a
patient and/or a treatment associated with the patient. For example, server device 210 may
include a server or a group of servers. In some implementations, server device 210 may
include a device that stores or has access to patient information that is to be used by
operations platform 215. In some implementations, server device 210 may be capable of
providing information to operations platform 215.
[0040]     Operations platform 215 includes one or more devices capable of receiving,
determining, processing, storing, and/or providing information associated with one or more
operations associated with a client and/or a workflow associated with the client.          For
example, operations platform 215 may include a server or a group of servers.          In some
implementations, operations platform 215 may host a suite of applications associated with
the one or more operations. In some implementations, operations platform 215 may include
a workflow orchestration component as described herein.
[0041]     In some implementations, as shown, operations platform 215 may be hosted in
cloud computing environment 220.         Notably, while implementations described herein
describe operations platform 215 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 220, in
some implementations, operations platform 215 may not be cloud-based or may be partially
cloud-based.
[0042]     Cloud computing environment 220 includes an environment that hosts operations
platform 215. Cloud computing environment 220 may provide computation, software, data
access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user (e.g., user device 205) knowledge
of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that hosts operations
platform 215.     As shown, cloud computing environment 220 may include a group of
computing resources 222 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 222" and
individually as "computing resource 222").
[0043]     Computing resource 222 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or another type of computation and/or communication device. In
some implementations, computing resource 222 may host operations platform 215. The

                                               15
cloud resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 222,
storage devices provided in computing resource 222, data transfer devices provided by
computing resource 222, etc.       In some implementations, computing resource 222 may
communicate with other computing resources 222 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0044]      As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 222 includes a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 222-1, one or more virtual machines
("VMs") 222-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 222-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 222-4,
or the like.
[0045]      Application 222-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by user device 205. Application 222-1 may eliminate a need to install and
execute the software applications on user device 205. For example, application 222-1 may
include software associated with operations platform 215 and/or any other software capable
of being provided via cloud computing environment 220.        In some implementations, one
application 222-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications 222
1, via virtual machine 222-2.
[0046]      Virtual machine 222-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 222-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 222-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 222-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., user device 205), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 220, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0047]      Virtualized storage 222-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 222. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,

                                                16
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0048]        Hypervisor 222-4 provides hardware virtualization techniques that allow multiple
operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a host
computer, such as computing resource 222.            Hypervisor 222-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0049]        Network 225 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 225 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE) network, a 3G
network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network, etc.), a public land mobile network
(PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)),
a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet, a fiber optic-based network,
or the like, and/or a combination of these or other types of networks.
[0050]       The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example.        In practice, there may be additional devices, fewer devices,
different devices, or differently arranged devices than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore,
two or more devices shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single
device shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally,
one or more of the devices of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another one or more devices of environment 200.

                                               17
[0051]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 205, server device 210, and/or operations platform 215. In some
implementations, user device 205, server device 210, and/or operations platform 215 may
include one or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown
in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage
component 340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a communication
interface 370.
[0052]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among    the
components of device 300.       Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[0053]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0054]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning

                                                 18
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).              Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0055]     Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0056]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0057]     Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0058]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.

                                                19
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0059]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for generating a program based
on operations to be performed with regard to a client. In some implementations, one or more
process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by operations platform 215 (e.g., operations
platform 215 of cloud computing environment 220). In some implementations, one or more
process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device or a group of devices separate
from or including operations platform 215, such as user device 205 and/or server device 210.
[0060]      As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving operation information that
relates to a set of operations to be performed with regard to a client (block 410).         For
example, operations platform 215 may receive operation information from user device 205.
In some implementations, the operation information may identify a set of operations to be
performed with regard to a client (e.g., a patient, a customer, or any other recipient of
services relating to the set of operations). As an example, the client may be a patient and
the set of operations may relate to a treatment plan for the patient.
[0061]      The set of operations may include, for example, enrolling a client in treatment,
performing     treatment,    providing  treatment   instructions  (e.g.,  treatment   adherence
instructions), assessing patient condition (e.g., response to treatment), or the like.      For
example, an operation may include obtaining sensor measurements (e.g., temperature,
heart rate, or blood pressure), providing therapy (e.g., physical therapy, occupational
therapy, or psychotherapy), administering medications (e.g., providing medications, or
providing information associated with medications), extracting and/or maintaining material
(e.g., blood, tissue, or excretions) for diagnostic testing or donation, administering a survey
(e.g., with respect to symptoms or side effects), measuring responses to stimuli, or the like.
Other examples are possible, and the operations to be performed are not limited to the above
examples. Indeed, an operation may include any action to be performed with regard to a
client, and need not be limited to the health care, life sciences, or related fields.

                                                  20
[0062]      In some implementations, the operation information may identify criteria of the
workers to be eligible to perform the operations (e.g., education criteria, qualification criteria,
experience criteria, location criteria, or the like). For example, different operations, of the set
of operations, may be associated with different criteria or requirements.          The operation
information pertaining to each operation, of the set of operations, may identify respective
criteria associated with each operation. Operations platform 215 may assign operations to
be performed by workers based on comparing the criteria or requirements to information
associated with the workers.
[0063]      In some implementations, the operation information may identify an order in which
the operations are to be performed. For example, the operation information may identify a
dependency of two or more operations (e.g., step A must be performed before step B, certain
data must be obtained before performing a step, or the like) or logical relationships between
steps (e.g., IF a particular condition is TRUE, perform step A; ELSE perform step B). As
another example, the operation information may identify types of operations, based on which
operations platform 215 may determine an order in which the operations are to be performed.
As yet another example, the operation information may identify inputs and outputs of the
operations, based on which operations platform 215 may determine the order.
[0064]      In some cases, the operation information may be configured based on a template
that corresponds to a particular type of service. For example, the operation information (e.g.,
the operations prescribed by the operation information, the formatting of the operation
information, etc.) may be configured based on a diabetes treatment template, a 12 week
rehabilitation plan template, or a similar template.       In some implementations, operations
platform 215 may provide an interface (e.g., a user interface) for inputting the operation
information based on the template. For example, the user interface may include elements
that permit a user to specify particular operations to be performed, an order in which
operations are to be performed, or the like. In such a case, operations platform 215 may
process the operation information based on the template, which may conserve computing
resources that would otherwise be used to process, normalize, or identify operation
information that is not associated with a template.

                                                   21
[0065]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may receive client information
that relates to the client (e.g., client history, previous operations performed, or the like). For
example, the client information may relate to attributes of a patient, such as medical history,
health indicators, patient-provided information, pharmaceuticals, performance on tasks, lab
results, insurance information, provider notes, patient preferences, or the like. Additionally,
or alternatively, the client information may include geographical information (e.g., based on
a previously entered address, Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of a device
associated with the client, or the like). The client information may be received from the client
(e.g., via user device 205), from an entity that provides the operation information, or the like.
[0066]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may receive or obtain the
operation    information    automatically.      For example, operations platform       215 may
automatically generate the operation information according to a template and based on
patient information associated with the patient (e.g., may generate an exercise program
based on a height and weight of a patient). Additionally, or alternatively, operations platform
215 may generate or modify the operation information based on a result of performing one
or more operations (e.g., based on performance information obtained based on performing
the one or more operations).          In some implementations, operations platform 215 may
automatically receive the operation information periodically (e.g., for a weekly treatment to
be administered to a patient, etc.). In some implementations, operations platform 215 may
receive or obtain the operation information based on a user input. For example, a user may
input the operation information to user device 205, and user device 205 may provide the
operation information to operations platform 215.
[0067]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may determine the operation
information based on a model.           For example, the model may receive, as input, client
information, and may output operation information regarding the patient.                 In some
implementations, the model may be trained based on an artificial intelligence system, such
as a machine learning algorithm. For example, the model may be trained based on client
information regarding a set of clients and based on information that identifies successful
operations, unsuccessful operations, cost-effective operations, or the like, for the set of
clients. By training the model based on an artificial intelligence system, operations platform

                                               22
215 may improve accuracy of operation information outputted by the model, may conserve
organizational resources that would otherwise be used to manually determine operation
information, and may permit determination of correlations, research, or the like based on the
model.
[0068]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include generating, based on the
operation information, a program that identifies the operations to be performed and/or one
or more workers that are assigned to perform the operations (block 420). For example,
operations platform 215 may generate the program based on the operation information. In
some implementations, the program may identify the set of operations to be performed with
regard to the client, and may identify the client information associated with the client.
[0069]     The program may identify the set of operations to be performed with regard to the
client. Additionally, or alternatively, the program may identify an order in which the set of
operations are to be performed, and/or may identify logical relationships between the
operations. In some implementations, operations platform 215 may determine the order in
which the operations are to be performed based on the operation information associated with
the operations. For example, the operation information may identify the order. As another
example, operations platform 215 may determine the order based on inputs and/or outputs
of operations (e.g., when a first operation is to obtain or determine information that is used
as an input to a second operation).
[0070]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may determine the order of the
operations based on one or more rules, based on business logic, or the like. For example,
assume that a rule indicates that an operation of a first type (e.g., an operation to determine
a body weight of a client) is to precede an operation of a second type (e.g., an operation to
determine a dosage of medication for the client). In that case, when determining an order of
operations that include an operation of the first type and an operation of the second type,
operations platform 215 may determine that the operation of the first type is to be performed
before the operation of the second type. As another example, operations platform 215 may
determine that operations of a patient care type are to be performed before operations of a
billing type.   Thus, operations platform 215 automatically determines the order in which

                                               23
operations are to be performed, which conserves computing resources that would otherwise
be used to determine the order manually, and which reduces variability of performance of
the operations.
[0071]      In some implementations, the program may identify client information associated
with particular operations. For example, the program may identify a geographical location at
which an operation is to be performed. As another example, if an attribute of a client is
needed to perform an operation, the operation information may identify the attribute (e.g., a
medical history, a body weight, medical allergies, etc.). As yet another example, if operations
platform 215 stores or has access to information regarding previous operations performed
for the client that are relevant to a particular operation of the program, the program may
include the information regarding the previous operations.
[0072]      In some implementations, the program may include or be associated with
assignment information that identifies particular workers that are to perform one or more of
the operations. In some implementations, each operation of the program may be assigned
to the same worker. In some implementations, different operations of a program may be
assigned to be performed by two or more different workers.           For example, operations
platform 215 may assign operations based on expertise levels of workers (e.g., when a
worker meets a requirement associated with an operation), an availability of the workers, a
random selection, a skill required to perform the particular operations, a level of experience
of the one or more workers, geographic proximity of the one or more workers to the location
associated with the client, one or more past operations performed by the one or more
workers with regard to the client, or any other criterion.        Additionally, or alternatively,
operations may be assigned based on worker selections. For example, a worker may select
which operations to perform via the user interface generated by operations platform 215.
[0073]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may determine assignment
information based on a model that is trained, for example, based on a machine learning
algorithm, or the like. For example, operations platform 215 may assign workers to perform
operations, and may receive performance information that indicates whether the workers
successfully performed the operations. Based on the performance information, and based

                                                 24
on attributes of the workers (e.g., expertise, experience, location, etc.), operations platform
215 may train a model for assigning the operations. The model may receive input information
that identifies a set of workers and a set of operations. Based on the input information, the
model may output assignment information that identifies assignments of the set of operations
to be performed by the set of workers. Thus, operations platform 215 improves efficiency of
assigning the operations and conserves computing resources that would otherwise be used
to manually assign the operations or manually define rules for assigning operations.
[0074]      Operations platform 215 may update the model based on results of performing the
set of operations. For example, based on a machine learning algorithm, operations platform
215 may use performance information corresponding to the set of operations to update the
model.    By iteratively updating the model based on performance information for a set of
workers, operations platform 215 improves performance of the model and, thus, improves
efficiency of the set of workers and of performance of the set of operations.
[0075]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may encrypt the program,
which may increase security of the program.           Additionally, or alternatively, operations
platform 215 may require one or more credentials to access information regarding the
program. For example, different workers may be associated with different credentials, and
operations platform 215 may control access to information associated with the program
based on receiving and authenticating the credentials. In this case, operations platform 215
may provide access to different levels of detail, different sets of information, information
relating to particular operations, or the like, based on levels of authorization associated with
the one or more credentials. Thus, security of the program is improved.
[0076]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include generating a graphical user
interface to provide information regarding the program (block 430). For example, operations
platform 215 may generate a graphical user interface to provide information regarding the
program. In some implementations, the graphical user interface may provide information
regarding the entire program (e.g., to an administrator of the program, etc.).          In some
implementations, the graphical user interface may provide information regarding a portion of
the program. For example, when presenting information relating to particular operations to

                                                25
be performed by a worker, the graphical user interface may provide information relating to
the particular operations to be performed by the worker.          As another example, when
providing information to an entity associated with an insurance company, the graphical user
interface may provide information helpful to the entity associated with the insurance company
(e.g., based on a request for the information, based on a template, based on a configuration
of the graphical user interface, or the like).
[0077]      The graphical user interface may provide information relevant to performing the
one or more operations. For example, when an operation relates to obtaining a particular
measurement, the graphical user interface may provide instructions for obtaining the
particular measurement, a field in which to show or receive a value of the particular
measurement, a field in which to show or receive notes regarding the operation, or the like.
Additionally, or alternatively, the graphical user interface may provide client information
relating to a client for which the one or more operations are to be performed. For example,
when the client is a patient, the graphical user interface may provide medical information for
the patient, a treatment history of the patient, recent comments by the patient, or the like. By
providing information relevant to performing assigned operations, operations platform 215
facilitates efficient performance of the assigned operations and conserves computational
resources that would otherwise be used to search for and find the relevant information.
[0078]      In some implementations, the graphical user interface may permit a user to input
information regarding an operation and/or a client.        For example, the user may input
performance information to specify that an operation has been completed, or that an
operation cannot be completed. Additionally, or alternatively, a worker may input information
collected in the course of performing the operation, such as observations regarding an
operation, statements made by the client, or the like. This information may be provided to
operations platform 215, which may use the information to improve provision of operations
and/or to update operations (e.g., based on a model, based on observations regarding
effectiveness of a particular operation, etc.). Thus, efficiency of performance of operations
with regard to a client is improved.

                                               26
[0079]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may generate the graphical
user interface, and may provide the graphical user interface to a user device 205 associated
with a worker, as described in more detail below. In some implementations, a device other
than operations platform 215 may generate the graphical user interface.        For example,
operations platform 215 may provide the program to another device (e.g., user device 205
or server device 210) and the other device may generate the graphical user interface based
on the program.
[0080]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include storing and/or providing the
program and/or the graphical user interface (block 440). For example, operations platform
215 may store and/or provide the program and/or the graphical user interface. In some
implementations, operations platform 215 may provide at least a portion of the program
and/or the graphical user interface to user devices 205 associated with one or more workers
who are to perform the set of operations. The workers may perform the operations based
on the graphical user interface, and may input performance information to user device 205
via the graphical user interface, to be provided to operations platform 215.
[0081]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide the program
and/or the graphical user interface to user device 205 for later use. For example, operations
platform 215 may provide the program and/or the graphical user interface when operations
platform 215 is connected with user device 205 (e.g., via the Internet, a WiFi connection, a
cellular network connection, etc.), and user device 205 may store the program and/or the
graphical user interface for later use (e.g., when user device 205 is not connected with
operations platform 215). In this way, operations platform 215 enables user device 205 to
support performance of operations when user device 205 is not connected to operations
platform 215 (e.g., when user device 205 is isolated from connecting to operations platform
215).
[0082]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may store the program and/or
the graphical user interface locally, and may provide access to the program and/or the
graphical user interface. For example, user device 205 may establish a secure session with
operations platform 215, and operations platform 215 may provide access to the graphical

                                               27
user interface via the secure session. In this way, operations platform 215 improves security
of the graphical user interface and conserves resources of user device 205 that would
otherwise be used by user device 205 to locally store and provide the graphical user
interface.
[0083]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may securely store and/or
provide the program (e.g., based on encrypting the program). Additionally, or alternatively,
operations platform 215 may require a credential, such as a password, a key, or the like, to
access the program.      In some implementations, different entities may be associated with
different credentials, and the different credentials may provide access to respective portions
of the program. For example, a worker may be associated with a first type of credential, and
an administrator may be associated with a second type of credential. Operations platform
215 may provide access to the program and/or the graphical user interface based on a type
of credential associated with a device that accesses the program and/or graphical user
interface. Thus, operations platform 215 improves security of the program.
[0084]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide different portions
of the program to different workers. For example, the different workers may be assigned
operations corresponding to the different portions, and operations platform 215 may provide
each portion to the worker that has been assigned the corresponding operations. In some
implementations, operations platform 215 may select a portion of the program to provide to
a particular entity based on a type of the entity. For example, operations platform 215 may
provide a first portion of the program to a field nurse, may provide a second portion of the
program to a billing specialist, may provide a third portion of the program to an administrator,
and so on.
[0085]      In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide part of, or all of, a
program to user device 205 based on a location of user device 205. For example, assume
that a program identifies operations to be performed at a location by a worker. In such a
case, operations platform 215 may provide the program to user device 205 when user device
205 is located near the location. This may improve security of the program by reducing a
likelihood that a malicious party can obtain the program at an unauthorized location. As

                                                28
another example, a particular location may be identified as a secure location (e.g., a home
office associated with operations platform 215, a hospital, a medical office, etc.), and
operations platform 215 may provide information to user device 205 only when user device
205 is located at the secure location. Thus, security of the information is further improved.
[0086]      In this way, operations platform 215 automatically generates a program based on
determining an order in which operations are to be performed and based on client information
that is relevant to performing the operations, which improves efficiency of performing the
operations and conserves computing resources that would otherwise be used to manually
specify the order or generate and administer the program. Furthermore, operations platform
215 generates graphical user interfaces based on the program, which may provide
information relevant to operations to be performed by a worker, information relevant to
administration of the program, information useful to an insurance, health care, or life sciences
entity, or the like. Thus, computing resources are conserved that would otherwise be used
to manually obtain or compile this information.
[0087]      Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0088]      Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process 500 for providing an updated program
based on completion of operations to be performed with regard to a client.              In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may be performed by operations
platform 215.      In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may be
performed by another device or a group of devices separate from or including operations
platform 215, such as user device 205 and/or server device 210.
[0089]      As shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include identifying one or more operations
of a program that are assigned to be performed by a worker with regard to a client (block
510).    For example, operations platform 215 may identify one or more operations of a
program that are assigned to be performed by a worker.              In some implementations,
operations platform 215 may identify the one or more operations that are assigned to the

                                               29
worker based on assignment information indicating that the one or more operations are
assigned to the worker. For example, the assignment information may be included in the
program, and/or may be determined when the program is generated.               Additionally, or
alternatively, operations platform 215 may receive an instruction to cause the one or more
operations to be performed, and may assign the one or more operations to be performed
based on the instruction.
[0090]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include providing, for display to the
worker, a graphical user interface generated based on the one or more operations (block
520). For example, operations platform 215 may generate the graphical user interface, and
may provide the graphical user interface to user device 205 for display to the worker, as
described in more detail above. Additionally, or alternatively, operations platform 215 may
provide information associated with the operations (e.g., operation information, client
information, information identifying the program, etc.), and user device 205 may generate
the graphical user interface based on the information in a manner similar to what is described
in connection with Fig. 4, above.       Based on information displayed to the worker via the
graphical user interface, the worker may perform the one or more operations with regard to
the client. Thus, operations platform 215 facilitates performance of operations of a workflow
by providing a graphical user interface that identifies information useful for performing the
one or more operations.
[0091]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include receiving performance
information relating to or identifying a completion state of the one or more operations (block
530). For example, operations platform 215 may receive performance information from user
device 205.      In some implementations, the performance information may identify a
completion state of the one or more operations. For example, the performance information
may indicate whether each operation, of the one or more operations, has been performed.
Additionally, or alternatively, the performance information may include information relating to
performance of the one or more operations. For example, the performance information may
include measurements obtained by user device 205 during performance of the one or more
operations, observations inputted by a worker associated with user device 205, or the like.

                                               30
[0092]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may receive the performance
information based on a user inputting the performance information to user device 205. For
example, a worker associated with user device 205 may interact with the graphical user
interface to mark operations as completed, or to provide relevant information as the worker
performs the operations.
[0093]     In some implementations, user device 205 may determine the performance
information automatically.     For example, user device 205 may automatically collect
information (e.g., based on a sensor associated with user device 205) and may provide the
collected information as performance information. As another example, assume that user
device 205 is to display a training video for a particular operation. In this case, user device
205 may determine that the particular operation has been completed when user device 205
displays the training video.    By automatically determining performance information, user
device 205 reduces reliance on manual input of performance information, thus improving
accuracy of the performance information and reducing computing resource usage based on
manual input of the performance information.
[0094]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may receive performance
information for each operation assigned to a worker. For example, user device 205 may
provide the performance information when all operations associated with the worker have
been performed, which may conserve processor and/or other computational resources and
network resources that would be used to transmit multiple batches of performance
information. In some implementations, operations platform 215 may receive performance
information for a particular operation.       For example, user device 205 may provide
performance information for a set of operations as each operation, of the set of operations,
is completed, which may conserve resources of user device 205 that would otherwise be
used to locally store a batch of performance information before the batch of performance
information is provided.
[0095]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may automatically process
performance information.     For example, when operations platform 215 receives notes or
comments regarding an operation, operations platform 215 may use natural language

                                                31
processing to identify content of the notes or comments in order to generate an updated
program based on the notes or comments.               By using natural language processing,
operations platform 215 permits determination of content of notes or comments when the
notes or comments do not follow a predetermined format, which improves versatility of
operations platform 215, reduces reliance on manual interpretation of operation information,
and increases usability of manually-inputted operation information.
[0096]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include generating an updated
program based on the performance information (block 540).              For example, operations
platform 215 may generate an updated program based on the performance information. The
updated program may identify one or more operations that have been performed, one or
more operations that remain to be performed, information that has been received based on
performing operations, or the like. Thus, when an entity accesses the updated program, the
entity can see a comprehensive view of performance of the operations with regard to the
client. In this way, visibility of performance of services is improved, processor and storage
resources are conserved that would otherwise be used to store such information on user
device 205, and/or information security of the performance information and/or client
information is improved.
[0097]      In some implementations, the updated program may include one or more different
operations than the original program.        For example, based on particular performance
information, operations platform 215 may determine that a particular operation is to be
performed with regard to a client (e.g., updating a medication based on a body temperature
of a client, changing a treatment policy based on an observed reaction to a treatment, or the
like). In such a case, operations platform 215 may generate an updated program that
identifies the particular operation and/or that assigns the particular operation to be performed
by a worker. Operations platform 215 may identify the operation to be added based on a
workflow corresponding to the program.           For example, the workflow may identify the
operation to be added and may include information (e.g., a logical relationship, an order of
operations, etc.) that indicates when the operation is to be added. Operations platform 215
may determine that the operation is to be added based on the information included in the
workflow. Thus, operations platform 215 enables modification of a program based on a

                                               32
workflow, which improves versatility of workflows that can be administered by operations
platform 215.
[0098]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may modify one or more
operations based on the performance information.          For example, assume that a worker
provides performance information that identifies a particular dose of medication to be
administered and a predicted level of activity associated with a client. In such a case,
operations platform 215 may modify a later dose of the medication based on the predicted
level of activity and the particular dose. Thus, operations platform 215 permits enhancement
to delivered care based on real-time or near real-time (e.g., real time or substantially real
time) data flow.
[0099]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may modify an operation based
on a model.      The model may receive, as input, a program, client information, operation
information, and/or performance information regarding operations to be performed for the
client. The model may output a modification to the program and/or the operations to be
performed. In such a case, the model may be trained and/or updated based on a machine
learning algorithm or another form of artificial intelligence. For example, the model may be
trained and/or updated based on a training set that includes programs, client information,
operation information, performance information, or the like. By training and/or updating the
model, operations platform 215 improves administration of delivered care and reduces
reliance on manually defined rules.
[00100]    In some implementations, operations platform 215 may generate an updated
graphical user interface based on the updated program.            The updated graphical user
interface may identify performed operations, may identify client information associated with
performed operations, may identify client information associated with operations yet to be
performed, or the like.     For example, the updated graphical user interface may provide
information that identifies a completion state of operations of the program that provides client
information relating to the updated program, or the like.
[00101]    As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include storing and/or providing the
updated program and/or the performance information (block 550). For example, operations

                                               33
platform 215 may store and/or provide the updated program and/or the performance
information.     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide (e.g.,
synchronize) the updated program and/or performance information to one or more devices.
For example, when multiple workers are to perform respective operations for a client,
operations platform 215 may synchronize user devices 205, associated with the multiple
workers, based on the updated program, thereby reducing redundant performance of
operations.    In such a case, user device 205 may update a graphical user interface,
generated by user device 205, based on the updated program and/or performance
information.
[00102]    In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide the updated
program and/or performance information when a connection with user device 205 is
established. This permits operations platform 215 to synchronize programs and/or client
information with user devices 205 as user devices 205 establish connections with operations
platform 215, thereby permitting user devices 205 to perform operations or provide
information relating to performing operations when isolated from operations platform 215. In
some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide the updated program and/or
performance information via a secure connection. For example, operations platform 215
may establish an encrypted session, a session associated with a particular location, or the
like. By providing the updated program and/or the performance information via the secure
session, operations platform 215 improves security of the updated program and/or the
performance information.
[00103]    In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide information
indicating that operations platform 215 has generated the updated program. For example,
operations platform 215 may provide a message (e.g., a text message, an email message,
a phone call, etc.) to user device 205 associated with one or more workers. In such a case,
the message may cause user device 205 to connect with operations platform 215 to obtain
the updated program.      Additionally, or alternatively, the message may instruct a worker
associated with user device 205 to move to a secure location to obtain the update.

                                               34
[00104]     In some implementations, operations platform 215 may provide an updated
graphical user interface based on the updated program. For example, operations platform
215 may provide the updated graphical user interface to a device that accesses the updated
program and/or performance information. As another example, operations platform 215 may
generate an updated graphical user interface, and may provide the updated graphical user
interface to one or more user devices 205 associated with the set of operations (e.g., to
facilitate performance of remaining operations of the set of operations).
[00105]     The updated graphical user interface may provide information regarding the
updated program (e.g., one or more modified operations, one or more newly assigned
operations to perform, completion states of completed operations and/or incomplete
operations, client information associated with the updated program, etc.). Based on the
updated graphical user interface, workers may perform modified operations, newly assigned
operations, or the like.    Thus, operations platform 215 facilitates modification of client
services in real-time or near real-time (e.g., real time or substantially real-time), which
improves provision of client services.
[00106]     In this way, operations platform 215 enables administration and modification of a
set of operations in real-time or near real-time (e.g., real-time or substantially real-time)
based on performance information relating to performance of the set of operations.
Furthermore, operations platform 215 synchronizes a program and/or an updated program
to user devices 205 associated with workers that are to perform the operations, thus
improving efficiency of performing the set of operations. Still further, operations platform 215
improves security of data associated with performance of the operations.
[00107]     Although Fig. 5 shows example blocks of process 500, in some implementations,
process 500 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 5. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 500 may be performed in parallel.
[00108]     Figs. 6A and 6B are diagrams of example graphical user interfaces 600 that may
be generated based on example processes 400 and 500, shown in Figs. 4 and 5.

                                                35
[00109]    Fig. 6A shows an example of a client interface portion of graphical user interface
600 that may be provided to a client (e.g., a patient) by which the client can access client
information. As shown in Fig. 6A, the client interface includes a client menu of selectable
menu items, such as a "My Medications" icon (shown by reference number 602) which the
client may select to view medications prescribed for the client (e.g., displayed on a
medications screen). In this case, as a "My Vitals" icon has been most recently selected
from the client menu, a vitals screen is currently displayed, as shown.
[00110]    As further shown in Fig. 6A, the client interface includes a risk indicator (shown by
reference number 604) indicating a risk level (e.g., of a risk to the patient with respect to
progress in therapy). As further shown in Fig. 6A, the client interface includes a call button
(shown by reference number 606) which the client may select to cause user device 205 to
call a healthcare professional in order to request an appointment. As further shown in Fig.
6A, the client interface includes a vitals section (shown by reference number 608) by which
the client can view vital statistics (e.g., blood glucose, pulse rate, body mass index (BMI),
weight, height, blood pressure, or the like). As further shown in Fig. 6A, the client interface
includes a timeline section (shown by reference number 610) by which the client can monitor
a condition (e.g., BMI) over time.
[00111]    As shown in Fig. 6B, user device 205 may display user interface 600 in a Field
Visit view (shown by reference number 612) for a selected client based on receiving a user
selection of the selected client, as described above. In the Field Visit view, user interface
600 may include a contact field (shown by reference number 614) that provides a name,
address, phone number, or the like, of the client. The worker may use this information to
contact or travel to the client. User interface 600 may further include a call button (shown by
reference number 616), which may cause user device 205 to call the client at the phone
number. In some cases, the call button may cause user device 205 to cause an emergency
line, a health care practitioner associated with the client, or the like.
[00112]    As further shown, user interface 600 may include a status field (shown by
reference number 618) which indicates a status of the visit (e.g., Assigned, Completed, or

                                                36
the like). An assigned visit may be associated with an operation that has yet to be performed.
A completed visit may be associated with an operation that has already been performed.
[00113]     User interface 600 may further include a services section (shown by reference
number 620) which lists operations to be performed, and which shows a status of each
service (shown by reference number 622).              Here, the operations include delivering
educational materials (associated with an uncompleted status of NO), performing a follow
up visit (associated with an uncompleted status of NO), providing a rating of client
competency (associated with an unassigned status, indicating that the operation has not
been assigned to a worker), and reviewing a topic (associated with an unassigned status,
indicating that the operation has not been assigned to a worker). In some implementations,
the worker may change the status of an operation by selecting an operation field or the
associated status field, which may cause user device 205 to prompt the worker to enter
updated information.
[00114]     User interface 600 may further include a scheduling section (shown by reference
number 624) which shows a start and end time for the visit (e.g., a scheduled start time and
end time, an actual start time and end time, an adjusted start time and end time based on
extenuating circumstances, etc.), an indication of whether an alert has been set (e.g., a pop
up alert to remind a worker of the visit, an alert to be transmitted to the patient when the visit
is about to occur, etc.), and an indication of whether the visit has been synchronized to a
calendar (e.g., a calendar stored by user device 205, a calendar associated with the worker,
a calendar associated with the patient, etc.). In some implementations, user device 205 may
change the start time or end time, or may set an alert, or may enable a synchronization to a
calendar, based on receiving an interaction with the corresponding field or status, which may
cause user device 205 to prompt the worker to enter updated information. As shown by
reference number 626, user interface 600 further includes a Notes button, which the worker
may select to enter or view notes associated with the visit (e.g., notes that do not relate to
an operation, notes in response to a prompt provided by user device 205, etc.).
[00115]     Figs. 6A and 6B are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible
and may differ from what was described in connection with Figs. 6A and 6B.

                                               37
[00116]    By automatically tracking and administering performance of operations, the
operations platform improves efficiency of performance of the operations and enables
reconfiguration of the operations in real-time or near real-time (e.g., real-time or substantially
real-time). Furthermore, by providing information regarding an updated program to one or
more user devices, the operations platform may synchronize the user devices of multiple
workers, clients, and/or administrators with regard to the status of the operations. In this
way, uniformity of performance of operations is improved. Further, the operations platform
may enable analysis of performance information relating to performance of operations, which
improves provision of health related services.
[00117]    The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[00118]    As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[00119]    Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[00120]    Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.               In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration

                                              38
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[00121]     It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[00122]     Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.      Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[00123]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00124]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group

                                                39
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00125]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should note be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                               40
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
               receive operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to be
       performed with regard to a client by a plurality of workers;
               generate, based on the operation information, a program that identifies the
       plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to be
       performed,
                      the program including assignment information that identifies one or
               more workers, of the plurality of workers, that have been assigned to perform
               respective operations of the plurality of operations, and
                      the order based on logical relationships between the plurality of
               operations and automatically determined according to one or more of:
                              a dependency of a first operation, of the plurality of operations,
                      on a second operation of the plurality of operations, and/or
                              a conditional relationship between a first operation, of the
                      plurality of operations, and a second operation of the plurality of
                      operations;
               provide a graphical user interface to one or more user devices associated with
       the one or more workers,
                      the graphical user interface providing, to the one or more workers,
               information regarding the respective operations and/or the program;
               provide, to the one or more user devices, respective portions of the program
       associated with the respective operations that are assigned to the one or more
       workers;
               cause the one or more user devices to automatically collect information,
       including information available from a sensor associated with a user device of the one
       or more user devices, that identifies completion states of the respective operations
       and provides the collected information as performance information; automatically
       generate an updated program based on the performance information,

                                                 41
                        the updated program including one or more modified operations that are
               determined based on one or more of the plurality of operations and the
                performance information, and
                        the updated program identifying a modification to the order in which the
                plurality of operations are to be performed; and
                provide the updated program to the one or more user devices associated with
the plurality of workers to thereby synchronize the user devices regarding a status of the
operation to which each worker has been assigned, wherein providing the updated program
includes modifying the graphical user interface on one or more of the user devices, based
on the performance information, to generate an updated graphical user interface.
2.      A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors, when receiving the
performance information:
        receive the performance information from the one or more user devices,
               the performance information being received by the one or more user devices
        via the graphical user interface.
3.      A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors
further:
        provide client information relating to the client,
               the client information that is provided with the respective portions relating to
        performing the operations associated with the respective portions.
4.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors:
        assign the one or more modified operations to be performed by at least one of the
plurality of workers.
5.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when providing the updated program:
        determine that the one or more user devices are located at a particular location; and

                                                 42
        provide the updated program to the one or more user devices based on the one or
more user devices being located at the particular location.
6.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when receiving the performance information:
        receive the performance information based on one or more of:
               information input to the one or more user devices by a worker of the one or
        more workers, or
               information automatically obtained by the one or more user devices.
7.      A computer-implemented method, including:
        receiving, by a device, operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to
be performed with regard to a client by one or more workers;
        generating, by the device and based on the operation information, a program that
identifies the plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to
be performed,
               the program including assignment information that identifies particular
        operations, of the plurality of operations, that have been assigned to be performed by
        the one or more workers, and
               the order based on logical relationships between the plurality of operations and
        automatically performed according to one or more of:
                       a dependency of a first operation, of the plurality of operations, on a
               second operation of the plurality of operations, and/or
                       a conditional relationship between a first operation, of the plurality of
               operations, and a second operation of the plurality of operations;
        providing, by the device and to one or more user devices associated with the one or
more workers, a graphical user interface,
               the graphical user interface being generated based on the program, and
               the graphical user interface providing information relevant to performing the
        operations that have been assigned to the one or more workers;

                                                43
        causing the one or more user devices to automatically collect information, including
information available from a sensor associated with a user device of the one or more user
devices, that identifies completion states of the respective operations and to provide the
collected information as performance information;
        generating, by the device, an updated program based on the performance
information,
                 the updated program identifying one or more incomplete operations of the
         plurality of operations and one or more completed operations of the plurality of
        operations, and
                 the updated program identifying a modification to the order in which the
         incomplete operations are to be performed; and
         providing, by the device and to the one or more user devices associated with the
plurality of workers, the updated program to thereby synchronize the user devices regarding
a status of the operation to which each worker has been assigned, wherein providing the
updated program includes modifying the graphical user interface on one or more of the user
devices based on the performance information, to generate an updated graphical user
interface.
8.      A method according to claim 7, where generating the updated program includes:
         identifying, based on the performance information, a modification to the order in which
the plurality of operations are to be performed; and
        assigning the one or more incomplete operations to be performed based on the
modification to the order.
9.      A method according to either claim 7 or claim 8, where the graphical user interface is
a first graphical user interface; and
        where the method further includes:
                 providing a second graphical user interface that identifies each operation of the
         plurality of operations.
10.     A method according to any one of claims 7 to 9, further including:

                                                44
       assigning the particular operations to be performed by the one or more workers based
on client information associated with the client,
               the client information including one or more of medical information associated
       with the client or location information that identifies a location associated with the
       client.
11.    A method according to claim 10, where assigning the particular operations includes:
       assigning the particular operations based on one or more of:
               a skill required to perform the particular operations,
               a level of experience of the one or more workers,
               geographic proximity of the one or more workers to the location associated with
       the client, or
               one or more operations previously performed by the one or more workers with
       regard to the client.
12.    A method according to either claim 10 or claim 11, where assigning the particular
operations includes:
       assigning the particular operations based on a model,
               the model receiving, as input, the operation information and information
       identifying the one or more workers, and
               the model outputting the assignment information.
13.    A method according to claim 12, where the model is trained based on a machine
learning algorithm,
               the model being trained based on past performance information that identifies
       past performance of a plurality of workers with regard to operations assigned to the
       plurality of workers.
14.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:

                                                45
      one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
               receive operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to be
       performed with regard to a client by a plurality of workers;
               generate, based on the operation information, a program that identifies the
       plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to be
       performed,
                      the program including assignment information that identifies one or
               more workers, of the plurality of workers, that have been assigned to perform
               respective operations of the plurality of operations,
                      the order based on logical relationships between the plurality of
               operations and automatically determined according to one or more of:
                              a dependency of a first operation, of the plurality of operations,
                      on a second operation of the plurality of operations, and/or
                              a conditional relationship between a first operation, of the
                      plurality of operations, and a second operation of the plurality of
                      operations;
               provide a graphical user interface to one or more user devices associated with
      the one or more workers,
               the graphical user interface to provide, to the one or more workers, information
       regarding the respective operations and/or the program;
               provide, to the one or more user devices, respective portions of the program
      associated with the respective operations that are assigned to the one or more
      workers;
               cause the one or more user devices to automatically collect information,
       including information available from a sensor associated with a user device of the one
      or more user devices, that identifies completion states of the respective operations
      and to provide the collected information as performance information;
               automatically generate an updated program based on the performance
       information,

                                              46
                       the updated program identifying one or more incomplete operations, of
               the plurality of operations, and one or more completed operations of the
               plurality of operations, and
                       the updated program identifying a modification to the order in which the
               incomplete operations are to be performed; and
               provide the updated program to the one or more user devices associated with
the plurality of workers to thereby synchronize the user devices regarding a status of the
operation to which each worker has been assigned, wherein providing the updated program
includes modifying the graphical user interface on one or more of the user devices, based
on the performance information, to generate an updated graphical user interface.
15.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, where the one or
more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to receive the performance
information, further cause the one or more processors to:
       receive the performance information based on the performance information being
inputted to the graphical user interface.
16.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 14 or claim 15,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the
updated program, cause the one or more processors to:
               modify a particular operation of the one or more incomplete operations based
       on a value included in the performance information; and
               assign the particular operation to be performed by one of the plurality of
       workers.
1a.    A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
               receive operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to be
       performed with regard to a client by a plurality of workers;

                                                 47
                generate, based on the operation information, a program that identifies the
        plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to be
        performed,
                       the program including assignment information that identifies one or
                more workers, of the plurality of workers, that have been assigned to perform
                respective operations of the plurality of operations, and
                       the order being based on logical relationships between the plurality of
                operations;
                provide, to one or more user devices associated with the one or more workers,
        respective portions of the program associated with the respective operations that are
        assigned to the one or more workers;
                receive, from the one or more user devices, performance information that
        identifies completion states of the respective operations;
                automatically generate an updated program based on the performance
        information,
                       the updated program including one or more modified operations that are
                determined based on one or more of the plurality of operations and the
                performance information; and
                store and/or provide the updated program.
2a.     A method, including:
        receiving, by a device, operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to
be performed with regard to a client by one or more workers;
        generating, by the device and based on the operation information, a program that
identifies the plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to
be performed,
                the program including assignment information           that identifies particular
        operations, of the plurality of operations, that have been assigned to be performed by
        the one or more workers, and
                the order being based on logical relationships between the plurality of
        operations;

                                               48
       providing, by the device and to one or more user devices associated with the one or
more workers, a graphical user interface,
               the graphical user interface being generated based on the program, and
               the graphical user interface providing information relevant to performing the
       operations that have been assigned to the one or more workers;
       receiving, by the device, performance information that identifies a completion state of
the plurality of operations;
       generating, by the device, an updated program based on the performance
information,
               the updated program identifying one or more incomplete operations of the
       plurality of operations and one or more completed operations of the plurality of
       operations; and
       storing and/or providing, by the device, the updated program.
3a.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
               receive operation information that identifies a plurality of operations to be
       performed with regard to a client by a plurality of workers;
               generate, based on the operation information, a program that identifies the
       plurality of operations and an order in which the plurality of operations are to be
       performed,
                      the program including assignment information that identifies one or
               more workers, of the plurality of workers, that have been assigned to perform
               respective operations of the plurality of operations;
               provide, to one or more user devices associated with the one or more workers,
       respective portions of the program associated with the respective operations that are
       assigned to the one or more workers;
               receive, from the one or more user devices, performance information that
       identifies completion states of the respective operations;

                                     49
      automatically generate an updated program based on the performance
information,
               the updated program identifying one or more incomplete operations, of
      the plurality of operations, and one or more completed operations of the
       plurality of operations; and
      store and/or provide the updated program.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                3/8
FIG. 2

                                             <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                                              Storage
            Processor               Memory
                                                             Component
              320                    330
                                                                340
                                                                               4/8
  Input                   Output             Communication
Component               Component              Interface
   350                     360                   370
                          FIG. 3

                                                        <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
      Receive operation information that relates to a set of operations to
410
                    be performed with regard to a client
        Generate, based on the operation information, a program that
420     identifies the operations to be performed and/or one or more
            workers that are assigned to perform the operations
                                                                                    5/8
          Generate a graphical user interface to provide information
430
                          regarding the program
         Store and/or provide the program and/or the graphical user
440
                                  interface
                               FIG. 4

                                                           <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
      Identify one or more operations of a program that are assigned to
510
                be performed by a worker with regard to a client
         Provide, for display to the worker, a graphical user interface
520
               generated based on the one or more operations
         Receive performance information relating to or identifying a
530
              completion state of the one or more operations                    6/8
          Generate an updated program based on the performance
540
                               information
      Store and/or provide the updated program and/or the performance
550
                                 information
                                 FIG. 5

                      <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                              606
      604
                                      610
                                                  7/8
602
            FIG. 6A

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
