Abstract
Methods for treating an individual to improve cognitive function are provided. In
the subject methods, an effective amount of a noncompetitive GABAA
ionophore blocker is administered to the individual, resulting in an improvement
in cognitive function of the host. The subject methods find use in a variety of
different applications.

                                                  1
             PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATMENT OF COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT
    This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application <removed-apn>, which is a
    divisional application of Australian Patent Application 2013204190, which is a
    divisional application of Australian Patent Application 2007267988, which is the
    Australian National Phase of International Patent Application PCT/US2007/012274,
    the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0001]      Mental retardation (MR) affects 2-3% of the population in the industrialized
    world, and remains a prevalent form of non-progressive cognitive impairment.
    Narrowly defined by an IQ of less than 70 and deficits in academic, adaptive, and
    interpersonal skills, disorders involving MR are, nonetheless, spread over a broad
    etiology, resulting from both genetic and non-genetic causes. The breadth and
    frequency    of   MR-related    cognitive   dysfunction  is   alarming  considering that
    pharmacological intervention is currently non-existent.
[0002]      Historically, neuroscientists have probed the brain in MR for clues to possible
    treatment strategies of MR-related learning difficulties. In the case of Down syndrome,
    these pioneering investigations have led to observations of tissue atrophy, white
    matter abnormalities, neuronal cell loss, stunted dendritic branching, and spine
    dysgenesis.     Interestingly, many of the histological features noted in the brains of
    individuals with Down syndrome parallel phenotypes that have been found in the
    brains of individuals with other classes of MR, such as inborn errors of metabolism and
    non-genetic insults.     Connections among different X-linked forms of MR have also
    been made, with disrupted synaptic structure, synaptic plasticity, and Ras-MAPK
    signaling as emerging themes. Similarities across the wide spectrum of MR-related
    disorders argue that common mechanisms underlie the manifestation of learning and
    memory deficits in intellectually handicapped children and young adults.
[0003]      Down Syndrome (DS) is the most commonly occurring form of mental
    retardation in man, with an incidence of 1 in 600 births. The etiology surrounding the
    disorder was first described as a nondisjunctive error during meiosis of human
    chromosome 21 (hC21), resulting in the overexpression of an estimated 225 genes
    normally found on the chromosome. DS is characterized by congenital heart disease,
    endocrine disturbances, and immunologic deficiency, but is most universally marked
    by learning and memory difficulties in affected individuals that preclude adaptive
    cognitive and interpersonal function.

                                                  1A
[0004]      How the presence of hC21 genes in triplicate alters the maturation of the
    central nervous system (CNS) and subsequent cognitive development in DS has
    remained an open question.       DS brains generally appear normal at birth. Newborns
    with DS exhibit typical brain weights, and do not exhibit any differences in gross
    neuronal and synaptic structure from children without the disorder.            Quantitative
    analysis of DS prefrontal layer Ill pyramidal cells around birth and at 2.5 months of age
    indicates no differences in dendritic differentiation.   Brain growth, in fact, proceeds
    normally for the first 5 to 6 months of life. However, soon after the infantile period (> 6
    months) the DS brain begins to show the abnormalities that characterize it in
    adulthood. The emergence of these cytological

       abnormalities may coincide with the beginning of IQ decline in DS-affected children within
       the first few years of life.
  [0005]         Investigation of CNS abnormalities and cognitive dysfunction in DS has been greatly
       facilitated by the development of two segmentally trisomic mouse models of DS: Ts65Dn
       and TslCje. Ts65Dn mice are trisomic for segments of mouse chromosome 16 (Mmu 16)
       highly homologous to the long arm of hC21, including portions of the so-called DS "critical
       region." Phenotypically, Ts65Dn mice faithfully recapitulate some of the most salient and
      fundamental features of DS. The topography of craniofacial maldevelopment in Ts65Dn
      mirrors that observed in DS patients; likewise,- Ts65Dn mice exhibit similar patterns of
      cerebellar atrophy during early postnatal development. The utility of Ts65Dn as a mouse
      model of DS is strengthened further by findings that detail nearly comprehensive deficits in
      Ts65Dn short- and long-term spatial memory, working memory, and reference memory.
  [0006]         The treatment of mental retardation is of great clinical and humanitarian interest.
      The present invention addresses this issue.
      Publications
 [0007]          The synaptic connections in the Ts65Dn brain have been assessed by a variety of
      assays. For example, quantitative electron microscopy (EM) of Ts65Dn CNS has revealed
      a loss of asymmetric, excitatory synapses in Ts65Dn cortex relative to WT tissue, with a
      concurrent sparing of symmetric, inhibitory synapses (Kurt et al., 2000). Reductions in the
      density of excitatory synapses, and in the ratio of excitatory-to-inhibitory signaling in the
      Ts65Dn brain, have been noted alongside compensatory increases in the synaptic
      apposition lengths of asymmetric and symmetric synaptic junctions.
 [0008]         Recent studies using lucifer-yellow filling of neurons in Ts65Dn acute slices have
      indicated that a widening of synaptic clefts may relate to the development of enlarged
      spines in Ts65Dn cortex (see Belichenko et al. (2004) J Comp Neurol. 480(3):281-98). In
      an in vitro system, deficits in Ts65Dn hippocampal LTP were shown to reverse upon
      application of picrotoxin (see Kleschevnikov (2004) J Neurosci. 24(37):8153-60). Costa et
     al. (2005) Neur. Lett. 382:317-322 report deficits in hippocampal CA1 LTP induced by TBS
      but not HFS in the Ts65Dn mouse. Levkovitz et al. (1999) J. Neuroscience 19:10977
      10984 discuss upregulation of GABA neurotransmission in the suppression of hippocampal
     excitability and prevention of long-term potentiation in transgenic superoxide dismutase
     over-expressing mice.
[0009]          It has been suggested that excessive immunoreactivity of the glutamine receptor
     GluR1 may be involved in degeneration of neurons and the early formation of senile
     plaques in Down syndrome, as tissue samples taken from the frontal lobes of patients with
     Down syndrome exhibit homeostatic elevations in GluR1 immunoreactivity (Arai et al.
     (1996) Pediatr. Neurol. 15:203-206).
                                                    2

  [0010]       Ginkgo biloba extract was administered to two young patients with trisomy 21
      (Donfrancesco et al. (2004) Phytomedicine 11:469. Pentylenetetrazol (metrazol) was
      administered to children with mental deficiencies by Berman et al. (1957) AMA Journal of
      Diseases of Children 94:231; and to psychogeriatric patients by Stotsky et al. (1972).
      GABAergic agonist (diazepam) drugs were administered to children with Down Syndrome
      by Cocchi (1985) Int. J. Psychosomatics 32:12-16 reducing depression.
  [0011]      Heteoaryl fused aminoalkyl-imidazole derivatives as selective modulators of GAGAA
      receptors are discussed in US Patent Application 2003/0092912. Use of GABA inverse
      agonists in combination with nicotine receptor partial agonist, estrogen, selective estrogen
      modulators or vitamin E is discussed in U.S. Patent Application 2004/0082555.
      Combination use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and GABAA inverse agonists for the
      treatment of cognitive disorders is discussed in U.S. Patent Application 2002/0151591. L
      655,708 is reported to enhance cognition in rats but is not pro-convulsant at a dose
      selective for a5-containing GABAA receptors.
                                        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0012]       Methods are provided for improving the cognitive function of an individual suffering
     from mental retardation. The individual is administered an effective, non-epileptic dose of a
      GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blocker, for a period of time sufficient to improve
      cognitive function. Long term cognitive improvement can be obtained from the methods of
     the invention, which can persist after cessation of treatment. Conditions of interest for
     treatment include Down Syndrome, and other congenital or acquired conditions that impair
     cognitive function. Also provided are kits for use in practicing the subject methods.
 [0013]           In another embodiment of the invention, methods are provided for screening
     drug candidates for effectiveness in treating cognitive impairment associated with mental
     retardation. Such methods may include screening assays with animal or cell models, and
     may include a comparison with a reference value obtained from known GABAA receptor
     chloride ionophore blockers. Screening may be used to identify agents that selectively
     target specific cells to improve targeting specificity of the intervention.
                                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0014]        Fig 1A-1B. Chronic Administration of PTX or BB Rescues and Maintains Ts65Dn
     Object Recognition Memory.
[0015]        Fig 2. Topography of WT and Ts65Dn Object Recognition Performance before and
     after Drug Treatment with PTX.
[0016]        Fig 3A-3C. PTX and BB, Control Data.
                                                   3

[0017]       Fig 4. Like PTX and BB, Metrazol improves Ts65Dn memory in the object
     recognition task.
[0018]       Fig 5A-58. MTZ, Control Data.
[0019]       Fig 6. The Effects of Metrazol on Ts65Dn Cognitive Behavior, like those of PTX, are
     Long-Lasting.
[0020]       Fig 7A-7C. WT and Ts65Dn Locomotor Habituation during the Light Cycle, and
     Indices of Mouse .Habituation to the Med Associates Activity Monitors.
[0021]       Fig 8. Absolute Object Novelty Preference among Vehicle- and Drug-Treated WT
     and Ts65Dn Mice.
[0022]        Fig 9A-9B. Object Recognition Validation: One-Object Based and Two-Object
     Based Tasks.
[0023]       Fig 10. Chronic, but not Acute, Application of PTX Restores Ts65Dn Object
     Recognition Memory in a One-Object Based Task.
[0024]       Fig 11. Acute PTX is Unable to Reliably Rescue Ts65Dn Performance in a 2-Object
     Based Object Recognition Test.
[0025]       Fig 12. Motor Learning in WT and Ts65Dn Mice: Chronic PTX Treatment does not
     influence Ts65Dn Rotorod Performance.
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
[0026]           The cognitive function of an individual suffering from mental retardation is
    alleviated by administration of a GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blocker for a period of
    time sufficient to improve cognitive function.        Cognitive improvement is provided by
    "therapeutic kindling" of neural circuits, and is achieved by administering the active agent at
    very low, non-epileptic, doses, which in one embodiment of the invention are administered
    not more than about once a day; and/or which can administered with a sleep period
    between doses. In other embodiments of the invention, a very low dose is administered,
    which is optionally provided in a continuous dosing regimen. The dosing regimen is usually
    maintained for at least about one week, at least about two weeks, at least about three
    weeks, at least about one month, or more.         In some embodiments of the invention, the
    active agent is fast acting and short lived. In some embodiments of the invention, the active
    agent is non-competitive in character and is not selective for a specific GABAA alpha
    subunit, e.g. 01, a5, etc.
[0027]       Before the subject invention is further described, it is to be understood that the
    invention is not limited to the particular embodiments of the invention described below, as
    variations of the particular embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the
    appended claims. It is also to be understood that the terminology employed is for the
                                                  4

     purpose of describing particular embodiments, and is not intended to be limiting. Instead,
     the scope of the present invention will be established by the appended claims.
[0028]        In this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the"
     include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined
     otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as
     commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.
[0029]        y-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the
      mammalian central nervous system. The predominant effect of GABA is the interaction with
      a specific receptor protein which results in an increase of the chloride ion conductance of
     the post-synaptic membrane to produce an inhibition of neuronal firing. In recent years,
      much attention has been focused on this specific receptor, the GABAA receptor.
 [0030]       As shown in the examples provided herein, decreased functionality in cognitive
      performance of an individual suffering from mental retardation can be associated with
      increased inhibition in the brain. Treatment by chronically administering low doses of drugs
      that globally reduce chloride influx mediated by GABA           channels is shown to improve
      cognitive function.      Compounds of interest specifically reduce the activity of GABAA
      receptors via block of the GABAA receptor-chloride ionophore complex. Detailed studies
      with three different GABAA antagonists within this class, in a model of Down syndrome,
      reveal that normal cognitive performance can be achieved after long-term administration of
      these drugs, demonstrating their utility as a treatment for Down syndrome, and other forms
      of mental retardation.
 [0031]        Neurite outgrowth and on-going synaptogenesis are critically influenced by the
      balance of circulating glutamate and GABA during development of the cerebral cortex.
      During the early phases of neurite outgrowth, GABA acts like an "excitatory" agent in the
      brain, as the neuronal chloride gradient in maturing cells is reversed; facilitating neuronal
      calcium entry, and positively regulating neurite extension. GABA's traditional role as an
      inhibitory transmitter in the brain emerges during the activity-dependent refinement of
      cortical circuits, entailing the pruning of arbors in the outer fringes of the dendritic field and
      the strengthening of remaining synaptic connections.
  [0032]       Molecular cloning data indicate that the GABAA-benzodiazepine receptor complex is
       comprised of at least five subunits; these in turn may have various isoforms. Each subunit
       is comprised of four membrane-spanning regions. The intracellular loops of some subunits
       contain phosphorylation sites, which have been hypothesized to be a locus of receptor
       modulation. A complete system of a, p, and y subunits are needed for a fully responsive
       receptor.
  [0033]       At least four interacting allosteric drug binding sites are known to occur within this
       receptor. These include those for the site of action of the tranquillizer drugs, the
                                                      5

    benzodiazepines, the neurosteroids, and barbiturates.           These sites correspond to the
    binding sites for benzodiazepines, for GABA, for steroids, and for picrotoxin. The various
    types of drug binding site on the GABAA receptor may allosterically interact with each other.
    Compounds that bind to any one of these sites may have agonist, reverse agonist, or
    antagonist activity. Uniquely, opposing pharmacological actions appear to be mediated
    through this one receptor protein. Thus compounds which interact at the benzodiazepine
    site can be anxiolytic, or conversely they can have anxiogenic and convulsant properties.
[0034]        Compounds of interest for use in the methods of the invention specifically block the
    chloride ionophore site of GABAA. and are antagonists, i.e. reduce chloride influx. In some
    embodiments of the invention, the therapeutic compound is a non-competitive antagonist at
    the GABA-A receptor that binds to a chloride ionophore pore forming region of the receptor
    to interfere with chloride conductance; it does not interfere with GABA transmitter binding,
     nor does it allosterically modulate the receptor. Picrotoxin, Metrazol and bilobalide have
     been shown to function in this manner.           Suitable GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
     blockers that may be used in the subject methods include, but are not limited to: metrazol;
     picrotoxin, bilobamide, ginkgolide B, penicillin, etc.
[0035]        Compounds of interest for use on the methods of the invention may have epileptic
     activity, and therefore the dose is carefully selected.           A compound of interest is
     administered at a dose below the dose that will kindle seizures.         Such a "low" dose is
     usually less than about 0.5X the kindling dose, more usually less than about 0.1 X the
     kindling dose, less than about 0.05X the kindling dose; less than about 0.01X or less than
     about 0.005X the kindling dose.        The determination of a kindling dose for an agent of
     interest may be empirically determined, e.g. in an animal model, or may be based on known
     kindling dosage. For example, the effect of pentylenetetrazole in kindling is well-known in
     the art. In some embodiments of the invention an effective dose will at least transiently alter
     the chloride influx at GABAA receptors in the central nervous system, i.e. for a period of at
     least about 1 minute, at least about 5 minutes,     at least about 30 minutes, at least about 1
     hours, or more, usually not more than about 4 hours; not more than about 3 hours; not more
     than about 2 hours.
 [0036]       However, there may also be embodiments where the effective dose provides for a
     longer lasting effect, for example where the dose, e.g. a very low dose, provides for a longer
     lasting alteration of calcium influx at GABAA receptors in the central nervous system, e.g. for
     at least about 12 hours, at least about 24 hours, or longer. Such embodiments may utilize
     doses that are less than about 0.05X the kindling dose; less than about 0.01X or less than
     aboutO.005X the kindling dose. In such embodiments the dosing may provide for a more
     continuous activity profile, e.g. where an effective dose of the agent is provided with a
                                                    6

   continuous pump, or is administered more than once a day, e.g. twice, 3 times, 4 times per
   day, and the like.
[0037]       Pentylenetetrazole is a pharmaceutical agent that displays activity as a central
    nervous system and respiratory stimulant.           It is considered a non-competitive GABA
   antagonist. Pentylenetetrazole has been used experimentally to study seizure phenomenon
   and to identify pharmaceuticals that may control seizure susceptibility. In the class of drugs
   exemplified by pentamethylenetetrazol (also referred to as metrazol).            An effective dose
    may range from at least about 0.1 mg/kg, at least about 0.2 mg/kg, at least about 0.5 mg/kg,
    at least about 1 mg/kg to not more than about 2, about 2.5, or about 3 mg/kg. The
    compounds are orally active, and cross the blood brain barrier.
[0038]       Related compounds may also be of interest, for example where one or more annular
    carbons of the 7-membered ring are optionally substituted with a lower alkyl of from 1-6
    carbon atoms, a hydroxyl group, a sulfhydryl group, an amine or substituted amine, a nitro
    group, Br, Cl, F, I, and the like.
[0039]       Pentylenetetrazol has been demonstrated to facilitate normal learning and memory
    in rats and mice when administered acutely post-training (peripheral injection or oral intake)
    in avoidance- and discrimination-based tasks. Chronic subcutaneous administration of the
    drug in a relatively high dose (at approximately 10.0 mg/kg) to rats for      -  9 months curtails
    signs of neuronal aging in the hippocampus; long-term Metrazol treatment preserves
    hippocampal neuronal density and nuclear "roundedness," reduces the appearance of
    reactive astrocytes, and elevates reversal learning in a shock-motivated, spatial maze task.
[0040]       There is no critical period for Metrazol-guided changes in brain circuitry; it can occur
    in the young, as well as in the aged.        Metrazol has a long history of clinical usage in
    humans, showing a mixed ability to treat age-related senility and dementia. Metrazol, when
    taken at a dose range of less than about 100-400 mg/day, possesses little to no adverse or
    toxic effects. Patients on Metrazol exhibited no changes in temperature curves, respiration,
    blood sugar, icteric index or pulse rate, and exhibited no abnormalities in their
    electrocardiographic tracings. Basic personality structure and reaction patterns were also
    conserved in those taking the drug.
[0041]       Radioactive studies with C14 and HPLC analysis demonstrate that Metrazol is fast
    acting, and is very rapidly adsorbed after oral intake or systemic injection (maximum
    physiological levels being achieved within 5-10 min of drug administration), readily crosses
   the blood-brain barrier, and partitions seamlessly between blood serum and brain, soon
    reaching an equilibrium between both compartments where the volume of distribution
    approximates the volume of total body water. Similarly, kinetic patterns within various brain
    regions after intraperitoneal injection (half-life absorption phase, half-life distribution phase,
    half-life elimination phase, etc) indicate that Metrazol is allocated evenly between the 3
                                                    7

    major brain divisions: cerebellum, midbrain and the cortex.          Subsequently, the main
    elimination pathway of the drug is biotransformation in the liver and urinary excretion.
    Metrazol is short-lived, where the half-life has been estimated to be 1-2 h.
                                                             N.
                                                               N N
                                                          ____
                                                                 II
                                                        N        N
                                                 metrazol
[0042]       Picrotoxin is a noncompetitive antagonist at GABA-A receptors, and has been
    classified as a convulsant. Picrotoxin blocks the GABA-activated chloride ionophore. It has
    been used as a CNS stimulant and an antidote in poisoning by CNS depressants, especially
    the barbiturates. Picrotoxin and related compounds are administered at an effective dose
    that may range from at least about 0.5 mg/kg, to not more than about 1 mg/kg. A kindling
    dose may be as little as 2.0 mg/kg, or 1.5 mg/kg. The compounds may be administered
    systemically, usually by injection.
                                  0        clog
                                        O 11"0                      ON
                                                 Picrotoxin
[0043]       Bilobalide and ginkgolide B comprise part of a novel class of compounds called
    terpene trilactones, unique constituents of Ginkgo Biloba that are found exclusively in the
     Ginkgo Biloba tree.     The compounds function as potent non-competitive antagonists at
    GABA-A receptors, acting as open-channel blockers of the chloride ionophore associated
    with the receptor complex. Consistent with this pharmacological action, bilobalide has been
                                                    8

     shown to significantly increase the amplitude of hippocampal population spikes in a
     muscimol-dependent manner, and to decrease paired pulse inhibition. Additionally, both
     bilobalide and Ginkgolide B have been demonstrated to shorten sleeping time during
     barbital-induced narcosis.    As constituents of Ginkgo Biloba, they, likewise, activate the
     EEG, enhance the pro-convulsant effects of PTX, and trigger seizures in refractory epilepsy.
 [0044]       Pharmacokinetic studies in humans reveal that bilobalide is 70% bioavailable after
     oral intake of a 80-120 mg dose of ginkgo biloba leaf extract (with a half-life of 3 h), while
     that of Ginkgolide B is at least 80% (with a half-life of 6 h). In this form, approximately, 30
     50% of bilobalide and ginkgolide B is excreted unchanged in the urine. To date, a
     systematic pharmacokinetic evaluation of bilobalide or ginkgolide B following oral
     administration of purified compound remains to be conducted. However, the terpene
    trilactones' amphiphilic behavior suggests that they would accumulate particularly well in
     brain tissue after passing through the blood brain barrier (BBB). Clinical studies evaluating
    the terpene trilactones are very limited. However, to date, no serious side effects have been
     reported for ginkgolide B during clinical trials designed to evaluate the drug's efficacy in
    treating allergy (asthma, skin disorders), burn injury, sepsis, and blood clotting.
[0045]       A pharmaceutical formulation of bilobalide or ginkgolide B is substantially free of
    other pharmaceutically active agents presents in Ginkgo biloba extracts, particularly being
    substantially free of ginkgolytic acids.     In such. pharmaceutical formulations, the desired
    active agent, i.e. bilobalide or ginkgolide B may be at least about 50% of the Ginkgo biloba
    derived material, usually at least about 75% of the Ginkgo biloba-derived material, at least
    about 85% of the Ginkgo biloba-derived material, at least about 95% of the Ginkgo bi/oba
    derived material, or more. As known in the art, a pharmaceutical formulation may comprise
    pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and carriers.
[0046]       An effective dose of bilobalide or ginkgolide B may range from at least about 0.1
    mg/kg, at least about 0.2 mg/kg, at least about 0.5 mg/kg, at least about 1 mg/kg to not
    more than about 5 mg/kg, not more than about 2.5 mg/kg. The compounds are orally
    active, and cross the blood brain barrier.
                                              H3C        CH
                                                                Bilobalide
                                                   9

                                                    4 C- N3 _
                                           OH
                                                               Ginkgolide B
                                           Conditions of Interest
[0047]       Various forms of MR may be attributed to the over-inhibition of cortical circuits,
    resulting in major homeostatic disturbances in circuit activity that underlie learning and
    memory. ' By inhibition of GABAA for an effective period of time at a non-epileptic dose,
    over-inhibition is relieved, allowing for long term changes to neuronal interactions. A
    number of conditions may be treated by the methods of the invention. Such conditions
    include, without limitation, those listed below.
[0048]       Down Syndrome.       Down syndrome is the most frequent genetic cause of mild to
    moderate mental retardation and associated medical problems and occurs in one out of 800
    live births, in all races and economic groups. Down syndrome is a chromosomal disorder
    caused by the presence of an additional third chromosome 21 or "trisomy 21." Three
    genetic variations can cause Down syndrome. in approximately 92% of the time, Down
    syndrome is caused by the presence of an extra chromosome 21 in all cells of the
    individual. In approximately 2-4% of cases, Down syndrome is due to mosaic trisomy 21,
    and the remaining cases result from a translocation trisomy 21.
[0049]       Most people with Down syndrome have IQ's that fall in the mild to moderate range of
    retardation. Premature aging is a characteristic of adults with Down syndrome. In addition,
    dementia, or memory loss and impaired judgment similar to that occurring in Alzheimer
    disease patients, may appear in adults with Down syndrome. This condition often occurs
    when the person is younger than forty years old..
[0050]       Observations of patients with DS suggest that imbalances in GABAergic and
    glutamatergic transmission, favoring a greater efficacy of GABAergic signaling, may be
    present during initial neurological developmental events. The methods of the invention
    demonstrate that targeted pharmacological intervention with GABA-A receptor antagonists
    can result in lasting increases in circuit excitability, and improvement in adult learning and
    memory.
                                                   10

[0051]       Phenylketonuria is a mental retardation disorder caused by the deficiency of the
    hepatic enzyme phenylalanine-4 hydroxylase and the build-up of CNS phenylalanine. L
    phenylalanine at concentrations observed in untreated PKU depresses the amplitude and
    frequency of both NMDA and non-NMDA components of mEPSP's in dissociated cortical
    cultures.   Mechanistically, these effects are mediated in large part by phenylalanine's
    competitive antagonism of the obligatory agonist site of the NMDA receptor, but may involve
    other postsynaptic and presynaptic mechansisms as well.             Golgi studies performed on
    children with PKU reveal a prevalence of immature dendritic spines in pyramidal cells of the
    cerebral cortex.
[0052]       Neonatal Protein Malnutrition.    Non-genetic forms of cognitive impairment can be
    induced by protein or caloric malnutrition. Morphological hallmarks of excessive inhibition
    can be observed in the cerebral cortex of malnourished individuals, with the proliferation of
    unusually long, narrow spines.
[0053]       Fragile X Syndrome. MR syndromes brought about by specific deficits in neuronal
    signal transduction provide evidence for excessive inhibition as a major contributing factor
    to cognitive dysfunction. Fragile X syndrome is due to a trinucleotide repeat expansion in
    the FMRI gene that prevents expression of its encoded protein product - fragile X mental
    retardation protein (FMRP). X-linked mental retardation associated with marXq28, or fragile
    X syndrome, is characterized by moderate to severe mental retardation, macroorchidism,,
    large ears, prominent jaw, and high-pitched jocular speech. Expression is variable, with
    mental retardation being the most common feature.
[0054]       Cortical cultures in an animal model of Fragile X syndrome display delayed
    formation and maturation of neuronal network activity, and decreased BDNF expression
    compared to cultures prepared from wild-type (WT) littermates. These animals also show
    scaled reductions in cortical and hippocampal GABAA receptor subunit immunoreactivity,
    and    increases   in olfactory bulb      GluRI    immunoreactivity.     Complementing    these
    electrophysiological findings are studies documenting a higher density of unusually long
    dendritic spines in fragile X patients.
[0055]       Neuroimaging studies using fMRI have shown that FMRP levels are positively
    correlated with activation of the prefrontal cortex in individuals with fragile X during
    performance of a working memory task.           These results suggest that FMRP is required
    during especially demanding cognitive exercises, and that failure to meet these demands
    with appropriate concentrations of FMRP result in decreased network activity. FMRP's role
    as a regulator of site-specific protein translation in dendritic spines may account for many of
    the observations that have been made in fragile X patients and in animal models of the
    disorder.
                                                   11

[0056]       Neurofibromatosis 1. This condition is attributed to genetic mutations in the NF1
    gene and loss of function of neurofibromin's ras guanosine triphosphatase (rasGAP)
    activity, presents the most direct link between overinhibition in the brain and mental
    retardation. Animals carrying a heterozygous null mutation of the NF1 gene (Nfl') exhibit
    spatial learning deficits in the Morris water maze that intimately relate with increases in
    GABA-mediated inhibition. Nfl' mice have larger mIPSP's and evoked IPSP's than WT
    controls, and decreases in hippocampal LTP. Thus, partial loss of neurofibromin's rasGAP
    activity, and subsequent unregulated ras activation, leads to abnormally high GABA
    mediated inhibition, which underlies impairments in Hebbian plasticity and learning and
     memory. This devastating cascade of events can be prevented by administration of farnesyl
    transferase inhibitors, anti-ras agents, which return learning and memory in Nfl* adult mice
    to control levels.
 [0057]       Maple Syrup Urine Disease is a mental retardation disorder resulting from the loss of
     function of the branched chain L-a-keto acid dehydrogenase complex and a subsequent
     accumulation     of the    metabolic    substrates  a-ketoisocaproic   acid   (KIC),  a-keto-@
     methylvaleric acid (KMV), and a-ketoisovaleric acid (KIV). Experiments have shown that a
     keto acids dampen cortical excitation and reduce learning in a dose-dependent fashion.
    Administration of physiologically relevant concentrations of KIV to dissociated cortical
     neurons significantly reduces spontaneous network activity, while intra-hippocampal
     infusion of KIC, KMV and KIV severely disrupts the acquisition of an inhibitory avoidance
     task. The effects of a-keto acids on cortical activity and cognition appear to be mediated via
     direct interactions of the metabolites with the vesicular glutamate transporter. Application of
     a-keto acids inhibits glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles in a competitive manner and
     changes the chloride dependence for the activation of vesicular glutamate transport. Alpha
     keto acid inhibition of the vesicular glutamate transporter is dramatic during the acute phase
     of MSUD].      Young children with MSUD demonstrate changes in neuronal morphology,
     exhibiting a conspicuous abundance of long, thin dendritic spines in the cerebral cortex.
 [0058]       Autism, often referred to as autistic disorder or infantile autism, is a complex
     behavioral disorder which, by definition, develops prior to age three years.         Autism is
     defined completely on the basis of impairments in social interaction, impairments in
     communication, and repetitive and stereotypic behaviors. For most children, the onset of
     autism is gradual; however, approximately 30% have a "regressive" onset. Fifty to seventy
     percent of children with autism are defined as mentally retarded by nonverbal IQ testing.
     Seizures develop in approximately 25% of children with autism.
 [0059]       The standard diagnostic criteria for autism, compiled by the American Psychiatric
     Association Manual of Psychiatric Diseases, 4th edition (DSM-IV),             are the primary
     diagnostic reference used in the United States. The causes of autism can be divided into
                                                   12

    "idiopathic," which comprises the majority of' cases, and "secondary," in which an
    environmental agent, chromosome abnormality, or single-gene disorder can be identified.
[0060]       The standard diagnostic criteria include qualitative impairment in social interaction,
    as manifested by at least two of the following; qualitative impairments in communication;
    stereotyped and repetitive use of language or idiosyncratic language; lack of varied,
    spontaneous make-believe play or social imitative play appropriate to developmental level;
    restricted repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities. Criteria
    also include delays or abnormal functioning in at least one of the following areas, with onset
    prior to age three years: social interaction, language as used in social communication, or
    symbolic or imaginative play
[0061]       Impairment in social interaction separates individuals with autism from the people
    around them. Children with autism are unable to "read" other people, ignoring them and
    often strenuously avoiding eye contact. Most children with autism fail to develop reciprocal
    communication either by speech, gestures, or facial expressions. Deficits in pragmatic skills
    are present throughout life and affect both language and social interaction. In contrast to the
    child with nonspecific mental retardation or a primary developmental language disorder,
    who usually has better receptive than expressive language, the child with autism has
    impaired receptive language. Fifty to seventy percent of autistic children are defined as
    mentally retarded by nonverbal IQ testing.
[00621       Children with Down syndrome have autism more commonly than expected. The
    incidence was at least 7% in one study. This finding suggests that chromosome
    abnormalities may lower the threshold for the expression of autism.
[0063]       Whereas a very small percentage of children with autism have fragile X syndrome,
    at least half of children with fragile X syndrome have autistic behaviors, including avoidance
    of eye contact, language delays, repetitive behaviors, sleep disturbances, tantrums, self
    injurious behaviors, hyperactivity, impulsiveness, inattention, and sound sensitivities.
[0064]       One of the DSM-IV-defined pervasive developmental disorders, Rett syndrome
    exhibits considerable phenotypic overlap with autism; children with both disorders often
    have a period of normal development followed by loss of language with stereotypic hand
    movements. Decreasing rate of head growth over time and hand-wringing in female
    individuals may suggest th'e diagnosis of Rett syndrome. Molecular genetic testing for
    MECP2 mutations that cause Rett syndrome is clinically available. Only 1% of individuals
    with the diagnosis of autism have been reported to have a MECP2 coding region mutation,
    however these two disorders may be causally related based on reports of variants in the 3'
    UTR of MECP2 in three of 24 individuals with autism and variable MeCP2 expression in the
    brains of individuals with both Rett syndrome and autism.
                                                  13

                                               Assessment
[0065]        By mental retardation is meant a cognitive impairment with a pattern of persistently
     slow learning of basic motor and language skills during childhood, and a significantly below
     normal global intellectual capacity as an adult. One common criterion for diagnosis of
     mental retardation is a tested intelligence quotient (IQ) of 70 or below. Conditions of
     interest for treatment include Down Syndrome, and other congenital or acquired conditions
     that impair cognitive function. Included in the conditions of interest for treatment are those
     in which there is an impairment, often from early childhood, of at least one cognitive
     function, such as a impairment in memory, impairment in learning ability, etc.
[0066]         By treatment is meant at least an amelioration of the symptoms associated with the
     pathological condition afflicting the host, where amelioration is used in a broad sense to
     refer to at least a reduction in the magnitude of a parameter, e.g. symptom, associated with
     the pathological condition being treated, such as impairment in memory or learning ability or
     other cognitive function. As such, treatment also includes situations where the pathological
     condition, or at least symptoms associated therewith, are completely inhibited, e.g.
      prevented from happening, or stopped, e.g. terminated, such that the host no longer suffers
     from the pathological condition, or at least the symptoms that characterize the pathological
     condition.
 [0067]        As mentioned above, in these applications an effective amount of GABAA receptor
      chloride ionophore blocker is administered to the host. By "effective amount" is meant a
      dosage sufficient to produce a desired result, where the desired result is generally an
      amelioration or alleviation, if not complete cessation, of one or more symptoms of the
      disease being treated, particularly the cognitive impairment symptoms, e.g., memory,
      learning ability, and the like.
 [0068]        As used herein, the terms "treatment", "treating", and the like, refer to obtaining a
      desired pharmacologic and/or physiologic effect. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of
      completely or partially preventing a disease or symptom thereof and/or may be therapeutic
      in terms of a partial or complete cure for a disease and/or adverse affect attributable to the
      disease. "Treatment", as used herein, covers any treatment of a disease in a mammal,
      particularly in a human, and includes: (a) preventing the disease from occurring in a subject
      which may be predisposed to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed as having it; (b)
      inhibiting the disease, i.e., arresting its development; and (c) relieving the disease, i.e.,
      causing regression of the disease.
  [0069]       In addition to the above methods of treatment, the subject methods also find use in
      the prophylactic or preventative treatment regimens. In such methods, the host is
      administered an amount of a direct GABAA inhibitor, typically according to a dosage
                                                   14

    schedule (.e.g., daily, weekly, monthly etc.), that is sufficient to prevent the occurrence of at
    least symptoms of the disorder, e.g., impaired cognition.
[0070]       In the treatment of a patient, assessment will usually include a clinical history and
    the collection of standardized information.       Assessment may also include IQ testing.      In
    animal models, a variety of standardized tests may be utilized for evaluation of learning and
    memory.        Examples include analysis of sustained and non-sustained attention and
    impulsivity, e.g. acquisition inhibitory avoidance- responding; 5-choice serial reaction time
    testing in rodents and a distractor version of a Delayed Match to Sample test in monkeys.
    Analysis of social and working memory may include social recognition model; spatial
    working memory using a water maze in rats; and spontaneous alternation Y mazes. Mazes,
    e.g. water maze with a hidden platform; 2-choice visual discrimination water maze; "dry
    land" Barnes circular maze; etc. are useful in testing spatial reference memory. Different
    configurations of the water maze measure different forms of learning and utilize different
    brain systems. A second commonly used paradigm for studying learning and memory is the
    conditioned fear test.      The direct measure of freezing behavior in response to discrete
    conditioned stimuli such as tones or lights as a measure of learning can evaluate two
    discrete forms of learning, cued and contextual. A passive avoidance model is useful in
    assessing recall.
[0071]       Many assessment tests are available.             For example, memory, attention and
    executive function (planning abilities) can be assessed by direct testing with the participants
    using the DAME battery. The DAME battery has been validated as a measure that is
    sensitive to change in older people with Down's syndrome. The range of scores is 0-241
    and can be completed in 45 minutes by most people with mild-moderate learning disability.
(0072]       Independent functioning can be evaluated using the Adaptive Behavioural Scale
    (ABS, Nihira,1974). This is an informant based instrument and is part of the assessment
    used by the American Association on Mental Deficiency to assess daily living skills in
    people with learning disabilities. The ABS measures ten groups of skills related to self-care
    and socialization. The ten skills groups: independent functioning, physical development,
    economic activity, language development, numbers and time, domestic activity, vocational
    activity, self-direction, responsibility, and socialization.
[0073]       The Clinician's Global Impression of Change (CGI/C) has been one of the most
    commonly used test to assess overall change in clinical trials. The validity of this type of
    measure is based on the ability of an experienced clinician to detect clinically relevant
    against trivial change in a patient's overall clinical state.
[0074]       In certain situations, treatment according to the subject methods results in a
    complete removal of a deficit in the cognitive function. The amount of improvement is at
    least about 2 fold, usually at least about 5 fold and more usually at least about 10 fold as
                                                    15

     compared to a suitable control, e.g., an otherwise substantially identical host not
     administered a GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blocker, e.g., a host having similar level
     of cognitive ability that has been administered a placebo, where in certain embodiments the
     amount of improvement is at least about 25 fold, 50 fold, 75 fold, 100 fold or greater. The
     cognitive function improvement can be evaluated using any convenient protocol, where
     suitable protocols include, but are not limited to: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS_
     R) [Wechsler, D. WAIS-R Manual. New York: Psychological Corporation, 1981; Mini-Mental
     State Examination (MMSE) [Folstein et al. Mini Mental State: a practical method for grading
     the cognitive state of patients for the clinician. J Psychiat Res 1975;12:189-98; Information
     Memory-Concentration test; Fuld Object Memory Evaluation (FOSE) [Fuld, PA. The Fuld
     Object Memory Test. Chicago: The Stoeltimg Instrument Company, 1981]; The Buschke
     Selective Reminding Test (BSRT) [Buschke, H. Selective reminding for analysis of memory
     and learning. J Verbal Learn Verb Behav 1973;12:543-50]; The Rey Auditory Recall Test
     [Buschke, H. Selective reminding for analysis of memory and learning. J Verbal Learn Verb
     Behav 1973; 12:543-50]; The Beton Visual Retention Test (BVRT) [Benton, AL. The revised
     visual attention test, 4t' edn. New York: Psychological Corporation, 1974]; The California
     Verbal Learning Test [Delis et al. The California Verbal Learning Test. New York:
     Psychological Corporation, 1987]; Assessment of navigation in humans [Maguire et al.
     Knowing where and getting there; a human navigation network [Science 1998; 280:921
     924]; and the like.
                                                   Methods
[0075]       In the broadest sense, methods are provided for improving a cognitive function in a
     mammalian host. The host is generally a mammal, e.g. mouse, rat, monkey, etc. and in
     many embodiments is a human.              The GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blocker is
     administered at regular intervals, usually at least weekly, more usually daily, or every two
     days, and usually with a sleep period between doses. Typically, the active agent is fast
     acting, and after administration the blocker reaches therapeutic levels across the blood
     brain barrier at least transiently, e.g. for around about 1 minute, at least about 5 minutes, at
     least about 30 minutes, at least about 1 hour, or more. It is not believed to be necessary to
     maintain such levels throughout the treatment period, as effective treatment is observed
    even with compounds have a short half-live after administration. The agent may be short
    lived, where half-life in the blood is less than abbut 4 hours, less than about 3 hours, less
    than about two hours.
[0076]       Administration of the treatment is maintained for a period of time sufficient to effect a
    change in cognitive function. Such treatment may involve dosing for at least about one
    week, at least about two weeks; at least about 3 weeks; at least about one month; at least
                                                     16

      about two months; at least about four to six months; or longer, for example at least about
      one or more years. For extended treatment; e.g. treatment of one or more years, a
      schedule may involve intermittent periods, such as one week on and one week off; two
      weeks on and two weeks off; one week in a month, etc.
 [0077]       Patients that can benefit from the present invention may be of any age and include
      adults and children, e.g. young adults. Children, e.g. neonate, infant, early childhood,
      adolescent, etc. in particular may benefit prophylactic treatment. Children suitable for
      prophylaxis can be identified by genetic testing for predisposition, e.g. by chromosome
     typing; by family history, or by other medical means. As is known in the art, dosages may
      be adjusted for pediatric use.
[0078]       The GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blocker is generally administered to the
      host as a pharmaceutical composition that includes an effective amount of the GABAA
      receptor chloride ionophore blocker in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. In the subject
     methods, the active agent(s) may be administered to the host using any convenient means
     capable of resulting in the desired improvement on cognitive function.
[0079]       Therapeutic agents can be incorporated into a variety of formulations for therapeutic
     administration by combination with appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or
     diluents, and may be formulated into preparations in solid, semi-solid, liquid or gaseous
     forms, such as tablets, capsules, powders, granules, ointments, solutions, suppositories,
     injections, inhalants, gels, microspheres, and aerosols. As such, administration of the
     compounds can be achieved in various ways, including oral, buccal, rectal, parenteral,
     intraperitoneal, intradermal, transdermal, intrathecal, nasal, intracheal, etc., administration.
     The active agent may be systemic after administration or may be localized by the use of
     regional administration, intramural administration, or use of an implant that acts to retain the
     active dose at the site of implantation.
[0080]       Many GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blockers are known to be bioactive in the
     central nervous system after oral or parenteral administration. For those that are not, one
    strategy for drug delivery through the blood brain barrier (BBB) entails disruption of the
    BBB, either by osmotic means such as mannitol or leukotrienes, or biochemically by the use
    of vasoactive substances such as bradykinin. The potential for using BBB opening to target
    specific agents is also an option. A BBB disrupting agent can be co-administered with the
    therapeutic compositions of the invention when the compositions are administered by
    intravascular injection. Other strategies to go through the BBB may entail the use of
    endogenous transport systems, including carrier-mediated transporters. such as glucose
    and amino acid carriers, receptor-mediated transcytosis for insulin or transferrin, and active
    efflux transporters such as p-glycoprotein.         Active transport moieties may also be
    conjugated to the therapeutic or imaging compounds for use in the invention to facilitate
                                                 17

    transport across the epithelial wall of the blood vessel. Alternatively, drug delivery behind
    the BBB is by intrathecal delivery of therapeutics or imaging agents directly to the cranium,
    as through an Ommaya reservoir.
[0081]    ' Pharmaceutical compositions can include, depending on the formulation desired,
    pharmaceutically-acceptable, non-toxic carriers of diluents, which are defined as vehicles
    commonly      used    to formulate   pharmaceutical     compositions   for animal    or  human
    administration.    The diluent is selected so as not to affect the biological activity of the
    combination.     Examples of such diluents are distilled water, buffered water, physiological
    saline, PBS, Ringer's solution, dextrose solution, and Hank's solution.        In addition, the
    pharmaceutical composition or formulation can include other carriers, adjuvants, or non
    toxic, nontherapeutic,     nonimmunogenic      stabilizers, excipients and the     like.   The
    compositions     can also    include additional substances to approximate physiological
    conditions, such as pH adjusting and buffering agents, toxicity adjusting agents, wetting
    agents and detergents. The composition can also include any of a variety of stabilizing
    agents, such as an antioxidant for example.
[0082]       Further guidance regarding formulations that are suitable for various types of
    administration can be found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mace Publishing
    Company, Philadelphia, PA, 17th ed. (1985).           For a brief review of methods for drug
    delivery, see, Langer, Science 249:1527-1533 (1990).
[00831       Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the active ingredient can be determined
    according to standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures and/or experimental
    animals, including, for example, determining the LD60 (the dose lethal to 50% of the
    population, or for the methods of the invention, may alternatively by the kindling dose) and
    the ED 50 (the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population).       The dose ratio
    between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as
    the ratio LD50/ED6 0 . Compounds that exhibit large therapeutic indices are preferred.
[0084]       The data obtained from cell culture and/or animal studies can be used in formulating
    a range of dosages for humans. The dosage of the active ingredient typically lines within a
    range of circulating concentrations that include the ED5 Owith low toxicity. The dosage can
    vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of
    administration utilized.
[0085]       The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be administered in a variety
    of   different ways.      Examples    include   administering   a  composition   containing   a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier via oral, intranasal, rectal, topical, intraperitoneal,
    intravenous,    intramuscular,   subcutaneous,    subdermal,   transdermal,  intrathecal,  and
    intracranial methods.
                                                  18

[0086]      For oral administration, the active ingredient can be administered in solid dosage
    forms, such as capsules, tablets, and powders, or in liquid dosage forms, such as elixirs,
    syrups, and suspensions.         The active component(s) can be encapsulated in gelatin
    capsules together with inactive ingredients and powdered carriers, such as glucose,
    lactose, sucrose, mannitol, starch, cellulose or cellulose derivatives, magnesium stearate,
    stearic acid, sodium saccharin, talcum, magnesium carbonate.            Examples of additional
    inactive ingredients that may be added to provide desirable color, taste, stability, buffering
    capacity, dispersion or other known desirable features are red iron oxide, silica gel, sodium
    lauryl sulfate, titanium dioxide, and edible white ink. Similar diluents can be used to make
    compressed tablets. Both tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release
    products to provide for continuous release of medication over a period of hours.
    Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and
    protect the tablet from the atmosphere, or enteric-coated for selective disintegration in the
    gastrointestinal tract. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration can contain coloring and
    flavoring to increase patient acceptance.
[0087]      Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non
    aqueous, isotonic sterile injection solutions, which can contain antioxidants, buffers,
    bacteriostats, and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended
    recipient, and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending
    agents, solubilizers, thickening agents, stabilizers, and preservatives.
[0088]      The components used to formulate the pharmaceutical compositions are preferably
    of high purity and are substantially free of potentially harmful contaminants (e.g., at least
    National Food (NF) grade, generally at least analytical grade, and more typically at least
    pharmaceutical grade). Moreover, compositions intended for in vivo use are usually sterile.
    To the extent that a given compound must be synthesized prior to use, the resulting product
    is typically substantially free of any potentially toxic agents, particularly any endotoxins,
    which may be present during the synthesis or purification process. Compositions for
    parental administration are also sterile, substantially isotonic and made under GMP
    conditions.
[0089]      The compositions of the invention may be administered using any medically
    appropriate     procedure,    e.g.  intravascular  (intravenous,   intraarterial, intracapillary)
    administration, injection into the cerebrospinal fluid, intracavity or direct injection in the
    brain.   Intrathecal administration maybe carried out through the use of an Ommaya
    reservoir, in accordance with known techniques. (F. Balis et al., Am J. Pediatr. Hematol.
    Oncol. 11, 74, 76 (1989).
[0090]      The effective amount of a therapeutic composition to be given to a particular patient
    will depend on a variety of factors, several of which will be different from patient to patient.
                                                  19

      A competent clinician will be able to determine an effective amount of a therapeutic agent to
      administer to a patient. Dosage of the agent will depend on the treatment, route of
      administration, the nature of the therapeutics, sensitivity of the patient to the therapeutics,
      etc.   Utilizing LD5 o animal data, and other information, a clinician can determine the
      maximum safe dose for an individual, depending on the route of administration. Utilizing
      ordinary skill, the competent clinician will be able to optimize the dosage of a particular
      therapeutic composition in the course of routine clinical trials. The compositions can be
      administered to the subject in a series of more than one administration. For therapeutic
      compositions, regular periodic administration will sometimes be required, or may be
      desirable. Therapeutic regimens will vary with the agent.
 [0091]       The invention also provides a pharmaceutical pack or kit comprising one or more
      containers filled with one or more of the ingredients of the pharmaceutical compositions of
      the invention. Associated with such container(s) can be a notice in the form prescribed by a
      governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use or sale of pharmaceuticals or
      biological products, which notice reflects approval by the agency of manufacture, use or
      sale for human administration.
 [0092]       In another aspect of the invention, candidate agents are screened for the ability to
      improve cognitive impairment. Such compound screening may be performed using an in
      vitro model, a genetically altered cell or animal, or purified protein, particularly the human
      GABAA receptor or cells expressing such a receptor. A wide variety of assays may be used
     for this purpose. In one embodiment, compounds that are active in binding assays with the
     channel proteins, or are predicted to be antagonists of the receptor are then tested in an in
     vitro culture system. Alternatively, candidate - agents are tested for GABAA chloride
     ionophore blocking activity, and may then be assessed in animal models for treatment of
     cognitive impairment. Drug testing may further assess the activity of a compound in
     kindling seizures or convulsions, where a compound with a broad dosage difference
     between the desired and undesired activity may be selected.
[0093]        For example, candidate agents may be identified by known pharmacology, by
     structure analysis, by rational drug design using computer based modeling, by binding
     assays, and the like.       Such candidate compounds are used to contact cells in an
     environment permissive GABAA channel function. Such compounds may be further tested
     in an in vivo model for improvement of cognitive impairment.
[0094]        The term "agent" as used herein describes any molecule, e.g. protein or
     pharmaceutical, with the capability of modulating cognitive impairment by acting through
    neuronal inhibitory pathways. Candidate agents encompass numerous chemical classes,
    though typically they are organic molecules, preferably small organic compounds having a
    molecular weight of more than 50 and less than about 2,500 daltons. Candidate agents
                                                  20

    comprise functional groups necessary for structural interaction with proteins, particularly
    hydrogen bonding, and typically include at least an amine, carbonyl, hydroxyl or carboxyl
    group, preferably at least two of the functional chemical groups. The candidate agents
    often comprise cyclical carbon or heterocyclic structures and/or aromatic or polyaromatic
    structures substituted with one or more of the above functional groups. Candidate agents
    are also found among biomolecules including peptides, saccharides, fatty acids, steroids,
    purines, pyrimidines, derivatives, structural analogs or combinations thereof. Generally a
    plurality of assay mixtures are run in parallel with different agent concentrations to obtain a
    differential response to the various concentrations. Typically one of these concentrations
    serves as a negative control, i.e. at zero concentration or below the level of detection.
[0095]       Candidate agents are obtained from a wide variety of sources including libraries of
    synthetic or natural compounds. For example, numerous means are available for random
    and directed synthesis of a wide variety of organic compounds and biomolecules, including
    expression of randomized oligonucleotides and oligopeptides.           Alternatively, libraries of
    natural compounds in the form of bacterial, fungal, plant and animal extracts are available
    or readily produced. Additionally, natural or synthetically produced libraries and compounds
    are readily modified through conventional chemical, physical and biochemical means, and
    may be used to produce combinatorial libraries. Known pharmacological agents may be
    subjected to directed or random chemical modifications, such as acylation, alkylation,
    esterification, amidification, etc. to produce structural analogs. Test agents can be obtained
    from libraries, such as natural product libraries or combinatorial libraries, for example.
[0096]       Libraries of candidate compounds can also be prepared by rational design. (See
    generally,. Cho et al., Pac. Symp. Biocompat. 305-16, 1998); Sun et aL., J. Comput. Aided
    Mol. Des. 12:597-604, 1998); each incorporated herein by reference in their entirety). For
    example, libraries of GABAA inhibitors can be prepared by syntheses of combinatorial
    chemical libraries (see generally DeWitt et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6909-13, 1993;
    International Patent Publication WO 94/08051; Baum, Chem. & Eng. News, 72:20-25, 1994;
    Burbaum et at., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 92:6027-31, 1995; Baldwin et al., J. Am. Chem.
    Soc. 117:5588-89, 1995; Nestler et al., J. Org. Chem. 59:4723-24, 1994; Borehardt et al., J.
    Am. Chem. Soc. 116:373-74, 1994; Ohlmeyer et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 90:10922
    26, all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.)
[0097]       A "combinatorial library" is a collection of compounds in which the compounds
    comprising the collection are composed of one or more types of subunits.              Methods of
    making combinatorial libraries are known in the art, and include the following: U.S. Patent
    Nos. 5,958,792; 5,807,683; 6,004,617; 6,077,954; which are incorporated by reference
    herein. The subunits can be selected from natural or unnatural moieties. The compounds
    of the combinatorial library differ in one or more ways with respect to the number, order,
                                                   21

   type or types of modifications made to one or more of the subunits comprising the
    compounds.       Alternatively, a combinatorial library may refer to a collection of "core
    molecules" which vary as to the number, type or position of R groups they contain and/or
   the identity of molecules composing the core molecule. The collection of compounds is
    generated in a systematic way. Any method of systematically generating a collection of
    compounds differing from each other in one or more of the ways set forth above is a
    combinatorial library.
[0098]      A combinatorial library can be synthesized on a solid support from one or more solid
    phase-bound resin starting materials. The library can contain five (5) or more, preferably
    ten (10) or more, organic molecules that are different from each other. Each of the different
    molecules is present in a detectable amount.          The actual amounts of each different
    molecule needed so that its presence can be determined can vary due to the actual
    procedures used and can change as the technologies for isolation, detection and analysis
    advance.     When the molecules are present in substantially equal molar amounts, an
    amount of 100 picomoles or more can be detected.                 Preferred libraries comprise
    substantially equal molar amounts of each desired reaction product and do not include
    relatively large or small amounts of any given.molecules so that the presence of such
    molecules dominates or is completely suppressed in any assay.
[0099]       Combinatorial libraries are generally prepared by derivatizing a starting compound
    onto a solid-phase support (such as a bead).            In general, the solid support has a
    commercially available resin attached, such as a Rink or Merrifield Resin. After attachment
    of the starting compound, substituents are attached to the starting compound. Substituents
    are added to the starting compound, and can be'varied by providing a mixture of reactants
    comprising the substituents. Examples of suitable substituents include, but are not limited
    to, hydrocarbon substituents, e.g. aliphatic, alicyclic substituents, aromatic, aliphatic and
    alicyclic-substituted aromatic nuclei, and the like, as well as cyclic substituents; substituted
     hydrocarbon substituents, that is, those substituents containing nonhydrocarbon radicals
    which do not alter the predominantly hydrocarbon substituent (e.g., halo (especially chloro
    and fluoro), alkoxy, mercapto, alkylmercapto, nitro, nitroso, sulfoxy, and the like); and hetero
    substituents, that is, substituents which, while having predominantly hydrocarbyl character,
    contain other than carbon atoms.        Suitable heteroatoms include, for example, sulfur,
    oxygen, nitrogen, and such substituents as pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, imidazolyl, and the
     like. Heteroatoms, and typically no more than one, can be present for each carbon atom in
    the hydrocarbon-based substituents.        Alternatively, there can be no such radicals or
     heteroatoms in the hydrocarbon-based substituent and, therefore, the substituent can be
     purely hydrocarbon.
                                                  22

 [00100]       Compounds that are initially identified by any screening methods can be further
     tested to validate the apparent activity.       The, basic format of such methods involves
     administering a lead compound identified during an initial screen to an animal that serves as
     a model for humans and then determining the effects on cognitive impairment. The animal
     models utilized in validation studies generally are mammals. Specific examples of suitable
  -  animals include, but are not limited to, primates, mice, and rats.
[00101]       Those of skill will readily appreciate that dose levels can vary as a function of the
     specific compound, the severity of the symptoms and the susceptibility of the subject to side
     effects. Preferred dosages for a given compound are readily determinable by those of skill
     in the art by a variety of means.
 [00102]      The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of
     limitation.
                                             EXPERIMENTAL
[00103]       Investigation of CNS abnormalities and cognitive dysfunction in DS has been greatly
     facilitated by the development of a segmentally trisomic mouse model of DS: Ts65Dn.
     Ts65Dn mice are trisomic for segments of mouse chromosome 16 (Mmu 16) highly
     homologous to the long arm of hC21, including portions of the so-called DS "critical region."
     Ts65Dn orthologues of hC21 include APP and GRIK1, and extend along the length of
     Mmu16 to genes encoding myxovirus resistance-2 (Mx2) and zinc finger protein 295
     (znf295; approximately 17 Mb of DNA containing 108 of the 225 genes catalogued to
     hC21). Phenotypically, Ts65Dn mice faithfully recapitulate some of the most salient and
     fundamental features of DS. The topography of craniofacial maldevelopment in Ts65Dn
     mirrors that observed in DS patients, with concomitant changes seen at the level of
     individual bones of the craniofacial skeleton. Likewise, Ts65Dn mice exhibit similar patterns
     of cerebellar atrophy during early postnatal development, a function of reduced granule cell
     density in the internal granule layer (IGL) of the cerebellum. The utility of Ts65Dn as a
     mouse model of DS is strengthened further by findings that detail nearly comprehensive
    deficits in Ts65Dn short- and long-term spatial memory, working memory, and reference
     memory, and is punctuated by findings detailing the age-related atrophy of basal forebrain
    cholinergic groups (BFCNs) in Ts65Dn mouse brain (first evident at 6 months of age), a
    characteristic of both human DS and human Alzheimer's disease (AD).
[00104]       In the past decade, a handful of studies have ultrastructurally described, and
    functionally assessed synaptic connections in the brain of a mouse model of DS, Ts65Dn.
    Quantitative electron microscopy (EM) of Ts65Dn CNS has revealed a loss of asymmetric,
    excitatory synapses in Ts65Dn cortex relative to WT tissue, with a concurrent sparing of
                                                   23

     symmetric, inhibitory synapses. Reductions in the density of excitatory synapses, and in the
     ratio of excitatory-to-inhibitory signaling in the Ts65Dn brain, have been noted alongside
     compensatory increases in the synaptic apposition lengths of asymmetric and symmetric
     synaptic junctions. There may be a rearrangement of GABAergic inhibitory connections
     onto principal excitatory neurons that would hinder excitatory drive, demonstrating more
     conspicuous       GABAergic     innervation   of dendritic   spines   in  the  Ts65Dn     brain.
     Electrophysiologically, isolated Ts65Dn hippocampus has been shown to exhibit reduced
     induction and maintenance of LTP after delivery of an LTP-eliciting tetanus, decreased PPF
     in the perforant path, and dramatically enhanced LTD, all functional manifestations of poor
     circuit activity. Circulating levels of frontal cortical BDNF, a neurotrophic agent released in
     an activity-dependent manner, correlate directly with Ts65Dn performance in the radial-arm
     maze task.
              See, for example, Olson et al., Down syndrome mouse models Ts65Dn, TslCje,
     and MslCje/Ts65Dn exhibit variable severity of cerebellar phenotypes. Developmental
     Dynamics, 230: 581-589 (2004). Escorihuela et al., Impaired short- and long-term memory
     in Ts65Dn mice, a model for Down syndrome. Neuroscience Letters, 247: 171-174 (1998).
     Demas et al., Spatial memory deficits in segmental trisomic Ts65Dn mice. Behavioral Brain
     Research, 82: 85-92 (1996). Holtzman et al., Developmental abnormalities and age-related
     neurodegeneration in a mouse model of Down syndrome. Proceedings of the National
    Academy of Science USA, 93: 13,333-13,338 (1996). Hyde and Crnic, Age-related deficits
     in context discrimination learning in Ts65Dn mice that model Down's syndrome and
    Alzheimer's disease. Behavioral Neuroscience, 115: 1239-1246 (2001). Hyde et al.,
    Ts65Dn mice, a model for Down syndrome, have deficits in context discrimination learning
    suggesting impaired hippocampal function. Behavioural Brain Research, 118: 53-60 (2001).
    Bimonte-Nelson et al., Frontal cortex BDNF levels correlate with working memory in an
    animal model of Down syndrome. Behavioural Brain Research, 139: 47-57 (2003). Hunter
    et al., Behavioral comparison of 4 and 6 month-old Ts65Dn mice: Age-related impairments
    in working and reference memory. Behavioural Brain Research, 138: 121-131 (2003).
    Wenger et al. Operant conditioning in the Ts65Dn mouse: Learning. Behavior Genetics, 34:
    105-119 (2004). Kurt et al., Synaptic deficit in the temporal cortex of partial trisomy 16
    Ts65Dn mice. Brain Research, 858: 191-197 (2000). Siarey et al., Altered long-term
    potentiation in the young and old Ts65Dn mouse, a model for Down syndrome.
    Neuropharmacology, 36: 1549-1554 (1997). Siarey et al. Increased synaptic depression in
    the Ts65Dn mouse, a model for mental retardation in Down syndrome.
    Neuropharmacology, 38: 1917-1920 (1999).
[00105]      The relative balance of excitation and inhibition in the brain, mediated respectively
    by the amino acid neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA, governs the assembly of neural
                                                    24

    circuits throughout development and the ability of the mature brain to undergo plastic
    responses thought to underlie adult learning and memory.          Recent neuroanatomical and
    electrophysiological findings from a mouse model of Down syndrome (DS), Ts65Dn,
    suggest that cognitive impairment in the disorder arises from an offset of this critical
    balance, tilting decisively in favor of inhibition.   Due to the tight convergence between
    structural and electrophysiological data suggesting excessive GABAergic inhibition in the
    Ts65Dn brain, we put together a program of study to assess the relationship between this
    overinhibition and learning deficits in Ts65Dn mice.
[00106]     The results provided below indicate that increased GABAergic signaling does play a
    pivotal role in Ts65Dn learning deficits.         Administration of picrotoxin (PTX) i.p., a
    quintessential non-competitive antagonist of the GABAA receptor that blocks chloride
    ionophore conductance, normalizes learning of Ts65Dn mice in an object recognition task
    when delivered chronically on a daily regiment, but not with acute application. Likewise, this
    improvement in Ts65Dn cognition is persistent, as PTX-treated animals maintain normal
    object recognition memory for at least 2 weeks post-treatment.
[00107]     Subsequently the generality of this phenomenon was determined, and it was found
    that other compounds also thought to act as GABAA chloride ionophore blockers rescue
    Ts65Dn learning deficits in the object recognition task. The most clinically relevant of these,
    Metrazol, was administered via voluntary oral feeding in mice to mimic the most typical
    route of drug delivery in humans, and like PTX, was found to have longevity in its effects for
    weeks after treatment.      Further data indicate that the effects of GABA-A antagonists in
    Ts65Dn mice are restricted to particular functionalities. Whereas PTX is able to recover
    Ts65Dn declarative memory in the object recognition test, a rodent cognitive task that
    requires the integrity of higher-order brain areas in the cortex and hippocampus, the drug
    does not influence Ts65Dn motor learning in an accelerating rotorod test, a task that
    requires the integrity of the cerebellum.
[00108]     These results demonstrate that mental retardation in DS can be amenable to
    pharmacological treatment, with compounds that have had a history of clinical use.            It is
    believed that chronic, repetitive exposure to low doses of GABAA              chloride ionophore
    blockers is causing semi-permanent circuit rewiring that allows for greater circuit efficacy in
    higher order brain areas, and better learning and memory.             This interpretation is in
    agreement with data showing that acute exposure to these same drugs does not lead to
    reliable improvements in Ts65Dn memory, and that Ts65Dn cognitive improvement during
    chronic drug administration is subsequently maintained after the cessation of drug
    treatment.     It is further bolstered by data in normal rodents, where chronic, yet
    circumscribed, regiments of GABA antagonists are also able to exert beneficial effects on
    cognition that outlive the timing of drug application. In the context of clinical research, these
                                                 25

     finings translate into drug regimens that can begin in children with DS at early adolescence,
     extending into early adulthood, and that would be monitored via modern neuropsychological
     testing and non-invasive functional imaging.
     Methods and Results
 (00109]      The object recognition task, a behavioral assay not requiring explicit rule learning or
     prolonged training, is based on the innate tendency of mice to differentially explore novel
     objects over familiar ones. Animals are submitted to daily handling sessions and are given
     an opportunity to habituate to a black acrylic, boxed enclosure, where they are exposed to
     two different objects during a 15-min training session. These objects are made from various
     nonporous materials (ceramic, metal, glass, etc.), and possess various color schemes. All
     are generally consistent in height and volume, and are symmetrical on a horizontal plane.
     They are set in two corners of the apparatus, positioned across from one another along its
     diameter. Subsequently, a 15-min. testing session is conducted 24 h after training. Here,
     the mice are presented with the object they had explored the previous day, and a new item
     (the objects being alternatively positioned in one corner or another in a balanced fashion).
 [00110]      Memory is operationally defined as the proportion of time animals spend
     investigating the novel object minus the proportion spent investigating the familiar one
     (Discrimination Index, DI = (Novel Object Exploration Time/Total Exploration Time
     Familiar Object Exploration Time/Total Exploration Time] X 100), where exploration
     constitutes any investigative behavior (i.e., head orientation, sniffing) or deliberate contact
     (i.e. rearing, licking) that occurs with each object. Behavioral trials are recorded by a tripod
    mounted digital camera. Importantly, the object recognition task can be used repeatedly to
    evaluate rodent memory across time, and across various drug treatment regiments. Mice
    are trained and tested once per week, each experimental session separated by a 1-week
    interval, and are serially presented with new sets of objects. In this scheme, each mouse is
    considered a naive subject, and each week's performance is considered an independent
    observation. Finally, all behavioral data are analyzed by Student's unpaired t tests.
[001111       The object recognition test has been shown to reliably distinguish drug-induced
    effects on memory in rodents. Moreover, learning performance in the test is not confounded
    by task aversiveness, a variable common in avoidance paradigms, in food-motivated tasks,
    and in the Morris water maze (MWM). This is critical when evaluating Ts65Dn mouse
    learning and memory, as Ts65Dn mice are naturally more emotionally labile than WT mice,
    and their performance in cognitive tests has been demonstrated to be disproportionately
    influenced by stress. Additionally, rodent execution of the object recognition task does not
    involve strenuous or highly coordinated movement, a requirement that can also potentially
    confound Ts65Dn performance in tests like the MWM, as Ts65Dm mice exhibit abnormal
                                                   26

    gait dynamics. Thus, object recognition is an appropriate rodent cognitive task to assess
    Ts65Dn learning and memory deficits, and the mitigation of these deficits with
    pharmacological treatment. Importantly, object recognition is a test that can also be directly
    translated to humans, as children with DS exhibit difficulties in a humanized version of the
    task.
[00112]      Shown in Fig 1. Chronic Administration of PTX or BB Rescues and Maintains
    Ts65Dn Object Recognition Memory. The present experiment was carried out in a
    longitudinal, cross-over fashion, submitting four cohorts of WT and Ts65Dn experiment al
    pairs to a 4-week testing schedule. (A) Here, WT and trisomic mice were randomly
    assigned to groups receiving daily injections of saline or PTX (1 mg/kg), and were submitted
    to two repetitions of object recognition testing (Weeks 1-2).    Note that untreated WT and
    Ts65Dn pairs had been previously run in order to validate the 2-object recognition test. As
    expected, untreated and saline-injected Ts65Dn mice had lower DI scores than their WT
    counterparts (p < 0.04 and p < 0.05, respectively; n = 14-18 for each genotype in the
    untreated or saline condition). However, Ts65Dn mice chronically administered PTX
    performed cognitively at levels comparable to untreated WT mice (p = 0.50) and to WT mice
    receiving chronic saline (p = 0.16) or PTX (p = 0.38; n = 9-10 for each genotype treated with
    PTX). (B) Subsequently, saline-injected WT and Ts65Dn mice were randomly segregated
    into groups that would continue to receive daily saline injections during the third and fourth
    repetitions of object recognition testing, or into groups that would undergo daily picrotoxin
    injections during the second testing period (Weeks 3-4). WT and Ts65Dn mice that had
    been chronically administered PTX, now received daily injections of saline. Not surprisingly,
    Ts65Dn mice continuing to receive saline had significantly lower DI scores than WT mice
    also continuing to receive saline (p < 0.05; n = 6 for each genotype in this condition), than
   WT mice receiving PTX for the first time (p < 0.02), and lower scores than WT mice having
   been kindled with PTX (p < 0.10). Conversely, Ts65Dn mice undergoing chronic PTX
   administration for the first time (n = 8-9 for each genotype in this condition), showed no
   significant differences from WT mice continuing to receive saline (p = 0.21), from WT mice
   also newly submitted to the chronic PTX regiment (p = 0.18), or to WT mice having
   underwent kindling in weeks 1-2 (p = 0.41). Interestingly, kindled Ts65Dn mice (n = 6-7 for
   each genotype having undergone kindling and now receiving saline) exhibited similar object
   recognition performance as WT mice in all treatment conditions (p = 0.23, p = 0.20, and p =
   0.43, for comparisons with saline, PTX, and kindled groups, respectively), and resembled
   Ts65Dn mice given daily PTX for the first time (p = 0.48). Finally, Ts65Dn mice receiving
   bilobalide (BB) throughout the 4-week testing schedule (30 daily i.p. injections total; n = 14
   18 for each genotype in this treatment condition), resembled Ts65Dn mice receiving PTX. N
                                                 27

    values reflect the number of observations (repetitions) per treatment. Dl values are
    expressed as mean * SEM.
[00113]      Shown in Fig 2. Topography of WT and Ts65Dn Object Recognition Performance
    before and after Drug Treatment with PTX. In Fig 3. PTX and BB, Control Data: All mice in
    the object recognition experiment were exposed to standardized sets of objects presented
    serially each week in a uniform fashion. Note that WT and Ts65Dn mice showed nearly
    identical amounts of total object exploration time during the object recognition training and
    testing periods spread across the 4-week schedule of object recognition testing, spending
    invariably 20- 25% of their experimental sessions investigating objects (Figure 3A). Total
    object exploration was not influenced by genotype or by treatment regiment (Figure 3B).
    Likewise, with the exception of Week 4, neither WT or Ts65Dn mice exhibited an object bias
    during the four individual training sessions conducted weekly across the 4-week testing
    schedule, spending similar amounts of time with each familiar object encountered during the
    training period (Figure 3C). Notably, the exploration bias in Week 4 occurred to the same
    degree in both WT and Ts65Dn mice, suggesting similar mnemonic encoding during the 15
    min training session. Values are expressed as mean  SEM.
[00114]      Shown in Fig 4. Like PTX and BB, Metrazol improves Ts65Dn memory in the object
    recognition task. WT and Ts65Dn mice were handled, habituated, and tested as outlined in
    experiments with PTX and BB. The animals were randomly assigned to groups receiving
    daily servings of chocolate milk or Metrazol (3 mg/kg), and were submitted to two repetitions
    of object recognition testing. For the purposes of drug delivery, all mice were conditioned to
    drinking chocolate milk in their home cages and then in cylindrical feeding tubes for 4 days.
    Subsequent to this conditioning, they were placed daily into the feeding tubes, and
    presented with small eppendorf caps of milk or a milk-Metrazol cocktail. The milk solutions
    were typically consumed within 10 min, after which the mice were returned to their home
    cages. In the current experiment, two cohorts of WT and Ts65Dn mice were submitted to a
    twoweek testing schedule. Consistent with the PTX and BB experiments, Ts65Dn mice
    receiving milk (n = 18) exhibited impaired object recognition performance relative to WT
    mice also receiving milk (n = 18; p < 0.004) or .WT mice receiving Metrazol (n = 20; p <
    0.02). However, Ts65Dn given daily servings of Metrazol (n = 19) had DI scores on par with
    those of WT mice given milk (p < 0.16) or Metrazol (p < 0.47), and had scores that were
    significantly higher than Ts65Dn mice administered milk alone (p < 0.03). N values reflect
    the number of observations (repetitions) per treatment. DI values are expressed as mean 
    SEM.
[00115]     Shown in Fig 5. MTZ, Control Data. Total object exploration during the training and
    testing periods, was unaffected by genotype or by milk-MTZ treatment (Figure 5A).
    Exploration of individual familiar objects during the training sessions, likewise, was similar
                                                28

    across all the treatment conditions, but for a slight object bias in Week 2 (Figure 5B). Values
    are expressed as mean  SEM.
[00116]     Shown in Fig 6. The Effects of Metrazol oh Ts65Dn Cognitive Behavior, like those of
    PTX, are Long-Lasting. One cohort of WT and Ts65Dn mice, used to determine the effects
    of chronic Metrazol on Ts65Dn object recognition performance, were submitted to a
    spontaneous holeboard task approximately 1 month after the end of Metrazol treatment and
    object recognition testing. Here, milk- and drug-treated animals (now 5.0 months of age)
    were habituated to Med Associates open field activity monitors (27.9 cm x 27.9 cm) (Figures
    7b and 7c), and then evaluated for holeboard exploration during a 7-min session. Please
    note that 2 rounds of holeboard testing were conducted during the light phase of the
    light/dark cycle, and were separated by a 1-week interval. As would be predicted from
    results in the object recognition test, Ts65Dn mice formerly given milk (n = 10) exhibited
    decreased exploration "efficiency," showing a greater number of head-dips into previously
    explored holes, relative to WT mice also formerly given milk (n = 6; p < 0.03) or WT mice
    that had been treated with Metrazol (n = 12; p < 0.04). In contrast, Ts65Dn mice that had
    received Metrazol (n = 14) showed similar exploration efficiency (p > 0.07 and p < 0.31, for
    comparisons with WT-milk and WT-Metrazol groups, respectively). N values reflect the
    number of observations (repetitions) per treatment. Values are expressed as mean  SEM.
[00117]     Shown in Fig 7. WT and Ts65Dn Locomotor Habituation during the Light Cycle, and
    Indices of Mouse Habituation to the Med Associates Activity Monitors. (A) One cohort of WT
    and Ts65Dn mice (n = 6 for each genotype), naive to drug treatment, was evaluated for
    habituation to a novel cage environment during the light cycle. Here, the number of central
    line crossings between the left half and the right half of the cage, were tabulated over 1 h.
    Consistent with previous literature, WT and Ts65Dn mice exhibited nearly identical declines
    in locomotor activity over the 1-h evaluation period. Values are expressed as mean  SEM.
    (B) Milk-fed and MTZ-treated WT and Ts65Dn mice, prior to holeboard testing (Figure 6),
    exhibited similar indices of activity habituation to the Med Associates automated open field
    across 4 staggered sessions (the last 2 sessions separated by a            -  1 week interval),
    suggesting that the increase in repeat hole entries exhibited by milk-fed Ts65Dn mice was
    not a byproduct of general hyperactivity. Values are expressed as mean  SEM. (C) A
    closer look at Ts65Dn habituation in the Med Associates automated open field reveals
    particular similarities between milk- and MTZ-treated Ts65Dn mice, further stipulating a
    cognitive component for the differences observed between milk- and drug-treated, trisomic
    animals in the holeboard task. Values are expressed as mean  SEM.              Fig 8. Absolute
    Object Novelty Preference among Vehicle- and Drug-Treated WT and Ts65Dn Mice.             Fig 9.
    Object Recognition Validation: One-Object Based and Two-Object Based Tasks.
                                                  29

            Shown in Fig 10. Chronic, but not Acute, Application of PTX Restores Ts65Dn
   Object Recognition Memory in a One-Object Based Task. In the current experiment, a
   cohort of WT and Ts65Dn mice (n = 6 for each genotype) was evaluated in the object
   recognition task across 4 sequential weeks. In the first week, untreated WT mice exhibited
   significantly higher DI scores than untreated Ts65Dn mice (p < 0.05), whose scores were
   not statistically different from zero (p = 0.31). In the second week, WT and Ts65Dn were
   randomly assigned to control and drug treatment groups (n = 3 for each genotype/treatment
   group). Animals received an acute injection of saline or picrotoxin (PTX; 1 mg/kg)
   immediately after object recognition training, and the effects of these treatments were
   evaluated 24-h later during object recognition testing. Here, WT and Ts65Dn mice exhibited
    performances, on average, similar to those in Week 1, suggesting that acute PTX is unable
   to improve memory in WT mice and is unable to rescue memory deficits in Ts65Dn mice.
    Subsequently, in preliminary work, we evaluated the ability of chronic PTX administration to
    ameliorate Ts65Dn object recognition performance in Weeks 3 and 4. Indeed, daily
    injections of PTX (1 mg/kg) in Ts65Dn mice (n = 6; 12 observations total), beginning a day
    after Week 2 testing and conducted on object recognition training days right after the
    training session, were able to increase Ts65Dn performance to the level of WT mice
    receiving daily injections of saline (n = 6; 12 observations total). Shown in Fig 11. Acute
    PTX is Unable to Reliably Rescue Ts65Dn Performance in a 2-Object Based Object
    Recognition Test. Shown in Fig 12. Motor Learning in WT and Ts65Dn Mice: Chronic PTX
    Treatment does not influence Ts65Dn Rotorod Performance.
[00118]      In summary, these data demonstrate that Picrotoxin, a non-competitive GABAA
    receptor antagonist and chloride ionophore blocker, normalizes object recognition memory
    in Ts65Dn mice at 3 month of age with chronic, but not acute, administration. Improved
    Ts65Dn learning with PTX is maintained post drug treatment. Other non-competitive
    GABAA antagonists that directly block chloride conductance, namely Metrazol and
     Bilobalide, also restore Ts65Dn object recognition performance with chronic application.
     Other aspects of cognition, such as holeboard exploration efficiency, are rescued and
     persevere in Ts65Dn mice after GABA antagonist treatment with Metrazol. The effects of
     GABA antagonists on Ts65Dn learning and memory are restricted to specific functionalities;
    whereas they improve Ts65Dn object recognition and exploration efficiency, they do not
     influence Ts65Dn motor learning.
                                              Example 2
[00119]      Mental retardation (MR) remains a prevalent form of non-progressive cognitive
     impairment, affecting 2-3% of the population in the industrialized world. Disorders involving
     MR, though narrowly defined by an IQ < 70 and by deficits in academic, adaptive and
                                                 30

    interpersonal skills, are nonetheless spread over a broad etiology resulting from both
    genetic and non-genetic causes.         The breadth and frequency of MR-related cognitive
    dysfunction is alarming considering that pharmacological intervention is currently non
    existent.   Historically, neuroscientists have probed the brain in MR for clues to possible
    treatment strategies for MR-related learning difficulties. In the case of Down syndrome,
    these pioneering investigations have led to observations of neuronal cell loss, stunted
    dendritic branching, and spine dysgenesis. Interestingly, many of the histological features
    noted in the brains of individuals with Down syndrome parallel phenotypes that have been
    found in the brains of individuals with other classes of MR, such as inborn errors of
    metabolism and non-genetic insults. Connections among different X-linked forms of MR
    have also been made, with disrupted synaptic structure, synaptic plasticity, and Ras-MAPK
    signaling as emerging themes. Similarities across the wide spectrum of MR-related
    disorders argue that common mechanisms underlie the manifestation of learning and
    memory deficits in intellectually handicapped children and young adults.
[00120]      The data provided above indicate that MR is the byproduct of long-term changes in
    neural excitability, driven by increases in the contribution of inhibition to neural circuits,
    which is treated by "therapeutic kindling".
[00121]      Traditional forms of synaptic plasticity (i.e., long-term potentiation and long-term
    depression) occur in the context of stabilizing forces that allow a circuit to maintain a
    physiologically relevant level of activity. That way, the circuit does not spiral into excessive
    excitation or total quiescence. These compensatory mechanisms, collectively referred to as
    "homeostatic plasticity," occur over broad time scales, and then, only in response to chronic
    excitation or inhibition of neuronal networks.
[00122]      Homeostatic plasticity is observed at virtually all levels of hierarchical organization in
    the mammalian brain. At the broadest level, chronic changes in central nervous system
    (CNS) activity can directly modify the cellular composition of a neural circuit, setting the ratio
    of inter-neurons to principal cells. It can also reconfigure established circuits with a defined
    cellular composition by manipulating the degree of connectivity between inhibitory and
    excitatory elements in the circuit. Beyond these alterations, homeostasis of neuronal
    activity may be achieved by changes in the molecular composition and the morphology of
   synapses. Molecular changes occurring at the synaptic level can involve scaling responses
    of a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartic
   acid (NMDA)        receptors, their membrane-associated guanylate kinase like (MAGUK)
   adaptors (i.e., PSD-95 and SAP102), and y-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptors.
   Alternatively, morphological change can occur with the shape of postsynaptic dendritic
   spines.
                                                  31

 [00123]      The mammalian brain has been adapted with a comprehensive set of mechanisms
     integrated at the circuit, single-cell, and molecular level that functions to maintain a specific
     range of neuronal activity. The drive to conserve activity in neuronal networks, particularly
     in those that comprise the neocortex and hippocampus, suggests that an inability to
     properly balance excitation and inhibition would lead to neurological disorder and cognitive
     impairment, and various forms of MR have been attributed to the over-inhibition of neural
     circuits. Such a state is expected to compromise the capacity of the circuit to undergo
     Hebbian forms of associative plasticity (LTP, PPF) thought to underlie learning and
     memory.
[00124]       The term "kindling" refers to an animal model of epileptogenesis, in which the
     periodic introduction of an initially sub-convulsive electrical or chemical stimulus to the brain
     progressively leads to electrographic and behavioral seizure activity (Goddard (1967)
     Nature 214, 1020-1021).          Once in this state, animals show a permanent (lifetime)
     enhancement in their sensitivity to stimulus-induced seizures, suggesting that the synaptic
     responsiveness of the stimulated circuits undergoes an augmentation that persists in the
     absence of further reinforcement (McNamara et aL. (1980) Prog. Neurobiol. 15, 139-159).
    The long-lasting properties of kindling suggest that it is a model of neural plasticity. In
     keeping with this suggestion, kindling via repetitive site-specific electrical stimulation or
     repetitive systemic administration of high doses of GABAA receptor antagonists (typically
     pentylenetetrazole; PTZ, see Mason and Cooper (1972) Epilepsia 13, 663-674), shares
     characteristics with LTP (Malenka (2003) Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 4, 923-9267), the foremost
     synaptic model of learning and memory.           Each phenomenon is dependent on NMDA
     receptor activation, protein synthesis, and on specific patterns of stimulation for proper
     induction. Likewise, kindling and LTP both demonstrate some degree of specificity. While
    the effects of LTP are restricted to neural circuits that are directly stimulated, the effects of
    kindling extend only along circuits that are synaptically linked.
[00125]       However, there are significant differences between kindling and LTP. Whereas the
    functional consequence of LTP is the incorporation of AMPA receptors at synaptic sites,
    that of kindling seems to be the gross removal of GABAergic inhibition from stimulated and
    adjoining circuits (Stelzer et a/. (1987) Nature 326, 698-701). Indeed, electrical stimulation,
    or chronic administration of PTZ, has been continually shown to result in decreased
    electrophysiological or biochemical indices of GABAergic function.
[00126]       The close correspondence between kindling and epilepsy in animals has created the
    perception that kindling is pathological to the CNS, despite the fact that the neuronal
    interactions that are catalyzed in response to kindling are presumed to be available to the
    normal brain.
                                                   32

[00127]       The data provided in Example 1 demonstrates the use of low doses of an agent that
    can cause kindling, i.e. "therapeutic kindling" doses, to treat an animal model for DS. It is
    shown that chronic (but not acute) once a day drug administration in Ts65Dn mice was able
    to normalize cognitive performance in the novel object recognition and spontaneous
    alteration tasks, and to rescue hippocampal LTP (see also Fernandez et a/. (2007) Nat.
    Neurosci. 10, 411-413, herein specifically incorporated by reference). Importantly, PTZ led
    to a persistent, post-drug recovery of Ts65Dn cognition and LTP lasting for several months,
    demonstrating that the regimen induced long-term neuroadaptations in the hippocampus.
[00128]       The efficacy of therapeutic kindling in Ts65Dn DS mice provides a process with
    widespread      clinical utility. Traditionally, MR disorders have been unresponsive to
    pharmacological interventions, perpetuating the notion that they are treatment-resistant
    vestiges of abnormal brain development. The data on adult mice, however, indicates that
    this is not the case. The findings also point to the possibility that mature, but faulty circuits
     in MR, can be reopened from their present adult configuration and rewired to increase
     synaptic plasticity. If so, therapeutic kindling could be a frontline mechanism of adaptive
     change that could overturn MR in affected individuals, restoring to them a sense of self and
     improving their quality of life.
 [00129]      It is evident from the above results and discussion that improved methods for
     treating cognitive impairment are provided. The subject methods provide an effective means
     for improving cognitive function, particularly in individuals suffering from cognitive
     impairment disorders, e.g., Down syndrome, etc. As such, the subject methods represent
     an important contribution to the art.
 [00130]      All publications and patent applications cited in this specification are herein
     incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were
     specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. The citation of any
     publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing- date and should not be construed as an
     admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of
      prior invention.
 [00131]      Although the foregoing invention has been described .in some detail by way of
     illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it is readily apparent to
     those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes
     and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the
      appended claims.
                                                      33

 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1.     A method of improving a cognitive function of child or young adult mammal
 suffering from mental retardation, said method comprising:
          administering not more than once daily to the child or young adult an effective
 amount of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising a GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
 blocker;
         wherein cognitive function of the child or young adult is improved.
         2.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the effective dose is less than O.1X the
 kindling dose and is effective to transiently alter the chloride influx at GABAA receptors in
 the central nervous system.
         3.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
 blocker is a noncompetitive antagonist.
         4.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
 blocker is administered orally.
         5.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
 blocker is metrazol.
         6.     The method of Claim 5, wherein the metrazol is administered at a dose of 0.1
to 3 mg/kg body weight of the child or young adult.
         7.     The method of Claim 6, wherein the metrazol is administered once daily.
         8.     The method of Claim 1, wherein said GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
blocker is delivered parenterally.
         9.     The method of Claim 8, wherein said GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
blocker is chosen from bilobalide, ginkgolide B and picrotoxin.
         10.    The method of Claim 1, wherein the GABAA receptor chloride ionophore
blocker is administered daily for a period of at least about two weeks.
         11.    The method of Claim 10, wherein said cognitive function is at least one of
learning and memory.
                                             34

         12.    The method of Claim 10, further comprising the step of testing the child or
young adult for improvement in at least one of learning and memory.
         13.    The method of Claim 1, wherein the young adult or child is human.
         14.    A method of improving a cognitive function of an individual with Down
Syndrome, the method comprising:
        administering not more than once daily to the individual an effective amount of a
pharmaceutical formulation comprising a GABAA receptor chloride ionophore blocker;
        wherein cognitive function of the individual is improved.
         15.    The method of Claim 14, wherein the effective dose is less than 0.1X the
kindling dose and is effective to transiently alter the chloride influx at GABAA receptors in
the central nervous system.
         16.    A kit for use in improving a cognitive function of an individual mammal
suffering from mental retardation, said kit comprising:
         GABAA receptor chloride       ionophore   blocker in a non-epileptic dose, in       a
pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle.
         17.    The kit according to Claim 16, wherein said kit further comprises instructions
for treating said mental retardation.
         18.    A method of screening a candidate agent for treatment of cognitive
impairment associated with mental retardation, the method comprising:
         contacting a GABAA receptor with a candidate agent;
         determining if said agent is an ionophore blocker;
         administering said agent to an animal in a model for mental retardation;
         determining if said agent improve cognitive function.
                                              35

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
