                                          ABSTRACT
                   A system is provided for controlling a line speed of a conveyor belt
   [22] of a conveyor system [12] during product changeovers in a wallboard production
   line [14]. A central control module [40] controls operation of a position sensor [36]
   and a database [42]. The position sensor [36] is located on top of a conveyor table
 5 [18] for providing positional information of a slurry head [34] formed in front of a
   forming plate [28] of the conveyor system [12]. A position detection module [48]
   receives a position signal [P] from the position sensor [36], and determines whether
   the slurry head [34] is located within a predetermined distance relative to the position
   sensor [36] based on the position signal [P]. A speed adjustment module [50]
10 regulates the line speed of the conveyor belt [22] based on the position signal [P].
                                                1s

WO 2015/048611                 PCT/US2014/057956
                        1/8
                  N
                       coo
                            NC
               NN
                    CN

   303991AUDIV3
   4492WO/1 13997
                      SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING
              A CONVEYOR SYSTEM DURING PRODUCT CHANGEOVERS
 5
   This application is a divisional application of AU 2014324629 the entire contents of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                     CROSS-REFERENCE
                   This application claims priority of United States Provisional Application
10 Serial No. 61/884,618, filed September 30, 2013, and United States Patent
   Application No. 14/481,358, filed September 9, 2014, which are incorporated herein
   by reference in their entireties.
                                        BACKGROUND
15                 The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for
   preparing cement or gypsum products, and more particularly relates to improved
   systems and methods for controlling a line speed of a conveyor system during
   product changeovers in a wallboard production line.
                   Conventionally, gypsum products, such as calcium sulfate dihydrate,
20 are prepared with typical basic ingredients, including calcined gypsum, such as
   calcium sulfate hemihydrate or anhydrite, and water. A slurry mixer is typically used
   for supplying agitated gypsum slurry to the wallboard production line. Several types
   of gypsum wallboard manufacture are described in co-assigned U.S. Pat. Nos.
   6,494,609 and 6,986,812; both of which are incorporated by reference.
25                 As is well known in the art, a mixer is provided for uniformly dispersing
   calcined gypsum into water to form a slurry, and then the slurry is cast into a desired
   shaped mold or onto a surface to allow the slurry to set and form hardened gypsum
   by chemical reaction of the calcined gypsum with water. A lightweight gypsum
   product is provided by uniformly mixing aqueous foam into the slurry to produce air
30 bubbles. This results in a uniform distribution of voids in the set gypsum product
   when the bubbles are confined in the slurry before the gypsum hardens.
                   As the slurry travels downstream toward a forming plate on a
   conveyor system, a thickness of the slurry is determined by a predetermined location
   of the forming plate above a conveyor belt. Depending on a mass rate of the slurry
35 traveling on the conveyor belt relative to a line speed of the conveyor system,
   maintaining a generally laminar flow of the slurry before the forming plate is not
                                                1

   303991AUDIV3
   readily achievable. An optimal line speed generally refers to a maximum possible
   speed that the conveyor system can support without forming a disruptive slurry head
   immediately before the forming plate.
                   When the line speed is too fast relative to the mass rate of the slurry
 5 traveling on the conveyor belt, excessive slurry that cannot pass through the forming
   plate creates the slurry head in front of the forming plate, causing uneven
   accumulation and frequent clogging of the forming plate in the production line.
   Specifically, when the product changeover is initiated, a composition or density rate
   of the gypsum product changes and also alters the mass rate of the slurry based on
10 the product changeover requirements.
                   Therefore, there is a need for controlling the line speed of the
   conveyor system during the product changeovers such that the optimal line speed is
   maintained for the laminar flow of the slurry.
                   As the slurry advances on the conveyor belt, and is deposited
15 between two paper liners below the forming plate, a thickness of the wallboard being
   formed is equalized. After passing through the forming plate, the formed wallboard
   continues to travel on the conveyor belt for a predetermined period to allow the
   gypsum in the wallboard to set. Next, the set continuous strip of wallboard is cut into
   predetermined lengths, forming panels or boards, and each cut board then passes
20 through a hydration section and subsequently a drying section having an oven or kiln
   on single or multiple decked roller conveyors, such that heated air is blown across an
   upper and lower faces of the board for drying.
                   However, when gaps between adjacent boards are too wide, exposed
   edges of the board become parched or toasted by the heated air, and the toasted
25 edges tend to warp, buckle, pop, crumble or otherwise distort the board due to
   uneven drying. As a result, the boards are sent through the drying kiln side-by-side
   or end-to-end to reduce the exposed edges and any associated distortions of the
   boards. While the hydration section and the drying section are part of the conveyor
   system as a whole, each section has its own line speed for the corresponding
30 conveyor belt.
                   Therefore, there is a need for controlling the line speed of the
   conveyor system for the cut wallboard panels going into the kiln such that the
   adjacent boards are touching each other in an end-to-end relationship to prevent
   toasting the edges during heat treatment.
35
                                          SUMMARY

   303991AUDIV3
                    The present disclosure is directed to systems and methods for
   controlling a line speed of a conveyor system during product changeovers in a
   wallboard production line. One aspect of the present control system is that, as
   described in further detail below, a volumetric buildup of the slurry head at the
 5 forming plate is controlled by automatically adjusting the line speed of the conveyor
   system based on a distance to the slurry head measured by a laser sensor.
   Positioned near the forming plate, the laser sensor determines whether the buildup of
   the slurry head is located within a predetermined distance. Based on the distance
   between the slurry head and the sensor, the line speed of the conveyor system is
10 adjusted.
                    Another important aspect is that the present control system operates
   through a computer algorithm to control the line speed of the conveyor system for
   adjusting a mixer output as an additional volumetric control of the slurry. More
   specifically, the present control system adjusts the line speed of the conveyor system
15 during a running change of the products in the wallboard production line for inhibiting
   disruption caused by the change in mass rate of the stucco/gypsum materials. The
   disruption causes an overflow in a mixer output, resulting in a condition known as
   "overshoot." Adjusting the line speed of the conveyor system provides a linear
   variation of the mass rate change, and reduces or eliminates the overshoot during
20 the changeover period.
                    In yet another aspect, the present control system adjusts the line
   speed of the conveyor system for the cut wallboard panels that are sent through the
   drying kiln. A conventional optical switch is used to measure a gap between adjacent
   wallboard panels together with an associated length of each wallboard panel for
25 calculating a predetermined line speed of the conveyor system based on the
   measured gap and length. Closing the gap between the adjacent panels is achieved
   by implementing the calculated line speed in the conveyor system. Consequently, an
   amount of wallboard waste during the heat treatment of the boards is reduced, and a
   structural integrity of the wallboard is preserved.
30                  In one embodiment, after one year trial period of the present control
   system, it has been discovered that a main programmable logic control delay of the
   conveyor system has been reduced by approximately 92%, a wet slurry waste has
   been reduced by approximately 54%, and an amount of dry ingredient waste, such
   as the calcined gypsum, has been reduced by approximately 7%. Specifically, a
35 volume of the slurry introduced to the conveyor system has been maintained
   consistently during the changeover period, and as a result, the present control

   303991AUDIV3
   system reduced a number of production interruptions, and waste materials, thereby
   reducing overall operational costs and delay time.
                    More specifically, a system is provided for controlling a line speed of a
   conveyor belt of a conveyor system during product changeovers in a wallboard
 5 production line. Included in the system are a computer processor, a central control
   module for controlling operation of a position sensor and a database. The position
   sensor is located on top of a conveyor table for providing positional information of a
   slurry head formed in front of a forming plate of the conveyor system. A position
   detection module is provided for receiving a position signal from the position sensor,
10 and determining whether the slurry head is located within a predetermined distance
   relative to the position sensor based on the position signal. A speed adjustment
   module is provided for regulating the line speed of the conveyor belt based on the
   position signal using the processor.
                    In another embodiment, a system is provided for controlling a line
15 speed of a conveyor belt of a conveyor system during product changeovers in a
   wallboard production line. Included in the system are a computer processor, a
   calculation module for calculating a predetermined mass rate of a supply of
   ingredients transported on the conveyor belt and deposited into a mixer during a
   product changeover period, a speed adjustment module for adjusting the line speed
20 of the conveyor belt, using the processor, based on at least one of the predetermined
   mass rate and the line speed of the conveyor belt for reducing an overshoot during
   said product changeover period.
                    In yet another embodiment, a system is provided for controlling a
   conveyor system in a wallboard production line, including a computer processor and
25 a deadband tuning module for controlling at least one of a line speed of a conveyor
   belt, a foam air amount for a slurry, and an amount of water deposited into a mixer.
   The deadband tuning module calibrates and sets a hysteresis threshold value based
   on input data of at least one of the line speed, the foam air amount, and the amount
   of water. The input data is collected over a predetermined period, a database is
30 provided for storing at least one statistical information of the input data during the
   predetermined period; and wherein deadband tuning module determines a deadband
   range based on the hysteresis threshold value and the at least one statistical
   information using the processor.
                    In still another embodiment, a system is provided for controlling a line
35 speed of a conveyor belt of a conveyor system in a wallboard production line, and
   includes a computer processor, a hydration section for storing a plurality of wallboard

   303991AUDIV3
   panels cut by a cutter, a drying section having a drying kiln for drying the plurality of
   wallboard panels, and a butting switch disposed in the hydration section at a
   predetermined distance from the drying section for measuring a gap between
   adjacent wallboard panels and a longitudinal wallboard length. The conveyor belt in
 5 the hydration section is operated at a hydration section speed, and the conveyor belt
   in the drying section is operated at a drying section speed, the hydration and drying
   section speeds are set differently. A calculation module is provided for calculating a
   predetermined gap adjustment value based on at least one of the hydration section
   speed, the drying section speed, said gap, and the longitudinal wallboard length; and
10 a speed adjustment module is provided for adjusting the line speed of the conveyor
   belt in the hydration and drying sections based on the gap adjustment value using
   the processor.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15                 FIG. 1 is a diagrammatic elevation view of a partial wallboard
   production line suitable for use with the present control system, featuring a slurry
   mixer;
                   FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram of the present control system
   featuring functional modules;
20                 FIGs. 3 and 4 are graphical representations of an exemplary mass
   rate change during a product changeover period;
                   FIG. 5 is a diagrammatic elevation view of a partial wallboard
   production line suitable for use with the present control system, featuring a drying
   kiln; and
25                 FIGs. 6A-6C illustrate an exemplary control method in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present control system.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                   Referring now to FIG. 1, the present control system is generally
30 designated 10, and is designed to control a line speed of a conveyor system,
   generally designated 12, in a wallboard production line 14. A mixer 16 configured for
   mixing and dispending a slurry is disposed above the production line 14 that includes
   a conveyor table 18 upon which a web of face paper 20 is moved on a conveyor belt
   22 in a direction of travel designated by the arrow T. A supply of stucco 24 having
35 various ingredients is delivered to the mixing for deposition upon the face paper 20
   located on the conveyer belt 22.

   303991AUDIV3
                    While a variety of settable slurries are contemplated, the present
   control system 10 is particularly designed for producing stucco/gypsum panels. In
   many applications, the slurry is formulated to include varying amounts of gypsum,
   aggregate, water, accelerators, plasticizers, foaming agents, fillers, cement, and/or
 5 other ingredients well known in the art. The relative amounts of these ingredients,
   including the elimination of some of the above or the addition of other ingredients,
   may vary to suit requirements for a particular product.
                    A web of top or backing paper 26 is also moved above the conveyor
   belt 22 in the direction T, sandwiching the slurry between the face and top papers 20,
10 26 beneath a forming plate 28 for shaping and molding a wallboard 30. A spout 32
   attached to the mixer 16 is located upstream on the wallboard production line 14, and
   the slurry is dispensed from the spout on the web of face paper 20 during operation
   of the conveyor system 12. A slurry head 34 is formed in front of the forming plate
   28, and is detected by a position sensor 36, such as a laser emitter, for measuring a
15 distance D between the slurry head and the position sensor. Based on the distance
   D, the control system 10 adjusts the line speed of the conveyor belt 22, and also
   controls a volumetric output of the slurry dispensed from the mixer 16 based on the
   line speed.
                    An important feature of the present control system 10 is that the slurry
20 dispensing operation is controlled by a line speed control system, generally
   designated 38. In a preferred embodiment, the line speed control system 38 is a
   software installed computer device having programmable modules for various
   functions. As used herein, the term "module" may refer to, be part of, or include an
   Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), an electronic circuit, a processor
25 (shared, dedicated, or group), a programmable logic controller (PLC) and/or memory
   (shared, dedicated, or group) that execute one or more software or firmware
   programs, a combinational logic circuit, and/or other suitable components that
   provide the described functionality.
                    As is known in the art, the module may be implemented with a
30 proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller, and other variations, such as
   proportional-integral, proportional-derivative, and proportional controllers, as either
   stand-alone controllers or configurable software modules within the present control
   system 10. Another important feature of the present control system 10 is that any
   module can be tuned and configured to have an adjustable deadband range. Tuning
35 algorithms include, but not limited to, non-parametric methods, such as a
   conventional closed-loop tuning method or relay feedback test to provide a

   303991AUDIV3
   satisfactory and consistent performance in the presence of measurement noise and
   varying disturbances. A more detailed description of the tuning algorithm is provided
   below in discussion relating to FIG. 2.
                    Although the children modules residing in their respective parent
 5 modules are shown, the broad teachings of the present system can be implemented
   in a variety of forms. Thus, while this disclosure includes particular examples and
   arrangements of the modules, the scope of the present device should not be so
   limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner.
                    Referring now to FIGs. 1 and 2, it is preferred that the present line
10 speed control system 38 includes a central control module (CCM) 40, the position
   sensor 36, and a database 42. Overall operation of the line speed control system 38
   is controlled by the CCM 40. Positional information of the slurry head 34 is provided
   by the position sensor 36 located preferably on top of the conveyor table 18. All
   relevant information can be stored in the database 42 for retrieval by the CCM 40,
15 e.g., as a data storage device and/or a machine readable data storage medium
   carrying computer programs.
                    Also included in the CCM 40 is an interface module 44, which
   provides an interface between the CCM 40, the position sensor 36, and the database
   42. The interface module 44 also controls operation of, for example, conveyor belt
20 motors 46, and other related system devices, services, and applications. The other
   devices, services, and applications may include, but are not limited to, one or more
   software or hardware components, as are known in the art. The interface module 44
   also receives signals, which are communicated to the respective modules, such as
   the CCM 40 and its children modules 44, 47, 48, 50, 52, 54.
25                  Regarding the children modules 44, 47, 48, 50, 52, 54, each child
   module can be tuned by a deadband tuning module 47. While the deadband tuning
   module 47 is shown to control a line speed of the conveyor belt 22 and a foam air
   amount for the slurry in the FIG. 2 embodiment, the deadband tuning module 47 can
   be used for modules controlling other devices, such as a water pump (not shown) for
30 the mixer 16. More specifically, a hysteresis threshold value HYS is calibrated and
   set by the deadband tuning module 47 using calibration software based on input data
   DATA. As an example only, in the case of the water pump, the input data DATA
   refer to relevant information about an amount of water deposited into the mixer 16,
   and are collected in the database 42 by the CCM 40 over a predetermined period,
35 e.g., 2-3 minutes. Statistical information, such as a minimum, a maximum, and an
   average amount of water are calculated and saved in the database 42 during the
                                                7

   303991AUDIV3
   predetermined period. The hysteresis threshold value HYS is determined based on a
   statistical normal distribution of the collected input data DATA.
                    In a preferred embodiment, a steady-state control value, two to three
   times the standard deviation of the input data DATA, is used for determining the
 5 deadband range such that the measurement noise or quantization noise, and other
   similar changes do not cause frequent, unstable oscillating or repeated changes in
   the amount of water delivered to the mixer 16. An exemplary deadband range
   DEADBAND may be defined as provided by expression 1.
10                       DEADBAND = f{HYS, DATA}                      (1)
                    An automatic adjustment of the deadband range DEADBAND is
   achieved by calculating the hysteresis threshold value HYS based on at least one of
   the statistical data, such as the minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation
15 values via the deadband tuning module 47. However, the deadband range
   DEADBAND can also be calibrated and overridden manually for locking in the
   deadband range at a desired offset from a predetermined value based on the input
   data DATA. Although the deadband tuning module 47 is shown as a child module of
   the CCM 40, the deadband tuning module 47 can be incorporated into the other
20 embodiments of the present control system 10 as a separate, independent control
   system.
                    A position detection module 48 receives a position signal P from the
   position sensor 36 via the interface module 44, and determines whether the slurry
   head 34 is located within a predetermined distance relative to the position sensor
25 based on the position signal P. During a product changeover, the slurry density
   and/or the composition rate of the stucco and water are changed based on product
   changeover requirements. For example, a wallboard "A" production line comes to an
   end, and the conveyor system 12 prepares for a wallboard "B" production line by
   modifying amounts of stucco and water mixed in the mixer 16. A variation in the
30 amounts of stucco and water triggers a change in the slurry density and/or the
   composition rate, and consequently alters the distance D between the slurry head 34
   and the position sensor 36.
                    Controlling an amount and a location of the slurry head 34
   accumulating near the forming plate 28 is achieved by adjusting the line speed of the
35 conveyor belt 22. A speed adjustment module 50 is provided for regulating the line
   speed of the conveyor belt 22 in response to the position signal P. It is preferred that

   303991AUDIV3
   a foam air control module 52 is also provided for controlling an amount of air mixed
   into the slurry in response to the position signal P. Mixing aqueous foam into the
   slurry to produce air bubbles is also an effective way of controlling the slurry head 34.
   Although the speed adjustment module 50 and the foam air control module 52 can be
 5 separately executed, both modules 50, 52 are preferably simultaneously executed in
   tandem during the product changeover.
                    Another important aspect of the present line speed control system 38
   is that it reduces any disruption caused by the change in mass rate of the
   stucco/gypsum materials entering into the mixer 16. A desired result of the line
10 speed control system 38 is maintaining a steady, consistent mass rate during the
   changeover period. An abrupt mass rate change during the product changeover
   period causes an overshoot in a mixer output. Changing the line speed of the
   conveyor system 12 provides a linear variation of the mass rate change, and
   consequently reduces or eliminates the overshoot.
15                  In a preferred embodiment, a calculation module 54 is provided for
   calculating a predetermined mass rate MASS and a predetermined line speed
   LNSPD. The mass rate MASS refers to a desired mass rate of ingredients, such as
   stucco 24, transported on the conveyor belt 22 and deposited into the mixer 16
   during the product changeover period. As described in further detail below, the mass
20 rate MASS is determined based on at least one of a first ingredient mass rate IMR1,
   and a current conveyor line speed CLS. An exemplary mass rate MASS may be
   defined as provided by expression 2.
                                    MASS = f{IMR1, CLS}                           (2)
25
                    As for the line speed LNSPD, it refers to a desired line speed of the
   conveyor belt 22 upon which the ingredients are transported upstream on the
   production line 14 toward the mixer 16 during the product changeover period. The
   line speed LNSPD is determined based on at least one of the first ingredient mass
30 rate IMR1 and a second ingredient mass rate IMR2. An exemplary line speed
   LNSPD may be defined as provided by expression 3.
                                    LNSPD = f{IMR1, IMR2}                         (3)
                                                0

   303991AUDIV3
                    Adjusting the line speed of the conveyor belt 22 based on at least one
   of the mass rate MASS and the line speed LNSPD provides a smooth transition
   during the product changeover period.
                    Referring now to FIG. 3, a graphical illustration of exemplary stucco
 5 mass rate changes is shown during the product changeover period when the line
   speed of the conveyor belt 22 is not controlled by the line speed control system 38.
   In some applications, the product changeover requires transportation of stucco 24
   having a higher mass rate than before the changeover period. Typically, a first mass
   rate change 56, measured in pound per thousand square feet (lb/msf), exhibits a
10 linear increasing slope 58 during a changeover period TIME defined by time between
   a first setpoint 60 and a second setpoint 62, indicating a steady flow of the stucco 24
   being transported on the conveyor belt 22. However, a second mass rate change 64,
   measured in pound per minute (lb/min), corresponds to a non-linear parabolic curve
   66, indicating presence of the overshoot.
15                  Referring now to FIG. 4, the graphical illustration of FIG. 3 is shown
   when the line speed of the conveyor belt 22 is controlled and adjusted by the present
   line speed control system 38. Components shared with FIG. 3 are designated with
   identical reference numbers. A major difference featured in this figure is that the
   second mass rate change 64 corresponds to a linear flat line 68, indicating absence
20 of the overshoot. Avoidance of the overshoot is achieved by adjusting the line speed
   of the conveyor belt 22 for sustaining the mass rate change 64 linear or constant. As
   discussed above, the line speed of the conveyor belt 22 is adjusted based on at least
   one of the mass rate MASS and the line speed LNSPD, both of which are calculated
   by the calculation module 54.
25                  Returning to the expressions (2) and (3) described above, the first
   ingredient mass rate IMR1 refers to a mass rate of the ingredient or stucco 24,
   transported on the conveyor belt 22 during the product changeover period, and is
   measured in pound per thousand square feet (lb/msf). Similarly, the second
   ingredient mass rate IMR2 refers to the mass rate of the identical stucco 24
30 transported during the changeover period, and is measured in pound per minute
   (lb/min). Exemplary second ingredient mass rate IMR2 and line speed LNSPD may
   be defined as provided by expressions 4 and 5.
                            IMR2 = IMR1     * LNSPD * C             (4)
35
                    LNSPD = IMR2* CONV(5)
                                 IMR1      W

   303991AUDIV3
                   where W denotes a width of the wallboard 30, e.g., 4 feet, and CONV
   denotes a conversion factor for the unit used in IMR1 (msf), i.e., 1,000.
                   An important aspect of the line speed control system 38 is that these
   calculations are performed automatically by the calculation module 54 during the
 5 product changeover period TIME, and the line speed of the conveyor belt 22 is
   adjusted to the calculated line speed LNSPD by the speed adjustment module 50 for
   providing a smooth transition of the running change in the wallboard production line
   14 during the product changeover period.
                   Referring now to FIGs. 1 and 5, as the slurry passes through the
10 forming plate 28, the wallboard 30 is formed and continues to travel on the conveyor
   belt 22 in the direction T for a predetermined period to allow setting for gypsum of the
   wallboard. A cutter 70 is provided for cutting a continuous strip of wallboard 30 at a
   predetermined length L, and then each cut board segment or panel 72 is sequentially
   stacked up on one or more decks 74 disposed in a hydration section 76.
15                 Included in the hydration section 76 is a butting switch 78, such as an
   optical switch, disposed at a predetermined distance, e.g., 40 feet, from a drying
   section 80, having a drying oven or kiln 82. The butting switch 78 is disposed on at
   least one of the decks 74, and is used to measure a gap G between adjacent board
   segments 84, 86, and the predetermined board length L. Another important aspect
20 of the present line speed control system 38 is that the butting control can be
   performed using a single butting switch 78 disposed on a single deck 74.
                   Each section 76, 80 has its own different line speed for the
   corresponding conveyor belt 22. Specifically, the hydration section 76 is operated at
   a hydration section speed HSSPD, and the drying section 80 is operated at a drying
25 section speed DSSPD. Feeding the board segments 72 into the drying kiln 82 in the
   end-to-end relationship is achieved by adjusting the line speed of the conveyor belts
   22 in at least one of the hydration and drying sections 76, 80. More specifically, the
   calculation module 54 calculates a predetermined gap adjustment value GAPADJ
   based on at least one of the hydration section speed HSSPD, the drying section speed
30 DSSPD,  the gap G between adjacent boards 84, 86, and the predetermined board
   length L. An exemplary gap adjustment value GAPADJ may be defined as provided
   by expression 6.
                                   GAPADJ =  f{HSSPD, DSSPD, G, L}               (6)
35                 where a positive GAPADJ automatically causes an increase of the gap
   G by providing less butting of the adjacent boards 84, 86, and a negative GAPADJ
                                               11

   303991AUDIV3
   automatically causes a decrease of the gap G by providing more butting of the
   adjacent boards 84, 86, such that the adjacent boards in the drying kiln 82 are closer
   to each other. Next, the speed adjustment module 50 adjusts the line speed of the
   conveyor belts 22 in each section 76, 80 based on the gap adjustment value GAPADJ.
 5                  Referring now to FIGs. 6A-6C, an exemplary method of the control
   system 10 is shown using the present line speed control system 38. Although the
   following steps are primarily described with respect to the embodiments of FIGs. 1-5,
   it should be understood that the steps within the method may be modified and
   executed in a different order or sequence without altering the principles of the
10 present disclosure.
                    The method begins at step 100. In step 102, the CCM 40 initiates
   operation of the line speed control system 38, and activates its children modules 44,
   47, 48, 50, 52, 54, and other associated devices. More specifically, the interface
   module 44 initiates communications between the CCM 40 and peripheral software
15 and hardware components, such as the position sensor 36, the database 42, and the
   conveyor belt motors 46.
                    In step 104, the CCM 40 determines whether the changeover period
   has started. If the changeover period has begun, control proceeds to step 106.
   Otherwise, control proceeds to step 108. In step 106, the position detection module
20 48 receives a position signal P from the position sensor 36 via the interface module
   44. In step 110, the position detection module 48 determines a location of the slurry
   head 34 relative to the position sensor 36 based on the position signal P, and
   generates a distance value D. If the distance value D is greater than a
   predetermined distance     DPRE, control proceeds to step 106. If the distance value D is
25 less than or equal to the predetermined distance    DPRE,  control proceeds to steps 112
   and/or 114.
                    In step 112, the speed adjustment module 50 regulates the line speed
   of the conveyor belt 22 based on at least one of the position signal P and the
   distance value D. In step 114, the foam air control module 52 controls an amount of
30 air mixed into the slurry based on at least one of the position signal P and the
   distance value D. Both steps 112, 114 can be performed simultaneously, separately,
   or in a partial combination as required to suit the situation. For example, the line
   speed of the conveyor belt 22 and the amount of air mixed into the slurry can be
   adjusted sequentially or alternatively.
35                  In step 116, the calculation module 54 calculates the predetermined
   mass rate MASS and the predetermined line speed LNSPD based on at least one of
                                                11)

   303991AUDIV3
   the first ingredient mass rate IMR1, the second ingredient mass rate IMR2, and the
   current conveyor line speed CLS. In step 118, the speed adjustment module 50
   adjusts the line speed of the conveyor belt 22 based on at least one of the
   predetermined mass rate MASS and line speed LNSPD.
 5                  In step 120, the CCM 40 determines whether the changeover period
   has ended. If the changeover period has ended, control proceeds to step 122.
   Otherwise, control returns to step 106 to continue monitoring the position of the slurry
   head 34. In step 122, the CCM 40 deactivates the line speed control system 38, and
   control ends at step 124.
10                  Returning to step 104, when the changeover is not detected by the
   CCM 40, control proceeds to step 108. In step 108, the CCM 40 determines whether
   the wallboard segments or panels 72 are entering into the hydration section 76. If
   the wallboard segments or panels 72 are sent to the hydration section 76 by the
   conveyor system 12, control proceeds to step 126. Otherwise, control proceeds to
15 step 104 to determine whether the changeover period has started.
                    In step 126, the position detection module 48 measures the gap G
   between the adjacent board segments 84, 86, and the predetermined board length L
   based on a butting switch signal BS generated from the butting switch 78, and an
   elapsed time ET. The elapsed time ET refers to a time period between a first
20 detection of a wallboard segment edge 88 and a second detection of another
   segment edge 88. A shorter period may indicate detection of the gap G, and a
   longer period may indicate detection of the board length L based on how long the
   butting switch 78 is activated (turned on) and deactivated (turned off) for.
                    In step 128, the calculation module 54 calculates the predetermined
25 gap adjustment value     GAPADJ  based on at least one of the hydration section speed
   HSSPD,   the drying section speed   DSSPD,  the gap G between adjacent boards 84, 86,
   and the predetermined board length L. In step 130, the speed adjustment module 50
   adjusts the line speed of the conveyor belts 22 in each section 76, 80 based on the
   gap adjustment value     GAPADJ.  Control proceeds to step 104.
30                  While a particular embodiment of the present line speed control
   system has been described herein, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art
   that changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the
   present disclosure in its broader aspects.

                                             CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
                   1. A system for controlling a line speed of a conveyor belt [22] of a
   conveyor system [12] in a wallboard production line [14], comprising:
                   a computer processor;
                   a hydration section [76] for storing a plurality of wallboard panels [72]
 5 cut by a cutter [70];
                   a drying section [80] having a drying kiln [82] for drying the plurality of
   wallboard panels [72];
                   a butting switch [78] disposed in said hydration section [76] at a
   predetermined distance from said drying section [80] for measuring a gap between
10 adjacent wallboard panels [84, 86] and a longitudinal wallboard length;
                   wherein said conveyor belt [22] in said hydration section [76] is
   operated at a hydration section speed, and said conveyor belt [22] in said drying
   section [80] is operated at a drying section speed, said hydration and drying section
   speeds are set differently;
15                 a calculation module [54] for calculating a predetermined gap
   adjustment value based on at least one of said hydration section speed, said drying
   section speed, said gap, and said longitudinal wallboard length; and
                   a speed adjustment module [50] for adjusting said line speed of said
   conveyor belt [22] in said hydration and drying sections [76, 80] based on said gap
20 adjustment value using the processor.
                   2. The system of claim 1, wherein a positive value of said gap
   adjustment value automatically causes an increase of said gap by providing less
   butting of adjacent wallboard panels [84, 86], and a negative value of said gap
   adjustment value automatically causes a decrease of said gap by providing more
 5 butting of said adjacent wallboard panels [84, 86], such that said adjacent wallboard
   panels [84, 86] in said drying kiln [82] are closer to each other.
                   3. The system of claim 1, wherein each said wallboard panel [72] is
   sequentially stacked up on one or more decks [74] disposed in said hydration section
   [76] after being cut by said cutter [70]; and wherein butting of said adjacent wallboard
   panels [84, 86] is controlled by using said butting switch [78] disposed on one of
 5 decks [74] disposed in said hydration section [76].
                                                14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
