                         ABSTRACT
The invention consists of a clothing range where pockets are
sewn into specific parts of each item of clothing, covering the
bony prominences that are prone to injury from falls and arising
from pressure areas. In these pockets are inserted a shock
absorbing and pressure distributing viscous polymer. The
polymer product is 6 mm thick. It does not heat up through body
contact.

      I.      \
     I
         ~i~4
  V        *~
I 'A

                 Australian Government
                       IP Australia
                    REDACTION NOTICE
THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENT HAS BEEN EDITED
           TO REMOVE TEXT OR PAGE(S)
           FROM THE EDOSSIER SYSTEM
 THAT MAY CONTAIN PERSONAL INFORMATION
         OF A SENSITIVE NATURE, AND/OR
BECAUSE PUBLICATION OF THE TEXT OR PAGE(S)
               IS RESTRICTED UNDER
    COPYRIGHT OR LICENSING CONDITIONS.
 THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT MAY BE OPEN TO PUBLIC INSPECTION
         UNDER SECTION 55 OF THE PATENTS ACT 1990.
  PLEASE CONTACT IP AUSTRALIA FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.

         Editorial Note
             <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Description Innovation Patent
<removed-date>
1. General Field of Invention
Area of health and aged care
2. Intended Function, Purpose or Aim
An innovative new protective clothing range for our senior citizens and those in the
community who have limited mobility and are at risk of injury from falling or developing
pressure areas or skin tears from long term immobility.
3. Detailed written description of how the invention is constructed or implemented,
     including drawings or sketches.
The Invention is the development of a clothing range for the older population and those in
the community who are less mobile.
The invention consists of a clothing range where pockets are sewn into specific parts of each
item of clothing, covering the bony prominences that are prone to injury from falls and
arising from pressure areas. In these pockets are inserted a shock absorbing and pressure
distributing viscous polymer. The polymer product is 6 mm thick. It does not heat up through
body contact. It is malleable and always returns to its original shape after use. The polymer
inserts are able to be removed for cleaning and for ease of laundering the clothing.
Please reter to attached sketches of the clothing range.
4. Possible variations or modifications of the Invention, or additions thereto, which we would
     also like protected
There will be additional and ongoing changes and improvements to the clothing range as
well as the development of additional items of clothing to be added to the clothing range,
which will all need to be protected.

                 Australian Government
                       IP Australia
                    REDACTION NOTICE
THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENT HAS BEEN EDITED
           TO REMOVE TEXT OR PAGE(S)
           FROM THE EDOSSIER SYSTEM
 THAT MAY CONTAIN PERSONAL INFORMATION
         OF A SENSITIVE NATURE, AND/OR
BECAUSE PUBLICATION OF THE TEXT OR PAGE(S)
               IS RESTRICTED UNDER
    COPYRIGHT OR LICENSING CONDITIONS.
 THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT MAY BE OPEN TO PUBLIC INSPECTION
         UNDER SECTION 55 OF THE PATENTS ACT 1990.
  PLEASE CONTACT IP AUSTRALIA FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.

        Editorial Note
             <removed-apn>
There are three pages of claims only

Claims
<removed-date>
1. Problem that the invention is intended to overcome, and/or what are the advantages of
     the invention?
Falls are the leading cause of unintentional injury for Queenslanders aged 65 and older and
the cost of falls and subsequent injury are significant. One in four older people fall each year
with >40 % having multiple falls and 30% of those requiring medical attention. Fractures are
reported as the leading falls related injury- most commonly hip and forearm.
These figures show the need for falls injury prevention measures to be implemented to
attempt to counter the increasing costs of providing ongoing health care following falls
injuries and the costs to the individual of pain, disability and progressive deconditioning and
loss of confidence.
As we age we are also at risk of developing pressure areas. Pressure areas are damage to
the skin and the tissues underneath. They are caused by constant pressure or friction and
often occur over bony areas such as the tail bone, elbows and hips. They are also known as
bed sores. Pressure areas need significant health care intervention and impact on the
sufferer's quality of life by causing pain, further immobility and can be very difficult to heal.
Millions of people are affected by pressure areas in Australia especially those who have to
spend long periods in a chair or bed. Risks are due to normal changes that happen with
aging including skin becoming fragile and thinner. Multiple health conditions, incontinence,
malnutrition, obesity, dementia and smoking all are associated with an increased risk for
developing pressure areas.
Pressure areas are largely preventable, yet they impact millions of people and consume
billions of dollars in healthcare spending. The treatment costs across all states in 2012-2013
was estimated to be $983million. This was 121,645 cases of preventable pressure injury.
No Impact clothing (the Invention) uses a force absorbing polymer (Akton) that reduces the
risk of significant injury with falls. The polymer insert that is scientifically proven to distribute
force, minimise body impact and reduce shear all, of which reduce the risk of injury to users.
The polymer used reduces shear and distributes pressure. The lounging and sleeping ranges
would significantly reduce the risk of developing pressure areas thereby reducing the risk of
pain and further disability for clients and the costs to our already stretched healthcare
system.
The invention offers a valuable compliment to medical and allied health interventions to
protect people from injury from falls, bumps and slips and unnecessary complications from
long term immobility.
2.    Particular aspect of, or step in, the invention which overcomes the problem or results in
     those advantages?
The invention uses a force absorbing viscous polymer placed over bony prominences at risk
of injury during falls, which significantly reduces the risk of injury. This polymer also reduces
shear and redistributes pressure thereby reducing the risk of skin tears and pressure areas
developing in the aged and immobile.

3.   Any other uses of the Invention which we will wish to cover?
The clothing range may be adapted to include use by children who are increased risk of
falls.
4.    List of order of importance, the features or steps of the Invention which we would like to
      prevent others from using, selling or manufacturing.
      (i)      The use of the Akton Polymer in a clothing range to prevent or mitigate injuries
               arising from falls and long term immobility
      (ii)     The designs and patterns of the clothing range into which the Akton Polymer are
               inserted
5.   Searches for similar apparatus or methods ("prior art")
Yes a search has been conducted
6.   What relevant prior art are you aware of?
      (i)      There is a "Bubble Wrap" clothing design
      (ii)     There are a number of "falling sensors" which have been designed to detect
               when a wearer is falling and to auto-inflate an airbag to prevent injury
      (iii)    Hip protectors have existed for many years worn in undergarments
7.    Disadvantages or problems associated with the prior art
      (i)      The bubble wrap air pockets do not redistribute pressure or adequately absorb
               force and are at risk of rupturing rather than providing protection. In addition,
               they would be bulky and uncomfortable to wear.
      (ii)     The falling sensors impractical, expensive, cannot be removed for cleaning and
               are prone to failure and unreliability.
      (iii)    Hip protector inserts are made of a hard plastic and are uncomfortable for users.
               They are only designed for the protection of hip fractures. They are worn over the
               top of undergarments and under clothing. As a result, they are bulky,
               uncomfortable and people do not like wearing them as they also make toileting
               difficult.
8.    Features of the Invention which we believe to be novel over the prior art?
      (i)      The Akton viscous polymer has been specifically designed to absorb shock,
               reduce shear and redistribute pressure.
      (ii)     The Akton polymer is very light and malleable. It is able to be cleaned and re
               used.
      (iii)    The use of the light polymer inserts will not impede toileting at all as they will be
               bulky to wear.
      (iv)     There is no technical apparatus that can fail
      (v)      The invention is simple, cost effective and will be incorporated into clothing that
               appeals to users.
Other Information
9.   Counties which require patent protection
Australia
New Zealand

United States
United Kingdom
10. Has the Invention been disclosed publicly etc
No
11. Has the Invention been sold, licensed, or used commercially?
The Akton Polymer has been used in different applications in the United States however has
not been used in a clothing range. Examples of existing uses including mattresses in intensive
care and surgery, gun stocks and motorcycle seats to reduce shock and vibration.

<removed-date>
                      Editorial Note
                          <removed-apn>
              There are 8 pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
