ABSTRACT
A downhole mud motor is formed of plural housings containing at least adrive
section and a transmission section. At least a housing of the plural housings has a
longitudinal axis and incorporates a reaming section with one or more rotary
reamers. Each of the one or more rotary reamers is mounted in a respective pocket
for rotation about a transverse axis relative to the longitudinal axis of the housing.

                               22A
                           31
                                       24
  10
              50 37
        40
     38                             35
22B                        -5B
                                54A
                               3
           6 36
                     FIG. 1
                 1/5

                                              DOWNHOLE MOTOR
FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates in general to reamers and stabilizers for use in the drilling of
boreholes, and in particular to reamers and stabilizers used in conjunction with downhole motors.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Rotary reamers are used while drilling to enlarge the diameter of a borehole. When rotating, the
reamers may have axes perpendicular or parallel to the tubular.
[0003] PCT application no. PCT/CA2010/000697 discloses a downhole tool for selectively reaming a
wellbore or stabilizing drill string components within a wellbore which includes an elongate tool body
adapted to receive reamer cartridges or stabilizer cartridges. The cartridges have a reamer insert with an
array of cutting elements. The reamer insert rotates about a rotational axis transverse to the
longitudinal axis of the tool.
[0004] The Halliburton Corporation also manufactures a near bit reamer tool that may be used behind
the drill bit or further up the bottomhole assembly (BHA) in rotary steerable systems. Backreaming
cutters mounted on pistons allow rotation out of the hole if the BHA gets stuck. The reamer is provided
on a separate sub that may be inserted in the drill string.
[0005] It is useful for a reamer to be close to the bottom of the string to reduce flex and drift. In the
cited cases, the downhole tool is a separate tool that is attached along the drill string. The upper and
lower ends of the tools are adapted to other drill string components.
SUMMARY
[0006] The present invention provides a downhole mud motor adapted to also serve as a reaming tool.
[0007] In an embodiment there is provided a downhole mud motor is formed of plural housings
containing at least a drive section and a transmission section. At least a housing of the plural housings
has a longitudinal axis and incorporates a reaming section with one or more rotary reamers. Each of the
one or more rotary reamers is mounted in a respective pocket for rotation about a transverse axis
relative to the longitudinal axis of the at least a housing.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008] Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying
figures, in which numerical references denote like parts, and in which:
                                                       1

[0009] FIGURE 1 is a perspective view of a mud motor with a reaming tool in accordance with a first
embodiment of the present invention, shown fitted with reamer cartridges.
[0010] FIGURE 2 is a side view of a mud motor incorporating a reaming tool as shown in Fig. 1.
[0011] FIGURE 3 is an enlarged cross-section of a drive section of a mud motor, viewed at right angles
to the longitudinal axis of the tool.
[0012] FIGURE 4 is a side view of a mud motor with a straight housing and reaming tools located in the
housings of the top sub and transmission section.
[0013] FIGURE 5 is a cross-section through a transmission section of a downhole motor that
incorporates a reaming section.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014] FIG. 1 illustrates a mud motor 10 with a housing 16 incorporating a reaming section 30 in
accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. A mud motor comprises a top sub, which
connects the mud motor to the drill string; a power or drive section, which incorporates a rotor and
stator; a transmission section, which transmits eccentric power from the rotor as concentric power to
the bit using a pair of universal joints; a bearing assembly which protects the tool from off bottom and
on bottom pressures; and a bottom sub which connects the mud motor to the bit. In Fig. 1, the motor
housing 16 may be any of the housings of a mud motor. The housing 16 has a longitudinal axis 24, an
upper end 22 A, and a lower end 22B. In the illustrated embodiment, the housing 16 is shown as being
of a generally cylindrical configuration, but this is not essential. Persons skilled in the art will readily
appreciate that housing 16 could be of other geometric configurations (such as, by way of non-limiting
example, a tool body having a square or other polygonal cross-section).
[0015] Upper and lower ends 22A and 22B of housing 16 are adapted for connection to other drill string
components (for example taper-threaded "pin" and "box" connections, as commonly used in drilling oil
and gas wells). In the illustrated embodiment, housing 16 has an enlarged central reaming section 30
with an outer surface 31. In the illustrated embodiment, reaming section 30 is of generally cylindrical
configuration, with a diameter greater than the outer diameter of mud motor 10 at its upper and lower
ends 22A and 22B. In alternative embodiments, however, housing 16 may have a substantially uniform
cross-section (of circular or other configuration) along its length, rather than having sections of reduced
size at one or both ends.
[0016] A plurality of channels 32 are formed into the outer surface 31 of reaming section 30, to allow
upward flow of drilling fluid and wellbore cuttings. In the illustrated embodiments, channels 32 are
                                                       2

diagonally or helically-oriented relative to longitudinal axis 24 of housing 16. However, this is not
essential, and in alternative embodiments channels 32 could be of a different orientation (for example,
parallel to longitudinal axis A-1). Channels 32 may extend partially into regions of housing 16 beyond
central section 30, as illustrated in FIG. 1, but this is not essential. Channels 32 effectively divide reaming
section 30 of housing 16 into a corresponding plurality of blade sections ("blades") 35. In the
embodiment shown in FIG. 1, housing 16 has three channels 32 and three blades 35; however,
alternative embodiments may have different numbers of channels 32 and blades 35.
[0017] Formed into outer surface 31 of each blade 35 are rotary reamers that comprise reamer inserts
50 located in cartridge pockets 37. Each cartridge pocket 37 is configured to receive a tool cartridge
incorporating a cartridge bushing 40. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, each blade 35 has two
cartridge pockets 37, but this is by way of non-limiting example only. In alternative embodiments, each
blade could be provided with only a single cartridge pocket 37, particularly for situations in which the
mud motor 10 will be used in a rotating drill string (as opposed to operations in which the drill string is
not rotated).
[0018] Cartridge bushing 40 is configured to receive a reamer insert 50 such that reamer insert 50 is
rotatable relative to cartridge bushing 40 about a rotational axis A which is substantially perpendicularly
transverse to longitudinal axis 24 of housing 16, and may or may not intersect longitudinal axis 24.
Rotational axis A of each tool insert is transverse to longitudinal axis 24 of housing 16, but this is not to
be understood as requiring precise perpendicularity. In some embodiments, rotational axis A will be
precisely perpendicular to longitudinal axis 24, but this is not essential. In alternative embodiments,
rotational axis A may be tilted from perpendicular relative to longitudinal axis 24, which configuration
may be beneficial in inducing rotation of the tool inserts during operations in which the drill string is
being rotated.
[0019] FIGS. 2 and 3 illustrate a configuration of a motor 26 incorporating an adjustable bent housing
27 in which the reaming section 30 is formed as part of the stator 12 of the drive section of the motor
26. The motor 26 in Figs. 2 and 3 includes a top sub 25, drive section illustrated by the stator 12,
transmission section 23 (the upper portion of which is not shown), bent sub 27 and a bearing assembly
that includes stabilizer 28 formed on a piston housing and bearing mandrel and bit box 29 that connects
to a drill bit.
[0020] FIG. 3 is an enlarged cross-sectional view through the drive section of mud motor 26 comprising
a rotor 14, a stator 12, housing 16A and an enlarged reaming section 30 containing reamer insert 50.
The insert 50 is rotatably disposed within cartridge bushing 40. The enlarged housing is an area of
                                                         3

increased diameter of the housing 16A that allows sufficient space for a cartridge pocket to be formed in
the housing and receive a cartridge bushing. The assembly of reamer insert 50 and cartridge bushing 40
may be referred to as a reamer cartridge. Reamer insert 50 has a main body 51 with a generally domed
upper surface 52, into which are formed a plurality of cutter sockets 53 for receiving cutting elements
54, which project above upper surface 52 as shown. Cutting elements 54 will preferably be made from a
tungsten-carbide steel alloy, as is common for cutting elements in prior art reaming tools as well as
cutting tools in other fields of industry. In the illustrated embodiment, cutting elements 54 have a
domed profile, but this is by way of example only; cutting elements 54 could have different profiles to
suit particular field conditions.
[0021] Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention is not limited or restricted to
the use of any particular style of cutting element or any particular cutting element materials. Moreover,
the present invention is not limited or restricted to the use of cutting elements disposed within cutter
pockets as shown in the exemplary embodiment of FIGS. 2 and 3, as the particular means by which
cutting elements are attached, anchored, bonded, or otherwise integrated with main body 51 of reamer
insert 50 is entirely secondary or peripheral to the present invention.
[0022] In the embodiment shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, reamer insert 50 has a central cutting element 54A
coincident with rotational axis A, plus a plurality of outer cutting elements 54B arrayed in a circular
pattern around central cutting element 54A. Preferably, the outer edges of cutting elements 54A and
54B will lie at approximately the same radial distance from longitudinal axis 24 when reamer cartridge
50 is mounted in reaming section 30, with said radial distance corresponding to the desired borehole
diameter (or "gauge"). If there is present an offset of rotational axis A relative to longitudinal axis 24, at
least one of the outer cutting elements 54B on one side of rotational axis A (i.e., viewing mud motor 10
cross-section, as in FIG. 3) will contact the wall of a wellbore before the outer cutting elements 54B on
the other side of rotational axis A. This unbalanced or eccentric contact between outer cutting elements
54B and the wellbore wall will induce rotation of reamer insert 50 when mud motor 10 is moved axially
and non-rotatingly within the wellbore (such as during slide drilling or tripping operations). In preferred
embodiments in which two or more reamer inserts 50 are provided in each blade 35 of mud motor 10,
the effective cutting widths of the reamer inserts 50 (as defined by the layout of outer cutting elements
54B) will overlap to provide effective reaming around the full perimeter of the wellbore wall even during
non-rotating axial movement of mud motor 10.
[0023] Reamer insert 50 is mounted in cartridge bushing 40 so as to be freely rotatable within cartridge
bushing 40, about rotational axis A. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that this functionality can
                                                         4

be provided in a variety of ways using known technologies, and the present invention is not limited to
any particular way of mounting reamer insert 50 in or to cartridge bushing 40. In the non-limiting
exemplary embodiment shown in FIG. 3, main body 51 of reamer insert 50 has a cylindrical outer side
surface 51A; a generally planar lower surface 51B bounded by cylindrical outer side surface 51A; and a
cylindrical hub 55 coaxial with rotational axis A and projecting below lower surface 51B.
[0024] Cartridge bushing 40 is formed with a cylindrical cavity defined by a perimeter wall with an inner
cylindrical surface 41A having a diameter slightly larger than the diameter of cylindrical side surface 51A
(so as to allow free rotation of reamer insert 50 within cartridge bushing 40, preferably with minimal
tolerance); with a circular opening 44 having a centroidal axis coincident with rotational axis A, with
circular opening 44 being sized to receive cylindrical hub 55 of reamer insert 50. Reamer insert 50 is
positioned within cartridge bushing 40 with cylindrical hub 55 disposed within circular opening.
[0025] Reamer insert 50 is rotatably retained within bushing 40 by means of a snap ring 56 disposed
within a corresponding groove in the perimeter surface of cylindrical hub 55 as shown in FIG. 3. Suitable
bearings are provided in suitable bearing races to transfer radially-acting reaming forces from reamer
insert 50 to cartridge bushing 40. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that there are various other
ways of rotatably securing reamer insert 50 within cartridge bearing 40, and the present invention is not
restricted to the use of the particular components described and illustrated herein for achieving this
functionality.
[0026] Reamer cartridges 500 are removably retained within corresponding cartridge pockets 37 in
mud motor 10. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that this can be accomplished in a number of
ways, and the present invention is not limited to any particular method or means of removably retaining
reamer cartridges 500 within their respective cartridge pockets 37. However, in the preferred
embodiment shown in FIG. 3, this is accomplished by configuring cartridge bushing 40 with two
opposing and generally straight end walls, into each of which is formed an elongate groove of generally
semi-circular cross-section. Each cartridge pocket 37 has corresponding opposing end walls with
corresponding semi-circular grooves 34 as shown in dotted outline in FIG. 3. When cartridge bushings 40
are positioned within corresponding cartridge pockets 37, each groove of each cartridge bushing 40 will
be aligned with a corresponding groove 34 in a corresponding cartridge pocket end wall, so as to define
a cylindrical channel formed partly in a bushing end wall and partly in a cartridge pocket end wall, as
seen in FIG. 3. A spring pin 39 (or other suitable type of fastening pin) can be inserted through a spring
pin bore (not shown) to intercept the cylindrical channel in the corresponding cartridge bushing 40 and
                                                      5

cartridge pocket end wall, as conceptually illustrated in FIG. 3. With spring pins 39 thus in place, reamer
cartridges 500 are securely retained in their corresponding cartridge pockets 37.
[0027] This particular method of assembly facilitates quick and simple cartridge change-out in the shop
or in the field, without need for special tools. To remove a cartridge from mud motor 10, the
corresponding spring pins 39 may be simply driven out of their spring pin bores using a hammer and a
suitable metal rod having a smaller diameter than the spring pin bore 36. The cartridge can then be
easily pried out of its cartridge pocket 37, preferably with the aid of longitudinally-oriented pry grooves
formed into blade 35 at each end of each cartridge pocket 37.
[0028] Referring to Fig. 4, motor 60 comprises a bit box 62, bearing assembly 64 shown without
optional stabilizer, transmission section 66, drive section 68 and top sub 70. A reaming section 72 is
provided within the housing of the transmission section 66 and a reaming section 74 is provided within
the housing of top sub 70. The reaming sections 72 and 74 may be constructed in the same manner as
the reaming section 30 shown in Figs. 1, 2 and 3.
[0029] As shown in Fig. 2, the reaming section 30 may have an enlarged external diameter when
compared with the remainder of the motor housing, but will usually not be any greater diameter than
the tool joints on the drill string in which the motor is incorporated. Having an enlarged external
diameter for the reaming section 30 without a reduced internal diameter of the reaming section 30
facilitates provision of the reaming section 30 in the drive section of the motor housing, where enough
internal space needs to be preserved for the stator and rotor. As shown in Fig. 5, a reaming section 80
with transverse rotary reamers 82 is provided on a transmission section 84 incorporating a drive shaft 85
of a downhole motor, the drive shaft 85 being supported by U- joints 87. The reaming section 80 may
have a reduced diameter 86 as well as an enlarged diameter 88 when compared with the internal and
external diameters of the remainder of the transmission section 84. This is permissible since the drive
shaft 85 of the transmission section 84 requires less internal space than the stator and rotor of the drive
shaft. When a reaming section is incorporated in a top sub, the reaming section may be constructed in
the manner of either reaming section 30 or reaming section 80. The difference between the outer and
inner diameters of the reaming sections in either instance (reaming section 30 or 80) needs to be
sufficient to permit the construction of the rotary reamers, without unduly weakening the housing.
Enough material needs to be left at the base of the rotary reamers (bottom of the pockets) to support
the rotary reamers during reaming. Although this thickness TI need not be as high as the thickness T2
of the housing itself for example in the adapter housing 88, in most cases the thickness Ti of the base of
the pockets will be close to the housing thickness T2 away from the tool joints.
                                                      6

[0030] Immaterial modifications may be made to the embodiments described here without departing
from what is covered by the claims. In the claims, the word "comprising" is used in its inclusive sense
and does not exclude other elements being present. The indefinite articles "a" and "an" before a claim
feature do not exclude more than one of the feature being present. Each one of the individual features
described here may be used in one or more embodiments and is not, by virtue only of being described
here, to be construed as essential to all embodiments as defined by the claims.

What is claimed is:
1.      A downhole mud motor, comprising:
         plural housings, each housing containing one of atop sub, a drive section, a bearing
section, a bent sub, and a transmission section;
         at least a housing of the plural housings having a longitudinal axis and incorporating one
or more rotary reamers; and
         each of the one or more rotary reamers being mounted in a respective pocket for
rotation about a transverse axis relative to the longitudinal axisof the at least a housing.
2.      The downhole mud motor of aaim 1 in which the at least a housing has helical channels
defining blades and the one or more rotary reamers are mounted on respective blades.
3.      The downhole mud motor of aaim 2 in which each pocket is configured to receive a
respective reaming cartridge.
4.      The downhole mud motor of aaim 3 in which the rotary reamers overlap each other
circumferentially to provide full reaming coverage around the at least a housing.
5.      The downhole mud motor of aaim 1, 2, 3 or 4 in which the one or more rotary reamers
are formed in an enlarged diameter portion of the at least a housing.
6.      The downhole mud motor of any one of claims 1-5 in which the at least a housing
incorporatesthe drive section.
7.       The downhole mud motor of any one of claims 1-5 in which the at least a housing
incorporates the transmission section.
8.      The downhole mud motor of any one of claims 1-5 in which the at least a housing of the
plural housings comprise a top sub and the top sub includes one or more rotary reamers.
9.      The downhole mud motor of any one of claims 1-5 in which the at least a housing of the
plural housings comprises a bent sub and the bent sub includes the one or more rotary
reamers.
10.     The downhole mud motor of any one of claims 1-5 in which the at least a housing of the
plural housings incorporates a bearing section.
11.     The downhole mud motor of any one of claims 1-10 in which the mud motor is on a drill
string and the reamers have a diameter about the longitudinal axis smaller than a diameter of
tool joints on the drill string.
                                                  8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
