                                               ABSTRACT
       Described herein is a new antidote for the rapid elimination of carbon monoxide from
hemoglobin, including brain, heart, and red cell hemoglobin. The disclosed therapy involves the
use of modified human globins, particularly neuroglobins modified at residue 64 and cytoglobins
modified at residue 81, which bind carbon monoxide with extremely high affinity. The monomeric
mutant globins are infused into blood, where they rapidly and irreversibly sequester carbon
monoxide, and thus limit toxic effects of carbon monoxide on cellular respiration and oxygen
transport and utilization.

                COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR THE TREATMENT OF
                                  CARBOXYHEMOGLOBINEMIA
         The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian patent application
number 2014237216 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present specification.
                                                 FIELD
         This disclosure concerns recombinant globin molecules, such as mutant forms of
neuroglobin and cytoglobin, that bind carbon monoxide with very high affinity, and their use for
the treatment of carboxyhemoglobinemia and carbon monoxide poisoning.
                     ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
         This invention was made with government support under grant number HL 103455 awarded
by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.
                                           BACKGROUND
         Inhalation exposure to carbon monoxide represents a major cause of environmental
poisoning. Individuals can be exposed to carbon monoxide in the air under a variety of
circumstances, such as house fires, use of generators or outdoor barbeque grills used inside the
house, or during suicide attempts by running automobiles in closed spaces. Carbon monoxide
binds to hemoglobin and to hemoproteins in cells, in particular, the enzymes of the respiratory
transport chain. The accumulation of carbon monoxide bound to hemoglobin and other
hemoproteins impairs oxygen delivery and oxygen utilization for oxidative phosphorylation. This
ultimately results in severe hypoxic and ischemic injury to vital organs such as the brain and the
heart. Individuals who accumulate greater than 15% carbon carboxyhemoglobin in their blood are
at risk for brain injury and neurocognitive dysfunction. Individuals with higher levels of
carboxyhemoglobin are at risk for death. Patients with very high carboxyhemoglobin levels
typically suffer from irreversible brain injury and brain death.
         Despite the availability of methods to rapidly diagnose carbon monoxide poisoning with
standard arterial and venous blood gas analysis and co-oximetry, and despite an awareness of risk
factors for carbon monoxide poisoning, there are no available antidotes for this toxic exposure.
The current therapy is to give 100% oxygen by face mask, and when possible to expose patients to
                                                  -1-

hyperbaric oxygen. The mechanism for hyperbaric oxygen therapy is the oxygen will increase the
rate of release of the carbon monoxide from hemoglobin and from tissues and accelerate the natural
clearance of carbon monoxide. However, this therapy has only a modest effect on carbon
monoxide clearance rates and based on the complexity of hyperbaric oxygen facilities, this therapy
is not available in the field.
                                              SUMMARY
         A need exists for an effective, rapid and readily available therapy to treat
carboxyhemoglobinemia, also known as carbon monoxide poisoning. Provided by the present
disclosure are modified globin molecules, such as recombinant forms of neuroglobin or cytoglobin,
that bind carbon monoxide with very high affinity, thereby functioning as carbon monoxide
scavengers. The data disclosed herein demonstrates that the modified globins can be used, for
example, in methods of removing carbon monoxide from hemoglobin in blood or tissue, and in
methods of treating carboxyhemoglobinemia.
         Described herein is a method of treating carboxyhemoglobinemia in a subject by selecting a
subject with carboxyhemoglobinemia and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a recombinant globin molecule that binds carbon monoxide with high affinity. In some
embodiments, the recombinant globin molecule is a recombinant human neuroglobin with a
mutation at residue 64, such as a H64Q, H64L, H64A or H64W mutation, or a human recombinant
cytoglobin with a mutation at residue 81, such as a H81Q, H81A, H81L or H81W mutation. In
some examples, the recombinant globin molecules further comprise one or more cysteine amino
acid substitutions to confer increased solubility. Increased solubility allows for the production of a
high stock concentration of mutant globin for infusion of a dose sufficient for treatment of
carboxyhemoglobinemia.
         Also described herein is a method of removing carbon monoxide from hemoglobin in blood
or tissue by contacting the blood or tissue with a recombinant globin molecule that binds carbon
monoxide with high affinity. In some embodiments, the recombinant globin molecule is a
recombinant human neuroglobin with a mutation at residue 64, such as a H64Q, H64L, H64A or
H64W mutation, or a human recombinant cytoglobin with a mutation at residue 81, such as a
H81Q, H81A, H81L or H81W mutation. In some examples, the method of removing carbon
monoxide from hemoglobin is an in vitro method. In other examples, the method is an in vivo
method that includes administering the recombinant globin molecule to a subject in need of
treatment.
                                                   -2-

        In one aspect, the present invention provides a human recombinant neuroglobin comprising
a mutation at residue 64, and further comprising a C46G mutation, a C55S mutation and a C120S
mutation. In some embodiments, the mutation at residue 64 is a H64Q, H64A, H64L or H64W
mutation. In a further aspect, the present invention provides a human recombinant cytoglobin
comprising a mutation at residue 81, and further comprising a C38S mutation and a C83S mutation.
In some embodiments, the mutation at residue 81 is a H81Q, H81A, H81L or H81W mutation.
Compositions comprising the recombinant neuroglobin or cytoglobin proteins and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier are also provided by the present disclosure.
        The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will become more
apparent from the following detailed description, which proceeds with reference to the
accompanying figures.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIGS. 1A-1B are graphs showing the reaction of carboxylated red blood cells (RBCs) with
buffer or deoxy neuroglobin (deoxyNgb) H64Q. The experiments were performed at 21'C in PBS
buffer in anaerobic conditions. (FIG. 1A) Shown are deoxy or carboxylated species for the RBC
fraction: deoxyHb during the RBC + Ngb experiment (diamonds); HbCO during the RBC + Ngb
experiment (squares); HbCO during the RBC + buffer experiment (X); and deoxyHb during the
RBC + buffer experiment (triangles). (FIG. 1B) Shown are deoxy or carboxylated species for the
supernatant (neuroglobin) fraction: deoxyNgb during the RBC + Ngb experiment (diamonds); and
NgbCO during the RBC + Ngb experiment (squares).
        FIG. 2 is a graph showing the reaction of carboxylated red blood cells with deoxyNgb
H64Q. The experiment was performed at 21'C in PBS buffer in anaerobic conditions. Shown are
deoxy or carboxylated species for the RBC fraction: deoxyHb (diamonds); HbCO (squares);
deoxyNgb (triangles); and NgbCO (X).
        FIG. 3 is a graph showing the reaction of carboxylated red blood cells with oxyNgb H64Q.
The experiment was performed at 21'C in PBS buffer in aerobic conditions. Shown are deoxy or
carboxylated species for the RBC fraction: oxyHb (squares); HbCO (triangles); oxyNgb (X);
NgbCO (asterisks).
        FIG. 4 is a graph showing the concentration of HbCO in the blood of CO-exposed mice.
Mice were exposed to 1500 ppm CO for 60 minutes, then CO was stopped and PBS (200 pl) was
infused for 5 minutes. Blood samples (approximately 10 pl) were drawn every 5-10 minutes,
                                                 -3 -

chemically reduced with dithionite and monitored for HbCO. Other Hb species in blood
(oxyHb/metHb/deoxyHb) are represented as deoxy Hb.
         FIG. 5 is a graph showing the concentration of HbCO in the blood of CO-exposed mice.
Mice were exposed to 1500 ppm CO for 70 minutes, after which CO was stopped and concentrated
H64Q Ngb (200 tl) was infused for 10 minutes. Blood samples (about 10 l) were drawn every 5
10 minutes, chemically reduced with dithionite and monitored for HbCO and NgbCO. Other Hb
species in the blood (oxyHb/metHb/deoxyHb) are represented as deoxy Hb, and Ngb species
(oxyNgb/metNgb/deoxyNgb) are represented as deoxy Ngb.
         FIG. 6 is a graph showing the concentration of HbCO in the blood of CO-exposed mice.
Mice were exposed to 1500 ppm CO for 70 minutes, after which CO was stopped and concentrated
H64Q Ngb (200 tl) was infused for 5 minutes. Blood samples (approximately 10 tl) were drawn
every 5-10 or 20 minutes, chemically reduced with dithionite and monitored for HbCO and
NgbCO. Other Hb species in the blood (oxyHb/metHb/deoxyHb) are represented as deoxy Hb.
         FIGS. 7A-7B are a pair of graphs showing decay of the concentration of HbCO in the blood
of CO-exposed mice after PBS or H64Q neuroglobin infusion. FIG. 7A shows absolute HbCO
levels; FIG. 7B shows the relative change in HbCO level. Mice were exposed to 1500 ppm CO for
60-70 minutes, after which CO was stopped and concentrated H64Q Ngb (200 !il) was infused for 5
minutes. The infusion time was marked as t=0. Blood samples (about 10 pl) were drawn every 5
10 minutes, chemically reduced with dithionite and monitored for HbCO and NgbCO. Other Hb
species in the blood (oxyHb/metHb/deoxyHb) are represented as deoxy Hb. Points represent the
average and standard error of three or more experiments.
         FIG. 8 is a graph showing percent decay of the concentration of HbCO in the blood of CO
exposed mice 5 and 10 minutes after PBS or H64Q neuroglobin infusion. Bars represent from left
to right: PBS infusion for 5 minutes; PBS infusion for 10 minutes; H64Q Ngb infusion for 5
minutes; and H64Q Ngb infusion for 10 minutes.
         FIG. 9A is a graph demonstrating that H64Q neuroglobin is cleared as NgbCO in the urine
of infused mice. Shown is the absorbance of urine from bladders of mice sacrificed approximately
75 minutes after the end of CO exposure. The top three traces show the absorbance due to
neuroglobin, which include 82 to 91% NgbCO. The bottom traces indicate the absorbance that is
not attributable to Ngb. FIG. 9B is a photograph of the internal organs of an H64Q Ngb-treated
mouse and a syringe with red-colored urine containing NgbCO.
                                                 -4-

                                       SEQUENCE LISTING
        The amino acid sequences listed in the accompanying sequence listing are shown using
standard three letter code for amino acids, as defined in 37 C.F.R. 1.822. The Sequence Listing is
submitted as an ASCII text file, created on February 20, 2014, 9.98 KB, which is incorporated by
reference herein. In the accompanying sequence listing:
        SEQ ID NO: 1 is an amino acid sequence of human neuroglobin.
        SEQ ID NO: 2 is the amino acid sequence of a recombinant human neuroglobin comprising
one or more mutations.
        SEQ ID NO: 3 is the amino acid sequence of a recombinant human neuroglobin comprising
mutations at residues 46, 55, 64 and 120.
        SEQ ID NO: 4 is an amino acid sequence of human cytoglobin.
        SEQ ID NO: 5 is the amino acid sequence of a recombinant human cytoglobin comprising
one or more mutations.
        SEQ ID NO: 6 is the amino acid sequence of a recombinant human cytoglobin comprising
mutations at residues 38, 81 and 83.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
I.      Abbreviations
        Cgb             cytoglobin
        CO              carbon monoxide
        Hb              hemoglobin
        HbCO            carboxyhemoglobin
        Ngb             neuroglobin
        NgbCO           carboxyneuroglobin
        RBC             red blood cell
II.     Terms and Methods
        Unless otherwise noted, technical terms are used according to conventional usage.
Definitions of common terms in molecular biology may be found in Benjamin Lewin, Genes V,
published by Oxford University Press, 1994 (ISBN 0-19-854287-9); Kendrew et al. (eds.), The
Encyclopedia ofMolecular Biology, published by Blackwell Science Ltd., 1994 (ISBN 0-632
02182-9); and Robert A. Meyers (ed.), Molecular Biology and Biotechnology: a Comprehensive
Desk Reference, published by VCH Publishers, Inc., 1995 (ISBN 1-56081-569-8).
                                                  -5 -

         In order to facilitate review of the various embodiments of the disclosure, the following
explanations of specific terms are provided:
         Administration: To provide or give a subject an agent, such as a therapeutic agent (e.g. a
recombinant polypeptide), by any effective route. Exemplary routes of administration include, but
are not limited to, injection or infusion (such as subcutaneous, intramuscular, intradermal,
intraperitoneal, intrathecal, intravenous, intracerebroventricular, intrastriatal, intracranial and into
the spinal cord), oral, intraductal, sublingual, rectal, transdermal, intranasal, vaginal and inhalation
routes.
         Antidote: An agent that neutralizes or counteracts the effects of a poison.
         Carbon monoxide (CO): A colorless, odorless and tasteless gas that is toxic to humans
and animals when encountered at sufficiently high concentrations. CO is also produced during
normal animal metabolism at low levels.
         Carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO): A stable complex of carbon monoxide (CO) and
hemoglobin (Hb) that forms in red blood cells when CO is inhaled or produced during normal
metabolism.
         Carboxyhemoglobinemia or carbon monoxide poisoning: A condition resulting from the
presence of excessive amounts of carbon monoxide in the blood. Typically, exposure to CO of 100
parts per million (ppm) or greater is sufficient to cause carboxyhemoglobinemia. Symptoms of
mild acute CO poisoning include lightheadedness, confusion, headaches, vertigo, and flu-like
effects; larger exposures can lead to significant toxicity of the central nervous system and heart, and
even death. Following acute poisoning, long-term sequelae often occur. Carbon monoxide can also
have severe effects on the fetus of a pregnant woman. Chronic exposure to low levels of carbon
monoxide can lead to depression, confusion, and memory loss. Carbon monoxide mainly causes
adverse effects in humans by combining with hemoglobin to form carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) in
the blood. This prevents oxygen binding to hemoglobin, reducing the oxygen-carrying capacity of
the blood, leading to hypoxia. Additionally, myoglobin and mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase are
thought to be adversely affected. Carboxyhemoglobin can revert to hemoglobin, but the recovery
takes time because the HbCO complex is fairly stable. Current methods of treatment for CO
poisoning including administering 100% oxygen or providing hyperbaric oxygen therapy.
         Contacting: Placement in direct physical association; includes both in solid and liquid
form. When used in the context of an in vivo method, "contacting" also includes administering.
         Cytoglobin: A globin molecule that is ubiquitously expressed in all tissues. Cytoglobin is
a hexacoordinate hemoglobin that has been reported to facilitate diffusion of oxygen through
tissues, reduce nitrite to nitric oxide, and play a cytoprotective role in hypoxic conditions and under
                                                    -6-

oxidative stress. Human cytoglobin is 190 amino acids in length. An exemplary human cytoglobin
amino acid sequence is set forth herein as SEQ ID NO: 4. The recombinant cytoglobin mutants
disclosed herein, which exhibit very high affinity for CO, comprise a mutation at residue 81
(histidine to glutamine, alanine, tryptophan or leucine), and optionally comprise a cysteine to serine
substitution at position 38 and/or a cysteine to serine substitution at position 83 (see SEQ ID NO:
5). In one non-limiting example, the cytoglobin mutant with high affinity for CO comprises the
amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6.
         Globin: A heme-containing protein involved in the binding and/or transport of oxygen.
Globins include, for example, hemoglobin, myoglobin, neuroglobin and cytoglobin.
         Hemoglobin (Hb): The iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red blood
cells of the blood in vertebrates and other animals. In humans, the hemoglobin molecule is an
assembly of four globular protein subunits. Each subunit is composed of a protein chain tightly
associated with a non-protein heme group. Each protein chain arranges into a set of alpha-helix
structural segments connected together in a globin fold arrangement, so called because this
arrangement is the same folding motif used in other heme/globin proteins. This folding pattern
contains a pocket which strongly binds the heme group.
         Neuroglobin (Ngb): A member of the globin family of proteins. The physiological
function of neuroglobin is currently unknown, but is thought to provide protection under hypoxic or
ischemic conditions. Neuroglobin is expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system,
cerebral spinal fluid, retina and endocrine tissues. Human neuroglobin is 151 amino acids in
length. An exemplary human neuroglobin sequence is provided herein as SEQ ID NO: 1. The
recombinant neuroglobin mutants disclosed herein, which exhibit very high affinity for CO,
comprise a mutation at residue 64 (histidine to glutamine, alanine, tryptophan or leucine), and
optionally comprise a cysteine to glycine substitution at residue 46, and/or a cysteine to serine
substitution at position 55 and/or a cysteine to serine substitution at position 120 (see SEQ ID NO:
2). In one non-limiting example, the neuroglobin mutant with high affinity for CO comprises the
amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3.
          Peptide or Polypeptide: A polymer in which the monomers are amino acid residues
which are joined together through amide bonds. When the amino acids are alpha-amino acids,
either the L-optical isomer or the D-optical isomer can be used, the L-isomers being preferred. The
terms "peptide," "polypeptide" or "protein" as used herein are intended to encompass any amino
acid sequence and include modified sequences, including modified globin proteins. The terms
"peptide" and "polypeptide" are specifically intended to cover naturally occurring proteins, as well
as those which are recombinantly or synthetically produced.
                                                  -7-

        Conservative amino acid substitutions are those substitutions that, when made, least
interfere with the properties of the original protein, that is, the structure and especially the function
of the protein is conserved and not significantly changed by such substitutions. Examples of
conservative substitutions are shown below.
                 Original Residue                       Conservative Substitutions
                 Ala                                          Ser
                 Arg                                          Lys
                 Asn                                          Gln, His
                 Asp                                          Glu
                 Cys                                          Ser
                 Gln                                          Asn
                 Glu                                          Asp
                 His                                          Asn; Gln
                 Ile                                          Leu, Val
                 Leu                                          Ile; Val
                 Lys                                          Arg; Gln; Glu
                 Met                                          Leu; Ile
                 Phe                                          Met; Leu; Tyr
                 Ser                                          Thr
                 Thr                                          Ser
                 Trp                                          Tyr
                 Tyr                                          Trp; Phe
                 Val                                          Ile; Leu
        Conservative substitutions generally maintain (a) the structure of the polypeptide backbone
in the area of the substitution, for example, as a sheet or helical conformation, (b) the charge or
hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site, or (c) the bulk of the side chain.
        The substitutions which in general are expected to produce the greatest changes in protein
properties will be non-conservative, for instance changes in which (a) a hydrophilic residue, for
example, serine or threonine, is substituted for (or by) a hydrophobic residue, for example, leucine,
isoleucine, phenylalanine, valine or alanine; (b) a cysteine or proline is substituted for (or by) any
other residue; (c) a residue having an electropositive side chain, for example, lysine, arginine, or
histidine, is substituted for (or by) an electronegative residue, for example, glutamine or aspartic
acid; or (d) a residue having a bulky side chain, for example, phenylalanine, is substituted for (or
by) one not having a side chain, for example, glycine.
        Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers: The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers of use
are conventional. Remington 's PharmaceuticalSciences, by E.W. Martin, Mack Publishing Co.,
Easton, PA, 15th Edition, 1975, describes compositions and formulations suitable for
pharmaceutical delivery of the compositions disclosed herein.
                                                   -8-

        In general, the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of administration
being employed. In addition to biologically neutral carriers, pharmaceutical compositions to be
administered can contain minor amounts of non-toxic auxiliary substances, such as wetting or
emulsifying agents, preservatives, and pH buffering agents and the like, for example sodium acetate
or sorbitan monolaurate.
        Recombinant: A recombinant nucleic acid or protein is one that has a sequence that is not
naturally occurring or has a sequence that is made by an artificial combination of two otherwise
separated segments of sequence. This artificial combination is often accomplished by chemical
synthesis or by the artificial manipulation of isolated segments of nucleic acids, for example, by
genetic engineering techniques. The term recombinant includes nucleic acids and proteins that
have been altered by addition, substitution, or deletion of a portion of a natural nucleic acid
molecule or protein.
        Sequence identity/similarity: The identity between two or more nucleic acid sequences, or
two or more amino acid sequences, is expressed in terms of the identity or similarity between the
sequences. Sequence identity can be measured in terms of percentage identity; the higher the
percentage, the more identical the sequences are. Sequence similarity can be measured in terms of
percentage similarity (which takes into account conservative amino acid substitutions); the higher the
percentage, the more similar the sequences are. Homologs or orthologs of nucleic acid or amino acid
sequences possess a relatively high degree of sequence identity/similarity when aligned using
standard methods. This homology is more significant when the orthologous proteins or cDNAs are
derived from species which are more closely related (such as human and mouse sequences),
compared to species more distantly related (such as human and C. elegans sequences).
        Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Various
programs and alignment algorithms are described in: Smith & Waterman, Adv. Apple. Math. 2:482,
1981; Needleman & Wunsch, J Mol. Biol. 48:443, 1970; Pearson & Lipman, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 85:2444, 1988; Higgins & Sharp, Gene, 73:237-44, 1988; Higgins & Sharp, CABIOS 5:151-3,
1989; Corpet et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 16:10881-90, 1988; Huang et al. Computer App/s. in the
Biosciences 8, 155-65, 1992; and Pearson et al., Meth. Mol. Bio. 24:307-31, 1994. Altschul et al., J
Mol. Biol. 215:403-10, 1990, presents a detailed consideration of sequence alignment methods and
homology calculations.
        The NCBI Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) (Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol.
215:403-10, 1990) is available from several sources, including the National Center for Biological
Information (NCBI) and on the internet, for use in connection with the sequence analysis programs
blastp, blastn, blastx, tblastn and tblastx. Additional information can be found at the NCBI web site.
                                                    -9-

         Subject: Living multi-cellular organisms, including vertebrate organisms, a category that
includes both human and non-human mammals.
         Therapeutically effective amount: A quantity of compound or composition, for instance,
a recombinant globin molecule, sufficient to achieve a desired effect in a subject being treated. For
instance, this can be the amount necessary to scavenge carbon monoxide in the blood or tissues,
reduce the level of HbCO in the blood, and/or reduce one or more signs or symptoms associated
with carbon monoxide poisoning.
         Unless otherwise explained, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure
belongs. The singular terms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless context clearly
indicates otherwise. "Comprising A or B" means including A, or B, or A and B. It is further to be
understood that all base sizes or amino acid sizes, and all molecular weight or molecular mass
values, given for nucleic acids or polypeptides are approximate, and are provided for description.
Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the
practice or testing of the present disclosure, suitable methods and materials are described below.
All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are
incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the present specification, including
explanations of terms, will control. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are
illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
III.     Detailed Description
         A need exists for an effective, rapid and readily available therapy to treat
carboxyhemoglobinemia (including carbon monoxide poisoning). Disclosed herein is a new
antidote that provides rapid elimination of carbon monoxide from the hemoglobin. The disclosed
therapy involves the use of modified human globins, particularly neuroglobins modified at residue
64 (relative to SEQ ID NO: 1) and/or cytoglobins modified at residue 81 (relative to SEQ ID NO:
4) that bind carbon monoxide with extremely high affinity. The data disclosed herein demonstrate
for the first time that mutant globins with high affinity for CO can very effectively remove CO
from red blood cells; the CO is then cleared from the system through secretion in the urine. Thus,
the mutant globin molecules described herein provide a surprisingly effective treatment for
carboxyhemoglobinemia. The monomeric mutant globins are, for example, infused into blood in a
subject, where they rapidly and irreversibly sequester carbon monoxide, and thus limit toxic effects
of carbon monoxide on cellular respiration and oxygen transport and utilization.
                                                  - 10 -

        A.      Methods of treating carboxyhemoglobinemia or CO poisoning
        Provided herein is a method of treating carboxyhemoglobinemia in a subject by selecting a
subject with carboxyhemoglobinemia and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a recombinant globin molecule that binds carbon monoxide with high affinity. In some
embodiments, the recombinant globin molecule is a recombinant human neuroglobin with a
mutation (an amino acid substitution) at residue 64, such as a H64Q, H64L, H64A or H64W
mutation, or a human recombinant cytoglobin with a mutation at residue 81, such as a H8 1Q,
H81A, H81L or H81W mutation. Throughout this disclosure, the amino acid positions of human
recombinant neuroglobin and human recombinant cytoglobin are based on the wild-type human
neuroglobin and wild-type human cytoglobin sequences set forth herein as SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ
ID NO: 4, respectively.
        The recombinant globin molecules can further include one or more cysteine amino acid
substitutions to confer increased solubility. Increased solubility allows for the production of a high
stock concentration of mutant globin for infusion of a dose sufficient for treatment of
carboxyhemoglobinemia. In some embodiments, human recombinant neuroglobin further
comprises a C46G mutation, a C55S mutation, a C120S mutation, or any combination thereof. In
particular examples, the recombinant neuroglobin comprises all three cysteine substitutions. In one
non-limiting example, the human recombinant neuroglobin comprises the amino acid sequence of
SEQ ID NO: 3. In some embodiments, human recombinant cytoglobin further comprises a C38S
mutation, or a C83S mutation, or both a C38S and a C83S mutation. In one non-limiting example,
the human recombinant cytoglobin comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6.
        In alternative embodiments, the human recombinant neuroglobin comprising a mutation at
residue 64, and optionally one, two or three cysteine substitutions (i.e., one, two or all three of the
C46G, C55S and C120S mutations) can include one or more conservative or non-conservative
amino acid substitutions at other residues. Similarly, the human recombinant cytoglobin
comprising a mutation at residue 81, and optionally one or both of the cysteine substitutions (i.e.
one or both of the C38S and C83S mutations) can include one or more conservative or non
conservative amino acid substitutions at other residues. In some examples, the human recombinant
neuroglobin or cytoglobin comprises one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten
conservative amino acid substitutions, or one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten
non-conservative amino acid substitutions, or any combination of conservative and non
conservative substitutions, as long as the recombinant globin retains the capacity to bind carbon
monoxide with high affinity. In some examples, the recombinant human neuroglobin or cytoglobin
                                                 - 11 -

includes a deletion, such as a deletion of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or
more amino acids, while still maintaining the capacity to bind carbon monoxide with high affinity.
         In some examples, the human recombinant neuroglobin comprising a mutation at residue
64, and optionally one, two or three cysteine substitutions (i.e., one, two or all three of the C46G,
C55S and C120S mutations), is at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%,
at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 3.
         In some examples, the human recombinant cytoglobin comprising a mutation at residue 81,
and optionally one or both of the cysteine substitutions (i.e. one or both of the C38S and C83S
mutations) is at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at
least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ ID NO: 6.
         In some embodiments, the subject has at least 3%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15% or
at least 20% carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) in their blood.
         In some embodiments, the recombinant globin molecule is administered intravenously, such
as by intravenous infusion.
         An appropriate dose of recombinant neuroglobin or cytoglobin can be determined by a
medical practitioner. In some embodiments, the dose is the amount of recombinant globin required
to decrease HbCO at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at
least 15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least
7 0% , at least 80% or at least 90%. Generally, a dose of about 136 grams of neuroglobin or about
184 grams of cytoglobin is sufficient to achieve a 20% reduction in HbCO.
         Thus, in some embodiments, the therapeutically effective dose of human recombinant
neuroglobin is about 25 to about 1000 grams, about 50 to about 500 grams, about 50 to about 200
grams, or about 60 to about 140 grams. In particular examples, the therapeutically effective dose of
human recombinant neuroglobin is about 50, about 75, about 100, about 150, about 200, about 250,
about 300, about 350, about 400, about 450 or about 500 grams. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective dose of human recombinant cytoglobin is about 25 to about 1000 grams,
or about 50 to about 800 grams. In particular examples, the therapeutically effective does of human
recombinant cytoglobin is about 50, about 75, about 100, about 150, about 200, about 250, about
300, about 350, about 400, about 450, about 500, about 550, about 600, about 650, about 700, about
750 or about 800 grams.
         In some embodiments, the neuroglobin or cytoglobin concentration administered to a
subject is about 70 to about 200 grams per liter, which equates to approximately 35-200 grams for a
500 milliliter or 1 liter treatment.
                                                  - 12 -

         The modified globin with high affinity for carbon monoxide can be administered to a
subject in a single dose, or in multiple doses as needed, to reduce HbCO to a non-toxic level.
         In some embodiments, the dose administered to the subject is the amount of recombinant
globin required to decrease HbCO by at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%,
at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at
least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80% or at least 90% (compared to the level of HbCO before
treatment) in blood and/or tissue of the subject.
         B.      Methods of removing carbon monoxide from hemoglobin
         Also provided herein is a method of removing carbon monoxide from hemoglobin in blood
or tissue by contacting the blood or tissue with a recombinant globin molecule that binds carbon
monoxide with high affinity. In the context of the present disclosure, "removing" does not require
complete elimination of carbon monoxide from the blood or tissue, but rather means removal of CO
from hemoglobin molecules in blood or tissue such that the overall level of HbCO is reduced in the
blood or tissue of a sample or subject. For example, the HbCO can be reduced by at least 1%, at
least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20% or at least
25% (compared to the level of HbCO before treatment) in the blood and/or tissue.
         In some embodiments of the method, the recombinant globin molecule is a recombinant
human neuroglobin with a mutation at residue 64, such as a H64Q, H64L, H64A or H64W
mutation, or a human recombinant cytoglobin with a mutation at residue 81, such as a H8 1Q,
H81A, H81L or H81W mutation.
         The recombinant globin molecules can further include one or more cysteine amino acid
substitutions to confer increased solubility. Increased solubility allows for the production of a high
stock concentration of mutant globin for infusion of a dose sufficient for effective removal of CO
from the blood. In some embodiments, human recombinant neuroglobin further comprises a C46G
mutation, a C55S mutation, a C120S mutation, or any combination thereof. In particular examples,
the recombinant neuroglobin comprises all three cysteine substitutions. In one non-limiting
example, the human recombinant neuroglobin comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
NO: 3. In some embodiments, human recombinant cytoglobin further comprises a C38S mutation,
or a C83S mutation, or both a C38S and a C83S mutation. In one non-limiting example, the human
recombinant cytoglobin comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6.
         In alternative embodiments, the human recombinant neuroglobin comprising a mutation at
residue 64, and optionally one, two or three cysteine substitutions (i.e., one, two or all three of the
C46G, C55S and C 120S mutations) can include one or more conservative or non-conservative
                                                  - 13 -

amino acid substitutions at other residues. Similarly, the human recombinant cytoglobin
comprising a mutation at residue 81, and optionally one or both of the cysteine substitutions (i.e.
one or both of the C38S and C83S mutations) can include one or more conservative or non
conservative amino acid substitutions at other residues. In some examples, the human recombinant
neuroglobin or cytoglobin comprises one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten
conservative amino acid substitutions, or one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten
non-conservative amino acid substitutions, or any combination of conservative and non
conservative substitutions, as long as the recombinant globin retains the capacity to bind carbon
monoxide with high affinity. In some examples, the recombinant human neuroglobin or cytoglobin
includes a deletion, such as a deletion of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or
more amino acids, while still maintaining the capacity to bind carbon monoxide with high affinity.
         In some examples, the human recombinant neuroglobin comprising a mutation at residue
64, and optionally one, two or three cysteine substitutions (i.e., one, two or all three of the C46G,
C55S and C120S mutations), is at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%,
at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 3.
         In some examples, the human recombinant cytoglobin comprising a mutation at residue 81,
and optionally one or both of the cysteine substitutions (i.e. one or both of the C38S and C83S
mutations) is at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at
least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ ID NO: 6.
         In some examples, the method of removing carbon monoxide from hemoglobin is an in
vitro method. For example, the method can include contacting a blood or tissue sample with the
recombinant globin molecule. In some examples, a sufficient amount of recombinant globin is
contacted with the blood or tissue sample such that HbCO is reduced in the sample by at least 1%,
at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 5 %, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 2 0%, at least 2 5 %, at least
30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80% or at least 90%.
         In other examples, the method is an in vivo method that includes administering the
recombinant globin molecule to a subject in need of treatment. In some cases, the subject (prior to
administration) has at least 3 %, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15% or at least 2 0% HbCO in
their blood. The recombinant globin molecule can be administered using any suitable route of
administration, such as intravenous administration, for example intravenous infusion.
         Appropriate, therapeutically effective doses of recombinant neuroglobin and cytoglobin are
discussed above in section A. In some examples, the therapeutically effective dose of human
recombinant neuroglobin is about 25 to about 1000 grams, or about 50 to about 500 grams. In
some examples, the therapeutically effective dose of human recombinant cytoglobin is about 25 to
                                                   - 14 -

about 1000 grams, or about 50 to about 800 grams. The modified globin with high affinity for
carbon monoxide can be administered to a subject in a single dose, or in multiple doses as needed,
to reduce HbCO to a non-toxic level.
         In some embodiments of the in vivo method, the dose administered to the subject is the
amount of recombinant globin required to decrease HbCO at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at
least 5 %, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least
50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80% or at least 90% in blood and/or tissue of the subject.
         C.      Recombinant neuroglobin and cytoglobin mutants
         Provided herein are human recombinant neuroglobin proteins comprising a mutation at
residue 64 (relative to SEQ ID NO: 1), and further comprising a C46G mutation, a C55S mutation
and a C120S mutation. In some embodiments, the mutation at residue 64 is a H64Q, H64A, H64L
or H64W mutation. Similarly, the present disclosure provides human recombinant cytoglobin
proteins comprising a mutation at residue 81 (relative to SEQ ID NO: 4) and further comprising a
C38S mutation and a C83S mutation. In some embodiments, the mutation at residue 81 is a H81Q,
H81A, H81L or H81W mutation. Further provided are compositions comprising the recombinant
neuroglobin or cytoglobin proteins disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
         Data disclosed herein (see Example 2) demonstrates for the first time that neuroglobin
molecules comprising the H64L or H64Q mutation have auto-oxidation rates 23-fold slower than
the wild type protein. A lower auto-oxidation rate is a desirable property because it reduces side
reactions that are detrimental to the ability of the mutant globin to bind CO and deliver oxygen to
tissues.
         Wild-type human neuroglobin and wild-type human cytoglobin amino acid sequences are
shown below, along with exemplary recombinant neuroglobin and cytoglobin mutants provided by
the present disclosure.
Human neuroglobin (SEQ ID NO: 1; GenBank                  Accession No. NP_067080.1)
MERPEPELIRQSWRAVSRSPLEHGTVLFARLFALEPDLLPLFQYNCRQFSSPEDCLSSPEFLD
HIRKVMLVIDAAVTNVEDLSSLEEYLASLGRKHRAVGVKLSSFSTVGESLLYMLEKCLGPA
FTPATRAAWSQLYGAVVQAMSRGWDGE
                                                   - 15 -

Recombinant neuroglobin with high affinity for CO (SEQ ID NO: 2)
MERPEPELIRQSWRAVSRSPLEHGTVLFARLFALEPDLLPLFQYNXiRQFSSPEDX2LSSPEFL
DX 3 IRKVMLVIDAAVTNVEDLSSLEEYLASLGRKHRAVGVKLSSFSTVGESLLYMLEKX2L
GPAFTPATRAAWSQLYGAVVQAMSRGWDGE
       Xi= C or G
       X2= C or S
       X3= Q, L, A or W
Recombinant neuroglobin with four amino acid substitutions (SEQ ID NO: 3)
MERPEPELIRQSWRAVSRSPLEHGTVLFARLFALEPDLLPLFQYNGRQFSSPEDSLSSPEFLD
QIRKVMLVIDAAVTNVEDLSSLEEYLASLGRKHRAVGVKLSSFSTVGESLLYMLEKSLGPA
FTPATRAAWSQLYGAVVQAMSRGWDGE
Human cytoglobin (SEQ ID NO: 4; GenBank         Accession No. NP_599030)
MEKVPGEMEIERRERSEELSEAERKAVQAMWARLYANCEDVGVAILVRFFVNFPSAKQYF
SQFKHMEDPLEMERSPQLRKHACRVMGALNTVVENLHDPDKVSSVLALVGKAHALKHK
VEPVYFKILSGVILEVVAEEFASDFPPETQRAWAKLRGLIYSHVTAAYKEVGWVQQVPNA
TTPPATLPSSGP
Recombinant cytoglobin with high CO affinity (SEQ ID NO: 5)
MEKVPGEMEIERRERSEELSEAERKAVQAMWARLYANXiEDVGVAILVRFFVNFPSAKQY
FSQFKHMEDPLEMERSPQLRKX 2AXIRVMGALNTVVENLHDPDKVSSVLALVGKAHALK
HKVEPVYFKILSGVILEVVAEEFASDFPPETQRAWAKLRGLIYSHVTAAYKEVGWVQQVP
NATTPPATLPSSGP
       Xi= C or S
       X2= Q, L, A or W
Recombinant cytoglobin with three amino acid substitutions (SEQ ID NO: 6)
MEKVPGEMEIERRERSEELSEAERKAVQAMWARLYANSEDVGVAILVRFFVNFPSAKQYF
SQFKHMEDPLEMERSPQLRKQASRVMGALNTVVENLHDPDKVSSVLALVGKAHALKHK
VEPVYFKILSGVILEVVAEEFASDFPPETQRAWAKLRGLIYSHVTAAYKEVGWVQQVPNA
TTPPATLPSSGP
                                           - 16 -

        The human recombinant neuroglobin and cytoglobin proteins provided herein can
comprises one of the sequences shown above (and set forth herein as SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 5 and 6),
or the recombinant globins can further include one or more conservative or non-conservative amino
acid substitutions. For example, the human recombinant neuroglobin with mutations at residues 46,
55, 64 and 120 can include one or more conservative or non-conservative amino acid substitutions
at other residues. Similarly, the human recombinant cytoglobin comprising mutations at residues
38, 81 and 83 can include one or more conservative or non-conservative amino acid substitutions at
other residues. In some examples, the human recombinant neuroglobin or cytoglobin comprises
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten conservative amino acid substitutions, or
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten non-conservative amino acid substitutions,
or any combination of conservative and non-conservative substitutions, as long as the recombinant
globin retains the capacity to bind carbon monoxide with high affinity. In some examples, the
recombinant human neuroglobin or cytoglobin includes a deletion, such as a deletion of one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more amino acids, while still maintaining the
capacity to bind carbon monoxide with high affinity.
        In some examples, the human recombinant neuroglobin is at least 85%, at least 90%, at least
95%, at least  9 6 %, at least 9 7 %, at least 9 8 % or  at least 9 9 % identical to SEQ ID NO: 2 or SEQ ID
NO: 3 and retains the modification at residue 64 (H64Q, H64A, H64W or H64L) and the C46G,
C55S and C120S mutations.
        In some examples, the human recombinant cytoglobin is at least 85%, at least 90%, at least
95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6 and retains
the modification at residue 81 (H81Q, H81A, H81W or H81L) and the C38S and C83S mutations.
        Compositions comprising any of the recombinant globin molecules disclosed herein and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, are also provided by the present disclosure.
        The following examples are provided to illustrate certain particular features and/or
embodiments. These examples should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the particular
features or embodiments described.
                                                   EXAMPLES
Example 1: Scavenging of carbon monoxide (CO) from hemoglobin by the neuroglobin H64Q
mutant
        This example demonstrates that H64Q mutant neuroglobin rapidly removes CO from
carboxylated hemoglobin located inside red blood cells.
                                                       -  17  -

Background
        Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a heme protein, recently discovered in mammals and other species
(Burmester et al., Nature 407(6803):520-523, 2000). Ngb is very similar in sequence and structure
to myoglobin and hemoglobin, but unlike these proteins it contains a six-coordinated heme with
two histidine groups binding to the heme, whereas myoglobin and hemoglobin are five-coordinated
and only have one histidine permanently bound to the heme. The function of this heme protein is
unknown. The reaction of the iron atom from a heme group can be depicted as follows:
                            Fe2*-CO 4kr, Fe + CO
        where kn and koff are the rates of CO binding and dissociation, respectively. Ngb shows
high affinity for ligands such as oxygen or carbon monoxide, and this affinity is even higher when
the distal histidine (His64) is replaced by other side chains (Table 1).
           Table 1. Binding and dissociation constants for neuroglobin and hemoglobin
                                                         k.n                   koff
                                                      (M 1 s 1 )              (s')
          Human Ngb wt                               65 x 106                0.014
          Mouse Ngb wt                               72 x 106                0.013
          Mouse Ngb H64L                             200   x 106         ND (too slow)
          Human Hb (c subunit, R-state)               6 x   106              0.012
          Human Hb (c subunit, T-state)             0.12   x  106             0.21
          Human Hb ( subunit, R-state)                7.4x 106               0.007
          Human Hb ( subunit, T-state)              0.05   x  106             0.19
          Values determined at 25'C.
          Neuroglobin data from Dewilde et al., JBiol Chem 276(42):38949-38955, 1998.
          Hemoglobin data from Unzai et al., JBiol Chem 273(36):23150-23159, 1998.
        Based on previous characterization (Tiso et al., JBiol Chem 286(20):18277-18289, 2011)
and subsequent studies, it is believed that the CO binding properties of the H64Q and H64L
mutants are very similar, therefore the reported values for H64L are a reasonable estimate for
                                                  -  18  -

H64Q. The data in Table 1 indicates that in the presence of an adequate scavenger, the CO
dissociation from hemoglobin will lead to a half-life of the HbCO complex of approximately 3.5
seconds (T-state) or 70 seconds (R-state) at 25'C. Higher rates may lead to even shorter times at
37'C. These short times offer an opportunity for a therapeutic approach. However, in the absence
of CO scavengers, the dissociated CO will eventually bind again to hemoglobin, leading to a
persistence of HbCO much longer than suggested by the dissociation rates.
        The binding and dissociation rates for neuroglobin (Table 1) indicate a much higher affinity
towards CO than that of hemoglobin. Therefore, it was hypothesized that neuroglobin would be a
suitable scavenger of CO from HbCO or other carboxylated compounds. The results described
below confirm this hypothesis.
Materials and Methods
Reagents
        Blood was used fresh or up to 2 weeks after collection from healthy volunteers. Red blood
cells (RBCs) and hemoglobin were prepared as described previously (Huang et al., J Clin Invest
115(8):2099-2107, 2005). All chemicals were purchased from Sigma (St. Louis, MO) unless noted
otherwise. Visible absorbance spectra and kinetic data were collected on Cary 50 and HP8453 UV
visible spectrophotometers (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA) and with an SX20 Stopped-Flow
Spectrometer (Applied Photophysics Limited, Leatherhead, UK). All experiments were performed
in phosphate buffered saline (Sigma). Carbon monoxide (CO)-saturated buffer was prepared by
bubbling 20 mL of PBS with CO gas for at least 15 minutes. Stock sodium dithionite solution was
prepared by adding PBS degassed by Argon flow-through to a degassed vial of dry sodium
dithionite.
Expression and purification of recombinant neuroglobin
        Recombinant neuroglobin (Ngb) H64Q protein was purified from E. coli cultures from a
modified method based on previous work (Tiso et al., JBiol Chem 286(20):18277-18289, 2011).
SoluBL21 E. coli cells (Genlantis) containing the pET28-NgbH64Q plasmid were grown in TB
broth supplemented with 30 [tg/ml Kanamycin. Expression was induced at OD6 00 nm= 0.8 by adding
1 mM isopropyl-1-thio-p-D-galactopyranoside and carried out for 24 hours at 370 C. 6
aminolevulinic acid (0.4 mM) was added at induction to enhance the production of the heme
cofactor. Cells were harvested and resuspended in lysis buffer (50 mM MOPS, pH 7.0, 1 mM
EDTA, 1mg/ml lysozyme, 1 mM PMSF, 0.5 mM DTT) and lysed by sonication. Supernatant was
loaded into a DEAE-sepharose column equilibrated with buffer A (50 mM MOPS pH 7.0, 10 mM
                                                - 19 -

NaCI). The samples were washed with 3 column volumes of buffer A and eluted by a linear
gradient to 100% buffer B (50 mM MOPS pH 7.0, 100 mM NaCl). Ngb fractions were pooled and
concentrated. For further purification, the concentrated samples were run in a gel filtration column
(Sephacryl S-200 HR, GE Healthcare). Purity was assessed by SDS-PAGE and UV-Vis
spectroscopy.
Kinetics of carboxylated Hb mixed with neuroglobin
         Carboxylated Hb (HbCO) was prepared by adding an excess of sodium dithionite to thawed
Hb and mixing with CO-saturated buffer at a ratio of at least 4:1. Excess CO was removed by
passing through a desalting column inside a glove box. For anaerobic experiments, an excess of
sodium dithionite was then added to the HbCO. Thawed Ngb-H64Q was mixed with an excess of
potassium ferricyanide and passed through a desalting column to obtain the oxidized form. In some
instances, Ngb-H64Q was already stored in the oxidized form at -80'C. Deoxygenated Ngb-H64Q
was obtained by adding an excess of sodium dithionite to the oxidized form. For aerobic
experiments, the oxygenated form was obtained by passing the deoxygenated form through a
desalting column under aerobic conditions immediately before mixing with HbCO.
         For kinetics measured with the Cary 50 or the HP8453 spectrophotometer, HbCO inside a
cuvette of 1 cm path length was placed in the cell holder and brought to either 25'C or 37'C. The
deoxygenated or oxygenated Ngb-H64Q was quickly equilibrated to the same temperature using a
water bath next to the spectrophotometer. Reaction was initiated by injecting Ngb-H64Q into the
HbCO solution for a final concentration of 40 pM of both proteins. Collection of absorbance was
initiated with a delay of 1 to 10 seconds and continued for up to 20 minutes as the mixture was
continuously stirred. A final concentration of 1-5 mM of sodium dithionite was present in
anaerobic reactions. For kinetics measured with the SX20 Stopped-Flow Spectrometer, the sample
lines of the instrument were first washed with pure PBS for aerobic experiments and with PBS
containing 5 mM sodium dithionite for anaerobic experiments. The sample lines and syringes of
the apparatus were equilibrated to either 25'C or 37'C. HbCO and Ngb-H6Q were then loaded into
2.5 ml syringes of the apparatus that contained 5 mM sodium dithionite for anaerobic experiments.
HbCO and Ngb-H64Q were mixed 1:1 with a dead time of less than 2 msec for a final
concentration of 25-30 pM of both proteins. Absorbance of the reaction mixture was followed for
no more than 200 seconds.
                                                - 20 -

Kinetics of carboxylated RBCs mixed with neuroglobin
        Red cells were obtained by washing 50-100 pL of blood with PBS 5 to 7 times by
centrifugation at 1000 x g for 5-10 minutes. The washed red cells were diluted in I to 2 ml of PBS
and deoxygenated while on ice and slow stirring by a passing flow of argon gas for up to 1 hour.
For anaerobic experiments, argon was passed briefly and an excess of sodium dithionite to Hb was
added to the red cells. Carboxylated red cell-encapsulated Hb was obtained by diluting the
deoxygenated red cell solution with a ratio of at least 4:1. Excess CO was removed by washing the
red cells 2 times with degassed PBS (containing 5-10 mM dithionite for anaerobic experiments) by
centrifugation for 5 minutes at 1000 x g in degassed and septum-capped 15 mL centrifuge tubes.
After washing, the red cells were resuspended to a final concentration of 100-200 pM, with an
excess of sodium dithionite for anaerobic experiments.
        Oxygenated or deoxygenated Ngb-H64Q was prepared following the same procedure as
that described for the experiments with pure Hb. In some experiments, after initiating the reaction,
red cells were separated from Ngb-H64Q to measure absorbance spectra. In this case, the reaction
temperature was regulated with an ISOTEMPTM stirring hotplate and water bath combination
(Fisher Scientific). Red cell-encapsulated HbCO and oxygenated or deoxygenated Ngb-H64Q
were equilibrated to 25'C or 37'C in separate glass vials. Reaction was initiated by injecting Ngb
H64Q into the red cell solution for a final concentration of 40 pM of both proteins. An equivalent
volume of PBS (with or without dithionite) was injected into a control sample of carboxylated red
cells. Periodically, 0.5 ml of the reaction and the control sample were taken and centrifuged for 30
60 seconds at 5000 x g in 1.5 mL microcentrifuge tubes. The supernatant containing Ngb-H64Q
was removed (5 mM sodium dithionite was added in aerobic experiments to prevent auto-oxidation
of the protein) and stored on ice.
        A solution of 0.5% NP40 in PBS (always containing 5 mM sodium dithionite for anaerobic
experiments and sometimes for aerobic) was added to the red cell pellet to lyse the cells. Hb
absorbance in the lysed red cell solution was measured with the Cary 50 spectrophotometer in a 1
cm path length cuvette. This cycle was repeated every 1.5-5 minutes for a total of six times, giving
six absorbance measurements of the Hb. The control and reaction samples were continuously
stirred. The time when absorbance of hemoglobin was measured in the reaction was assumed to be
the time elapsed after injection of Ngb-H64Q to 15 or 30 seconds after the start of centrifugation
(for 30 or 60 second centrifugation durations, respectively). After the last ( 6 th) time point was
measured, absorbance of the stored supernatant samples of the reaction and control mixtures was
recorded as well. In some experiments, the red cells were not separated from Ngb-H64Q; instead,
absorbance of the whole mixture was recorded with the Integrating Sphere attachment of a Cary
                                                  - 21 -

100 spectrophotometer. This setup collects light scattered by the red cells, thereby providing
absorbance spectra sufficiently accurate for spectral deconvolution. The procedure for these
experiments was the same as that for mixing Ngb-H64Q with pure HbCO in the Cary 50, after
preparation of carboxylated red cells.
Least Squares Deconvolution
        Standard reference spectra of the oxidized (met), deoxygenated (deoxy), oxygenated (02)
and carboxylated (CO) forms of hemoglobin (Hb) and neuroglobin H64Q (Ngb-H64Q) were
obtained. After thawing protein on ice, spectra of the oxidized form were obtained by mixing with
an excess of potassium ferricyanide and passing through an ECONO-PACTM 10DG Desalting
Column (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). Spectra of deoxygenated species were recorded
after adding an excess of sodium dithionite to the oxidized form. Spectra of the oxygenated form
were recorded immediately after passing deoxygenated species through the desalting column under
aerobic conditions. Spectra of the carboxylated form were measured after mixing the deoxygenated
species with CO-saturated buffer in a ratio of 1:4. All standard spectra were collected at 20'C,
25'C, and 37'C on the Cary 50 spectrophotometer.
        Deconvolution of experimental spectra was performed with a least-squares fitting routine in
Microsoft Excel. Because the change in absorbance of the kinetic experiments is not great, all
spectra composed of both Hb and Ngb-H64Q were always fit between 450 and 700 nm, 490 and
650 nm, and 510 and 600 nm, with and without constraining the Hb and Ngb-H64Q concentrations
to be equal to each other, in order to confirm the accuracy of the deconvolution. Absorbance
spectra from anaerobic experiments were deconvoluted using carboxylated and deoxygenated
standards of Hb and Ngb-H64Q. Absorbance spectra from aerobic experiments were deconvoluted
using the standards of the oxidized, carboxylated and oxygenated forms of Hb and Ngb-H64Q. For
the red cell experiments where Hb was separated from Ngb-H64Q and dithionite was afterwards
added to either red cells in aerobic experiments or to the supernatant in anaerobic experiments,
deoxygenated standards were used in deconvolution instead of the oxygenated and oxidized forms.
Before deconvoluting spectra collected with the Stopped-Flow spectrometer, and sometimes those
with the HP8453, absorbance values were remapped to the same wavelengths as those used by the
Cary 50 spectrophotometer using the interpI function of MATLAB TM , employing piecewise cubic
hermite interpolation.
                                                 - 22 -

Results
        The reaction of carboxylated red blood cells (RBCs) with either buffer or a solution of
deoxy H64Q neuroglobin was studied (FIG. 1). When the RBCs were mixed with buffer, no
appreciable change in the ratio of HbCO occurred (FIG. 1, left panel). When the cells were mixed
with the deoxyNgb mutant, all CO was removed from the RBCs within about 15 minutes. The
changes in the neuroglobin fraction are consistent with a transfer of CO from Hb to Ngb.
        Another experiment with similar conditions is shown in FIG. 2. The reaction was
completed in just over 10 minutes, consistent with the previous results shown in FIG. 1.
        In addition, the reaction of carboxylated red blood cells with oxy H64Q neuroglobin was
evaluated (FIG. 3). As observed for the deoxyNgb, the oxygenated form is also able to scavenge
CO from the red blood cells at an even faster rate than that observed in the previous experiment.
The process is completed in less than 5 minutes. The changes in the neuroglobin fraction are
consistent with a transfer of CO from Hb to Ngb.
        Altogether, these results indicate that neuroglobin is able to remove CO from carboxylated
hemoglobin that is located inside red blood cells (across compartment) within 5-10 minutes, a time
scale suitable for clinical treatment.
Example 2: Auto-oxidation rates for WT and mutant neuroglobins
        Ferrous-dioxygen complexes in heme proteins have intrinsic rates of auto-oxidation, where
the oxygen molecule can take an electron from the heme iron to form oxidized heme and
superoxide radical:
                             Fe 2 -0      2      k       Fe       +   O;'
        Auto-oxidation is a side reaction that can be detrimental for the intended neuroglobin
applications (e.g., binding and removing CO from hemoglobin). For the purpose of treating
carboxyhemoglobinemia, neuroglobin is infused as a ferrous dioxygen complex (oxy form, Fe
02) that is able to: i) bind CO and ii) deliver oxygen to the tissues. Oxidation of the
oxyneuroglobin leads to formation of the ferric form (met form, Fe3 ) that cannot accomplish either
of the two functions mentioned above. The reaction also forms the radical superoxide species (02')
that would cause increased oxidative stress.
        The auto-oxidation rates for wild-type and several neuroglobin His64 mutants were
determined and are summarized in Table 2.
                                                  - 23 -

              Table 2. Auto-oxidation rates for wild-type neuroglobin and mutants
                                                           K..                          tel
                                                          (min- )                     (min)
   Human Neuroglobin, wild-type                       0.230  0.030                     3.0
   Human Neuroglobin, H64W                            0.076  0.006                     9.1
   Human Neuroglobin, H64A                            0.066  0.005                    10.5
   Human Neuroglobin, H64L                            0.010  0.004                    69.3
   Human Neuroglobin, H64Q                            0.010  0.002                    69.3
   Values determined at 37'C in sodium phosphate 100 mM, pH 7.4.
   t; calculated half-life of the ferrous dioxygen complex.
        Wild-type neuroglobin has a fast auto-oxidation rate; half of any existing ferrous-dioxygen
complex is oxidized every 3 minutes. However, the neuroglobin mutants H64L and H64Q have
auto-oxidation rates 23-fold slower than the wild type protein. Based on these findings, the H64Q
mutant was selected for the in vivo studies described in Example 3.
Example 3: Recombinant H64Q neuroglobin is an antidote for carboxyhemoglobinemia in
vivo
        This example demonstrates that administration of a recombinant globin molecule that binds
carbon monoxide with high affinity efficiently clears HbCO from the blood of CO-exposed mice
and thus represents an antidote for carboxyhemoglobinemia and/or carbon monoxide poisoning. In
the experiments described below, the CO is removed from red blood cells after a five minute
infusion of recombinant mutant neuroglobin H64Q. The H64Q mutant neuroglobin used in the
studies below also contains mutations at three cysteine residues (C46G/C55S/C120S).
        In the following experiments, H64Q neuroglobin was administered at a dose ranging
between 13.6 and 27.2 mg (4-8 mM). Blood volume in humans is approximately 5000x greater,
therefore this dose range is equivalent to a human dose range of 68-136 grams.
        The capacity of recombinant H64Q neuroglobin to remove HbCO from blood in vivo was
evaluated in CO-exposed mice. Mice were exposed to 1500 ppm CO for 60-70 minutes, CO was
then stopped and either PBS (200 pLl) or concentrated H64Q neuroglobin (200 pd) was infused for 5
minutes (PBS - FIG. 4; H64Q neuroglobin - FIG. 6) or 10 minutes (H64Q neuroglobin - FIG. 5).
Blood samples (approximately 10 pl) were drawn every 5-10 minutes, the red cells were washed,
                                                 - 24 -

lysed and chemically reduced with dithionite and monitored for HbCO and NgbCO. This assay
shows the amount of CO that is in the red blood cell before and after the H64Q NgB infusion in
vivo. As shown in FIGS. 5 and 6, infusion of H64Q neuroglobin rapidly removes HbCO from the
blood within the 5 or 10 minute infusion period.
         The decay in concentration of HbCO in the blood of CO-exposed mice after a five-minute
infusion of PBS or H64Q neuroglobin is shown in FIGS. 7A and 7B. FIG. 7A shows absolute
HbCO levels over time and FIG. 7B shows the relative change in HbCO level over time. The
results shown in these figures clearly demonstrate that infusion of H64Q neuroglobin leads to a
more rapid clearance of HbCO from the blood, and a greater relative change in HbCO over time,
than infusion with PBS. Similarly, FIG. 8 shows that infusion of H64Q for either 5 or 10 minutes
leads to a greater percent HbCO decay compared with infusion of PBS for the same period of time.
         To confirm that neuroglobin is cleared as NgbCO in the urine of infused mice, absorbance
of urine from bladders of mice sacrificed approximately 75 minutes after the end of CO exposure
was determined. The results are shown in FIG. 9A. The top three traces show the absorbance due
to neuroglobin, which include 82 to 91% NgbCO. The bottom traces indicate the absorbance that is
not attributable to Ngb. In addition, the presence of NgbCO in the urine of CO-exposed mice was
confirmed by the presence of red-colored urine in these mice (see syringe in FIG. 9B).
         In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosed
invention may be applied, it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only
preferred examples of the invention and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.
Rather, the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our
invention all that comes within the scope and spirit of these claims.
         The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included in this
specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It is not
suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or were
common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the
priority date of each claim of this application.
         Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word "comprise" and
variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to exclude other
additives, components, integers or steps.
                                                 - 25 -

             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
        1.     A human recombinant neuroglobin comprising a mutation at residue 64, and further
comprising a C46G mutation, a C55S mutation and a C120S mutation.
        2.     The human recombinant neuroglobin of claim 1, wherein the mutation at residue 64
is a H64Q, H64L, H64A or H64W mutation.
        3.     The human recombinant neuroglobin of claim 2, comprising the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3.
        4.     A human recombinant cytoglobin comprising a mutation at residue 81, and further
comprising a C38S mutation and a C83S mutation.
        5.     The human recombinant cytoglobin of claim 4, wherein the mutation at residue 81 is
a H81Q, H81A, H81L or H81W mutation.
        6.     The human recombinant cytoglobin of claim 5, comprising the amino acid sequence
of SEQ ID NO: 6.
        7.     A composition comprising the human recombinant neuroglobin or cytoglobin of any
one of claims 1 to 6, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
                                               - 26 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                            !                            ""           # $                  "
                                                   $            %
                                          &'() * "'+, -
                                           . +/ +'0/* 1
                      2                   $                 "               3 %            $                                 $                                 $ "                         $
                                      "               3 %
                      4               5 24!6 777! 4
                      7                           8 9:66* 77
<removed-apn>
                      7               2           4! 4! 7
                      7                           8 954;* 47
                      7               2           4! 8! 2
                      8               8
                      :                   '                         0 +           /       4-7
                  2
                  2                       7
                  2 2
                  2 4                     /</              '=
                  ;
              "               &           $+               +/           &         +/       &                    &       $+       &                +     += $+        $&'           '&
                                                                    7                                                                                                 7
                      + $+                        +        +/                     &                 &>       ?+          '&                   ?        $&' $+                      ?
                                                       2                                                    27                                             4
              $&'                          &               +/ $ =                                   +/                   ?       &            >+ $             >     $+            &
                                          47                                                    ;                                                ;7
                  ?               +               +        +/           &     $ =          >                        +        +   +/           &         ?            $ =
                          7                                                               77                                              8
               &          $+                  >            '& "                            '&       &       $ = $&' $&'                       '&        ?+ $          '&           &
              87                                                              :                                     :7                                                         5
              $ =                                 +         +                     &        &        >+                  $&'          +                  &> $+         >
                                                                    57                                                  6                                            67
              $+          $&'                 '&           &>           '&        >                     +           +    ?           +        ?+        '&     &>     &                +
                                                                                                                    7
                                              >+ "                                &        >        >                    &>      +/ $&'                 ?      ?+     +/ $&'
                                               7                                                    2                                                   27
                  ?+ $+                   $&' $&'                       +=            +    &                    >+       &> $&'               '&        '&     &     $&' "
                      4                                                                    47                                                 ;
                   + $+                       &>           += $ =                 &>       &
                  ;7                                                              7
                                                                                                                             '

<removed-date>
                  2                 2
                  2                     7
                  2 2
                  2 4               $+              @            '&
                  22
                  224                           /<A              '            =/&>= =           (
                  22
                  22                "   B $
                  222               C;8D--C;8D
<removed-apn>
                  224               3'' E > /+                                     &>
                  22
                  22                "   B $
                  222               C77D--C77D
                  224               3'' E > /+                                         +
                  22
                  22                "   B $
                  222               C8;D--C8;D
                  224               3'' E & *                                      * $&'*           +=
                  22
                  22                "   B $
                  222               C 2 D--C 2 D
                  224               3'' E > /+                                         +
                  ;                 2
              "             &           $+                  +/           &         +/      &                 &       $+       &               +    += $+       $&'       '&
                                                                     7                                                                                          7
                      + $+                      +           +/                     &                &>       ?+       '&                  ?       $&' $+                 ?
                                                        2                                                   27                                        4
              $&'                        &                  +/ $ =                                  +/                ?       &           >+ $          3'' $+           &
                                        47                                                      ;                                            ;7
                  ?             +               +           +/           &     $ = 3''                           +        +   +/          &        ?           $ = 3''
                        7                                                          77                                                 8
               &        $+                  >               '& "                           '&       &       $ = $&' $&'                   '&       ?+ $         '&       &
              87                                                               :                                    :7                                               5
              $ =                               +            +                     &       &        >+               $&'          +                &> $+        >
                                                                     57                                              6                                         67
              $+        $&'                 '&              &>           '&        >                    +        +    ?           +       ?+       '&     &>    &            +
                                                                                                                 7
                                            >+ "                                   &       >    3''                   &>      +/ $&'               ?      ?+    +/ $&'
                                             7                                                   2                                                 27
                  ?+ $+                 $&' $&'                          +=            +   &                 >+       &> $&'              '&       '&     &    $&' "
                      4                                                                    47                                             ;
                                                                                                                          '       2

<removed-date>
                   + $+                     &>              += $ =                 &>       &
                  ;7                                                               7
                  2                 4
                  2                     7
                  2 2
                  2 4               $+              @            '&
                  22
                  224                           /<A              '            =/&>= =               (
                  ;                 4
<removed-apn>
              "             &           $+                  +/           &         +/       &                    &       $+       &               +    += $+       $&'       '&
                                                                     7                                                                                              7
                      + $+                      +           +/                     &                    &>       ?+       '&                  ?       $&' $+                 ?
                                                        2                                                       27                                        4
              $&'                        &                  +/ $ =                                      +/                ?       &           >+ $            &> $+          &
                                        47                                                          ;                                            ;7
                  ?             +               +           +/           &     $ =              +                    +        +   +/          &        ?           $ =       &
                        7                                                                  77                                             8
               &        $+                  >               '& "                            '&          &       $ = $&' $&'                   '&       ?+ $         '&       &
              87                                                               :                                        :7                                               5
              $ =                               +            +                     &        &           >+               $&'          +                &> $+        >
                                                                     57                                                  6                                         67
              $+        $&'                 '&              &>           '&        >                        +        +    ?           +       ?+       '&     &>    &            +
                                                                                                                     7
                                            >+ "                                   &        >               +             &>      +/ $&'               ?      ?+    +/ $&'
                                             7                                                          2                                              27
                  ?+ $+                 $&' $&'                          +=            +    &                    >+       &> $&'              '&       '&     &    $&' "
                      4                                                                     47                                                ;
                   + $+                     &>              += $ =                 &>       &
                  ;7                                                               7
                  2                 ;
                  2                     6
                  2 2
                  2 4                   /</                 '=
                  ;                 ;
              "             &               >               '&           +/        &>       &       "            &        &       &       $+          $+      &    $+            +
                                                                     7                                                                                              7
                  &         &                                +           &     $&'          &       $+           >       $&'      '&          &       $&' "         += $&'
                                                        2                                                       27                                        4
                                                                                                                              '       4

<removed-date>
              $+                      >+ $&' $                            >        &       $ =              '&       &>       '& $&'               &             '& $+
                                     47                                                    ;                                                      ;7
                  ?         ?            '& $                   ?         +/           + $&'                >        &        >+          ?            +   &     ?        >
                        7                                                         77                                                  8
                        "                &           $ =        +/                 &       "                &    $+               +       +/       &            $+        >
              87                                                      :                                                      :7                                       5
<removed-apn>
                        $&'              >           $+         '& "               &> $&'                        $            ?+          '&       '&      &    $
                                                               57                                                6                                              67
                        $ =              +/ $ =                 >         '&           +           +        '&               $&'                   '&      &>    >    $&'
                                                                                                             7
                        $&'                           >                   >        '&          &            +/       '&       >+          ?        >       &                  +
                                             7                                                 2                                                   27
                  &>        '&           &                      &         '&       '& $&'                   &        &        ?       $&'              + $ =     ?        +/
                            4                                                      47                                                  ;
                  +/        &            ?+           &        $+     $&'          += $&'                   >                $+           &>               &     >+           +
                  ;7                                                   7                                                      77                                          8
                            '&           ?+ $&' $&'                       >+       >           &            '&       &>       +=          '&       &       &     '&       +/
                                                 87                                                                  :                                           :7
              $         $&'              ?+           ?+        +/        +/ $&'               ?+                    +/           +           +    &>      +/
                                                      5                                                     57                                             6
                  2              7
                  2                  6
                  2 2
                  2 4            $+              @         '&
                  22
                  224                        /<A           '         =/&>= =               (
                  22
                  22             "   B $
                  222            C45D--C45D
                  224            3'' E > /+                                   +
                  22
                  22             "   B $
                  222            C5 D--C5 D
                  224            3'' E & *                                * $&' /+                     +=
                  22
                  22             "   B $
                  222            C54D--C54D
                  224            3'' E > /+                                   +
                  ;              7
              "             &            >            '&        +/        &>       &       "                &        &        &       $+          $+       &    $+            +
                                                                                                                         '        ;

<removed-date>
                                                                     7                                                                                                7
                  &         &                                +           &     $&'          &       $+           >    $&'          '&          &       $&' "          += $&'
                                                     2                                                          27                                         4
              $+                      >+ $&' $                                 3''          &       $ =          '&       &>       '& $&'               &             '& $+
                                     47                                                             ;                                                  ;7
                  ?         ?            '& $                            ?         +/           + $&'            >        &        >+          ?            +   &     ?        >
                        7                                                                  77                                              8
<removed-apn>
                        "                &           $ =                 +/                 &       "            &    $+               +       +/       &            $+        >
              87                                                               :                                                  :7                                       5
              3'' $&' 3'' $+                                          '& "                  &> $&'                    $            ?+          '&       '&      &    $
                                                                     57                                               6                                              67
                        $ =              +/ $ =                          >         '&           +           +    '&               $&'                   '&      &>    >    $&'
                                                                                                                  7
                        $&'                              >                         >        '&          &        +/       '&       >+          ?        >       &                  +
                                             7                                                          2                                               27
                  &>        '&           &                               &         '&       '& $&'               &        &        ?       $&'              + $ =     ?        +/
                            4                                                               47                                              ;
                  +/        &            ?+              &           $+        $&'          += $&'               >                $+           &>               &     >+           +
                  ;7                                                            7                                                  77                                          8
                            '&           ?+ $&' $&'                                >+       >           &        '&       &>       +=          '&       &       &     '&       +/
                                                 87                                                                       :                                           :7
              $         $&'              ?+              ?+              +/        +/ $&'               ?+                +/           +           +    &>      +/
                                                         5                                                       57                                             6
                  2              8
                  2                  6
                  2 2
                  2 4            $+              @               '&
                  22
                  224                        /<A                 '            =/&>= =               (
                  ;              8
              "             &            >               '&              +/        &>       &       "            &        &        &       $+          $+       &    $+            +
                                                                     7                                                                                                7
                  &         &                                +           &     $&'          &       $+           >    $&'          '&          &       $&' "          += $&'
                                                     2                                                          27                                         4
              $+                      >+ $&' $                                         +    &       $ =          '&       &>       '& $&'               &             '& $+
                                     47                                                             ;                                                  ;7
                                                                                                                              '        7

<removed-date>
                  ?        ?    '& $           ?        +/        + $&'           >        &        >+          ?           +   &     ?        >
                       7                                     77                                             8
                       "        &       $ =    +/             &       "           &    $+               +       +/      &            $+        >
              87                                    :                                              :7                                      5
                  &    $&'          + $+       '& "           &> $&'                   $            ?+          '&      '&      &    $
                                              57                                       6                                             67
<removed-apn>
                       $ =      +/ $ =         >        '&        +           +   '&               $&'                  '&      &>    >    $&'
                                                                                   7
                       $&'               >              >     '&          &       +/       '&       >+          ?       >       &                  +
                                    7                                     2                                             27
                  &>       '&   &              &        '&    '& $&'              &        &        ?       $&'             + $ =     ?        +/
                           4                                  47                                             ;
                  +/       &    ?+       &    $+    $&'       += $&'              >                $+           &>              &     >+           +
                  ;7                                 7                                              77                                         8
                           '&   ?+ $&' $&'              >+    >           &       '&       &>       +=          '&      &       &     '&       +/
                                        87                                                 :                                          :7
              $        $&'      ?+       ?+    +/       +/ $&'            ?+               +/           +           +   &>      +/
                                         5                                        57                                            6
                                                                                               '        8

