   COMBINING USER PROFILE INFORMATION MAINTAINED BY VARIOUS
                           SOCIAL NETWORKING SYSTEMS
                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A social networking system generates an augmented user profile for a user. The
augmented user profile includes information from user profiles maintained by additional
social networking systems that correspond to the user of the social networking system. For
example, user profiles maintained by additional social networking systems having a
threshold similarity to a user profile maintained by the social networking system are
identified, and characteristics of the user in the identified user profiles are included in the
augmented user profile along with characteristics from the user profile maintained by the
social networking system. Characteristics of the user from the augmented user profile are
used to identify content, such as advertisements, for presentation to the user.

                        2/2
300
    Retrieve User Profile Maintained by Social
                 Networking System
                        305
       Retrieve User Profiles Maintained by
      Additional Social Networking Systems
                        310
       Determine Similarities Between User
      Profile and User Profiles Maintained by
      Additional Social Networking Systems
                        315
       Select Additional User Profile with at
     Least Threshold Similarity to User Profile
                        320
         Generate Augmented User Profile
    including Characteristics from User Profile
       and Selected Additional User Profile
                        325
     Select Content Items for Presentation to
      User Based on Augmented User Profile
                        330
                     FIG. 3

   COMBINING USER PROFILE INFORMATION MAINTAINED BY VARIOUS
                            SOCIAL NETWORKING SYSTEMS
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is related to US Provisional Patent Application No. 14/137,959
filed 20 December 2013, International Application No. PCT/US2014/068303 titled
"Combining user profile information maintained by various social networking systems"
and filed 3 December 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent
Application No. 2014367027 titled "Combining user profile information maintained by
various social networking systems" and filed 3 December 2014 in the name of
Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully
set forth herein.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0002]       This disclosure relates generally to social networking systems. and more
specifically to combining information in user profiles maintained by various social
networking systems.
[0003]       A social networking system allows its users to connect to and communicate
with other social networking system users. Users may create profiles on a social
networking system that are tied to their identities and include information about the users,
such as interests and demographic information, and share this information with other
social networking system users by posting content on the social networking system or
otherwise allowing other users to access this information. The users may be individuals
or entities such as corporations or charities. Because of the increasing popularity of social
networking systems and the increasing amount of user-specific information maintained by
social networking systems, a social networking system provides an ideal forum for
advertisers to increase awareness about products or services by presenting advertisements
to social networking system users. The increasing amount of user-specific information
maintained by social networking systems also allows advertisers to gather information
about users' characteristics to more effectively target advertisements to social networking
system users, subject to privacy settings of social networking system users.
[0004]       Users of a social networking system often post content to the social networking
system for presentation to other social networking system users, allowing the other users to
interact with the posted content. Based on interactions by a user with content posted other
users, the social networking system may determine characteristics of the user, such as the
user's interest in other users or types of content. The social networking system may use
                                                 1

characteristics of a user to select content, such as advertisements, for the user to increase
the likelihood of interacting with content that the social networking system presents to the
user.
Conventionally, a social networking system presents content to a user based on information
associated with the user by social networking system. For example, the social networking
system selects content for presentation to a user based on demographic information in a
user profile associated with the user, actions performed by the user and captured by the
social networking system, connections between the user and other users of the social
networking system, or other suitable information. However, users of a social networking
system are often users of additional social networking systems and provide different or
additional demographic information or perform different actions when interacting with an
additional social networking system. Hence, information associated with a user by a single
social networking system may incompletely reflect characteristics of the user.
                                            SUMMARY
[0005]       A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
        retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated
with a user of the social networking system, the user profile including a plurality of
characteristics of the user of the social networking system, the plurality of characteristics
including a first primary characteristic and a first secondary characteristic including a
media content item that comprises a video or a photograph;
        retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each additional user profile including respective characteristics of a
user of at least one of the additional social networking systems, the characteristics
including one or more additional primary characteristics and one or more additional
secondary characteristics that include one or more media content items that comprise
videos or photographs;
        wherein retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and
retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems comprises sharing login credentials of the user between the social
networking system and the one or more additional social networking systems;
        wherein access to the primary and secondary characteristics of the social
networking system and the additional social networking systems is limited by user defined
privacy settings;
                                                 2

         comparing the first primary characteristic and the first secondary characteristic with
the one or more additional primary characteristics and the one or more additional secondary
characteristics of each additional user profile;
         based on the comparison, determining values that describe a degree of match
between each of the compared characteristics;
         weighting the values, the weight of each respective value based in part on whether
the value describes a degree of match between primary characteristics or secondary
characteristics, wherein a weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics is larger than a weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
         combining the weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics and the weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
         generating scores for the one or more additional user profiles that describe
similarities between the user profile and each of the one or more additional user profiles,
and each score is based on the combined weighted values;
         determining a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles based in part on the score;
         selecting an additional user profile having a score that equals or exceeds at least a
threshold similarity to the user profile;
         generating an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile; and
         selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking system based
at least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile, and
         wherein selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking
system based at least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile
comprises:
                 identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
         satisfied by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile,
                 ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on
         bid amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements, and
                  selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at
         least in part on the ranking.
                                                   3

[0006]       A second aspect of the present disclosure provides a computer program product
comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions
encoded thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to:
        retrieve a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated with
a user of the social networking system, the user profile including a plurality of
characteristics of the user of the social networking system, the plurality of characteristics
including a first primary characteristic and a first secondary characteristic including a
media content item that comprises a video or a photograph;
        retrieve one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each additional user profile including respective characteristics of a
user of at least one of the additional social networking systems, the characteristics
including one or more additional primary characteristics and one or more additional
secondary characteristics that include one or more media content items that comprise
videos or photographs;
        wherein retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and
retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems comprises sharing login credentials of the user between the social
networking system and the one or more additional social networking systems;
        wherein access to the primary and secondary characteristics of the social
networking system and the additional social networking systems is limited by user defined
privacy settings;
        compare the first primary characteristic and the first secondary characteristic with
the one or more additional primary characteristics and the one or more additional secondary
characteristics of each additional user profile;
        based on the comparison, determine values that describe a degree of match between
each of the compared characteristics;
        weight the values, the weight of each respective value based in part on whether the
value describes a degree of match between primary characteristics or secondary
characteristics, wherein a weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics is larger than a weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
        combine the weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics and the weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
                                                 4

        generate scores for the one or more additional user profiles that describe similarities
between the user profile and each of the one or more additional user profiles, and each
score is based on the combined weighted values;
        determine a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles based in part on the score;
        select an additional user profile having a score that equals or exceeds at least a
threshold similarity to the user profile;
        generate an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile;
        select content for presentation to the user by the social networking system based at
least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile, and
        wherein select content for presentation to the user by the social networking system
based at least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile comprises:
                 identify one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
         satisfied
                 by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile,
                 rank the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
         amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements, and
                 select at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least
         in part on the ranking.
[0007]       In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, a computer
program product comprises a computer readable storage medium having instructions
encoded thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a
method according to any of the above mentioned aspects.
[0008]       In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, a system
comprises: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising
instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable when executing the
instructions to perform a method according to any of the above mentioned aspects.
                                                  5

                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]       FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system environment in which multiple social
networking systems operate, in accordance with an embodiment.
[0010]       FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a social networking system, in accordance with an
embodiment.
[0011]       FIG. 3 is a flow chart of a method for selecting content for a social networking
system user based on an augmented user profile, in accordance with an embodiment.
[0012]       The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One
skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative
embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without
departing from the principles described herein.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Overview
[0013]       A social networking system generates an augmented user profile for a user that
includes information associated with the user by additional social networking systems. For
example, the augmented user profile includes information from the user profile for the user
maintained by the social networking system and information from additional user profiles
associated with the user by additional social networking systems. Information in the
augmented user profile is used by the social networking system to select content for
presentation to the user, allowing the social networking system to account for information
about the user maintained by additional social networking systems to provide content better
tailored to the user.
[0014]       To generate the augmented user profile, the social networking system retrieves a
user profile associated with the user and retrieves additional user profiles maintained by
additional social networking systems. Characteristics of the user from the user profile are
compared to characteristics of the user from each of the additional user profiles to generate
similarities between the user profile and the additional user profiles. For example, a score
describing the similarity between a user profile and an additional user profile is generated
based on the characteristics in the user profile that match characteristics in the additional
user profile. The similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile may be
affected by the types of characteristics in a user profile matching those in an additional user
profile as well as whether characteristics in the user profile and in the additional user
profile fully or partially match. Additional user profiles with at least a threshold similarity
to the user profile are selected, and characteristics in the selected additional user profile are
combined with characteristics in the user profile to generate the augmented user profile.
                                                6

Additionally, information associated with the additional user profiles, such as content or
actions associated with an additional user profile by an additional social networking
system, may be included in the augmented user profile.
[0015]       Using information in the augmented user profile, the social networking system
selects content for presentation to the user. For example, characteristics of the user in the
additional user profile are compared to targeting criteria associated with advertisements to
identify advertisements eligible for presentation to the user. As another example, objects
maintained by the social networking system with which the user has a threshold likelihood
of interacting are identified based on characteristics of the user from the augmented user
profile and identified to the user.
[0016]       Embodiments according to the present disclosure are in particular disclosed in
the attached claims directed to a method, a storage medium and a system, wherein any
feature mentioned in one claim category, e.g. method, can be claimed in another claim
category, e.g. system, as well. The dependencies or references back in the attached claims
are chosen for formal reasons only. However any subject matter resulting from a deliberate
reference back to any previous claims (in particular multiple dependencies) can be claimed
as well, so that any combination of claims and the features thereof is disclosed and can be
claimed regardless of the dependencies chosen in the attached claims.
[0017]       In an embodiment according to the present disclosure, a method comprises:
              retrieving a first user profile data set maintained by a first social networking
system and associated with a user of the first social networking system, the user profile
data set including information describing one or more characteristics of the user of the first
social networking system;
              accessing one or more additional social networking systems by the first social
networking system;
              retrieving one or more additional user profile data sets from one or more
additional social networking systems, each user profile data set including characteristics of
a user of at least one of the additional social networking systems;
              determining a similarity between the first user profile data set and each of the
one or more additional user profile data sets, the similarity between the first user profile
data set and an additional user profile data set based at least in part on a comparison of
characteristics included in the first user profile data set with characteristics included in the
additional user profile data set;
              selecting an additional user profile data set having at least a threshold similarity
to the first user profile data set;
                                                   7

              generating an augmented user profile data set associated with the user by the
first social networking system including characteristics included in the first user profile
data set and characteristics included in the selected additional user profile data set(s);
              storing the augmented user profile data set associated with the user in the first
social networking system; and
              selecting content for presentation to the user by the first social networking
system based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile data set.
[0018]       Selecting content for presentation to the first user by the first social networking
system based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile data set
can comprise:
              identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
satisfied by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile data set;
ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid amounts
associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
              selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least
in part on the ranking.
[0019]       Determining the similarity between the first user profile data set and each of the
one or more additional user profile data sets can comprise:
              determining whether a direct characteristic included in the first user profile data
set matches a direct characteristic included in an additional user profile data set; and
              specifying a similarity between the first user profile data set and the additional
user profile data set equaling or exceeding the threshold value if the direct characteristic
included in the first user profile data set matches the direct characteristic included in the
additional user profile data set.
[0020]       A direct characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of: a connection
between the first user profile data set and the additional user profile data set, a link based
on an open authentication standard, an e-mail address, a telephone number, and any
combination thereof.
[0021]       Determining the similarity between the first user profile data set and each of the
one or more additional user profiles data sets can comprise:
              determining a similarity between the first user profile data set and an additional
user profile data set based at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in
the additional user profile data set matching at least a portion of one or more primary
characteristics included in the first user profile data set.
                                                  8

[0022]       A primary characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of: a proper
name, a username, a profile photograph, and any combination thereof.
[0023]       The similarity between the first user profile data set and the additional user
profile data set can further be based at least in part on one or more secondary
characteristics in the user profile data set matching at least a portion of one or more
secondary characteristics included in the user profile data set.
[0024]       A secondary characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of:
connections to one or more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any combination
thereof.
[0025]       Generating the augmented user profile data set associated with the user by the
first social networking system including characteristics included in the first user profile
data set and characteristics included in the selected additional user profile data set can
comprise:
              retrieving information associated with the selected additional user profile data
set and maintained by an additional social networking system maintaining the selected
additional user profile data set; and
              including information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile data set in the augmented user profile data set.
[0026]       The retrieved information associated with the selected additional user profile
data set can be selected from a group consisting of: actions associated with the selected
additional user profile data set and maintained by the additional social networking system
maintaining the selected additional user profile data set, information about the most recent
and/or most frequent accesses by the user, content associated with the selected additional
user profile data set and additional social networking system maintaining the selected
additional user profile data set, and any combination thereof.
[0027]       The information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile data set can comprise one or more subjects associated with
the retrieved information associated with the selected additional user profile data set.
[0028]       In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, the method can
comprise:
              using the augmented user profile data set for caching and/or error detection
and/or duplicate detection
[0029]       Selecting content for presentation to the first user based at least in part on the
augmented profile data set can comprise:
                                                 9

              selecting an object maintained by the first social networking system with which
the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on
characteristics in the augmented user profile data set; and
             identifying the selected object to the user.
[0030]      In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, the method can
comprise:
              storing the augmented profile data set associated with the first user in the first
social networking system.
[0031]      Selecting content for presentation to the user by the first social networking
system based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile data set
can comprise:
             identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
satisfied by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile data set;
             ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
              selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least
in part on the ranking.
[0032]      In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, which can be
claimed as well, a method comprises:
             retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and
associated with a user of a social networking system, the user profile including information
describing one or more characteristics of the user of the social networking system;
             retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional
social networking systems, each user profile including characteristics of a user of at least
one of the additional social networking system;
             determining a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles, the similarity between the user profile and an additional user
profile based at least in part on a comparison of characteristics included in the user profile
with characteristics included in the additional user profile;
              selecting an additional user profile having at least a threshold similarity to the
user profile;
             generating an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile; and
                                                  10

              selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking system
based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile.
[0033]      Selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking system
based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile can comprise:
              identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
satisfied by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile;
              ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
              selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least
in part on the ranking.
[0034]      Determining the similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles can comprise:
              determining whether a direct characteristic included in the user profile matches
a direct characteristic included in an additional user profile; and specifying a similarity
between the user profile and the additional user profile equaling or exceeding the threshold
value if the direct characteristic included in the user profile matches the direct
characteristic included in the additional user profile.
[0035]      A direct characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of: a connection
between the user profile and the additional user profile, an e-mail address, a telephone
number, and any combination thereof.
[0036]      Determining the similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles can comprise:
              determining a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile
based at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in the additional user
profile matching at least a portion of one or more primary characteristics included in the
user profile.
[0037]      A primary characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of: a proper
name, a username, a profile photograph, and any combination thereof.
[0038]      The similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile can
further be based at least in part on one or more secondary characteristics in the user profile
matching at least a portion of one or more secondary characteristics included in the user
profile.
[0039]      A secondary characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of:
connections to one or more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any combination
thereof.
                                                  11

[0040]      Generating the augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile can comprise:
             retrieving information associated with the selected additional user profile and
maintained by an additional social networking system maintaining the selected additional
user profile; and
             including information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile in the augmented user profile.
[0041]      The retrieved information associated with the selected additional user profile
can be selected from a group consisting of: actions associated with the selected additional
user profile and maintained by the additional social networking system maintaining the
selected additional user profile, content associated with the selected additional user profile
and additional social networking system maintaining the selected additional user profile,
and any combination thereof.
[0042]      The information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile can comprise one or more subjects associated with the
retrieved information associated with the selected additional user profile.
[0043]      Selecting content for presentation to the user based at least in part on the
augmented profile can comprise:
             selecting an object maintained by the social networking system with which the
user has at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics
in the augmented user profile; and
             identifying the selected object to the user.
[0044]      In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, the method further
can comprise:
             storing the augmented profile associated with the user in the social networking
system.
[0045]      In a further embodiment according to the present disclosure, which can be
claimed as well, a computer program product comprises a computer readable storage
medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the
processor to:
             retrieve a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated
with a user of a social networking system, the user profile including information describing
one or more characteristics of the user of the social networking system;
                                                12

             retrieve one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each user profile including characteristics of a user of at least one of
the additional social networking system;
             determine a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles, the similarity between the user profile and an additional user
profile based at least in part on a comparison of characteristics included in the user profile
with characteristics included in the additional user profile;
             select an additional user profile having at least a threshold similarity to the user
profile;
             generate an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile; and
             select content for presentation to the user by the social networking system
based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile.
[0046]       Selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking system
based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile can comprise:
             identify one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria satisfied
by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile;
             rank the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
             select at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least in
part on the ranking.
[0047]       Selecting content for presentation to the user based at least in part on the
augmented profile can comprise:
             select an object maintained by the social networking system with which the
user has at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics
in the augmented user profile; and
             identify the selected object to the user.
[0048]       Determining the similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles can comprise:
             determine whether a direct characteristic included in the user profile matches a
direct characteristic included in an additional user profile; and
             specify a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile
equaling or exceeding the threshold value if the direct characteristic included in the user
profile matches the direct characteristic included in the additional user profile.
                                                 13

[0049]      The direct characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of: a
connection between the user profile and the additional user profile, an e-mail address, a
telephone number, and any combination thereof.
[0050]      Determining the similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles can comprise:
              determine a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile
based at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in the additional user
profile matching at least a portion of one or more primary characteristics included in the
user profile.
[0051]      A primary characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of: a proper
name, a username, a profile photograph, and any combination thereof.
[0052]      The similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile can
further be based at least in part on one or more secondary characteristics in the user profile
matching at least a portion of one or more secondary characteristics included in the user
profile.
[0053]      A secondary characteristic can be selected from a group consisting of:
connections to one or more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any combination
thereof.
System Architecture
[0054]      FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system environment 100 including multiple
social networking systems 140. The system environment 100 shown by FIG. 1 comprises
one or more client devices 110, a network 120, one or more third-party systems 130, and
one or more social networking systems 140A, 140B, 140C (also referred to herein
individually and collectively using reference number 140). In alternative configurations,
different and/or additional components may be included in the system environment 100.
The embodiments described herein can be adapted to online systems that are not social
networking systems. The client devices 110 are one or more computing devices capable of
receiving user input as well as transmitting and/or receiving data via the network 120. In
one embodiment, a client device 110 is a conventional computer system, such as a desktop
or a laptop computer. Alternatively, a client device 110 may be a device having computer
functionality, such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile telephone, a Smartphone
or another suitable device. A client device 110 is configured to communicate via the
network 120. In one embodiment, a client device 110 executes an application allowing a
user of the client device 110 to interact with one or more social networking systems 140A,
140B, 140C. For example, a client device 110 executes a browser application to enable
                                                14

interaction between the client device 110 and a social networking system 140 via the
network 120. In another embodiment, a client device 110 interacts with a social
networking system 140 through an application programming interface (API) running on a
native operating system of the client device 110, such as IOS@ or ANDROIDTM.
[0055]      The client devices 110 are configured to communicate via the network 120,
which may comprise any combination of local area and/or wide area networks, using both
wired and/or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment, the network 120 uses
standard communications technologies and/or protocols. For example, the network 120
includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet, 802.11, worldwide
interoperability for microwave access (WiMAX), 3G, 4G, code division multiple access
(CDMA), digital subscriber line (DSL), etc. Examples of networking protocols used for
communicating via the network 120 include multiprotocol label switching (MPLS),
transmission control protocol/Internet protocol (TCP/IP), hypertext transport protocol
(HTTP), simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP), and file transfer protocol (FTP). Data
exchanged over the network 120 may be represented using any suitable format, such as
hypertext markup language (HTML) or extensible markup language (XML). In some
embodiments, all or some of the communication links of the network 120 may be
encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.
[0056]      One or more third party systems 130 may be coupled to the network 120 for
communicating with one or more social networking systems 140A, 140B, 140C, which are
further described below in conjunction with FIG. 2. In one embodiment, a third party
system 130 is an application provider communicating information describing applications
for execution by a client device 110 or communicating data to client devices 110 for use by
an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments, a third party system
 130 provides content or other information for presentation via a client device 110. A third
party system 130 may also communicate information to a social networking system 140,
such as advertisements, content, or information about an application provided by the third
party system 130.
[0057]      One or more social networking systems 140A, 140B, 140C are coupled to the
network 120 and communicate with the client device 110. While FIG. 1 shows three social
networking systems 140A, 140B, 140C, in other embodiments, any number of social
networking systems 140 may be included in the system environment 100. As further
described below in conjunction with FIG. 2, a social networking system 140 maintains a
user profile for each of its users and allows users to establish connections with other users.
Users of a social networking system 140 provide content to the social networking system
                                               15

 140, which presents the provided content to other users based on connections between
users and/or information in user profiles. Using interactions between a user and content
presented to the user, connections between the user and other users, as well as information
in a user profile associated with the user, a social networking system 140 selects content for
presentation to the user. A user of a social networking system 140A may also have user
profiles maintained by additional social networking systems 140B, 140C, with user profiles
maintained by different social networking systems 140A, 140B, 140C including different
characteristics.
[0058]       FIG. 2 is a block diagram of an architecture of the social networking system
 140. The social networking system 140 shown in FIG. 2 includes a user profile store 205,
a content store 210, an action logger 215, an action log 220, an edge store 225, an ad
request store 230, a profile association module 235, and a web server 240. In other
embodiments, the social networking system 140 may include additional, fewer, or
different components for various applications. Conventional components such as
network interfaces, security functions, load balancers, failover servers, management and
network operations consoles, and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of
the system architecture.
[0059]       Each user of the social networking system 140 is associated with a user profile,
which is stored in the user profile store 205. A user profile includes declarative
information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include
profile information inferred by the social networking system 140. In one embodiment, a
user profile includes multiple data fields, each describing one or more attributes of the
corresponding social networking system user. Examples of information stored in a user
profile include biographic, demographic, and other types of descriptive information, such
as work experience, educational history, gender, hobbies or preferences, location and the
like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user, for example,
images or videos. In certain embodiments, images of users may be tagged with
information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. A user
profile in the user profile store 205 may also maintain references to actions by the
corresponding user performed on content items in the content store 210 and stored in the
action log 220.
[0060]       A user profile may include one or more direct characteristics that uniquely
identify a user associated with the user profile. Examples of direct characteristics include
an e-mail address or a phone number. Additionally, a connection between a user profile
and a user profile maintained by an additional social networking system 140 may be stored
                                               16

in the user profile and is a direct characteristic. For example, a social networking system
 140A may leverage connections between users maintained by an additional social
networking system 140B by sharing login credentials between the social networking
system 140A and the additional social networking system 140B. This sharing of login
credentials establishes a connection between a user profile associated with the user
maintained by the social networking system 140A and a user profile associated with the
user by the additional social networking system 140B. A connection between a user profile
maintained by a social networking system 140A and an additional user profile maintained
by an additional social networking system 140B indicates that the user profile and the
additional user profile are associated with the same user.
[0061]      While user profiles in the user profile store 205 are frequently associated with
individuals, allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking
system 140, user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or
organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking
system 140 for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system
users. The entity may post information about itself, about its products or provide other
information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with
the entity's user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the
brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from
the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information
about the entity itself, providing users with background or informational data about the
entity.
[0062]       The content store 210 stores objects that each represent various types of content.
Examples of content represented by an object include a page post, a status update, a
photograph, a video, a link, a shared content item, a gaming application achievement, a
check-in event at a local business, a brand page, or any other type of content. Social
networking system users may create objects stored by the content store 210, such as status
updates, photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking
system, events, groups or applications. In some embodiments, objects are received from
third-party applications or third-party applications separate from the social networking
system 140. In one embodiment, objects in the content store 210 represent single pieces of
content, or content "items." Hence, social networking system users are encouraged to
communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media
to the social networking system 140 through various communication channels. This
                                                 17

increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency
with which users interact within the social networking system 140.
[0063]       The action logger 215 receives communications about user actions internal to
and/or external to the social networking system 140, populating the action log 220 with
information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to
another user, sending a message to another user, uploading an image, reading a message
from another user, viewing content associated with another user, and attending an event
posted by another user. In addition, a number of actions may involve an object and one or
more particular users, so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in
the action log 220.
[0064]       The action log 220 may be used by the social networking system 140 to track
user actions on the social networking system 140, as well as actions on third party systems
 130 that communicate information to the social networking system 140. Users may
interact with various objects on the social networking system 140, and information
describing these interactions is stored in the action log 220. Examples of interactions with
objects include: commenting on posts, sharing links, checking-in to physical locations via
a mobile device, accessing content items, and any other suitable interactions. Additional
examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system 140 that are included
in the action log 220 include: commenting on a photo album, communicating with a user,
establishing a connection with an object, joining an event, joining a group, creating an
event, authorizing an application, using an application, expressing a preference for an
object ("liking" the object), and engaging in a transaction. Additionally, the action log 220
may record a user's interactions with advertisements on the social networking system 140
as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system 140. In some
embodiments, data from the action log 220 is used to infer interests or preferences of a
user, augmenting the interests included in the user's user profile and allowing a more
complete understanding of user preferences.
[0065]       The action log 220 may also store user actions taken on a third party system
 130, such as an external website, and communicated to the social networking system 140.
For example, an e-commerce website may recognize a user of a social networking system
 140 through a social plug-in enabling the e-commerce website to identify the user of the
social networking system 140. Because users of the social networking system 140 are
uniquely identifiable, e-commerce websites, such as in the preceding example, may
communicate information about a user's actions outside of the social networking system
 140 to the social networking system 140 for association with the user. Hence, the action
                                               18

log 220 may record information about actions users perform on a third party system 130,
including webpage viewing histories, advertisements that were engaged, purchases made,
and other patterns from shopping and buying.
[0066]       In one embodiment, the edge store 225 stores information describing
connections between users and other objects on the social networking system 140 as edges.
Some edges may be defined by users, allowing users to specify their relationships with
other users. For example, users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users'
real-life relationships, such as friends, co-workers, partners, and so forth. Other edges are
generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system 140, such as
expressing interest in a page on the social networking system 140, sharing a link with other
users of the social networking system 140, and commenting on posts made by other users
of the social networking system 140.
[0067]       In one embodiment, an edge may include various features each representing
characteristics of interactions between users, interactions between users and objects, or
interactions between objects. For example, features included in an edge describe rate of
interaction between two users, how recently two users have interacted with each other, the
rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object, or the number and
types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent
information describing a particular object or user. For example, a feature may represent the
level of interest that a user has in a particular topic, the rate at which the user logs into the
social networking system 140, or information describing demographic information about a
user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user, a target object or user,
and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values
describing the source object or user, the target object or user, or interactions between the
source object or user and target object or user; hence, an edge may be represented as one or
more feature expressions.
[0068]       The edge store 225 also stores information about edges, such as affinity scores
for objects, interests, and other users. Affinity scores, or "affinities," may be computed by
the social networking system 140 over time to approximate a user's interest in an object or
another user in the social networking system 140 based on the actions performed by the
user. A user's affinity may be computed by the social networking system 140 over time to
approximate a user's interest for an object, interest, or other user in the social networking
system 140 based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further
described in U.S. Patent Application No. 12/978,265, filed on December 23, 2010, U.S.
Patent Application No. 13/690,254, filed on November 30, 2012, U.S. Patent Application
                                                 19

 No. 13/689,969, filed on November 30, 2012, and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/690,088,
 filed on November 30, 2012, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
 entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a
 single edge in the edge store 225, in one embodiment. Alternatively, each interaction
between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments,
 connections between users may be stored in the user profile store 205, or the user profile
 store 205 may access the edge store 225 to determine connections between users.
 [0069]      One or more advertisement requests ("ad requests") are included in the ad
request store 230. An advertisement request includes advertisement content and a bid
 amount. The advertisement content is text, image, audio, video, or any other suitable data
presented to a user. In various embodiments, the advertisement content also includes a
landing page specifying a network address to which a user is directed when the
 advertisement is accessed. The bid amount is associated with an advertisement by an
 advertiser and is used to determine an expected value, such as monetary compensation,
provided by an advertiser to the social networking system 140 if the advertisement is
presented to a user, if the advertisement receives a user interaction, or based on any other
 suitable condition. For example, the bid amount specifies a monetary amount that the
 social networking system 140 receives from the advertiser if the advertisement is displayed
 and the expected value is determined by multiplying the bid amount by a probability of the
 advertisement being accessed.
 [0070]      Additionally, an advertisement request may include one or more targeting
 criteria specified by the advertiser. Targeting criteria included in an advertisement request
 specify one or more characteristics of users eligible to be presented with advertisement
 content in the advertisement request. For example, targeting criteria are used to identify
 users having user profile information, edges or actions satisfying at least one of the
 targeting criteria. Hence, targeting criteria allow an advertiser to identify users having
 specific characteristics, simplifying subsequent distribution of content to different users.
 [0071]      In one embodiment, targeting criteria may specify actions or types of
 connections between a user and another user or object of the social networking system 140.
 Targeting criteria may also specify interactions between a user and objects performed
 external to the social networking system 140, such as on a third party system 130. For
 example, targeting criteria identifies users that have taken a particular action, such as
 sending a message to another user, using an application, joining a group, leaving a group,
joining an event, generating an event description, purchasing or reviewing a product or
 service using an online marketplace, requesting information from a third-party system 130,
                                                20

or any other suitable action. Including actions in targeting criteria allows advertisers to
further refine users eligible to be presented with content from an advertisement request. As
another example, targeting criteria identifies users having a connection to another user or
object or having a particular type of connection to another user or object.
[0072]      The profile association module 235 retrieves a user profile from the user profile
store 205 and accesses one or more additional social networking systems 140B, 140C to
identify additional user profiles maintained by the additional social networking systems
 140B, 140C associated with the user profile from the user profile store 205. For example,
the profile association module 235 retrieves a user profile associated with a user from the
user profile store 205, and accesses additional user profiles maintained by additional social
networking systems 140B, 140C that are associated with users of at least one of the
additional social networking systems 140B, 140C. The profile association module 235
compares characteristics in the user profile from the user profile store 205 to
characteristics in additional user profiles maintained by the additional social networking
systems 140B, 140C. Based on characteristics in the user profile from the user profile
store 205 matching at least a portion of characteristics in an additional user profile
maintained by an additional social networking system 140B, 140C, the profile association
module 235 determines a similarity between the user profile from the user profile store 205
and each of the additional user profiles, as further described below in conjunction with
FIG. 3.
[0073]       If the user profile from the user profile store 205 has at least a threshold
similarity with an additional user profile maintained by an additional social networking
system 140B, 140C, an augmented user profile including characteristics from the additional
user profile from the additional social networking system 140B, 140C and characteristics
from the user profile from the user profile store 205 is generated and stored in the user
profile store 205. Hence, an augmented user profile includes characteristics associated
with a user by a social networking system 140A, as well as characteristics associated with
the user by one or more additional social networking systems 140B, 140C. An augmented
user profile may be associated with a corresponding user profile maintained by the social
networking system 140. As further described below in conjunction with FIG. 3, content
may be selected for presentation to a user based on characteristics associated with the user
by an augmented user profile for the user. This allows content selection to account for
characteristics associated with the user by additional social networking systems 140 to
increase the likelihood of the user having an interest in content selected by a social
networking system 140.
                                                21

[0074]       The web server 240 links the social networking system 140 via the network 120
to the one or more client devices 110, as well as to the one or more third party systems 130.
The web server 240 serves web pages, as well as other content, such as JAVA@, FLASH@,
XML and so forth. The web server 240 may receive and route messages between the social
networking system 140 and the client device 110, for example, instant messages, queued
messages (e.g., email), text messages, short message service (SMS) messages, or messages
sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web
server 240 to upload information (e.g., images or videos) that are stored in the content store
210. Additionally, the web server 240 may provide application programming interface
(API) functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems, such as
IOS@, ANDROIDTM', WEBOS or BlackberryOS.
Associating User Profiles Maintained by Various Social Networking Systems
[0075]       FIG. 3 is a flow chart of one embodiment of a method 300 for selecting content
for a social networking system user based on an augmented user profile including
characteristics of a user included in user profiles maintained by different social networking
systems 140A, 140B, 140C. A social networking system 140A retrieves 305 a user profile
including characteristics of a user of the social networking system 140A. For example, the
user requests that the social networking system 140A create an augmented user profile
associated with the user. Alternatively, the social networking system 140A may select a
user and retrieve 305 the user profile associated with the user.
[0076]       The social networking system 140A accesses one or more additional social
networking systems 140B, 140C and retrieves 310 additional user profiles maintained by
the additional social networking systems 140B, 140C that describe characteristics of users
of at least one of the additional social networking systems 140B, 140C. In one
embodiment, characteristics included in the user profile are compared to characteristics
included in each of the additional user profiles to determine 315 similarities between the
user profile and each of the additional user profiles. For example, a similarity between the
user profile and an additional user profile provides a measure of the number or percentage
of characteristics included in the additional user profile that match at least a portion of a
characteristic included in the user profile. In one embodiment, the characteristics from the
user profile and from the additional user profile compared to each other to determine 315 a
similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile are subject to one or more
privacy settings maintained by the corresponding social networking system 140, limiting
the compared characteristics to those indicated by a privacy setting as capable of being
accessed.
                                               22

[0077]      The determined similarity between the user profile and an additional user
profile may be based at least in part on a degree with which characteristics in the user
profile match characteristics in the additional user profile. For example, a value associated
with a characteristic in the user profile matching characteristics in the additional user
profile is modified by a weight that is based on whether the characteristic in the user profile
partially or fully matches the characteristic in the additional user profile. Hence, a
characteristic in the user profile partially matching a characteristic in the additional user
profile may contribute less to the similarity between the user profile and the additional user
profile than a characteristic in the user profile fully matching a characteristic in the
additional user profile.
[0078]       One or more additional user profiles having at least a threshold similarity to the
user profile are selected 320. For example, when determining 315 a similarity between the
user profile and an additional user profile, direct characteristics in the user profile are
identified and compared to direct characteristics in the additional user profile. As
described above in conjunction with FIG. 2, a direct characteristic includes information
uniquely identifying a user. Examples of direct characteristics include an e-mail address, a
phone number, and a connection between the user profile and the additional user profile.
If the user profile and the additional user profile have a matching direct characteristic, the
similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile is specified to be a value
that equals or exceeds the threshold similarity. As an example, if an open authentication
standard is used by a social networking system 140A including the user profile and an
additional social networking system 140B including the additional user profile, a user's
login credentials are shared by the social networking system 140A and the additional
social networking system 140B, so the user profile and the additional user profile are
linked to each other. This linking indicates the user profile and the additional user profile
are associated with the same user, so the similarity between the user profile and the
additional user profile is specified to be at least the threshold value.
[0079]       However, if at least one direct characteristic included in the user profile does
not match a direct characteristic included in the additional user profile, additional types of
characteristics in the user profile and in the additional user profile are compared to
determine 315 a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. In one
embodiment, primary characteristics in the additional user profile matching at least a
portion of a primary characteristic in the user profile are identified. While a primary
characteristic does not uniquely identify a user, it provides information closely associated
with a user. Examples of primary characteristics include a proper name, a username, and a
                                                23

profile photograph. Additionally, secondary characteristics in the additional user profile
matching at least a portion of a primary characteristic in the user profile are identified.
Secondary characteristics provide descriptive information about a user, but are less specific
to individual users than primary characteristics. Examples of secondary characteristics
include connections between the user profile and other user profiles and media content
(e.g., photographs, video data, etc.) associated with the user profile.
[0080]       Primary characteristics or secondary characteristics included in the user profile
at least partially matching primary characteristics or secondary characteristics are
identified and used to determine a similarity between the user profile and the additional
user profile. For example, a value is associated with matching primary characteristics
between the user profile and the additional user profile and an additional, lower, value is
associated with matching secondary characteristics between the user profile and the
additional user profile and the values combined to generate a score representing the
similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. Thus, whether a
matching characteristic is a primary or a secondary characteristic affects the matching
characteristic's contribution to the similarity between the user profile and the additional
user profile. In one embodiment, the values are modified by a weight that is proportional
to the amount of matching; hence, the value of partially matching primary or secondary
characteristics is attenuated by a weight when determining the similarity between the user
profile and the additional user profile. For example, a weight of 1.0 is associated with
fully matching primary characteristics, a weight of 0.5 is associated with partially
matching primary characteristic, a weight of 0.6 is associated with matching secondary
characteristics, and a weight of 0.25 is associated with partially matching secondary
characteristics.
[0081]       An additional user profile having at least a threshold similarity to the user
profile is selected 320 and an augmented user profile including characteristics from the
user profile and the selected user profile is generated 325 by the social networking system
 140A including the user profile. The augmented user profile is stored by the social
networking system 140A and associated with the user profile. In some embodiments,
information associated with the selected additional user profile and maintained by the
additional social networking system 140B is identified and associated with the augmented
user profile. For example, actions associated with the additional user profile and stored by
the additional social networking system 140B are identified and associated with the
augmented user profile. In one embodiment, actions associated with the additional user
profile are analyzed, and information describing the actions associated with the additional
                                               24

user profile (e.g., most frequent actions associated with the additional user profile, actions
associated with the additional user profile within a threshold time of a current time, etc.) is
associated with the augmented user profile.
[0082]       Additionally, content associated with the additional user profile and stored by
the additional social networking system 140 may be identified, and information describing
the content included in the augmented user profile. For example, posts, comments, or other
content associated with the additional user profile and maintained by the additional social
networking system 140B are analyzed, and subject matter associated with the content is
stored in the augmented user profile store generated by the social networking system 140A.
For example, text included in various content items associated with the additional user
profile is analyzed to determine the subject of the content items or metadata (e.g., tags,
location information) associated with content items are analyzed to determine a subject or a
location associated with the content. The subject matter and/or location determined from
the analysis may be included in the augmented user profile. Similarly, images associated
with the additional user profile may be analyzed to identify the subject associated with the
image for inclusion in the augmented user profile. In some embodiments, one or more
interests are inferred from the analysis of content associated with the additional user profile
with the interests stored in the augmented user profile to provide additional information
about the user.
[0083]       In some embodiments, if conflicting characteristics are included in the user
profile and the selected additional user profile, both characteristics from the user profile
and from the selected additional user profile are included in the augmented user profile.
Alternatively, if a characteristic conflicts between the user profile and the selected
additional user profile, the characteristic maintained by the social networking system 140
most recently accessed by the user is included in the augmented user profile; alternatively,
the characteristic maintained by the social networking system 140 most frequently accessed
by the user is included in the augmented user profile. In another embodiment, information
associated with the user profile and the additional user profile is compared to
characteristics stored by the user profile and/or the additional user profile and a
characteristic included in a user profile consistent with information associated with the user
profile is included in the augmented user profile. For example, if the user profile indicates
that the user resides in San Francisco, CA and the additional user profile indicates that the
user resides in Miami, FL, if information associated with the user profile and the additional
user profile includes check-in actions proximate to San Francisco, CA, the residence from
the user profile is included in the augmented user profile.
                                                25

[0084]       The social networking system 140A selects 325 one or more content items for
presentation to the user based at least in part on characteristics from the augmented user
profile associated with the user. For example, targeting criteria associated with ad requests
are compared to information in the augmented user profile to identify ad requests having
one or more targeting criteria satisfied by the user. The identified ad requests may then be
ranked based on their bid amounts with one or more advertisements selected based on the
ranking of ad requests. Because the augmented user profile includes characteristics of the
user from one or more additional social networking systems 140, additional ad requests
may be identified than those identified by comparing the ad requests to user characteristics
included in the user profile. This increases the number of advertisements eligible for
presentation to the user. Additionally characteristics in the augmented user profile may be
used to rank content items or to recommend actions for presentation to a user. In one
embodiment, the social networking system 140 determines the user's likelihood of
interacting with an object maintained by the social networking system 140 by determining
the user's affinity for the object based on characteristics or other information in the
augmented user profile. For example, interests included in the augmented user profile
based on information associated with the additional user profile are compared to objects
maintained by the social networking system 140 and used to identify objects with which
the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interacting (i.e., objects with which the user
has a threshold affinity based on information in the augmented user profile). One or more
of the identified objects are presented to the user. In one embodiment, a recommendation
to interact with an identified object is presented to the user along with the identified object.
Further Embodiments
[0085]       One embodiment provides a method comprising:
        retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated
with a user of a social networking system, the user profile including information describing
one or more characteristics of the user of the social networking system;
        retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each user profile including characteristics of a user of at least one of
the additional social networking system;
        determining a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles, the similarity between the user profile and an additional user
profile based at least in part on a comparison of characteristics included in the user profile
with characteristics included in the additional user profile;
                                               26

         selecting an additional user profile having at least a threshold similarity to the user
profile;
         generating an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile; and
         selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking system based
at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile.
[0086]       In one arrangement, selecting content for presentation to the user by the social
networking system based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user
profile comprises:
         identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria satisfied
by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile;
         ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
         selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least in
part on the ranking.
[0087]       In one arrangement, determining the similarity between the user profile and
each of the one or more additional user profiles comprises:
         determining whether a direct characteristic included in the user profile matches a
direct characteristic included in an additional user profile; and
         specifying a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile
equaling or exceeding the threshold value if the direct characteristic included in the user
profile matches the direct characteristic included in the additional user profile.
[0088]       In one arrangement, a direct characteristic is selected from a group consisting
of: a connection between the user profile and the additional user profile, an e-mail address,
a telephone number, and any combination thereof.
[0089]       In one arrangement, determining the similarity between the user profile and
each of the one or more additional user profiles comprises:
         determining a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile
based at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in the additional user
profile matching at least a portion of one or more primary characteristics included in the
user profile.
[0090]       In one arrangement, a primary characteristic is selected from a group consisting
of: a proper name, a username, a profile photograph, and any combination thereof.
                                                 27

[0091]        In one arrangement, the similarity between the user profile and the additional
user profile is further based at least in part on one or more secondary characteristics in the
user profile matching at least a portion of one or more secondary characteristics included in
the user profile.
[0092]        In one arrangement, a secondary characteristic is selected from a group
consisting of: connections to one or more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any
combination thereof.
[0093]        In one arrangement, generating the augmented user profile associated with the
user by the social networking system including characteristics included in the user profile
and characteristics included in the selected additional user profile comprises:
         retrieving information associated with the selected additional user profile and
maintained by an additional social networking system maintaining the selected additional
user profile; and
         including information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile in the augmented user profile.
[0094]        In one arrangement, the retrieved information associated with the selected
additional user profile is selected from a group consisting of: actions associated with the
selected additional user profile and maintained by the additional social networking system
maintaining the selected additional user profile, content associated with the selected
additional user profile and additional social networking system maintaining the selected
additional user profile, and any combination thereof.
[0095]        In one arrangement, the information describing the retrieved information
associated with the selected additional user profile comprises one or more subjects
associated with the retrieved information associated with the selected additional user
profile.
[0096]        In one arrangement, selecting content for presentation to the user based at least
in part on the augmented profile comprises:
         selecting an object maintained by the social networking system with which the user
has at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics in
the augmented user profile; and
         identifying the selected object to the user.
[0097]        In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         storing the augmented profile associated with the user in the social networking
system.
                                                28

[0098]        Another embodiment provides a computer program product comprising a
computer readable storage medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when
executed by a processor, cause the processor to:
         retrieve a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated with
a user of a social networking system, the user profile including information describing one
or more characteristics of the user of the social networking system;
         retrieve one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each user profile including characteristics of a user of at least one of
the additional social networking system;
         determine a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles, the similarity between the user profile and an additional user
profile based at least in part on a comparison of characteristics included in the user profile
with characteristics included in the additional user profile;
         select an additional user profile having at least a threshold similarity to the user
profile;
         generate an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile; and
         select content for presentation to the user by the social networking system based at
least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile.
[0099]        In one arrangement, select content for presentation to the user by the social
networking system based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user
profile comprises:
         identify one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria satisfied by at
least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile;
         rank the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid amounts
associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
         select at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part
on the ranking.
[00100]       In one arrangement, select content for presentation to the user based at least in
part on the augmented profile comprises:
         select an object maintained by the social networking system with which the user has
at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics in the
augmented user profile; and
         identify the selected object to the user.
                                                 29

[00101]       In one arrangement, determining the similarity between the user profile and
each of the one or more additional user profiles comprises:
         determine whether a direct characteristic included in the user profile matches a
direct characteristic included in an additional user profile; and
         specify a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile equaling
or exceeding the threshold value if the direct characteristic included in the user profile
matches the direct characteristic included in the additional user profile.
[00102]       In one arrangement, the direct characteristic is selected from a group consisting
of: a connection between the user profile and the additional user profile, an e-mail address,
a telephone number, and any combination thereof.
[00103]       In one arrangement, determining the similarity between the user profile and
each of the one or more additional user profiles comprises:
         determine a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile based
at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in the additional user profile
matching at least a portion of one or more primary characteristics included in the user
profile.
[00104]       In one arrangement, a primary characteristic is selected from a group consisting
of: a proper name, a username, a profile photograph, and any combination thereof.
[00105]       In one arrangement, the similarity between the user profile and the additional
user profile is further based at least in part on one or more secondary characteristics in the
user profile matching at least a portion of one or more secondary characteristics included in
the user profile.
[00106]       In one arrangement, a secondary characteristic is selected from a group
consisting of: connections to one or more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any
combination thereof.
[00107]       A further embodiment provides a method comprising:
         retrieving a first user profile data set maintained by a first social networking system
and associated with a user of the first social networking system, the user profile data set
including information describing one or more characteristics of the user of the first social
networking system;
         accessing one or more additional social networking systems by the first social
networking system;
         retrieving one or more additional user profile data sets from one or more additional
social networking systems, each user profile data set including characteristics of a user of at
least one of the additional social networking systems;
                                                  30

         determining a similarity between the first user profile data set and each of the one or
more additional user profile data sets, the similarity between the first user profile data set
and an additional user profile data set based at least in part on a comparison of
characteristics included in the first user profile data set with characteristics included in the
additional user profile data set;
         selecting an additional user profile data set having at least a threshold similarity to
the first user profile data set;
         generating an augmented user profile data set associated with the user by the first
social networking system including characteristics included in the first user profile data set
and characteristics included in the selected additional user profile data set(s);
         storing the augmented user profile data set associated with the user in the first social
networking system; and
         selecting content for presentation to the user by the first social networking system
based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented user profile data set.
[00108]       In one arrangement, determining the similarity between the first user profile
data set and each of the one or more additional user profile data sets comprises:
         determining whether a direct characteristic included in the first user profile data set
matches a direct characteristic included in an additional user profile data set; and
         specifying a similarity between the first user profile data set and the additional user
profile data set equaling or exceeding the threshold value if the direct characteristic
included in the first user profile data set matches the direct characteristic included in the
additional user profile data set.
[00109]       In one arrangement, a direct characteristic is selected from a group consisting
of: a connection between the first user profile data set and the additional user profile data
set, a link based on an open authentication standard, an e-mail address, a telephone
number, and any combination thereof.
[00110]      In one arrangement, determining the similarity between the first user profile
data set and each of the one or more additional user profile data sets comprises:
         determining a similarity between the first user profile data set and an additional user
profile data set based at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in the
additional user profile data set matching at least a portion of one or more primary
characteristics included in the first user profile data set.
[00111]      In one arrangement, a primary characteristic is selected from a group consisting
of: a proper name, a username, a profile photograph, and any combination thereof.
                                                31

[00112]       In one arrangement, the similarity between the first user profile data set and the
additional user profile data set is further based at least in part on one or more secondary
characteristics in the user profile data set matching at least a portion of one or more
secondary characteristics included in the user profile data set.
[00113]       In one arrangement, a secondary characteristic is selected from a group
consisting of: connections to one or more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any
combination thereof.
[00114]       In one arrangement, generating the augmented user profile data set associated
with the user by the first social networking system including characteristics included in the
first user profile data set and characteristics included in the selected additional user profile
data set comprises:
         retrieving information associated with the selected additional user profile data set
and maintained by an additional social networking system maintaining the selected
additional user profile data set; and
         including information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile data set in the augmented user profile data set.
[00115]       In one arrangement, the retrieved information associated with the selected
additional user profile data set is selected from a group consisting of: actions associated
with the selected additional user profile data set and maintained by the additional social
networking system maintaining the selected additional user profile data set, information
about the most recent and/or most frequent accesses by the user, content associated with
the selected additional user profile data set and additional social networking system
maintaining the selected additional user profile data set, and any combination thereof.
[00116]       In one arrangement, the information describing the retrieved information
associated with the selected additional user profile data set comprises one or more subjects
associated with the retrieved information associated with the selected additional user
profile data set.
[00117]       In one arrangement, the method comprises:
         using the augmented user profile data set for caching and/or error detection and/or
duplicate detection
[00118]       In one arrangement, selecting content for presentation to the first user based at
least in part on the augmented profile data set comprises:
         selecting an object maintained by the first social networking system with which the
user has at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics
in the augmented user profile data set; and
                                                 32

         identifying the selected object to the user.
[00119]      In one arrangement, selecting content for presentation to the user by the first
social networking system based at least in part characteristics included in the augmented
user profile data set comprises:
         identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria satisfied
by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile data set;
         ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements; and
         selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least in
part on the ranking.
[00120]      A further embodiment provides a computer program product comprising a
computer readable storage medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when
executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method according to any one of
the methods described above.
[00121]      A further embodiment provides a system comprising: one or more processors;
and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to perform a method
according to any one of the methods described above.
Summary
[00122]      The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the
purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to
the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many
modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.
[00123]      Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of
algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic
descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing
arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These
operations, while described functionally, computationally, or logically, are understood to
be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the
like. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of
operations as modules, without loss of generality. The described operations and their
associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any
combinations thereof.
[00124]      Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed or
implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in combination
                                                 33

with other devices. In one embodiment, a software module is implemented with a
computer program product comprising a computer-readable medium containing computer
program code, which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of
the steps, operations, or processes described.
[00125]      Some embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the
operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes,
and/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively activated or
reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program
may be stored in a non-transitory, tangible computer readable storage medium, or any type
of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, which may be coupled to a computer
system bus. Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the specification may
include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs
for increased computing capability.
[00126]      Some embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a
computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting
from a computing process, where the information is stored on a non-transitory, tangible
computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer
program product or other data combination described herein.
[00127]      In the context of this specification, the word "comprising" and its associated
grammatical constructions mean "including principally but not necessarily solely" or
"having" or "including", and not "consisting only of'. Variations of the word
 comprising", such as "comprise" and "comprises" have correspondingly varied meanings.
[00128]     Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally selected for
readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to delineate or
circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the
embodiments be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by any claims that issue
on an application based hereon. Accordingly, the disclosure of the embodiments is
intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the embodiments, which is set
forth in the following claims.
                                                 34

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 I.     A method comprising:
        retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated
with a user of the social networking system, the user profile including a plurality of
characteristics of the user of the social networking system, the plurality of characteristics
including a first primary characteristic and a first secondary characteristic including a
media content item that comprises a video or a photograph;
        retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each additional user profile including respective characteristics of a
user of at least one of the additional social networking systems, the characteristics
including one or more additional primary characteristics and one or more additional
secondary characteristics that include one or more media content items that comprise
videos or photographs;
        wherein retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and
retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems comprises sharing login credentials of the user between the social
networking system and the one or more additional social networking systems;
        wherein access to the primary and secondary characteristics of the social
networking system and the additional social networking systems is limited by user defined
privacy settings;
        comparing the first primary characteristic and the first secondary characteristic with
the one or more additional primary characteristics and the one or more additional secondary
characteristics of each additional user profile;
        based on the comparison, determining values that describe a degree of match
between each of the compared characteristics;
        weighting the values, the weight of each respective value based in part on whether
the value describes a degree of match between primary characteristics or secondary
characteristics, wherein a weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics is larger than a weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
        combining the weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics and the weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
                                               35

         generating scores for the one or more additional user profiles that describe
similarities between the user profile and each of the one or more additional user profiles,
and each score is based on the combined weighted values;
         determining a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles based in part on the score;
         selecting an additional user profile having a score that equals or exceeds at least a
threshold similarity to the user profile;
         generating an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile; and
         selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking system based
at least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile, and
         wherein selecting content for presentation to the user by the social networking
system based at least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile
comprises:
                 identifying one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
         satisfied by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile,
                 ranking the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on
         bid amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements, and
                  selecting at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at
         least in part on the ranking.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein determining the similarity between the user profile
and each of the one or more additional user profiles comprises:
         determining whether a direct characteristic included in the user profile matches a
direct characteristic included in an additional user profile; and
         specifying a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile
equaling or exceeding the threshold similarity if the direct characteristic included in the
user profile matches the direct characteristic included in the additional user profile.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the direct characteristics is
selected from a group consisting of: a connection between the user profile and the
additional user profile, an e-mail address, a telephone number, and any combination
thereof.
                                                  36

4.      The method of any one of claims I to 3, wherein at least one of the primary
characteristics is selected from a group consisting of: a proper name, a username, a profile
photograph, and any combination thereof.
5.      The method of any one of claims I to 3, wherein at least one of the secondary
characteristics is selected from a group consisting of: connections to one or more user
profiles, photographs, video data, and any combination thereof.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein generating the augmented user
profile associated with the user by the social networking system including characteristics
included in the user profile and characteristics included in the selected additional user
profile comprises:
        retrieving information associated with the selected additional user profile and
maintained by an additional social networking system maintaining the selected additional
user profile; and
        including information describing the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile in the augmented user profile.
7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the retrieved information associated with the
selected additional user profile is selected from a group consisting of: actions associated
with the selected additional user profile and maintained by the additional social networking
system maintaining the selected additional user profile, content associated with the selected
additional user profile and additional social networking system maintaining the selected
additional user profile, and any combination thereof.
8.      The method of claim 6, wherein the information describing the retrieved
information associated with the selected additional user profile comprises one or more
subjects associated with the retrieved information associated with the selected additional
user profile.
9.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein selecting content for presentation
to the user based at least in part on the augmented profile further comprises:
        selecting an object maintained by the social networking system with which the user
has at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics in
the augmented user profile; and
                                                37

        identifying the selected object to the user.
 10.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, further comprising:
        storing the augmented profile associated with the user in the social networking
system.
 11.    A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable
storage medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by a processor,
cause the processor to:
        retrieve a user profile maintained by a social networking system and associated with
a user of the social networking system, the user profile including a plurality of
characteristics of the user of the social networking system, the plurality of characteristics
including a first primary characteristic and a first secondary characteristic including a
media content item that comprises a video or a photograph;
        retrieve one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems, each additional user profile including respective characteristics of a
user of at least one of the additional social networking systems, the characteristics
including one or more additional primary characteristics and one or more additional
secondary characteristics that include one or more media content items that comprise
videos or photographs;
        wherein retrieving a user profile maintained by a social networking system and
retrieving one or more additional user profiles from one or more additional social
networking systems comprises sharing login credentials of the user between the social
networking system and the one or more additional social networking systems;
        wherein access to the primary and secondary characteristics of the social
networking system and the additional social networking systems is limited by user defined
privacy settings;
        compare the first primary characteristic and the first secondary characteristic with
the one or more additional primary characteristics and the one or more additional secondary
characteristics of each additional user profile;
        based on the comparison, determine values that describe a degree of match between
each of the compared characteristics;
        weight the values, the weight of each respective value based in part on whether the
value describes a degree of match between primary characteristics or secondary
characteristics, wherein a weight associated with a degree of match between primary
                                               38

characteristics is larger than a weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
         combine the weight associated with a degree of match between primary
characteristics and the weight associated with a degree of match between secondary
characteristics;
         generate scores for the one or more additional user profiles that describe similarities
between the user profile and each of the one or more additional user profiles, and each
score is based on the combined weighted values;
         determine a similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more
additional user profiles based in part on the score;
         select an additional user profile having a score that equals or exceeds at least a
threshold similarity to the user profile;
         generate an augmented user profile associated with the user by the social
networking system including characteristics included in the user profile and characteristics
included in the selected additional user profile;
         select content for presentation to the user by the social networking system based at
least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile, and
         wherein select content for presentation to the user by the social networking system
based at least in part on characteristics included in the augmented user profile comprises:
                 identify one or more advertisements associated with targeting criteria
         satisfied by at least one characteristic included in the augmented user profile,
                 rank the identified one or more advertisements based at least in part on bid
         amounts associated with each of the identified one or more advertisements, and
                 select at least one of the identified one or more advertisements based at least
         in part on the ranking.
 12.     The computer program product of claim 11, wherein select content for presentation
to the user based at least in part on the augmented profile further comprises:
         select an object maintained by the social networking system with which the user has
at least a threshold likelihood of interaction based at least in part on characteristics in the
augmented user profile; and
         identify the selected object to the user.
                                                 39

13.      The computer program product of either one of claim 11 and claim 12, wherein
determine the similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more additional
user profiles comprises:
         determine whether a direct characteristic included in the user profile matches a
direct characteristic included in an additional user profile; and
         specify a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile equaling
or exceeding the threshold similarity if the direct characteristic included in the user profile
matches the direct characteristic included in the additional user profile.
14.      The computer program product of claim 13, wherein at least one of the direct
characteristics is selected from a group consisting of: a connection between the user profile
and the additional user profile, an e-mail address, a telephone number, and any
combination thereof.
15.      The computer program product of any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein determine
the similarity between the user profile and each of the one or more additional user profiles
comprises:
         determine a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile based
at least in part on one or more primary characteristics included in the additional user profile
matching at least a portion of one or more primary characteristics included in the user
profile.
16.      The computer program product of claim 15, wherein at least one of the primary
characteristics is selected from a group consisting of: a proper name, a username, a profile
photograph, and any combination thereof.
17.      The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the similarity between the user
profile and the additional user profile is further based at least in part on one or more
secondary characteristics in the user profile matching at least a portion of one or more
secondary characteristics included in the additional user profile.
                                                40

18.        The computer program product of claim 17, wherein at least one of the
secondary characteristics is selected from a group consisting of: connections to one or
more user profiles, photographs, video data, and any combination thereof.
                                     Facebook, Inc.
                            By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                 COTTERS
                               Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys
                                              41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
