Abstract
         The present invention relates to a method for preventing the mixing of dissimilar liquid
products. The method comprises coupling a tank delivery connector to a distribution side of a
valve coupled to a tank compartment of a product delivery vehicle, and sensing when a lock
mechanism of the tank delivery connector secures the tank delivery connector to a distribution
tank with a lock sensor.
         When the lock mechanism secures the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank as
indicated by the lock sensor, the method involves interrogating a tank tag coupled to the
distribution tank with a tank tag reader of the tank delivery connector in order to retrieve a stored
liquid type encoded on the tank tag. The stored liquid type is indicative of a type of liquid
product stored in the distribution tank.
         When the lock mechanism secures the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank as
indicated by the lock sensor, the method involves transmitting to a system controller a stored
 liquid type signal indicative of the stored liquid type of the distribution tank.
         The method involves receiving at the system controller the stored liquid type signal and
 determining the stored liquid type based on the stored liquid type signal. Further, the method
 involves receiving at the system controller a transported fluid property signal from a fluid
 property sensor positioned to contact liquid product stored in the tank compartment. The
 transported fluid property signal is indicative of at least one of a viscosity, density, dielectric
 constant, and temperature of the liquid product in the tank compartment.
         The method involves determining a transported liquid type of the liquid product in the
 tank compartment based on the transported fluid property signal and comparing the transported
 liquid type to the stored liquid type.
         Further, the method involves maintaining the valve in a normally locked state when the
 stored liquid type and the transported liquid type do not match to prevent the flow of liquid
 product from the tank compartment, and transitioning the valve from the normally locked state to
 an unlocked state when the stored liquid type and the transported liquid type match, thereby
 permitting the flow of liquid product from the tank compartment.

                                              -  1
   CROSS CONTAMINATION CONTROL SYSTEMS WITH FLUID PRODUCT
                                          ID SENSORS
                  CROSS REFERENFE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. §119 to Provisional
   U.S. Application No. 61/723,948 filed November 8, 2012, titled "Cross
   Contamination Control System," which is herein incorporated by reference in its
   entirety.
10                                       BACKGROUND
   [0001]          There are many different types of fuel products available for a
   consumer to use. Many of those products are available at retail distribution stations
   where they are individually stored in several large distribution tanks such that the
   different fuel products are segregated from each other. Conventionally, the process of
15 loading and unloading the fuel products to and from the distribution tanks relies on an
   operator to ensure that two differing fuel products are not mixed in the tanks.
   Mistakenly mixing different fuel products can be a costly mistake.
   [0002]           Accordingly, a need exists for alternative systems for preventing the
   cross contamination of liquids in storage tanks.
20 [0003]           It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to
   herein, this reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part
   of the common general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
                                  SUMMARY OF INVENTION
25          According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
   for preventing the mixing of dissimilar liquid products, comprising:
            coupling a tank delivery connector to a distribution side of a valve coupled to
   a tank compartment of a product delivery vehicle;
            sensing when a lock mechanism of the tank delivery connector secures the
30 tank delivery connector to a distribution tank with a lock sensor;
            when the lock mechanism secures the tank delivery connector to the
    distribution tank as indicated by the lock sensor, interrogating a tank tag coupled to
    the distribution tank with a tank tag reader of the tank delivery connector in order to

                                              - 2
   retrieve a stored liquid type encoded on the tank tag, wherein the stored liquid type is
   indicative of a type of liquid product stored in the distribution tank;
            when the lock mechanism secures the tank delivery connector to the
   distribution tank as indicated by the lock sensor, transmitting to a system controller a
 5 stored liquid type signal indicative of the stored liquid type of the distribution tank;
            receiving at the system controller the stored liquid type signal;
            determining the stored liquid type based on the stored liquid type signal;
            receiving at the system controller a transported fluid property signal from a
   fluid property sensor positioned to contact liquid product stored in the tank
10 compartment, the transported fluid property signal being indicative of at least one of a
   viscosity, density, dielectric constant, and temperature of the liquid product in the tank
   compartment;
            determining a transported liquid type of the liquid product in the tank
   compartment based on the transported fluid property signal;
15          comparing the transported liquid type to the stored liquid type;
            maintaining the valve in a normally locked state when the stored liquid type
    and the transported liquid type do not match to prevent the flow of liquid product
    from the tank compartment; and
            transitioning the valve from the normally locked state to an unlocked state
20  when the stored liquid type and the transported liquid type match, thereby permitting
    the flow of liquid product from the tank compartment.
             Optionally, the valve is a control valve or an emergency valve.
             The method may further comprise displaying at least one of the stored liquid
    type of the distribution tank and the transported liquid type of the liquid product in the
25  tank compartment on a display electrically coupled to the system controller.
             The method may further comprise fluidly coupling a delivery hose to the
    distribution tank such that the tank delivery connector is fluidly coupled to the
    delivery hose and fluidly coupled to the distribution tank.
    The method may further comprise:
30           locking the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank with the lock
    mechanism, wherein the lock mechanism includes a locking lever with a locked
    position and an unlocked position, the lock mechanism mechanically securing the
    tank delivery connector to the distribution tank; and

                                             -3
            transmitting a delivery connector locked signal to the system controller when
   the locking lever is in the locked position and the tank delivery connector is secured to
   the distribution tank.
            Optionally, the computer readable and executable instructions, when executed
 5 by the processor, further cause the system controller to:
            receive the delivery connector locked signal, and
            enable the valve to transition from the normally locked state to the unlocked
   state.
            The method may further comprise:
10           locking the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank with the lock
   mechanism such that the lock mechanism mechanically secures the tank delivery
   connector to the distribution tank;
             actuating a switch electrically coupled to a power supply and the tank tag
   reader; and
15           transmitting the stored liquid type signal to the system controller when the
    switch is actuated.
             The method may further comprise receiving at the system controller a tank
    delivery ID signal indicating an identity of the tank delivery connector from the tank
    tag reader.
20           The method may further comprise:
             coupling the tank compartment to the tank delivery connector with a delivery
    hose, the delivery hose comprising a lock tag at a lock end of the delivery hose and a
    connector hose tag at a connector end of the delivery hose, wherein the lock tag and
    the connector hose tag are encoded with a first hose ID;
25           interrogating the lock tag of the delivery hose at the lock end with an adaptor
    tag reader communicatively coupled to the system controller and positioned on a hose
    adaptor coupled to the tank compartment;
              sending an adaptor signal indicative of the first hose ID to the system
     controller with the adaptor tag reader;
30            interrogating the connector hose tag at the connector end of the delivery hose
     with a hose tag reader communicatively coupled to the system controller and
     positioned on the tank delivery connector;
              sending a hose signal indicative of the first hose ID to the system controller
     with the hose tag reader;

                                              -  3a
            receiving at the system controller the hose signal indicative of the first hose ID
   from the hose tag reader;
            receiving at the system controller the adaptor signal indicative of the first hose
 5 ID from the adaptor tag reader;
            enabling the valve to transition from the normally locked state to the unlocked
   state when both the hose signal and the adaptor signal are received; and
            maintaining the valve in the normally locked state when at least one of the
   hose signal and the adaptor signal are not received.
10          The method may further comprise inputting a loaded liquid into a product
   grade indicator (PGI) controller communicatively coupled to the system controller,
   the PGI controller comprising an input device.
            The method may further comprise indicating the loaded liquid type and the
   transported liquid type in the tank compartment on a display communicatively
15 coupled to the PGI controller.
            The method may further comprise preventing the flow of loaded liquid product
   into the tank compartment with the valve when the loaded liquid type and the
   transported liquid type do not match.
            The method may further comprise allowing the flow of loaded liquid product
20 into the tank compartment with the valve when the loaded liquid type and the
   transported liquid type match.
             The method may further comprise:
             sensing an amount of liquid product present in the tank compartment with a
   pressure sensor positioned in the tank compartment; and
25           transmitting a pressure signal to the system controller indicative of the sensed
    amount of liquid product present in the tank compartment.
             The method may further comprise:
             sensing an overfill condition of liquid product within the tank compartment
    with a point level sensor positioned in the tank compartment; and
30           transmitting a point signal to the system controller indicating whether there is
    the overfill condition of liquid product within the tank compartment; and
             stopping the flow of loaded liquid product from a liquid product loading
    station into the tank compartment with the overfill detection system when the loaded
    liquid type and the transported liquid type do not match.

                                           -  3b
   [0007]          Any of the features described herein can be combined in any
   combination with any one or more of the other features described herein within the
   scope of the invention.
   [0008]          These and additional features provided by the embodiments described
 5 herein will be more fully understood in view of the following detailed description, in
   conjunction with the drawings.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0009]          The embodiments set forth in the drawings are illustrative and
10 exemplary in nature and not intended to limit the subject matter defined by the claims.
   The following detailed description of the illustrative embodiments can be understood
   when read in conjunction with the following drawings, where like structure is
   indicated with like reference numerals and in which:
   [0010]          FIG. 1 schematically depicts a product transport vehicle at a product
15 distribution station according to one or more embodiments shown and described
   herein;
    [0011]         FIG. 2 schematically depicts a crossover protection control system
   according to one or more embodiments shown and described herein;
20

                                             -4
[0012]      FIG. 3A schematically depicts an electronic product grade indicator
controller according to one or more embodiments shown and described herein;
[0013]      FIG. 3B schematically depicts a product grade indicator pneumatic system
according to one or more embodiments shown and described herein;
[0014]      FIG. 4 schematically depicts the product transport vehicle at a loading station
according to one or more embodiments shown and described herein;
[0015]      FIG. 5 schematically depicts the product transport vehicle at the distribution
station according to one or more embodiments shown and described herein;
[0016]      FIG. 6 is a side view of a tank delivery connector according to one or more
embodiments shown and described herein;
[00171      FIG. 7 is a front view of a control valve according to one or more
embodiments shown and described herein;
 [00181     FIG. 8 is a side view of the control valve according to one or more
embodiments shown and described herein; and
[0019]       FIG. 9 schematically depicts a fleet management system according to one or
more embodiments shown and described herein.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00201       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but
does not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0021]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an
embodiment' means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
invention. Thus, the appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an
embodiment' in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or

                                              -5
characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0022]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the
invention is not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein
described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention
is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the
appended claims (if any) appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.
100231       FIG. 1 generally depicts one embodiment of a crossover protection system to
prevent the co-mingling of dissimilar liquid products when filling a distribution tank at a
distribution facility. The crossover protection system may be mounted on a product
transport vehicle, such as a fuel truck or the like. The crossover protection system may
include a system controller which is communicatively coupled to at least one fluid
property sensor (FPS), at least one valve, and at least one tank tag reader. For each tank
compartment on the product transport vehicle there is a FPS, a valve, and, optionally, an
electronic product grade indicator (PGI) controller to serve as an interface for the
operator and the system controller. The PGI controller may also assist in controlling the
loading and unloading of liquid product from the corresponding tank compartment. The
system controller controls the flow of liquid product to and from each tank compartment
through actuation of the valve. If the potential for co-mingling of dissimilar liquid
products in a tank compartment and a distribution tank is present, the system controller
prevents the valve corresponding to the tank compartment from being opened thus
preventing the co-mingling and cross contamination of the dissimilar liquid products.
[00241        The FPS is coupled to at least one hose connector assembly or tank
compartment such that the FPS is able to detect a transported liquid type of the liquid
product passing through the hose connector assembly or contained in the tank
compartment. Accordingly, it should be understood that the FPS is positioned to contact
liquid product stored in the tank compartment. The FPS sends a transported fluid
property signal indicative of the transported liquid type to the system controller either
directly or through the PGI controller. The system controller determines the liquid type
transported in the tank compartment based on the transported fluid property signal from

                                              -6
the FPS. The determination of the transported liquid type may be made utilizing a look
up table (LUT) indexed according to the sensed fluid property or a database indexed
according to the sensed fluid property. In embodiments, the transported liquid type, once
determined, may be stored in memory, indexed according to the corresponding
transportation tank.
10025]       During unloading of the tank compartment to a distribution tank, a tank tag
reader is used to identify the liquid product stored in the distribution tank. Specifically,
the tank tag reader is coupled to a tank delivery connector and interrogates a
corresponding tank tag located on a distribution tank. The tank tag contains information
that relates to the liquid product type stored in the distribution tank. The tank tag reader
transmits a stored liquid type signal indicative of the store liquid type to the system
controller of the product transport vehicle. The system controller automatically
compares the transported liquid product type information taken from the FPS to the
stored liquid type from the tank tag to determine if a match exists. When a match exists,
the system controller enables (i.e., unlocks) either an emergency valve, a control valve,
or a separate adaptor locking device (for example a lockable loading and unloading
adaptor, an API adaptor, or the hose adaptor described in greater detail below) to allow
the unloading of the liquid product from the tank compartment to the distribution tank.
The system controller may also prevent the flow of liquid product if the transported
liquid type and the stored liquid type do not match by disabling (i.e., maintaining the
valve in a locked state) either the emergency valve, the control valve, or the separate
adaptor locking device. The system controller may also prevent the flow of liquid
product if other relevant delivery site information stored in the tank tag, such as geo
location data, physical address information, customer account information or the like,
does not match. Various embodiments of the crossover protection system and the
operation of the crossover protection system will be described in more detail herein with
specific reference to the appended drawings.
 [0026]       FIG. 1 schematically depicts a product transport vehicle 15 at a distribution
station 20. The product transport vehicle 15 may be used to transport liquid product
between two points, such as between a fuel depot and retail distribution station. For

                                            -7
example, the product transport vehicle 15 may be a tanker truck used to transport fuel
products between the fuel depot (shown in FIG. 4) and the distribution station 20. The
product transport vehicle 15 may have a plurality of tank compartments 25 for containing
liquid product, where each tank compartment 25 may have a manlid 30 and a hose
adaptor assembly 35. Each hose adaptor assembly 35 may include an emergency valve
40 fluidly coupled to the bottom of the tank compartment 25, a control valve 45, and a
pipe connection 50 fluidly coupling the emergency valve 40 to the control valve 45. An
example of a suitable emergency valve is the MaxAir series of internal valves by
Civacon. An example of a suitable control valve is the API Adaptor, model number
891BA-LK by Civacon. However, it should be understood that alternative valves may
be used. A hose adaptor 133 may be coupled to the control valve 45 or the pipe
connection 50. In some embodiments, the control valve 45 and the hose adaptor 133 are
a single assembly as shown in FIGS. 7 and 8 and described in greater detail herein. An
example of a suitable hose adaptor 133 is the gravity coupler, model number 871 or 876
by Civacon. However, it should be understood that alternative hose adaptors may be
used. In embodiments, the hose adaptor assembly 35 may include both the emergency
valve 40 and the control valve 45 as shown in FIG. 1. Alternatively, the hose adaptor
assembly 35 may only include either the emergency valve 40 or the control valve 45.
The individual valves (control valve 45 and/or emergency valve 40) of the plurality of
valves regulate the flow of liquid product into and out of the corresponding tank
compartment 25. A delivery hose 55 may be used to fluidly couple the hose adaptor 133
to a tank delivery connector 60. The tank delivery connector 60, in turn, may be used to
fluidly couple the tank compartment 25 with a distribution tank 65 located at the
distribution station 20. The tank delivery connector 60 may be removably coupled to the
delivery hose 55 and the distribution tank 65.
10027]       In the embodiments described herein, at least one of the control valve 45 and
the emergency valve 40 has a normally locked state. The phrase "normally locked state"
means that the system controller 70 (described in further detail herein) coupled to the
valve (e.g. the emergency valve 40 and/or the control valve 45) maintains the valve in a
closed and locked position and that the valve can only be unlocked upon confirmation of
a match between a stored liquid type and a transported liquid type contained in a

                                               -8
corresponding tank compartment 25. When a match is confirmed, the system controller
70 automatically transitions the valve corresponding to a tank compartment 25 with the
same product to an unlocked state. In the unlocked state, the valve can be opened or
closed by an operator either manually or through the system controller, thereby
facilitating the unloading of the transported liquid product contained in the
corresponding tank compartment 25.
[00281       Referring now to FIGS. 1 - 3, the crossover protection system 10 may further
include a system controller 70 and a tank tag reader 95 for interrogating a tank tag 110
coupled to a distribution tank 65, such as an underground storage tank or similar storage
tank. The system controller 70 may include a fluid property sensor (FPS) 130, a pressure
sensor 135, a controller antenna 75, an accelerometer 78 for determining when the
product transport vehicle is in motion or stationary, a wireless communication module 74
one or more input devices (not shown) such as a keypad or the like, a solenoid valve
assembly to pneumatically control the plurality of valves (described in greater detail
herein), a display 80, a computer-readable medium (such as a memory or the like), and a
processor. In some embodiments, the system controller 70 may further comprise a
parking brake sensor 79 communicatively coupled to the processor. The parking brake
sensor 79 may be utilized to determine when the product transport vehicle 15 is parked
such that a loading or unloading operation may be initiated.
[0029]        The system controller 70 may be communicatively coupled to the FPS 130
and the pressure sensor 135. An example of a suitable pressure sensor is the diaphragm
pressure sensor, model number IE/F by Televac. However, it should be understood that
alternative pressure sensors may be used, such as, for example, a piezo pressure sensor or
an electric pressure sensor. It is contemplated that the FPS 130 and the pressure sensor
 135, if both are installed on the product transport vehicle 15, may be installed in the same
location or at separate locations. For example both the FPS 130 and the pressure sensor
 135 may be coupled to the tank compartment 25. Alternatively, the pressure sensor 135
and/or the FPS sensor may be coupled to the pipe connection 50. The FPS 130 may be
positioned in the pipe connection 50 such that the FPS 130 is able to interact with liquid
product flowing through the pipe connection 50, thereby allowing the system controller

                                             -9
70 to discriminate between different liquid products, such as a "distillate" versus a
"gasoline" product. An example of a suitable FPS 130 is the tuning fork sensor model
number FPS2800B12C4 by Measurement Specialties. However, it should be understood
that alternative sensors may be used. In another embodiment, the FPS 130 may be
located in the tank compartment 25 and positioned to contact liquid product stored in the
tank compartment.
[00301       The processor of the system controller 70 may be used to execute a set of
instructions recorded on the computer-readable medium to prevent the cross
contamination of product stored in the distribution tank 65 with dissimilar product stored
in one or more of the tank compartments 25 of the product transport vehicle 15. The
processor may be communicatively coupled to the controller antenna 75, accelerometer
78, wireless communication module 74, one or more input devices, the display 80, and
the computer-readable medium. The system controller 70 may be powered by 12 VDC,
24 VDC power or a portable power source such as a battery source and/or a solar cell, for
example. The display 80 may be an alphanumeric display that presents information,
such as system status or the like, to the operator. The display 80 may be positioned
anywhere on the product transport vehicle 15 and may be electrically coupled to the
system controller 70. For example, in one embodiment, the display is wirelessly coupled
to the system controller and is positionable and relocatable on the product transport
vehicle 15.    In embodiments, status information displayed on the display may include
which tank compartments 25 are empty or have some amount of liquid product in them
as indicated by the plurality of pressure sensors 135. In embodiments, status information
may also include the transported liquid type associated with each tank compartment 25
as sensed by an FPS 130 and determined by the system controller 70. Further, status
information may also include the stored liquid type of the liquid product stored in a
distribution tank 65. In addition to the transported liquid type of the liquid product in
each tank compartment 25, other information related to the crossover protection system
may also be presented, including, without limitation, battery life remaining, any fault
codes, and/or tank tag identification information. The display 80 may include a
schematic diagram of the product transport vehicle 15 indicating the status of the tank
compartments 25 and schematically depicting fluid flow while in operation.       In

                                             -10
embodiments, the display 80 may be a touch screen. The keypad or plurality of input
devices may include north, south, east, west arrow navigation keys, an enter key, an
override key, and/or a numeric keypad.
100311       The system controller 70 may include a set of communication ports (not
shown) to communicatively connect to the wireless communication module 74, or to an
in-cab black box (not shown) where the processor, computer-readable medium, an
onboard overfill detection system (not shown), and other components that may reside on
the product transport vehicle 15. A local power port (not shown) may be included to
provide power to the system controller 70 in the event the power source failure or battery
source failure / depletion. A communication port may be included to communicatively
connect to other devices using RS-485 protocol, CANbus protocol J1939, CAN open, or
a similar protocol, and a 6-pin cable. The tank tag reader 95 may be communicatively
coupled to the system controller 70 with electrical wires (not shown) or wirelessly
utilizing standard wireless communication protocols. Suitable wireless communication
protocols may include the 802.11 families of protocols, the Bluetooth@ protocol, the
ZigBee IEEE 802 Standard protocol, or the like. In some embodiments, the system
controller 70 may wirelessly communicate with the tank tag reader 95 via a pair of
antennas, for example the controller antenna 75 and/or the tank connector antenna 115.
 [00321      The system controller 70 may log and time stamp all events as they occur
within the crossover protection system 10. For example, the system controller 70 may
log trip records, stored liquid type, transported liquid type, tank compartment usage,
amount of liquid product loaded and unloaded, and similar events. The system controller
log may be downloaded and used to reconstruct trip events with a computer. In
embodiments, the computer-readable medium (i.e., memory) may be large enough to
hold either an estimated 30 days worth of trip logs. Alternatively or additionally, the
computer-readable medium may be large enough to hold an estimated 200 trip logs. In
some embodiments, the in-cab black box may be communicatively connected to an on
truck computer (not shown) to enable the logs to be uploaded to a remote computer
system wirelessly through the on-product transport vehicle communication systems.

                                             -11
[00331       Referring specifically to FIG. 2, the crossover protection system 10 is
schematically depicted as it relates to components on the product transport vehicle 15 of
FIG. 1. The system controller 70 may receive a transported fluid property signal from
the FPS 130 indicative of at least one of a viscosity of the liquid product in the tank
compartment 25, a density of the liquid product in the tank compartment 25, a dielectric
constant of the liquid product in the tank compartment 25, and a temperature of the liquid
product in the tank compartment 25. The system controller 70 may determine a
transported liquid type of liquid product in the tank compartment 25 based on the
transported fluid property signal sent from the FPS 130. For example, in some
embodiments, the system controller 70 may include a liquid type look-up table (LUT)
stored in memory. The look-up table may contain a plurality of liquid types indexed
according to one or more properties at a specified temperature or temperatures. These
properties may include the viscosity, density, and dielectric constant or combinations
thereof. Using this LUT, the system controller 70 may determine the liquid product
stored in the tank compartment 25 based on the transported fluid property signal received
from the FPS 130.
[0034]       As noted hereinabove, the pressure sensor 135 may be positioned in either
the pipe connection 50 or the tank compartment 25 such that the pressure sensor 135 is
able to detect the pressure of the liquid product within the pipe connection 50 and the
tank compartment 25, thereby allowing the system controller 70 to detect static pressure
in the tank compartment 25 and gauge the approximate level or amount of product in the
tank compartment 25. The PGI controller 125 may also display the amount of liquid
product remaining in the tank compartment 25 as determined by the pressure sensor 135.
In another embodiment, the system controller 70 may display the amount of liquid
product remaining in the tank compartment 25 as determined by the pressure sensor 135
on the display 80. The system controller 70 may receive a pressure signal from the
pressure sensor 135. The pressure signal may indicate the amount of liquid product
present in the tank compartment 25. The system controller 70 may display the
transported liquid type indicated by the transported liquid type signal and/or the amount
of liquid product indicated by the pressure signal on the display 80 of FIG. 1.

                                              -12
[0035]       The system controller 70 may also receive an accelerometer signal from the
accelerometer 78. The accelerometer signal may indicate whether the product transport
vehicle 15 is in motion or not. The system controller 70 may use the accelerometer
signal to either maintain the valves in the normally locked state while the product
transport vehicle 15 is in motion or transition the valves to the normally locked state
when the accelerometer 78 indicates that the product transport vehicle 15 has started to
move.
[00361       Still referring to FIG. 2, in some embodiments, one or more PGI controllers
125 may be communicatively coupled with the plurality of FPS 130 and the plurality of
pressure sensors 135. In embodiments, individual PGI controllers 125 may be associated
with a specific hose adaptor assembly 35 and/or associated tank compartment 25 and
may be used in conjunction with the system controller to regulate the flow of fluid to and
from each tank compartment. However, it should be understood that the PGI controllers
are optional and that in some embodiments the crossover protecction system does not
utilize PGI controllers.
 [00371      Referring now to FIG. 3A, an embodiment of a PGI controller 125 is
schematically depicted. Each PGI controller 125 of the plurality of PGI controllers is
associated with a tank compartment 25 of the plurality of tank compartments. The PGI
controller 125 may have a computer-readable medium (i.e., a memory) and a processor
to execute a set of instructions recorded on the computer-readable medium. The
processor may be communicatively coupled to a PGI display 140, a plurality of input
devices 145, an alert device, a solenoid valve assembly to pneumatically control the
valves corresponding to the tank compartment 25 the PGI controller 125 is associated
with, a pressure switch 155, a loading arm sensor (loading arm coupler proximity /
detection sensor) input and the computer-readable medium. The PGI display 140, such
as a liquid crystal display or a similar electronic display, is mounted to a PGI face 142 of
the PGI controller 125. The plurality of input devices 145 may also be mounted to the
PGI face 142 of the PGI controller 125 to allow an operator to interact with the PGI
 controller 125 and enter liquid product identification information into the PGI controller
 125. The plurality of input devices 145 and the PGI display 140 allow an operator to

                                               -13
choose the liquid product type that is being loaded into the tank compartment 25 to
which the PGI controller 125 is associated. For example, the plurality of input devices
145 may be buttons to allow the operator to scroll up and down through a list of liquid
product types stored in a computer readable medium of the PGI controller 125 and
displayed on the PGI display 140. The input devices 145 allow the operator to make a
selection from the list or, alternatively, to directly input liquid product information into
the PGI controller 125 identifying the contents of the transportation tank. 25. In some
embodiments, the PGl controller 125 may include an "empty" input device which allows
the operator to quickly indicate the tank compartment 25 is empty. The plurality of input
devices 145 may include, without limitation, a keypad, scroll wheel, touchpad, or any
other suitable input device that enables an operator to interact with the PGI controller
125. In some embodiments, an audio device 160 may be mounted to the face of the PGI
controller 125 and may provide an audible signal to draw the attention of the operator to
the PGI controller 125.
100381       A PGI connector 165 may be connected to a PGI body 144 to electrically
couple the plurality of PGI controllers 125 together and to electrically couple the
plurality of PGI controllers 125 to the system controller 70. A sensor connector 167 may
be connected to the PGI body 144 to electrically couple the FPS 130 and/or the pressure
sensor 135 to the PGI controller 125. An air input connector 170 and an air output
connector 175 for use by a PGI pneumatic system 180 as shown in FIG. 3B may also be
mounted to the PGI body 144.
[00391       Referring now to FIGS. 2, 3A, and 3B, FIG. 3B is a schematic view of the
PGI pneumatic system 180. The PGI pneumatic system 180 may be coupled to the hose
adaptor assembly 35, the emergency valve 40 and/or the control valve 45. The PGI
pneumatic system 180 either maintains the valve to which it is connected in the normally
locked state and transitions the valve from the normally locked state to an unlocked state
based on instructions received from the PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller
70. The solenoid valve assembly 150 and the pressure switch 155 of the PGI pneumatic
system may be mounted internal to the PGI controller 125 or the system controller 70.
Pressurized air may be fed into the solenoid valve assembly 150 through the air input

                                             -14
connector 170 on the PGI body 144 or a system controller body (not shown). When the
PGI controller 125 or system controller 70 opens the solenoid valve assembly 150, the
pressurized air actuates the pressure switch 155 and transitions the valve from the
normally locked state to the unlocked state thereby allowing liquid product to flow out of
the tank compartment 25. The PGI pneumatic system 180 delivers pressurized air to the
valve using the air output connector 175. In embodiments, the solenoid valve assembly
 150 may be manually opened by the operator activating a valve manual override input
device on the PGI controller 125 or the system controller 70. In some embodiments, the
solenoid valve assembly 150 may be a normally locked solenoid valve. Based on the
foregoing, it should be understood that the PGI pneumatic system 180, whether
contained in the PGI controller 125 or the system controller 70, may control the
locking/unlocking of the corresponding valve as well as the opening and closing of the
corresponding valve to allow or prevent fluid flow.
 [00401       While the PGI pneumatic system has been described herein as being coupled
to or a part of the PGI controller, in some embodiments, the system controller 70 may
incorporate all the functions of the plurality of PGI controllers 125. In these
embodiments, the system controller 70 includes the PGI pneumatic system 180 for each
valve on the product transport vehicle 15. For example, all the solenoid valve assemblies
 150 may be combined together in a manifold arrangement and mounted in a separate
 location and electrically coupled to the system controller 70. In these embodiments, the
 system controller 70 may also include the plurality of input devices 145, and alert
 devices. This would eliminate the need for a plurality of PGI controllers 125 and
 associated equipment.
 100411       In embodiments, the PGI controller may be used by an operator to manually
 enter the transported liquid type into the system controller 70. The transported fluid
 property signal and/or the pressure signal may also be received by an individual PGI
 controller. The PGI controller may be communicatively coupled with the system
 controller 70 and transmit the transported fluid property signal and/or the pressure signal
 to the system controller 70 for processing by the processor. The PGI controller 125 may
 also display the transported liquid type indicated by the transported liquid type signal

                                             -15
and/or the amount of liquid product indicated by the pressure signal on the PGI display
140 of FIG. 3A.
[0042]        The operator may override the system controller 70 using the plurality of
input devices 145 on the PGI controller 125 or on the system controller 70. A log of any
override action taken by the operator may be stored in the system controller 70 memory
for later retrieval and analysis.
100431        In some embodiments, each PGI controller 125 may be communicatively
coupled to another PGI controller 125 as shown in FIG. 2 or multiple PGI controllers
125, and at least one of the PGI controllers 125 is coupled to the system controller 70.
Alternatively, each PGI controller 125 may be directly coupled to the system controller
70. In one embodiment, a total of twelve PGI controllers 125 may be communicatively
coupled to the system controller 70 with a six-pin cable 137, such as when the product
transport vehicle 15 (shown in FIG. 1) contains twelve separate tank compartments 25.
In some embodiments, a PGI controller 125 may be mounted to each hose adaptor
assembly 35 and may be used to indicate the transported liquid type that is stored in the
tank compartment 25. For example, the PGI controller 125 receives a signal from either
the system controller 70 or the FPS 130 indicative of the transported liquid type of liquid
product stored in the tank compartment 25 and displays the liquid product type. The
display of information may be done on the display 80 and/or a PGI display 140 (shown
in FIG. 3A). In another embodiment, an operator may input a loaded liquid type of
liquid product that is being stored in the tank compartment 25 directly into the PGI
 controller 125 when the tank compartment 25 is filled at the loading station. The PGI
 controller 125 may display the loaded liquid type. The display of information may be
 done on the display 80 and/or a PGI display 140 (shown in FIG. 3A). In embodiments
 where the product transport vehicle 15 is used to store liquid petroleum products, the
 type of liquid product may be, for example gasoline, diesel, kerosene, etc. However, it
 should be understood that other types of liquid products may be stored in the tank
 compartments 25 and the PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 may be used
 in a similar manner to identify those liquid products.

                                             -16
[0044]       Referring again to FIG. 1, in embodiments, the hose adaptor assembly 35 for
each tank compartment 25 may be fluidly coupled to a distribution tank 65 with a tank
delivery connector 60 and a delivery hose 55. The tank delivery connector 60 may be an
elbow coupler, a straight coupler, or a flexible coupler. An example of a suitable tank
delivery connector 60 is the product delivery elbow, model number 60TT, 65TT, or
70TT by Civacon. However, it should be understood that alternative tank delivery
connectors may be used. In embodiments where a tank delivery connector 60 is used to
fluidly couple the hose adaptor assembly 35 to a distribution tank 65, the tank tag reader
95 may be located on the tank delivery connector 60 and positioned to read a
corresponding tank tag 110 located on the distribution tank 65 when the tank delivery
connector 60 is coupled to the distribution tank 65.
[00451       While FIG. 1 schematically depicts the use of a tank delivery connector 60 to
couple the hose adaptor assembly 35 to the distribution tank 65, it should be understood
that, in some embodiments, the tank delivery connector 60 may be omitted, such as when
the hose adaptor assembly 35 is directly coupled to a distribution tank 65 with a delivery
hose. In these embodiments, the tank tag reader 95 may be located on one end of the
delivery hose and positioned to read a corresponding tank tag 110 located on the
distribution tank 65 when the delivery hose is coupled to the distribution tank 65.
 [0046]      In some embodiments, the system controller 70 and associated components
may be configured to determine that a valve corresponding to a tank compartment 25 to
be unloaded is fluidly connected to a corresponding tank delivery connector 60 attached
to a distribution tank 65 to prevent product spills. In some embodiments, the system
controller 70 may also confirm that the same delivery hose 55 is fluidly coupled between
the valve and the tank delivery connector 60 utilizing a set of RFID tags and a plurality
of tag readers.
 10047]       The system controller 70 may be communicatively coupled to an adaptor tag
reader 85 and a hose tag reader 90. The adaptor tag reader 85 may be positioned on the
hose adaptor 133 or a valve, e.g. the control valve 45. The hose tag reader 90 may be
positioned on the tank delivery connector 60 in a location adjacent to the coupling point
 of a delivery hose 55 and opposite the tank tag reader 95. The delivery hose 55 may

                                             -17
have a lock tag 100 at a lock end 102 of the delivery hose 55 and a connector hose tag
105 at a connector end 103 of the delivery hose 55. Both the lock tag 100 and the
connector hose tag 105 may have the same hose ID information encoded on them, e.g. a
first hose ID, a second hose ID, etc.
[00481       When the delivery hose 55 is coupled to the hose adaptor 133, the adaptor tag
reader 85 interrogates the lock tag 100 and transmits the identification information (e.g.
the first hose ID) to the system controller 70. When the delivery hose 55 is coupled to
the tank delivery connector 60, the hose tag reader 90 interrogates the connector hose tag
105 and transmits the identification information (e.g. the first hose ID) to the system
controller 70.
[0049]       Referring to FIGS. 7 and 8, a front view and a side view of the control valve
45 is depicted. The control valve 45 and the hose adaptor 133 may be a single assembly
as shown. The adaptor tag reader 85 may be coupled to a tag mount 800 and positioned
on the hose adaptor 133 as shown or on the control valve body 810. In some
embodiments, the FPS 130 may also be coupled to the control valve body 810 as shown.
A control valve lever 815 is coupled to the control valve 45 and used by the operator to
manually (e.g. physically) transition the control valve 45 from the normally locked state
to the unlocked state. A pneumatic lock 820 may be coupled to the control valve body
810 and pneumatically coupled to the solenoid valve assembly of the PGI controller
and/or the system controller. The pneumatic lock 820, when enabled by the PGI
controller and/or the system controller, allows the control valve 45 to be transition from
the normally locked state to the unlocked state and thereby open the control valve 45.
The pneumatic lock 820 is coupled to the control valve lever 815 internal to the control
valve body 810 and mechanically restricts (i.e. stops) the movement of the control valve
45 in the normally locked state.
 [00501      In one embodiment, the system controller 70 verifies that a delivery hose 55
 is coupled to each of the tank delivery connector 60 and the hose adaptor 133 and/or
 control valve 45. For example, when the delivery hose 55 is properly coupled to the tank
 delivery connector 60, the hose tag reader 90 is positioned to read the connector hose tag
 105 and transmit a hose signal indicative of the hose ID to the system controller 70. In

                                              -18
this embodiment, receipt of the hose signal indicative of the hose ID by the system
controller 70 is sufficient to confirm that the delivery hose 55 is properly coupled to the
tank delivery connector 60. Similarly, when the delivery hose 55 is properly coupled to
the hose adaptor 133 or the control valve 45, the adaptor tag reader 85 is positioned to
read the lock tag 100 and transmit a hose signal indicative of the hose ID to the system
controller 70. In this embodiment, receipt of the hose signal indicative of the hose ID by
the system controller 70 is sufficient to confirm that the hose is properly coupled to the
hose adaptor 133 or the control valve 45, When the system controller 70 confirms that
the delivery hose 55 is properly coupled to both the tank delivery connector 60 and the
hose adaptor 133 or control valve 45, the system controller 70 may allow the
corresponding control valve 45 to transition from the normally locked state to the
unlocked state, subject to a determination that the transported liquid product type in the
corresponding compartment matches the stored liquid product type of the distribution
tank 65.
 10051]       In another embodiment, the system controller 70 may confirm that a specific
tank compartment 25 is fluidly coupled to a specific distribution tank 65 by matching the
identification information of the lock tag 100 and the connector hose tag 105 and
verifying the delivery hose 55 fluidly connects the specific control valve 45 or hose
adaptor 133 to the correct tank delivery connector 60.
 [00521       For example, the adaptor tag reader 85 may transmit the hose ID information
to the system controller 70 using a bus or similar wiring method. In another
embodiment, the adaptor tag reader 85 may transmit the hose ID information to the
 system controller 70 using a wireless connection, such as the wireless protocol and
 devices described herein. The hose tag reader 90 transmits the hose ID information to
the system controller 70 using a wireless connection, such as the wireless protocol and
 devices as described above.
 [0053]        The tank tag reader 95 may further transmit a tank delivery connector ID
 signal to the system controller 70 indicative of an identity of the tank delivery connector
 60. The tank delivery connector ID signal may be used to pair the tank delivery
 connector 60 to the system controller 70 associated with the product transport vehicle 15.

                                            -19
For example, referring to FIG. 5, the system controller 70 may be paired with a first tank
delivery connector 60a having a first tank delivery connector ID and a second tank
delivery connector 60b having a second tank delivery ID. The pairing of the first tank
delivery connector 60a and the second tank delivery connector 60b may ensure that the
system controller 70 is not processing any information relating to a non-paired tank
delivery connector 60 at the same distribution station.
[0054]       When the system controller confirms that the delivery hose 55 is properly
coupled to both the tank delivery connector 60 and the hose adaptor 133 or control valve
45 based on the received hose ID information, the system controller 70 may allow the
corresponding control valve 45 to transition from the normally locked state to the
unlocked state, subject to a determination that the transported liquid product type in the
corresponding tank compartment 25 matches the stored liquid product type of the
distribution tank 65.
[0055]       In another embodiment, the crossover protection system configuration may
be such that the delivery hose 55 may not have a lock tag 100 attached to the lock end
102 or connector hose tag 105 attached to the connector end 103 of the delivery hose 55
as described above. The tank tag reader 95 may read the tank tag 110 and transmit the
tank tag's encoded liquid product type information directly to the system controller 70.
The system controller 70 may allow or not allow the liquid product transfer based on the
liquid product type information from the tank tag 110 without the need to verify the
identity of the delivery hose 55. In this embodiment, the system controller 70 may
enable only those valves that correspond to those tank compartments 25 that have a
matching transported liquid type to transition from the normally locked state to the
unlocked state. The system controller 70 may not act upon, or receive any other stored
liquid type signals from other tank tag readers 95 until one of the valves that has been
enabled is transitioned to the unlocked state. The system controller 70, by only allowing
a single tank compartment 25 to be unloaded at a time, can determine that the tank
delivery connector 60 attached to the distribution tank 65 and is fluidly coupled to the
matching tank compartment 25.

                                             -20
[0056]       Referring now to FIGS. 1, 5, and 6, in another embodiment, the tank delivery
connector 60 may include a lock mechanism 700 coupled to the tank delivery connector
60, a power supply (not shown), and a lock sensor 705. The lock mechanism 700 may
include a locking lever 710 with a locked position and an unlocked position coupled to a
locking clamp 720. The locking lever 710, when in the unlocked position, manuevers
the locking clamp 720, via a lock shaft 725, to allow the coupling of the tank delivery
connector 60 to the distribution tank 65. In the locked position, the locking lever 710
manuevers the locking clamp 720, via the lock shaft 725, to compress a coupler (not
shown) on the distribution tank to the tank delivery connector 60. In the locked position,
the lock mechanism 700 mechanically secures the tank delivery connector 60 to a
corresponding distribution tank 65. The power supply is coupled to the tank delivery
connector and provides power for the tank tag reader 95; the hose tag reader 90 and/or
the lock sensor 705. The lock sensor 705 is mechanically coupled to the lock mechanism
700 and electrically coupled to the tank tag reader 95 and may be a magnetic sensor,
contact sensor, optical sensor, or the like. In one embodiment, the lock sensor 705 is a
proximity sensor which senses whether the locking lever 710 is in the locked position
and/or the unlocked position based on the locking lever's 710 position relative to the
lock sensor 705. For example, the lock sensor 705 may provide the tank tag reader 95
with a delivery connector locked signal when the locking lever 710 is in the locked
position. The tank tag reader 95 transmits the delivery connector locked signal to the
 system controller 70 when the tank delivery connector 60 is secured to the distribution
 tank 65. In one embodiment, power to the tank tag reader 95 may only be provided
 when the locking lever 710 is in the locked position as indicated by the lock sensor 705.
 The system controller 70 won't receive the tank tag signal until the tank delivery
 connector 60 is coupled to the distribution tank 65 and in the locking lever 710 is in the
 locked position.
 [00571      In yet another embodiment, the tank delivery connector 60 may include the
 locking mechanism 700 for locking the tank delivery connector 60 to the distribution
 tank 65, the power supply, and a switch (not shown). The switch may be mechanically
 coupled to the locking mechanism 700 and electrically coupled to the power supply and
 the tank tag reader 95. When the switch is actuated (e.g. pressed or toggled), the tank tag

                                             -21
reader 95 will interrogate the tank tag 110 and transmit the stored liquid type signal to
the system controller 70. In some embodiments, the switch may be positioned such that
transitioning the locking lever 710 of the locking mechanism 700 from the unlocked state
to the locked state may toggle the switch. In these embodiments, the switch may be used
to "wake-up" the tank tag reader 95 which then automatically reads the tank tag 110 and
transmits the stored fluid type signal to the system controller 70.
[00581       As described herein, the system controller 70 may use tags to prevent the
mixing of dissimilar liquid products during loading and unloading of the liquid product
and to verify coupling between the tank compartments of the product transport vehicle
and a distribution tank. The adaptor tag reader 85, hose tag reader 90, and tank tag
reader 95 (tag readers) shown in FIG. 1 may interrogate the lock tag 100, connector hose
tag 105, and the tank tag 110 (tags) during operation of the crossover protection system
 10. These tag readers may use optical interrogation, radio frequency interrogation,
and/or physical interrogation to read the information encoded on the tags, For example,
the tag readers may use an optical device, such as an image sensor, to take an image of
the tag and decode the information contained on the tag. The tag reader may also be a
laser scanner and/or bar code reader used to read the tag which may include a barcode or
equivalent indicia. Alternatively, the tag readers include tactile input devices such as
keypads or the like such that a product ID number found on the tag may be input into the
tag reader by an operator. In the embodiments described herein, the tag readers are
Radio Frequency Identification Device (RFID) tag reader and the tags are RFID tags. In
embodiments, the tags may be passive RFID tags where the tag does not allow a
read/write capability to occur within a tag memory.
 100591      In yet another embodiment, the system configuration may be such that the
tags may be active RFID tags. The active RFID tag may allow the tag readers to read the
tag's encoded information and write or overwrite information on the tags. For example,
the liquid product type information may need to be changed to correspond to a change in
type of liquid product being stored in the distribution tank 65. Or additional information
may need to be included to the encoded information such as, for example, a timestamp of

                                              -22
the last fill, the delivery vehicle ID number, the delivery company name, and / or batch
number of the liquid product, etc.
[0060]         Referring to FIG. 4, in some embodiments, the system controller 70 may
further include a loading arm sensor 250. The loading arm sensor 250 may be mounted
on the hose connector assembly 35 or the hose adaptor 133 and provides a loading arm
signal to the PGI controller 125 and/or system controller 70 to determine when the
loading arm 200, is fluidly coupled to the hose connector assembly 35 or hose adaptor
133. If the loading arm sensor 250 indicates that the loading arm 200 is not coupled to
an hose connector assembly 35, the PGI controller 125 indicates on the PGI display 140
and/or the display 80 that the delivery hose 55 is not coupled to any of the storage
compartments of the product transport vehicle 15 and the system controller 70 maintains
the valve in the normally locked state to prevent a spill.
 [00611        The operation of the crossover protection system 10 during loading and
unloading of the product transport vehicle will now be described in more detail with
specific reference to the Figures.
 10062]        Referring now to FIG. 4, a product transport vehicle 15 is schematically
depicted at a loading station. In some embodiments, the product transport vehicle 15
may arrive at the loading station completely empty. In the "empty" state, the PGI
 controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 may have the loaded liquid type in a
particular tank compartment set either by the operator using the plurality of input devices
 145 or by the FPS 130 indicating a "dry" sensor condition or the pressure sensor 135
 indicating the amount of liquid product is zero or near zero. In the later cases, the loaded
 liquid type may be set to "empty" when there is no liquid product in a particular tank
 compartment In some other embodiments, the product transport vehicle 15 may arrive
 at the loading station with at least one of the plurality of tank compartments 25 empty, as
 for example if the product transport vehicle 15 just returned from a product delivery run.
 The PGI controller 125 associated with that tank compartment 25 will indicate the last
 status from the product delivery run. For example, if the tank compartment 25 is empty,
 the PGI display 140 may indicate "empty" automatically based on readings from either
 the pressure sensor 135 or FPS 130 and without input from the operator. Otherwise, the

                                             -23
PGI display 140 will display an error code alternating message between "Prior Product
Grade", "Retained Product", and "Frustrated Load" to indicate the tank compartment 25
is not empty from the product delivery run. The error code messages are related and may
only scroll due to the limitations of the PGI display 140. The "Prior Product Grade"
message indicates what product was in the tank compartment 25. The "Retained
Product" message indicates that there is product left in the tank compartment 25, and the
"Frustrated Load" message indicates that not all of the product was delivered to the
distribution tank 65. To alert the operator to make a selection before filling the tank
compartments 25, an alerting device associated with the PGI controller may be used.
Examples of suitable alerting devices include, without limitation, an audible alert
produced by an audio device 160, a flashing message or color from the PGI display 140,
and / or a visual device, such as one or more LEDs (not shown). The alerting device may
be associated with a specific PGI controller 125 allowing the operator to easily locate
which PGI controller 125 needs attention. If the PGI controller 125 is not used on the
product transport vehicle 15, the system controller 70 may indicate the status of
 individual tank compartments 25 of the plurality of tank compartments using the above
 convention, the display 80, and an alerting device associated with the system controller
 70.
 100631       Referring to FIGS. 2, 3A, 3B, and 4, to load liquid product into the tank
 compartment 25, a loading arm coupler 200 is connected to the hose adaptor 133 of the
 hose adaptor assembly 35 to fill the corresponding tank compartment 25. The loading
 arm coupler 200 is fluidly coupled to a storage tank (not shown) of the loading station.
 In one embodiment, the PGI controller 125 may not allow the operator to load the liquid
 product into one or more of the tank compartments 25 until the loaded liquid type is
 selected as discussed above. The PGI controller 125 may receive a valve open air signal
 from an air selector valve panel (not shown) indicating the operator has tried to open an
 individual valve of the plurality of valves. The PGI controller 125 and/or the system
 controller 70 may display an error message and instruct the operator that the loaded
 liquid type is not selected or that a mismatch of liquid types may occur between the
 liquid product the operator wishes to load and a current transported liquid type already
 present in the tank compartment 25. The PGI controller 125 and/or system controller

                                             -24
may maintain the corresponding valve in the normally locked state until the PGI
controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 indicate that the loaded liquid type has
been entered and/or the loaded liquid type and the transported liquid type are the same.
Once the loaded liquid type is accepted by the PGI controller 125 and/or system
controller 70, the PGI controller and/or system controller 70 may enable the
corresponding valve to transition from the normally locked state to the unlocked state
and the operator may then manually transition the valve to open and fill the tank
compartment 25 with the liquid product.
[0064]       In embodiments, the PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 may
be communicatively coupled to the braking system of the product transport vehicle 15,
either pneumatically or electrically, as described above. In these embodiments, the
system controller 70 may require a brake signal to indicate that the parking brake on the
product transport vehicle 15 is released before loading or unloading of the liquid product
may be allowed to proceed. The PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 may
be coupled to the parking brake sensor 79 which provides the brake signal. The brake
signal is indicative of whether the brake is engaged or released. In other embodiments,
the system controller 70 may use multiple indicators to determine the product transport
vehicle's current mode of operation (i.e. loading or unloading product). These indicators
may include, for example, the brake signal, the FPS sensor signals, and the pressure
sensor signals. In a similar manner, the system controller 70 may utilize the
accelerometer signal from the accelerometer 78 to determine if the product transport
vehicle 15 is moving before allowing any of the plurality of valves to transition from the
normally locked state to the unlocked state and allow product loading/unloading to
occur. For example, if the accelerometer 78 indicates that the product transport vehicle
is moving, the system controller 70 may prevent the emergency valve 40 and/or the
control valve 45 from being transitioned from the normally locked state to the unlocked
state. Likewise, once the accelerometer 78 indicates that the transport vehicle has begun
moving, the PGI controller 125 and / or the system controller 70 may transition the valve
from the unlocked state to the normally locked state to cease any loading or unloading of
product from or to the tank compartment 25 and indicate that the current operating mode
has concluded.

                                              -25
[0065]       In one embodiment, as the tank compartment 25 is filled, the FPS 130 senses
or determines the transported liquid type of the liquid product. The identity of the liquid
product in the tank compartment 25 sensed by the FPS 130 may be indicative of at least
one of a density, a viscosity, a dielectric constant, a temperature, or combinations
thereof. The PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 reads or polls the FPS
130 to receive the transported fluid property signal indicative of the transported liquid
type of the liquid product. Based on the transported fluid property signal received from
the FPS 130, the system controller 70 determines the identity of the liquid product in the
tank compartment. In one embodiment, the system controller 70 may determine the
identity of the liquid product in the tank compartment 25 by comparing the transported
fluid property signal transmitted or read from the FPS 130 to a database or look up table
(LUT) of transported liquid type signals stored in a computer readable medium and
indexed according to liquid product type, as described above. In some embodiments, the
identity of the liquid product is stored in the computer-readable medium of the PGI
controller and/or the system controller 70 and indexed according to the associated tank
compartment 25 such that the contents of each tank compartment are recorded in the
computer-readable medium. In some other embodiments, the FPS 130 is utilized to
continuously monitor and determine the type of liquid stored in the tank compartment 25
and continuously or periodically provide the system controller 70 with a transported fluid
property signal indicative of the transported liquid type.
 [00661       If, for example, the system controller 70 determines that the transported
 liquid type from the FPS 130 does not match the loaded liquid type indicated by the
 operator through the PGI controller 125, the system controller 70 and/or the PGI
 controller 125 will either maintain the valve in the normally locked state or transition the
 valve from the unlocked state to the normally locked state, thereby closing the valve and
 stopping the flow of liquid product into the tank compartment 25. The operator may
 override the system controller 70 to manually transition the valve from the normally
 locked state to the unlocked state and continue filling the tank compartment 25.
 100671       In another embodiment, the system controller 70 or the PGI controller 125
 may mimic an error indicator of an existing control system on the product transport

                                            -26
vehicle 15 to stop the flow of liquid product into the tank compartment 25 when the
system controller 70 determines that the transported liquid type from the FPS 130 does
not matches the loaded liquid type indicated by the operator. For example, the system
controller 70 or the PGI controller 125 may stop the flow of liquid product from the
storage tank to the tank compartment 25 by mimicking an overfill condition in the tank
compartment to the onboard overfill detection system (not shown). The overfill
condition may be communicated to the onboard overfill detection system coupled to the
tank compartment 25 via an overfill condition signal. The onboard overfill detection
system monitors for an overfill condition in the individual tank compartments 25 of the
product transport vehicle 15 using a point level sensor (not shown). The point level
sensor may be positioned in the tank compartment and transmit a point signal to the
system controller 70 to indicate whether there is an overfill condition of liquid product
within the tank compartment 25.
[0068]       The onboard overfill detection system on the product transport vehicle 15 is
communicatively coupled to a loading station control system (not shown) in the loading
station. The loading station control system controls the flow of liquid product from the
storage tanks. When the system controller 70 or the PGI controller 125 determines that
the transported liquid type from the FPS 130 does not match the loaded liquid type
indicated by the operator, the overfill condition signal may be transmitted to the onboard
overfill detection system. The onboard overfill detection system will instruct the loading
station control system to cease loading liquid product onto the tank compartment 25 on
the product transport vehicle.
 [00691       In another embodiment, the system controller 70 and/or PGI controller 125
may receive a valve open signal indicating the operator has opened the emergency valve
40 and/or the control valve 45 to allow the loading of liquid product into the tank
 compartment 25. The PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 may then start
 to poll the FPS 130 to sense or determine the transported liquid type of the liquid
product. The PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 may determine the
 transported liquid type by comparing the transported liquid type signal read or
 transmitted from the FPS 130 to a database or look up table (LUT) of signals stored in a

                                              -27
computer readable medium and indexed according to liquid product type. The identity of
the liquid product is stored in the computer-readable medium of the PGI controller
and/or the system controller 70 and indexed according to the associated tank
compartment 25 such that the contents of each tank are recorded in a computer-readable
medium.
[00701       Where the liquid product is a petroleum product, the PGI controller 125
and/or system controller 70 determine whether the liquid product in the tank
compartment 25 is a distillate or gasoline liquid product. When the liquid product is
gasoline, the PGI controller and/or system controller may alert the operator to enter in
the product grade (i.e., the octane rating) of the gasoline that has been loaded into the
tank compartment 25 by flashing "Set Grade" on the PGI display. In this embodiment,
the operator may select from a variety of pre-programmed options to set the grade of the
liquid product being loaded. The PGI controller 125 electrically communicates a signal
encoding the selection to the system controller 70. The system controller 70 stores, in a
computer readable medium, the liquid product type information for the tank
compartment 25 holding the liquid product. The process is repeated as other tank
 compartments 25 are filled in the product transport vehicle 15 with either the same liquid
product or a different liquid product.
 [00711      Still referring to FIG. 4, in one embodiment, the loading arm 200 may
 include a loading arm tag 205 having the loaded liquid type encoded therein. The
 adaptor tag reader 85 may interrogate the loading arm tag 205 and transmit a first signal
 encoding a loaded liquid type to the system controller 70. The loaded liquid type
 information is received by the wireless module and recorded to a computer readable
 medium of the system controller 70. The loaded liquid type information is correlated to
 the tank compartment 25 that the liquid product is being loaded into. As the liquid
 product is being loaded into the tank compartment 25, the FPS 130 senses the transported
 liquid type and communicates a transported liquid type signal to the system controller
 70, as described above. Once the system controller 70 has determined the identity of the
 liquid product being loaded, the system controller 70 may either send a signal to the PGI
 controller 125 indicative of the transported liquid type as determined with the FPS 130

                                             -28
for indication on the PGI display 140 and/or make the determination of the transported
liquid type matches the loaded liquid type. In this embodiment, the loaded liquid type
may either be derived from the loading arm tag 205 or from operator input into the PGI
controller 125. For example, when the liquid product is a liquid petroleum product, the
PGl display 140 may display either "Distillate Detected" or "Gasoline Detected.".
[0072]       Where gasoline is detected, the PGI controller 125 may prompt the user to
"Set Grade", as noted above. In this embodiment, the operator may select from a variety
of pre-programmed options to set the grade of the liquid product being loaded. The PGI
controller 125 then communicates a grade signal encoding a grade selection to the
system controller 70. The system controller 70 compares the grade selection to the
loading arm tag 205 loaded liquid type to confirm a match. The system controller 70
stores, in a computer readable medium, the transported liquid type for the tank
compartment 25 holding the liquid product based on either the loaded liquid type or the
transported liquid type sensed by the FPS 130. The process is repeated as other tank
compartments 25 are filled in the product transport vehicle 15 with either the same liquid
product or a different liquid product.
[00731       If the liquid product information from the tags does not match the transported
liquid type indicated by the FPS 130 or does not match the loaded liquid type from the
operator's input, the system controller 70 may disable the transition of the valve from the
normally locked state to the unlocked state to prevent the flow of liquid product into the
tank compartment 25. The PGI controller 125 may also indicate an error on the PGI
display 140 when a match is not made to warn the operator or the system controller 70
may indicate the error on the display 80. The indication may be an audible signal, visual
display, etc. as described below. In embodiments, the operator may override the system
controller 70 to enable the transition of the valve from the normally locked state to the
unlocked state and continue filling the tank compartment 25.
[00741       FIG. 5 schematically depicts the product transport vehicle 15 at a distribution
facility unloading liquid product into a first distribution tank 65a and a second
distribution tank 65b from a first tank compartment 25a and a second tank compartment
25b, respectively. The operator initially chooses which tank compartment (e.g. the first

                                               -29
tank compartment 25a or the second tank compartment 25b) from which the first
distribution tank 65a and the second distribution tank 65b will be filled. If the first tank
compartment 25a is chosen to fill the first distribution tank 65a, the operator may fluidly
couple a first delivery hose 55a to a first hose adaptor 133a corresponding to the first
tank compartment 25a. The operator then fluidly couples a first tank delivery connector
60a to the first delivery hose 55a and fluidly couples the first tank delivery connector 60a
to the first distribution tank 65a. The operator may repeat similar steps to fill the second
distribution tank 65b from the second tank compartment 25b with either the same liquid
product type or a different liquid product type.
 [0075]        In some embodiments, the system controller 70 may confirm that each
delivery hose is properly connected to the distribution tank and a tank compartment, as
described hereinabove. In these embodiments, the system controller 70 prevents the
 discharge or unloading of product from any tank compartment until at least one
 connection is confirmed. This is accomplished by maintaining all the valves coupled to
 the tank compartments in a normally locked state until the connections are confirmed.
 10076]        The first tank compartment 25a is now fluidly connected to the first hose
 adaptor 133a, the first delivery hose 55a, the first tank delivery connector 60a, and the
 first distribution tank 65a. Similarly, the second tank compartment 25b is now fluidly
 connected to the second hose adaptor 133b, the second delivery hose 55b, the second
 tank delivery connector 60b, and the second distribution tank 65b. The system controller
 70 then confirms that the fluid connections will not cross-contaminate the liquid products
 stored in the respective distribution tanks.
 100771        In one embodiment, the process of product verification begins when the tank
 delivery connectors 60a, 60b are locked on to the corresponding distribution tank. For
 example, in one embodiment, the tank delivery connectors 60a, 60b may include a
 locking lever and a lock sensor, as described above, and power to the tank tag reader 95
 is only be provided when the locking lever is in the locked position. Once the first
 locking lever 710a is in the locked position, the first tank tag reader 95a interrogates a
 first tank tag 1 10a to retrieve the liquid product type, and other information encoded on
 the first tank tag 1 10a. Alternatively, the operator may manually actuate a switch on the

                                             -30
first tank delivery connector 60a to manually wake-up a first tank tag reader 95a. Once
the first tank tag reader 95a is powered on, the first tank tag reader 95a interrogates the
first tank tag 110 and transmits a stored liquid type signal indicative of the stored liquid
type to the system controller 70. The first tank tag reader 95a may use a first tank
connector antenna 115a to transmit the stored liquid type signal to the system controller
70.
[0078]        The system controller 70 may be configured to communicated with a limited
number of tank tag readers. For example, the first tank tag reader 95a and the second
tank tag reader 95b may be registered with the system controller 70. The registration of
one or more tank tag readers to the system controller may eliminate any cross-talk with
other tank tag readers from other product delivery trucks at the same distribution station.
 [00791        The system controller 70 receives the stored liquid product type signal from
the first tank delivery connector 60a and stores it in the computer-readable medium. The
system controller 70 may then compare the stored liquid type to the transported liquid
type contained in any of the tank compartments of the product transport vehicle to
 determine if a match is present. If the system controller 70 determines that any tank
 compartment contains a transported liquid type matching that of the stored liquid type,
 the system controller 70 transitions the corresponding valve of that tank compartment
 from the normally locked state to the unlocked state, thereby allowing liquid product to
be released from the corresponding tank compartment. However, if the system controller
 70 determines that a tank compartment does not contain a transported liquid type
 matching that of the stored liquid type, the system controller 70 maintains the
 corresponding valve of that tank compartment in the normally locked state, thereby
 preventing the release of liquid product from the tank compartment.
 100801       Once the system controller 70 has determined that at least one tank
 compartment contains a transported liquid type that matches the stored liquid type and
 transitioned the corresponding valve to an unlocked state, the operator may operate the
 air selector valve for that tank compartment (in this example, the first tank compartment
 25a) from an air selector valve panel (not shown) to manually (e.g. physically) open the
 valve and allow the flow of the liquid product from the first tank compartment 25a.

                                             -31
[0081]        In some embodiments, the system controller 70 may require the first PGI
controller 125a and/or the system controller 70 to receive a valve open air signal from an
air selector valve panel (not shown) indicating the operator has opened the valve to
release the product from the first tank compartment 25a. In this embodiment, the system
controller 70 may prevent any other valves corresponding to any other tank
compartments from being opened until the valve from the first tank compartment 25a has
been physically closed after being opened (although it should be understood that the
valve may remain in either the unlocked state or be transitioned to the normally unlocked
state). Once the valve corresponding to the first tank compartment 25a has been
physically closed, the system controller 70 may allow the operator to repeat similar steps
to fill the second distribution tank 65b from the second tank compartment 25b with either
the same liquid product type or a different liquid product type.
 [00821       In some embodiments, if the system controller 70 detects a liquid product
mismatch during one or more of the above connection sequences, it may provide the
operator with a visual and/or audible warning. For example, in some embodiments the
system controller 70 may instruct the first PGI controller 125a or the second PGI
controller 125b to display a warning to the operator. In some embodiments, the first PGI
controller 125a and/or the second PGI controller 125b may provide an audible alert
produced by an alerting device, a flashing message or color from the PGI display, and /
or a visual device, such as one or more LEDs, to notify the operator of the liquid product
mismatch. In another embodiment, the system controller 70 may alert the operator if a
mismatch is determined. The system controller 70 may alert the operator via the display
 80, an audible alert produced by an alerting device, a flashing message or color from the
 display 80, and / or a visual device, such as one or more LEDs, to notify the operator of
the liquid product mismatch.
 [00831       Referring to FIGS. 1, 2, and 5, in one embodiment, the FPS 130 may be
positioned in the pipe connection 50, as described above. When, the pipe connection 50
 is dry, such as when there is no liquid in either the pipe connection 50 or the
 corresponding tank compartment 25 after the tank compartment 25 was initially loaded
 through the manlid 30 the FPS 130 may transmit, or alternately the system controller 70

                                              -32
may read, a pipe condition signal indicative of a pipe condition (i.e., the FPS 130 is
unable to determine the status and/or type of the liquid). Upon receipt of this signal, the
PGI controller 125 and/or the system controller 70 indicates on the PGI display 140, or
alternately the display 80, that the FPS 130 is not able to determine the transported liquid
type in the tank compartment 25. For example, the fluid product type matching process
may be initiated by waking-up the first tank tag reader 95a, as described above. The first
tank tag reader 95a interrogates the first tank tag 1 Oa to retrieve the stored liquid type
indicative of the liquid product in the first distribution tank 65a and transmits the stored
liquid type signal encoding the stored liquid type to the system controller 70. The
system controller 70 then transitions the valves corresponding to each tank compartment
to the unlocked state from the normally locked state. This condition allows the operator
system controller to flood the pipe connection 50 with liquid product from the first tank
compartment 25a by opening the emergency valve 40. The FPS 130 associated with the
now flooded pipe connection 50 corresponding to the first tank compartment 25a
determines the transported liquid type of the liquid product in each of the tank
compartments and sends transported liquid type signals for each of the compartments to
the system controller 70. Once the system controller 70 has determined the transported
liquid type of each tank compartment, the system controller 70 compares the transported
liquid type to the stored liquid type in each of the distribution tanks 65a. For each tank
compartment which contains a transported liquid type which matches the stored liquid
type, the system controller transitions the control valve corresponding to each
compartment with the matching transported liquid type from a normally locked state to
an unlocked state to allow the unloading of the liquid product from the compartment by
the operator. For those tank compartments in which the transported liquid type and the
stored liquid type do not match, the system controller 70 will maintain the corresponding
control valve in the normally locked state to ensure that the liquid product from tank
compartment is not unloaded and may also alert the operator to the mismatch.
[0084]       In embodiments where the FPS 130 is positioned in the tank compartment,
this procedure to flood the pipe connection 50 may not be needed.

                                             -33
[00851        As indicated above, in some embodiments the system controller 70
transitions the valves corresponding to each tank compartment from the normally locked
state to the unlocked state by the operator when the tank compartment is determined to
contain a transported liquid type which matches the stored liquid type in a distribution
tank. The transition from the normally locked state to the unlocked state allows the
operator to then control the unloading of the liquid product manually by opening or
closing an air selector valve on an air selector valve panel. The air selector valve panel
may be utilized to physically open or close a valve corresponding to a tank compartment
which contains transported liquid product matching the stored liquid type of a
 distribution tank. In other words, liquid product from a particular tank compartment may
not be unloaded from the tank compartment 25 if the system controller 70 has not
 transitioned a corresponding valve from a normally locked state to an unlocked state and
 the operator physically opens the valve utilizing the air selector.
 [00861        Referring to FIGS. 1, 2, and 3A, if the FPS 130 indicates a dry status (i.e.,
 there is no liquid product in the tank compartment 25), the PGI controller 125 will
 display an "empty" status. If the FPS 130 indicates a wet status, the accelerometer
 indicates the product transport vehicle 15 is in motion, and/or the parking brake is
 released, the PGI controller 125 may display a warning. For example, in one
 embodiment, the PGI controller 125 may display "Prior Product Grade" and "Retained
 Product" and "Frustrated Load" in alternating messages and prevent the valve of the
 plurality of valves corresponding to the tank compartment 25 from being opened and the
 product unloading and / or loading process from proceeding when the product transport
  vehicle is in motion and/or the parking brake is released.
  100871       The system controller 70 may display an "unloading" status in the display 80
  as the liquid product is being unloaded from the tank compartment 25 into the
  distribution tank 65. The FPS 130 may monitor the liquid product and transmit to the
  system controller 70 a wet status or a dry status. The system controller 70 may use the
  wet status and the dry status to update the computer-readable medium with information
  on whether any liquid product remains in the tank compartment 25 after unloading is
  complete.

                                              -34
[00881       Referring now to FIG. 9, a fleet management system 600 is shown. The fleet
management system 600 manages individual product transport vehicles 15 of a plurality
of product transport vehicles as they travel about a geographic region. The size of the
geographic region may depend on the ability of the individual product transport vehicles
15 to communicate with a base station 605. For example, a radio communication system
may only provide a geographic region of about 50 miles, whereas a cellular
communication system may have a geographic region that is nationwide. Further, a
satellite communication system may allow for a geographic region that is worldwide.
[0089]        Referring not to FIGS. 1 and 9, to communicate with the base station 605, the
individual product transport vehicles 15 of the plurality of product transport vehicles may
include a global position system (GPS) antenna 610 and a transmitter antenna 615
conununicatively coupled to the system controller 70. The system controller 70 receives
from the GPS antenna a location signal indicative of a current location of the individual
product transport vehicles 15 of the plurality of product transport vehicles. The
transmitter antenna 615 may be a radio antenna, a cellular antenna, a satellite antenna or
any antenna that matches the communication protocol (radio, cellular, satellite, etc.) of
the communication system between the individual product transport vehicles 15 of the
plurality of product transport vehicles and the base station 605.
 100901       The system controller 70 may transmit, using the transmitter antenna 615, an
 ID signal indicative of the current location and a product transport vehicle ID to the base
 station 605 at regular intervals to allow a fleet system controller 620 to receive the ID
 signal and track the current location and product transport vehicle ID of the individual
 product transport vehicles 15 of the plurality of product transport vehicles. In another
 embodiment, the system controller 70 may transmit the ID signal only when the
 individual product transport vehicles 15 of the plurality of product transport vehicles is at
 a distribution station and/or unloading a tank compartment 25.
  [0091]      The base station 605 may include a receiver antenna 625 coupled to the base
 station 605 and communicatively coupled to the transmitter antenna 615 on the
  individual product transport vehicles 15 of the plurality of product transport vehicles.
 The fleet system controller 620 may be communicatively coupled to the receiver antenna

                                              -35
625 and a fleet display 630. The fleet system controller 620 may include a processor and
a storage medium containing computer readable and executable instructions which, when
executed by the processor, cause the fleet system controller 620 to automatically: receive
the current location of the individual product transport vehicles 15 of the plurality of
product transport vehicles; receive the vehicle identification; and record the current
location and the vehicle identification on the storage medium.
100921       Still referring to FIGS. 1 and 9, the system controller 70 may have a look-up
table of stored locations of a plurality distribution tank 65 locations, the individual
distribution tank locations indicated by GPS coordinates. The look-up table may also
include the proper stored liquid type of the distribution tanks 65 at each stored location.
In another embodiment, the system controller 70 may receive a stored location signal
indicative of the stored location of the distribution tank 65. The stored location signal
may originate with the base station 605 and be in response to receiving the ID signal with
the individual product transport vehicles 15 current location. In both embodiments
described above, the stored location may include the GPS coordinates of the distribution
tank 65, a location liquid type indicative of the liquid product within the distribution tank
65, and other identifiable information, such as for example, the mailing address of the
distribution station in which the distribution tank 65 is located, contact information for
the responsible party for the distribution tank 65, emergency contact information, and the
like. The information indicated by the stored location may be displayed on the display
80 or the PGI display 140 (FIG. 3A) for the operator's use.
[0093]       The system controller 70 may compare the current location indicated by the
location signal from the GPS antenna 610 to the stored location GPS coordinates to
determine which distribution tanks 65 are at the current location. From that
determination, the system controller 70 may compare the location liquid type to either
the stored liquid type transmitted by the tank tag reader 95 or the transported liquid type
indicated by the FPS 130. From either of those comparisons, if they match, the system
controller may either enable the transition of the valve of the plurality of valves
corresponding to the tank compartment 25 to allow the unloading of the liquid product
from the tank compartment 25 by the operator or transition the valve of the plurality of

                                             -36
valves corresponding to the tank compartment 25 to the unlocked state from the normally
locked state. If, either of those comparisons indicates a mis-match, the system controller
70 may disable the valve of the plurality of valves corresponding to the tank
compartment 25 from transitioning from the normally locked state to the unlocked state.
[0094]        The outcome of the comparisons described above between the stored liquid
type (either from the tank tag or operator input), location liquid type, and the transported
liquid type, may be transmitted to the base station 605 to be recorded on the computer
readable medium by the fleet system controller 620. Specifically, the system controller
70 may transmit, using the transmitter antenna 615, a lock data signal indicative of lock
data. The lock data may include the comparison results, the current state of individual
valves of the plurality of valves, whether liquid product is or was unloaded, the amount
of liquid product in each tank compartment 25, and whether the operator has override the
system controller 70.
[0095]        The location of the system controller 70 as shown in the FIGS. 1, 2, 4, 5, and
9 are for illustration purposes only and may be mounted in any location on the product
transport vehicle 15. Furthermore, the product transport vehicle 15 may have more than
one transportation tank and the product transport vehicle 15 may be a fuel truck, an
aircraft, or a ship and/or boat.
 [0096]       The crossover protection system 10 provides an automatic check and/or
intervention to prevent the mixing of dissimilar products at a distribution station 60. The
crossover protection system 10 uses the FPS 130 to positively identify the product make
a determination if the products match before allowing the products to mix in the
distribution tank 65. Accordingly, human interaction or intervention to identify the
product is not required.
 [0097]       The present disclosure may be embodied in hardware and/or in software
(including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.). The system controller 70 may
have at least one processor and the computer-readable medium. A computer-usable or
the computer-readable medium may be any medium that can contain, store,

                                             -37
conmmunicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the
instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.
10098]       The computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be, for example but
not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or
semiconductor system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium. More specific
examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer-readable medium would include the
following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer
diskette, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable
programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, and a
portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM). Note that the computer-usable or
computer-readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which
the program is printed, as the program can be electronically captured, via, for instance,
optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted, or otherwise
processed in a suitable manner, if necessary, and then stored in a computer memory.
 10099]      Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure
may be written in a high-level programming language, such as C or C++, for
development convenience. In addition, computer program code for carrying out
operations of the present disclosure may also be written in other programming languages,
such as, but not limited to, interpreted languages. Some modules or routines may be
written in assembly language or even micro-code to enhance performance and/or
memory usage. However, software embodiments of the present disclosure do not depend
on implementation with a particular programming language. It will be further
appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be
 implemented using discrete hardware components, one or more application specific
 integrated circuits (ASICs), or a programmed digital signal processor or microcontroller.
 [0100]      While particular embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it
 should be understood that various other changes and modifications may be made without
 departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. Moreover, although
various aspects of the claimed subject matter have been described herein, such aspects
 need not be utilized in combination. It is therefore intended that the appended claims

                                                   - 38
cover all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of the claimed subject
matter.
[0101]          Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits,
the term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
integers.
[0102]          Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an
admission that such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.

                                                 - 39
Claims
1.      A method for preventing the mixing of dissimilar liquid products, comprising:
        coupling a tank delivery connector to a distribution side of a valve coupled to a tank
compartment of a product delivery vehicle;
        sensing when a lock mechanism of the tank delivery connector secures the tank delivery
connector to a distribution tank with a lock sensor;
        when the lock mechanism secures the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank as
indicated by the lock sensor, interrogating a tank tag coupled to the distribution tank with a tank
tag reader of the tank delivery connector in order to retrieve a stored liquid type encoded on the
tank tag, wherein the stored liquid type is indicative of a type of liquid product stored in the
distribution tank;
        when the lock mechanism secures the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank as
indicated by the lock sensor, transmitting to a system controller a stored liquid type signal
indicative of the stored liquid type of the distribution tank;
        receiving at the system controller the stored liquid type signal;
        determining the stored liquid type based on the stored liquid type signal;
        receiving at the system controller a transported fluid property signal from a fluid property
sensor positioned to contact liquid product stored in the tank compartment, the transported fluid
property signal being indicative of at least one of a viscosity, density, dielectric constant, and
temperature of the liquid product in the tank compartment;
        determining a transported liquid type of the liquid product in the tank compartment based
on the transported fluid property signal;
         comparing the transported liquid type to the stored liquid type;
        maintaining the valve in a normally locked state when the stored liquid type and the
transported liquid type do not match to prevent the flow of liquid product from the tank
compartment; and
         transitioning the valve from the normally locked state to an unlocked state when the
 stored liquid type and the transported liquid type match, thereby permitting the flow of liquid
product from the tank compartment.

                                                 - 40
2.         The method of claim 1, wherein the valve is a control valve or an emergency valve.
3.         The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying at least one of the stored liquid
type of the distribution tank and the transported liquid type of the liquid product in the tank
compartment on a display electrically coupled to the system controller.
4.       The method of claim 1, further comprising fluidly coupling a delivery hose to the
distribution tank such that the tank delivery connector is fluidly coupled to the delivery hose and
fluidly coupled to the distribution tank.
 5.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         locking the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank with the lock mechanism,
wherein the lock mechanism includes a locking lever with a locked position and an unlocked
position, the lock mechanism mechanically securing the tank delivery connector to the
 distribution tank; and
         transmitting a delivery connector locked signal to the system controller when the locking
 lever is in the locked position and the tank delivery connector is secured to the distribution tank.
 6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the computer readable and executable instructions, when
 executed by the processor, further cause the system controller to:
          receive the delivery connector locked signal, and
          enable the valve to transition from the normally locked state to the unlocked state.
 7.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          locking the tank delivery connector to the distribution tank with the lock mechanism such
 that the lock mechanism mechanically secures the tank delivery connector to the distribution
 tank;
          actuating a switch electrically coupled to a power supply and the tank tag reader; and
          transmitting the stored liquid type signal to the system controller when the switch is
  actuated.
  8.      The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving at the system controller a tank
  delivery ID signal indicating an identity of the tank delivery connector from the tank tag reader.

                                                 -41
 9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         coupling the tank compartment to the tank delivery connector with a delivery hose, the
 delivery hose comprising a lock tag at a lock end of the delivery hose and a connector hose tag at
 a connector end of the delivery hose, wherein the lock tag and the connector hose tag are
encoded with a first hose ID;
         interrogating the lock tag of the delivery hose at the lock end with an adaptor tag reader
communicatively coupled to the system controller and positioned on a hose adaptor coupled to
the tank compartment;
         sending an adaptor signal indicative of the first hose ID to the system controller with the
adaptor tag reader;
         interrogating the connector hose tag at the connector end of the delivery hose with a hose
tag reader communicatively coupled to the system controller and positioned on the tank delivery
connector;
         sending a hose signal indicative of the first hose ID to the system controller with the hose
tag reader;
        receiving at the system controller the hose signal indicative of the first hose ID from the
hose tag reader;
        receiving at the system controller the adaptor signal indicative of the first hose ID from
the adaptor tag reader;
        enabling the valve to transition from the normally locked state to the unlocked state when
both the hose signal and the adaptor signal are received; and
        maintaining the valve in the normally locked state when at least one of the hose signal
and the adaptor signal are not received.
 10.    The method of claim 1, further comprising inputting a loaded liquid into a product grade
indicator (PGI) controller communicatively coupled to the system controller, the PGI controller
comprising an input device.
 11.    The method of claim 10, further comprising indicating the loaded liquid type and the
transported liquid type in the tank compartment on a display communicatively coupled to the
PGI controller.

                                                 - 42
 12.     The method of claim 10, further comprising preventing the flow of loaded liquid product
into the tank compartment with the valve when the loaded liquid type and the transported liquid
type do not match.
 13.     The method of claim 10, further comprising allowing the flow of loaded liquid product
into the tank compartment with the valve when the loaded liquid type and the transported liquid
type match.
 14.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         sensing an amount of liquid product present in the tank compartment with a pressure
sensor positioned in the tank compartment; and
         transmitting a pressure signal to the system controller indicative of the sensed amount of
 liquid product present in the tank compartment.
 15.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          sensing an overfill condition of liquid product within the tank compartment with a point
 level sensor positioned in the tank compartment; and
         transmitting a point signal to the system controller indicating whether there is the overfill
 condition of liquid product within the tank compartment; and
          stopping the flow of loaded liquid product from a liquid product loading station into the
 tank compartment with the overfill detection system when the loaded liquid type and the
 transported liquid type do not match.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
