                                     ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a composition for preventing or treating diabetes,
disbesity or diabetic complications, comprising an oxyntomodulin analog as an active
ingredient. The invention also relates to a method for treating diabetes, diabesity or
diabetic complications, comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount
of an oxyntomodulin analog to a subject. The oxyntomodulin analog has a high ability
to activate the GLP-1 receptor and the glucagon receptor, compared to native
oxyntomodulin. The oxyntomodulin analog induces the expansion of beta-cells and
increases insulin secretion, thereby reducing blood glucose levels that were
increased due to a high-calorie and high-fat diet. The oxyntomodulin analog induces
decreases in body weight and diet intake to improve insulin sensitivity and allow
blood glucose levels, which are not controlled due to insulin resistance, to be
maintained at normal levels. Thus, the oxyntomoduin analog can be effectively used
to prevent or treat of diabetes and related diseases.
             m Vehicle
             0 Victoza 60rnolIkg(Dietes)
            M Victoza 10nmolIkg(Obesity)
             W Seq IDNo.23-Fc conjugate 15nmollkg
             M Seq IDNo.25-Fc conjugate Snmollkg
  -200
 -U

   WO 2014/073845                                     PCT/KR2013/009990
[Fig. 4]
                    Vehicle
                    Victoza 6rmollkg(Diabetes)
                    Victoza 100lnmol/kg(Obesity)
                    Seq IDNo.23-Fc conjugate 15nmol/kg
                    Seq IDNo.25-Fc conjugate 6nmol/kg
    > 20000
  1      15000    i
   E
       S10000-

    WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
                                        Description
       Title of Invention: A COMPOSITION FOR TREATING
 DIABETES OR DIABESITY COMPRISING OXYNTOMODULIN
                                           ANALOG
        Technical Field
[1]       The present invention relates to a composition for preventing or treating diabetes,
        diabesity or diabetic complications, the composition comprising an oxyntomodulin
        analog as an active ingredient. Moreover, the present invention relates to a method for
        preventing or treating diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications, the method
        comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of an oxyntomodulin
        analog to a subject.
        Background Art
[2]       In recent years, in Korea, the intake of fats from foods has increased due to economic
        growth and the westernization of eating habits, and metabolic diseases such as hyper
        lipidemia, obesity, diabetes, hypertension, arteriosclerosis, and fatty liver disease,
        which are caused by a lack of exercise, have increased.
[3]       Diabetes is a kind of metabolic disease in which insulin secretion is insufficient or
        normal functions are not made (DeFronzo, 1988). Diabetes is characterized by
        increased blood glucose levels that cause various conditions and syndromes. In the
        case of diabetes, glucose is excreted with urine. In recent years, due to an increase in
        obesity, particularly abdominal obesity, the incidence of diabetes has explosively
        increased.
[4]       Worldwide, the number of diabetic patients was estimated to be 170 million in the
        year 2000 and expected to reach 370 million in the year 2030. However, a recent report
        showed that the number of diabetes already reached about 350 million worldwide in
        the year 2008 (Danaei et al., 2011), and thus it is much larger than expected. It was
        reported that about 80% or more of type 2 diabetic patients were obese, whereas only
        less than 10% of obese patients were diabetic (Harris et al,. 1987). This relationship
        between diabetes and obesity is because fatty acids are accumulated in beta-cells or
        insulin-sensitive tissues such as the kidneys, the liver or the heart due to irregular
        secretion of adipokines and free fatty acids, resulting in lipotoxicity.
[5]       If a chronic hyperglycemic condition is not suitably treated, it leads to various
        pathological conditions in the body. Typically, it increases the risk of retinopathy,
        renal dysfunction, neuropathy, stroke caused by vascular disorder, kidney or heart
        diseases, diabetic foot ulcer, and cardiovascular disease. Such complications reduce the
        quality of life, and eventually reduce the life expectancy of diabetic patients. Thus, to

    WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
        prevent diabetic complications, the effective control of blood glucose levels is
        essential.
[6]       Current methods that are used to control blood glucose levels include lifestyle modi
        fication (diet therapy or exercise therapy) and drug therapy. However, diet therapy or
        exercise therapy is difficult to control and implement strictly, and the therapeutic effect
        thereof is also insufficient. Thus, most diabetic patients rely on lifestyle modification
        together with the control of blood glucose levels by drugs such as insulin, insulin
        secretion stimulators, insulin sensitivity enhancers, and blood glucose level lowering
        agents.
[7]       Insulin that is produced by recombination methods is an essential drug for type 1
        diabetic patients and type 2 diabetic patients whose blood glucose levels are not
        controlled, and it is advantageous for controlling blood glucose levels. However, it has
        shortcomings, including a fearful feeling for hypodermic needles, difficulty in admin
        istration, risk of hypoglycaemia, and an increase in weight.
[8]       Meglitinides that are insulin secretion stimulators are drugs having a very quick
        effect, are taken befor meals, and include NovoNorm (repaglinide), Fastic
        (nateglinide), Glufast (mitiglinide), etc. Insulin sensitivity enhancers are characterized
        in that they cause little or no hypoglycaemia when being taken alone, and examples
        thereof include metformin that is a biguanide drug, thiazolidinedione drugs such as
        Avandia (rosiglitazone), Actos (pioglitazone), etc.
[9]       Drugs that were recently developed include GLP- 1 agonists developed based on the
        action of glucagon-like peptide- 1, a hormone that stimulates insulin secretion, and
        examples of the GLP- 1 agonists include exenatide and liraglutide. In addition, DPP-4
        inhibitors are also recently developed new drugs, which inhibit the activity of DPP-4
        (dipeptidyl peptidase-4), an enzyme that rapidly inactivates GLP-1, and typical
        examples thereof include Januvia (sitagliptin).
[10]      However, these drugs were reported to have side effects, including hepatotoxicity,
        gastrointestinal disorder, cardiovascular disease and carcinogenesis, and the annual
        cost for treatment of diabetes is also high, and thus is an obstacle in the treatment of
        diabetes. Indeed, the cost associated with pre-diabetes and diabetes reached about 200
        trillion Won in the USA in the year 2007 (Dall et al., 2010), and the cost associated
        with obesity also reached 150 trillion Won in the USA in the year 2008 (Finkelstein et
        al., 2009).
[11]      Thus, there is an urgent need for the development of drugs, which can be used to
        treat both diabetes and diabesity by reducing weight and effectively lowering blood
        glucose levels and, at the same time, and have less side effects.
[12]      As a candidate for such drugs, oxyntomodulin has recently received attention. Oxyn
        tomodulin is produced from pre-glucagon, a precursor, and is a peptide that can bind to

    WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
        both glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucagon receptor to perform dual function.
        Because of such characteristics, oxyntomodulin has been studied for various purposes,
        including the treatment of obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia and fatty liver disease.
[13]      However, oxyntomodulin has a problem in that it should be administered at a high
        dose, because it has a short half-life invivo and the activity thereof is insufficient for
        use in the treatment of obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia and fatty liver disease.
        Disclosure of Invention
        Technical Problem
[14]      The present inventors have developed an oxyntomodulin analog having increased
        activity compared to native oxyntomodulin and have found that the oxyntomodulin
        analog reduces blood glucose levels, improve glucose tolerance and increases the ratio
        of glycated hemoglobin (HbAlc) in a high-fat diet-induced (HF DIO) mouse model
        and a diabetic mouse (db/db) model induced by a mutation in the leptin receptor, in
        dicating that the oxyntomodulin analog can be effectively used for the treatment of
        diabetes, diabesity and diabetic complications, thereby completing the present
        invention.
        Solution to Problem
[15]      It is an object of the present invention to provide a composition for preventing or
        treating diabetes, diabesity and diabetic complications, comprising an oxyntomodulin
        analog as an active ingredient.
[16]      Another object of the present invention is to provide a method for preventing or
        treating diabetes, diabesity and diabetic complications, comprising administering a
        pharmaceutically effective amount of an oxyntomodulin analog to a subject.
[17]      Still another object of the present invention is to provide the use of the oxyn
        tomodulin analog of the present invention in the preparation of a medicament for
        preventing or treating diabetes, diabesity and diabetic complications.
        Advantageous Effects of Invention
[18]      The oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention has a high activity to activate
        GLP-lreceptor and glucagon receptor compared to native oxyntomodulin. Further, the
        oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention induces the expansion of beta-cells and
        increases insulin secretion, thereby reducing blood glucose levels that were increased
        by a high-calorie and high-fat diet. In addition, the oxyntomodulin analog induces
        decreases in body weight and diet intake to improve insulin sensitivity and allow blood
        glucose levels, which are not controlled due to insulin resistance, to be maintained at
        normal levels. Thus, the oxyntomodulin analog can be effectively used for the
        prevention or treatment of diabetes and related diseases.
        Brief Description of Drawings

    WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
[19]      FIG. 1 is a graphic diagram showing the change in body weight caused by admin
        istration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin analog in mice with obesity induced by high
        fat diet for a long period of time (26 weeks). The change in body weight was expressed
        as a percentage relative to the body weight measured at day 0.
[20]      FIG. 2 is a graphic diagram showing an AUC (area under curve) for the change in
        blood glucose level caused by administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin analog in
        mice with obesity induced by high-fat diet for a long period of time (26 weeks).
[21]      FIG. 3 is a graphic diagram showing the 4-week change in body weight caused by
        4-week administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin analog in a mouse model with
        diabetes induced by a mutation in the leptin receptor.
[22]      FIG. 4 is a graphic diagram showing an AUC (area under curve) for the change in
        blood glucose level caused by 4-week administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin
        analog in a mouse model with diabetes induced by a mutation in the leptin receptor.
        Best Mode for Carrying out the Invention
[23]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a composition for preventing or treating
        diabetes, diabesity and diabetic complications, comprising an oxyntomodulin analog as
        an active ingredient.
[24]      As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin" refers to a peptide produced from pre
        glucagon that is a precursor of glucagon. In the present invention, oxyntomodulin is
        meant to include native oxyntomodulin and its precursor, analog, fragments and
        variants. Preferably, oxyntomodulin has an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1
        (HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA).
[25]      As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin variant" is a peptide that has one or more
        amino acid residues different from those of the amino acid sequence of native oxyn
        tomodulin and possesses a function of activating GLP- 1 and glucagon receptors. The
        oxyntomodulin variant can be prepared by any one of substitution, addition, deletion,
        modification, or a combination thereof of some amino acids of native oxyntomodulin.
[26]      As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin analog" refers to a peptide, peptide
        derivative or peptide mimic, which is prepared by the addition, deletion or substitution
        of some amino acids of native oxyntomodulin and can highly activate both GLP- 1
        receptor and glucagon receptor, compared to native oxyntomodulin.
[27]      As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin fragment" refers to a fragment having an
        addition or deletion of one or more amino acids at the amino or carboxyl terminal end
        of native oxyntomodulin, in which the added amino acids may also be non-naturally
        occurring amino acids (e.g., D-type amino acid). This oxyntomodulin fragments has a
        function of regulating blood glucose levels invivo.
[28]      Methods for preparing the oxyntomodulin variant, analog and fragment may be used

    WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
        alone or in combination. For example, the present invention includes a peptide, which
        has one or more amino acids different from those of native peptide, has deaminated
        amino acid residues at the N-terminus and has a function of activating both GLP- 1
        receptor and glucagon receptor.
[29]      Amino acids mentioned herein are abbreviated according to the nomenclature rules
        of IUPAC-IUB as follows:
[30]
[31]      Alanine A; Arginine R;
[32]      Asparagine N; Aspartic acid D;
[33]      Cysteine C; Glutamic acid E;
[34]      Glutamine   Q; Glycine  G;
[35]      Histidine H; Isoleucine I;
[36]      Leucine L; Lysine K;
[37]      Methionine M; Phenylalanine F
[38]      Proline P; Serine S;
[39]      Threonine T; Tryptophan W;
[40]      Tyrosine Y; Valine V.
[41]
[42]      In the present invention, the oxyntomodulin analog encompasses any peptide that is
        prepared by the substitution, addition, deletion or post-translational modification (e.g.,
        methylation, acylation, ubiquitination, or intramolecular covalent bonding) of amino
        acids in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and can activate both the glucagon
        and GLP- 1 receptors. Upon substitution or addition of amino acids, not only 20 amino
        acids commonly found in human proteins, but also atypical or non-naturally occurring
        amino acids can be used. Commercial sources of atypical amino acids include Sigma
        Aldrich, ChemPep Inc., and Genzyme Pharmaceuticals. The peptides including these
        amino acids and atypical peptide sequences may be synthesized and purchased from
        commercial suppliers, for example, American Peptide Company or Bachem (USA) or
        Anygen (Korea).
[43]      In a specific embodiment of the present invention, the oxyntomodulin analog of the
        present invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
        formula 1:
[44]
[45]      Formula 1
[46]      Ri-X1-X2-GTFTSD-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-X10-X 11-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16
        X17-X18-X19-X20-X21-X22-X23-X24-R2
[47]      wherein
[48]      RI is histidine, desamino-histidyl, dimethyl-histidyl (N-dimethyl-histidyl), beta-

    WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
        hydroxyimidazopropionyl, 4-imidazoacetyl, beta-carboxy imidazopropionyl or
        tyrosine;
[49]      X1 is Aib (aminosiobutyric acid), d-alanine, glycine, Sar (N-methylglycine), serine
        or d-serine;
[50]      X2 is glutamic acid or glutamine;
[51]      X3 is leucine or tyrosine;
[52]      X4 is serine or alanine;
[53]      X5 is lysine or arginine;
[54]      X6 is glutamine or tyrosine;
[55]      X7 is leucine or methionine;
[56]      X8 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
[57]      X9 is glutamic acid, serine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[58]      X10 is glutamine, glutamic acid, lysine, arginine or serine or is deleted;
[59]      X1I is alanine, arginine or valine or is deleted;
[60]      X12 is alanine, arginine, serine or valine or is deleted;
[61]      X13 is lysine, glutamine, arginine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[62]      X14 is aspartic acid, glutamic acid or leucine or is deleted;
[63]      X15 is phenylalanine or is deleted;
[64]      X16 is isoleucine or valine or is deleted;
[65]      X17 is alanine, cysteine, glutamic acid, lysine, glutamine or alpha-methyl-glutamic
        acid or is deleted;
[66]      X18 is tryptophan or is deleted;
[67]      X19 is alanine, isoleucine, leucine, serine or valine or is deleted;
[68]      X20 is alanine, lysine, methionine, glutamine or arginine or is deleted;
[69]      X21 is asparagine or is deleted;
[70]      X22 is alanine, glycine or threonine or is deleted;
[71]      X23 is cysteine or lysine or is deleted;
[72]      X24 is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of a combination of alanine,
        glycine and serine or is deleted; and
[73]      R2 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36),
        GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37), HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38),
        HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39), HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ
        ID NO: 40) or is deleted (with the exception of the case in which the amino acid
        sequence of formula 1 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
[74]      In order to increase the activity of wild-type oxyntomodulin for the glucagon
        receptor and the GLP- 1 receptor, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention
        may be substituted with 4-imidazoacetyl obtained by deletion of the alpha carbon of
        histidine at position 1 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, desamino-histidyl

    WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
        obtained by deletion of the N-terminal amino group, dimethyl-histidyl
        (N-dimethyl-histidyl) obtained by modification of the N-terminal amino group with
        two methyl groups, beta-hydroxy imidazopropionyl obtained by substitution of the N
        terminal amino group with a hydroxyl group, or beta-carboxy imidazopropionyl
        obtained by substitution of the N-terminal amino group with a carboxyl group. In
        addition, the GLP- 1 receptor-binding region may be substituted with amino acids that
        enhance hydrophobic and ionic bonds or a combination thereof. Further, a portion of
        the oxyntomodulin sequence may be substituted with the amino acid sequence of GLP
        1 or Exendin-4 to increase the activity of the GLP- 1 receptor.
[75]      Moreover, a portion of the oxyntomodulin sequence may be substituted with a
        sequence that enhances alpha helix. Preferably, amino acids at positions 10, 14, 16, 20,
        24 and 28 of the amino acid sequence of formula 1 may be substituted with amino
        acids or amino acid derivatives consisting of Tyr(4-Me), Phe, Phe(4-Me), Phe(4-Cl),
        Phe(4-CN), Phe(4-NO 2), Phe(4-NH 2), Phg, Pal, Nal, Ala(2-thienyl) and
        Ala(benzothienyl) that are known to stabilize alpha helix, and the type and number of
        alpha helix-stabilizing amino acid or amino acid derivatives to be inserted are not
        limited. Preferably, amino acids at positions 10 and 14, 12 and 16, 16 and 20, 20 and
        24, and 24 and 28 of the amino acid sequence may also be substituted with glutamic
        acid or lysine so as to form rings, and the number of rings to be inserted is not limited.
        Most preferably, the oxyntomodulin analog may have an amino acid sequence selected
        from among the following formulas 2 to 6.
[76]      In a specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention is a
        novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following formula 2, obtained
        by substitution of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin with that of exendin or
        GLP-1:
[77]
[78]      Formula 2
[79]      R1-A-R3
[80]
[81]      In another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention
        is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following formula 3, which
        is prepared by linking a portion of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin and a
        portion of the amino acid sequence of exendin or GLP- 1 via a proper amino acid
        linker:
[82]
[83]      Formula 3
[84]      R1-B-C-R4
[85]

   WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
[86]     In still another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present
       invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
       formula 4, wherein a portion of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin is sub
       stituted with an amino acid that enhances the hydrophobic binding to GLP- 1 receptor.
       For example, it is a peptide wherein Leu at position 26 is substituted with the amino
       acid Ile or Val that increases hydrophobicity.
[87]
[88]     Formula 4
[89]     R1-SQGTFTSDYSKYLD-D1-D2-D3-D4-D5-LFVQW-D6-D7-N-D8-R3
[90]
[91]     In still another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present
       invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
       formula 5, wherein a portion of the amino acid sequence of native oxyntomodulin is
       deleted, added, or substituted with other amino acids in order to increase the abilities of
       native oxyntomodulin to activate GLP- 1 receptor and glucagon receptor:
[92]
[93]     Formula 5
[94]     R1-El-QGTFTSDYSKYLD-E2-E3-RA-E4-E5-FV-E6-WLMNT-E7-R5
[95]
[96]     In formulas 2 to 5, RI is as described in formula 1;
[97]     A is selected from the group consisting of SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQD
       FVQWLMNT (SEQ ID NO: 41), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNT (SEQ
       ID NO: 42), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNT (SEQ ID NO: 43),
       GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 44), GQGTFTSDYS
       RQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 45), GEGTFTSDL
       SRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAA (SEQ ID NO: 46), and SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRL
       FIEWLMNG (SEQ ID NO: 47);
[98]     B is selected from the group consisting of SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQD
       FVQWLMNT (SEQ ID NO: 41), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNT (SEQ
       ID NO: 42), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNT (SEQ ID NO: 43),
       GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 44), GQGTFTSDYS
       RQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 45), GEGTFTSDL
       SRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAA (SEQ ID NO: 46), SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRL
       FIEWLMNG (SEQ ID NO: 47), GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEW (SEQ ID NO:
       48), and SQGTFTSDYSRYLD (SEQ ID NO: 49);
[99]     C is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of a combination of alanine,
       glycine and serine;
[100]    D1 is serine, glutamic acid or arginine;

   WO 2014/073845                                                      PCT/KR2013/009990
[101]    D2 is arginine, glutamic acid or serine;
[102]    D3 is arginine, alanine or valine;
[103]    D4 is arginine, valine or serine;
[104]    D5 is glutamine, arginine or lysine;
[105]    D6 is isoleucine, valine or serine;
[106]    D7 is methionine, arginine or glutamine;
[107]    D8 is threonine, glycine or alanine;
[108]    El is serine, Aib, Sar, d-alanine or d-serine;
[109]    E2 is serine or glutamic acid;
[110]    E3 is arginine or lysine;
[111]    E4 is glutamine or lysine;
[112]    E5 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
[113]    E6 is glutamine, cysteine or lysine;
[114]    E7 is cysteine or lysine or is deleted;
[115]    R3 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36) or
       GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37);
[116]    R4 is HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38), HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID
       NO: 39) or HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ ID NO: 40); and
[117]    R5 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36) or
       GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37) or is deleted (with the exception of the case in
       which the amino acid sequences of formulas 2 to 5 are identical to that of SEQ ID NO:
       1).
[118]
[119]    Preferably, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention may be a novel
       peptide of the following formula 6:
[120]
[121]    Formula 6
[122]    Ri-X1-X2-GTFTSD-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-XIO-X1 I-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16
       X17-X18-X19-X20-X21-X22-X23-X24-R2
[123]    wherein RI is histidine, desamino-histidyl, 4-imidazoacetyl or tyrosine;
[124]    X1 is Aib(aminosiobutyric acid), glycine, serine or d-serine;
[125]    X2 is glutamic acid or glutamine;
[126]    X3 is leucine or tyrosine;
[127]    X4 is seine or alanine;
[128]    X5 is lysine or arginine;
[129]    X6 is glutamine or tyrosine;
[130]    X7 is leucine or methionine;
[131]    X8 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
[132]     X9 is glutamic acid or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[133]     X10 is glutamine, glutamic acid, lysine or arginine or is deleted;
[134]     X1I is alanine or arginine or is deleted;
[135]     X12 is alanine or valine or is deleted;
[136]     X13 is lysine, glutamine, arginine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[137]     X14 is aspartic acid, glutamic acid or leucine or is deleted;
[138]     X15 is phenylalanine or is deleted;
[139]     X16 is isoleucine or valine or is deleted;
[140]     X17 is alanine, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or
       is deleted;
[141]     X18 is tryptophan or is deleted;
[142]     X19 is alanine, isoleucine, leucine or valine or is deleted;
[143]     X20 is alanine, lysine, methionine or arginine or is deleted;
[144]     X21 is asparagine or is deleted;
[145]     X22 is threonine or is deleted;
[146]     X23 is cysteine, lysine or is deleted;
[147]     X24 is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of glycine or is deleted; and
[148]     R2 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36),
       GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37), HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38),
       HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39) or HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ
       ID NO: 40) or is deleted (with the exception of the case in which the amino acid
       sequence of formula 6 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
[149]     More preferably, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention may be selected
       from the group consisting of the peptides of SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34. Even more
       preferably, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention may be an oxyn
       tomodulin analog described in Table 1 of Example 2-1.
[150]     In an example of the present invention, oxyntomodulin analogs having the amino
       acid sequences of SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34, respectively, were prepared, and it was found
       that the oxyntomodulin analogs showed an excellent ability to activate GLP- 1 receptor
       and glucagon receptor compared to native oxyntomodulin (Example 2). In other words,
       it could be seen from the above results that the oxyntomodulin analog of the present
       invention exhibited excellent effects on the prevention or treatment of diabetes,
       diabesity and/or diabetic complications compared to conventional oxyntomodulin by
       activating the GLP- 1 receptor and the glucagon receptor.
[151]     The oxyntomodulin analogs of the present invention are present in the form of
       conjugates comprising various polymer in order to improve the therapeutic effect and
       invivo half-life of the analogs.
[152]     The conjugates of the present invention have longer-acting effects than native oxyn-

   WO 2014/073845                                                           PCT/KR2013/009990
       tomodulin, and the long-acting conjugates include an oxyntomodulin prepared by the
       modification, substitution, addition or deletion of the amino acids of native oxyn
       tomodulin, an oxyntomodulin conjugated to a biodegradable polymer such as
       polyethylene glycol (PEG), an oxyntomodulin conjugated to a albumin, antibody,
       elastin, fibronectin or polysaccharide such as chitin or to a long-acting protein such as
       an immunoglobulin fragment, an oxyntomodulin conjugated to fatty acid having the
       ability of binding to albumin invivo, or an oxyntomodulin encapsulated in
       biodegradable nanoparticles, and the type of long-acting conjugate that is used in the
       present invention is not limited.
[153]    Preferably, the conjugate is a conjugate wherein an oxyntomodulin analog having an
       amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of the amino acid sequences of
       SEQ ID NOS: 2 to 34 is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region through a non
       peptidyl polymer.
[154]
[155]    The immunoglobulin Fc region is a biodegradable polypeptide that is metabolized in
       vivo, and thus is safe for use as a carrier for a drug. The immunoglobulin Fc region has
       a low molecular weight compared to the entire immunoglobulin molecule, and thus is
       advantageous in terms of the preparation, purification and yield of conjugates. In
       addition, because the amino acid sequence differs between antibodies, a Fab portion
       showing high non-homogeneity is removed, and thus the homogeneity of the material
       can be greatly increased and the possibility of inducing blood antigenicity can also be
       reduced.
[156]    As used herein, the term "immunoglobulin Fc region" refers to a protein that contains
       the heavy-chain constant region 2 (CH2) and heavy-chain constant region 3 (CH3) of
       an immunoglobulin, excluding the heavy-chain and light-chain variable regions, the
       heavy-chain constant region 1 (CHI) and the light-chain constant region 1 (CL 1) of the
       immunoglobulin. It may further include a hinge region at the heavy-chain constant
       region. Also, the immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention may be an
       expanded Fc region including part or all of the heavy-chain constant region 1 (CHI)
       and/or the light-chain constant region 1 (CL 1), except for the heavy-chain and light
       chain variable regions, as long as it has an effect that is substantially equal to or better
       than the native protein. Further, the immunoglobulin Fc region may be a region having
       a deletion of a portion of a relatively long amino acid sequence corresponding to CH2
       and/or CH3. Specifically, the immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention may
       comprise 1) a CHI domain, a CH2 domain, a CH3 domain and a CH4 domain, 2) a
       CHI domain and a CH2 domain, 3) a CHI domain and a CH3 domain, 4) a CH2
       domain and a CH3 domain, 5) a combination of one or more domains and an im
       munoglobulin hinge region (or a portion of the hinge region), or 6) a dimer of each

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       domain of the heavy-chain constant regions and the light-chain constant region.
[157]    The immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention includes a native amino acid
       sequence, and a sequence derivative (mutant) thereof. As used herein, the term "amino
       acid sequence derivative" refers to a sequence that is different from the native amino
       acid sequence due to the deletion, insertion, non-conservative or conservative sub
       stitution or a combination thereof of one or more amino acid residues of the native
       amino acid sequence. For example, in the case of an IgG Fc, amino acid residues at
       positions 214 to 238, 297 to 299, 318 to 322, or 327 to 331, which are known to be
       important in binding, may be used as suitable sites for modification.
[158]    In addition, other various derivatives are possible, including one that has a deletion
       of a region capable of forming a disulfide bond, or a deletion of some amino acid
       residues at the N-terminal end of native Fc or an addition of a methionine residue at the
       N-terminal end of native Fc. Further, to remove effector functions, a deletion may
       occur in a complement-binding site, such as a Clq-binding site and an ADCC
       (antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity) site. Techniques of preparing such
       sequence derivatives of the immunoglobulin Fc region are disclosed in International
       Patent Publication Nos. WO 97/3463 1, WO 96/32478, etc.
[159]    Amino acid exchanges in proteins and peptides, which do not generally alter the
       activity of the proteins or peptides, are known in the art (H. Neurath, R. L. Hill, The
       Proteins, Academic Press, New York, 1979). The most commonly occurring exchanges
       are Ala/Ser, Val/Ile, Asp/Glu, Thr/Ser, Ala/Gly, Ala/Thr, Ser/Asn, Ala/Val, Ser/Gly,
       Thy/Phe, Ala/Pro, Lys/Arg, Asp/Asn, Leu/Ile, Leu/Val, Ala/Glu and Asp/Gly, in both
       directions. In addition, the Fc region may, if necessary, be modified by phospho
       rylation, sulfation, acrylation, glycosylation, methylation, farnesylation, acetylation,
       amidation, and the like.
[160]
[161]    The above-described Fc derivatives show biological activity identical to that of the
       Fc region of the present invention or have increased structural stability against heat,
       pH, or the like.
[162]    In addition, this Fc region may be obtained from native forms isolated from humans
       and other animals including cows, goats, pigs, mice, rabbits, hamsters, rats and guinea
       pigs, or may be recombinants or derivatives thereof, obtained from transformed animal
       cells or microorganisms. Herein, the Fc region may be obtained from a native im
       munoglobulin by isolating a whole immunoglobulin from a living human or animal
       body and treating the isolated immunoglobulin with proteinase. When the whole im
       munoglobulin is treated with papain, it is cleaved into Fab and Fc regions, and when
       the whole immunoglobulin is treated with pepsin, it is cleaved into pF'c and F(ab) 2
       fragments. Fc or pF'c can be isolated using size exclusion chromatography or the like.

   WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
       Preferably, a human-derived Fe region is a recombinant immunoglobulin Fe region
       obtained from a microorganism.
[163]    In addition, the immunoglobulin Fc region may be in the form of having native sugar
       chains or increased or decreased sugar chains compared to a native form, or may be in
       a deglycosylated form. The increase, decrease or removal of the immunoglobulin Fc
       sugar chains may be achieved by conventional methods such as a chemical method, an
       enzymatic method and a genetic engineering method using a microorganism. The Fc
       region obtained by removal of sugar chains from Fc shows a significant decrease in
       binding affinity to the Clq part and a decrease or loss in antibody-dependent cell
       mediated cytotoxicity or complement-dependent cytotoxicity, and thus does not induce
       unnecessary immune responses invivo. In this regard, an immunoglobulin Fc region in
       a deglycosylated or aglycosylated form may be more suitable to the object of the
       present invention as a drug carrier.
[164]    As used herein, the term "deglycosylation" refers to enzymatically removing sugar
       moieties from an Fc region, and the term "aglycosylation" refers to an unglycosylated
       Fc region produced in a prokaryote, preferably E. coli.
[165]    Meanwhile, the immunoglobulin Fc region may be derived from humans or other
       animals including cows, goats, pigs, mice, rabbits, hamsters, rats and guinea pigs.
       Preferably, it is derived from humans.
[166]    In addition, the immunoglobulin Fc region may be derived from IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE,
       IgM, or a combination or hybrid thereof. Preferably, it is derived from IgG or IgM,
       which are among the most abundant proteins in human blood, and most preferably
       from IgG known to enhance the half-lives of ligand-binding proteins.
[167]    As used herein, the term "combination" means that polypeptides encoding single
       chain immunoglobulin Fc regions of the same origin are linked to a single-chain
       polypeptide of a different origin to form a dimer or multimer. Specifically, a dimer or
       multimer may be formed from two or more fragments selected from the group
       consisting of IgG Fc, IgA Fc, IgM Fc, IgD Fc, and IgE Fc fragments.
[168]    As used herein, the term "hybrid" means that sequences corresponding to two or
       more immunoglobulin Fc fragments of different origins are present in a single-chain
       immunoglobulin Fc region. In the present invention, various forms of hybrid are
       possible. In other words, a hybrid composed of 1 to 4 domains selected from the group
       consisting of the CHI, CH2, CH3 and CH4 of IgG Fc, IgM Fc, IgA Fc, IgE Fc and IgD
       Fc is possible, and it may include a hinge.
[169]    Meanwhile, IgG can also be sub-classified into IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, and in
       the present invention, a combination or hybrid of these subclasses is also possible.
       Preferably, IgG is the IgG2 ad IgG4 subclass, and most preferably, it is the Fc region
       of IgG4 that substantially lacks effector functions such as complement-dependent cyto-

   WO 2014/073845                                                           PCT/KR2013/009990
       toxicity (CDC).
[170]    In other words, the most preferred immunoglobulin Fe region that is used as a drug
       carrier in the present invention is an Fe region derived from human IgG4. A human
       derived Fe region is more preferable than a non-human-derived Fe region, which may
       act as an antigen in the human body and cause undesirable immune responses such as
       the production of a new antibody against the antigen.
[171]    As used herein, the term non-peptidyl polymer refers to a biocompatible polymer
       including two or more repeating units linked to each other by any covalent bond in
       place of a peptide bond. In the present invention, the non-peptidyl polymer may be
       used interchangeably with the non-peptidyl linker.
[172]    The non-peptidyl polymer that can be used in the present invention may be selected
       from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, an ethylene
       glycol/propylene glycol copolymer, polyoxyethylated polyol, polyvinyl alcohol,
       polysaccharides, dextran, polyvinyl ethyl ether, biodegradable polymers such as PLA
       (poly(lactic acid)) and PLGA (polylactic-glycolic acid), lipid polymers, chitins,
       hyaluronic acid, and combinations thereof. Preferably, the non-peptidyl polymer is
       polyethylene glycol. In addition, derivatives thereof known in the art and derivatives
       that may be easily prepared by a method known in the art also fall within the scope of
       the present invention.
[173]    The peptide linker that is used in a fusion protein obtained by a conventional inframe
       fusion method has drawbacks in that it is easily cleaved by proteinase invivo, and thus
       a sufficient effect of increasing the serum half-life of the active drug by a carrier
       cannot be obtained as expected. However, in the present invention, the polymer having
       resistance to proteinase can be used to maintain the serum half-life of the peptide,
       similar to the carrier. Therefore, any non-peptidyl polymer can be used without
       limitation in the present invention, as long as it is a polymer having the aforementioned
       function, that is, a polymer having resistance to proteinase invivo. The non-peptidyl
       polymer has a molecular weight in the range of 1 to 100 kDa, and preferably 1 to 20
       kDa. The non-peptidyl polymer of the present invention, which is linked to the im
       munoglobulin Fe region, may be one kind of polymer or a combination of different
       polymers.
[174]    The non-peptidyl polymer that is used in the present invention may have a reactive
       group capable of binding to the immunoglobulin Fe region and the protein drug. The
       reactive group at both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer is preferably selected from the
       group consisting of a reactive aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group, a bu
       tyraldehyde group, a maleimide group and a succinimide derivative.
[175]    The succinimide derivative may be succinimidyl propionate, hydroxy succinimidyl,
       succinimidyl carboxymethyl, or succinimidyl carbonate. In particular, when the non-

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       peptidyl polymer has a reactive aldehyde group at both ends thereof, non-specific
       reactions can be minimized, and a physiologically active polypeptide and an im
       munoglobulin can be effectively bound to both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer, re
       spectively. A final product generated by reductive alkylation with an aldehyde bond is
       much more stable than that linked by an amide bond. The aldehyde reactive group se
       lectively binds to an N-terminus at a low pH and can form a covalent bond with a
       lysine residue at a high pH such as pH 9.0.
[176]    The reactive groups at both ends of the linker that is the non-peptidyl polymer may
       be the same or different. For example, the non-peptidyl polymer may possess a
       maleimide group at one end, and an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group or a bu
       tyraldehyde group at the other end. When a polyethylene glycol having a reactive
       hydroxy group at both ends thereof is used as the non-peptidyl polymer, the hydroxy
       group may be activated to various reactive groups by known chemical reactions, or a
       polyethylene glycol having a commercially available modified reactive group may be
       used so as to prepare the long-acting conjugate of the present invention.
[177]    The conjugate of the present invention may be one in which each end of the non
       peptidyl polymer is linked to the immunoglobulin Fc region and the amine or thiol
       group of the oxyntomodulin analog, respectively.
[178]    Meanwhile, in the present invention, both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer include
       reactive groups to which an immunoglobulin Fc region and a protein drug can bind.
       Examples of the reactive groups include, but are not limited to, an aldehyde group, a
       propionaldehyde group or a butyraldehyde group, a maleimide group, a succinimide
       derivative (succinimidyl propionate, hydroxyl succinimidyl, succinimidyl propionate
       carboxymethyl or succinimidyl carbonate) and the like.
[179]    The reactive groups at both ends of the linker that is the non-peptidyl polymer may
       be the same or different. For example, the non-peptidyl polymer may have a maleimide
       group at one end and an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group or a butyraldehyde
       group at the other end. For example, when the non-peptidyl polymer has a reactive
       aldehyde group at one end and a reactive maleimide group at the other end, non
       specific reactions can be minimized, and a physiologically active polypeptide and an
       immunoglobulin can be effectively bound to both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer. In
       an example of the present invention, a conjugate was synthesized by linking oxyn
       tomodulin or its analog to the immunoglobulin Fc region via a covalent bond using the
       non-peptidyl polymer PEG including a propionaldehyde group alone or both a
       maleimide group and an aldehyde group.
[180]    The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be used for the
       prevention or treatment of diabetes, diabesity and/or diabetic complications.
[181]    As used herein, the term "prevention" refers to all actions that inhibit or delay the de-

   WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
       velopment of a target disease. Specifically, the term "prevention" means administering
       the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention to control blood glucose levels to
       normal levels to thereby inhibit or delay the development of diabetes, diabesity or
       diabetic complications.
[182]    As used herein, the term "treatment" refers to all actions that alleviate, ameliorate or
       relieve the symptoms of the disease developed. Specifically, the term "treatment"
       means administering the oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention to maintain
       blood glucose levels stably at normal levels to thereby alleviate, ameliorate or relieve
       the conditions of diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications.
[183]    As used herein the term "diabetes" is a kind of metabolic disease in which insulin
       secretion is insufficient or normal functions are not made. Diabetes is characterized by
       increased blood glucose levels that cause various conditions and syndromes. In the
       case of diabetes, glucose is excreted with urine.
[184]    As used herein, the term "diabesity" refers to diabetes accompanied by obesity
       conditions, particularly type 2 diabetes, or obesity conditions that generally appear in
       type 2 diabetic patients. About 80-90% of type 2 diabetic patients have obesity
       conditions and are characterized by insulin resistances. Proper exercise, diet therapy
       and drug therapy can prevent diabesity and alleviate the conditions of diabesity. In the
       present invention, diabsety may mean one resulting from obesity.
[185]    As used herein, the term diabetic complications refers to various pathological
       conditions occurring in the body due to hyperglycemic conditions maintained for a
       long period of time. Examples of diabetic complications include, but are not limited to,
       retinopathy, renal dysfunction, neuropathy, stroke caused by vascular disorder, kidney
       or heart diseases, diabetic foot ulcer, and cardiovascular disease. If a hyperglycemic
       condition is maintained for a long period of time, it leads to various pathological
       conditions in the body. Typically, it increases the risk of retinopathy, renal dys
       function, neuropathy, stroke caused by vascular disorder, kidney or heart diseases,
       diabetic foot ulcer, and cardiovascular disease. Thus, to prevent diabetic complications,
       the effective control of blood glucose levels is essential.
[186]    Accordingly, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be used
       for the prevention or treatment of diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications.
[187]    In an example of the present invention, a long-acting oxyntomodulin analog
       conjugate of the present invention was prepared by covalently linking the oxyn
       tomodulin analog of the present invention to an immunoglobulin Fc region by
       polyethylene glycol, and the prepared conjugate was administered to a mouse model
       with obesity induced by high-fat diet and a mouse model with diabetes induced by a
       mutation in the leptin receptor. As a result, it was shown that the body weight and feed
       intake of the group administered with the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog conjugate

   WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
       of the present invention significantly decreased those of the obesity-induced animal
       model (FIG. 1) and that the blood glucose level significantly decreased (FIG. 2). In
       addition, the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog conjugate of the present invention
       showed a blood glucose lowering effect equal to or higher than VICTOZA* a com
       mercially available long-acting GLP- 1 analog (FIG. 2).
[188]    In an example of the present invention, a long-acting oxyntomodulin analog
       conjugate was prepared by covalently linking the oxyntomodulin analog of the present
       invention to an immunoglobulin Fc region, and the prepared conjugate was ad
       ministered to a mouse model with diabetes induced by a mutation in the leptin
       receptor. As a result, it was shown that, in the group administered with the long-acting
       oxyntomodulin analog conjugate, an increase in the body weight was significantly
       inhibited compared to that of the control group (FIG. 3), and the blood glucose level
       significantly decreased (FIG. 4), and also the conjugate showed a superior blood
       glucose lowering effect compared to VICTOZA* a commercially available long-acting
       GLP-1 analog (FIG. 4).
[189]
[190]    In other words, the oxyntomodulin analog according to the present invention
       functions to induce the expansion of beta-cells in vivo to increase insulin secretion,
       thereby improving the ability to control blood glucose levels. In addition, the oxyn
       tomodulin analog according to the present invention induces a decrease in body weight
       to improve insulin sensitivity and prevent the development of cardiovascular diseases,
       including arteriosclerosis, hyperlipidemia and hypertension, which can be developed
       die to insulin resistance. Accordingly, the oxyntomodulin analog of the present
       invention can be effectively used as an agent for treating diabetes, diabesity and
       diabetic complications. Additionally, the conjugate of the present invention has a high
       ability to activate the GLP- 1 receptor and the glucagon receptor, compared to native
       oxyntomodulin, and it shows an increased blood half-life in vivo due to the Fc region
       bound thereto, and thus the activity thereof can be maintained in vivo for an extended
       period of time.
[191]    The composition of the present invention may be a pharmaceutical composition.
[192]    The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may further comprise a
       pharmaceutical agent showing a preventive or therapeutic effect against diabetes,
       diabesity or diabetic complications. In order to administer the oxyntomodulin analog of
       the present invention in combination with a pharmaceutical agent known as a
       therapeutic agent against diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications, the composition
       of the present invention may further comprise this known pharmaceutical agent.
[193]    Thus, the composition of the present invention may be used alone or administered in
       combination with other drugs in order to prevent or treat diabetes, diabesity or diabetic

   WO 2014/073845                                                           PCT/KR2013/009990
       complications.
[194]    As used herein, the term "administration" means introducing a given material into a
       patient by any appropriate method. The analog of the present invention may be ad
       ministered by any general route, as long as it can reach a target tissue. Specifically, the
       analog of the present invention may be administered intraperitoneally, intravenously,
       intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intradermally, orally, locally, intranasally, intrapul
       monarily or intrarectally, but is not limited thereto. However, because the peptide is
       digested when being administered orally, the oral composition is preferably formulated
       so that the active ingredient is coated or protected from degradation in the stomach.
       Preferably, the composition of the present invention may be administered in an in
       jectable form. In addition, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention
       may be administered using any system capable of delivering the active ingredient to
       target cells.
[195]    The pharmaceutical composition comprising the oxyntomodulin analog of the
       present invention may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For oral
       administration, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include a binder, a lubricant, a
       disintegrant, an excipient, a solubilizer, a dispersing agent, a stabilizer, a suspending
       agent, a colorant, and a flavoring agent. For injectable preparations, pharmaceutically
       acceptable carriers include a buffer, a preservative, an analgesic, a solubilizer, an
       isotonic agent, and a stabilizer. For topical administration, pharmaceutically acceptable
       carriers include a base, an excipient, a lubricant, and a preservative. The pharma
       ceutical composition of the present invention may be formulated in various dosage
       forms using the aforementioned pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. For example, for
       oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition may be formulated into tablets,
       troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers or the like. For injectable
       preparations, the pharmaceutical composition may be provided in the form of a unit
       dosage ampoule or a multiple dosage container. In addition, the pharmaceutical com
       position may also be formulated into solutions, suspensions, tablets, pills, capsules and
       sustained-release preparations.
[196]    Meanwhile, examples of the carrier, excipient and diluent suitable for formulation
       include lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol, erythritol, maltitol,
       starch, acacia rubber, alginate, gelatin, calcium phosphate, calcium silicate, cellulose,
       methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, water, methylhy
       droxybenzoate, propylhydroxybenzoate, talc, magnesium stearate and mineral oils. In
       addition, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may further include
       fillers, anti-coagulating agents, lubricants, wetting agents, flavors, preservative and the
       like.
[197]    The dose of the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is determined

   WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
       according to the kind of active ingredient together with various factors such as the
       disease to be treated, the route of administration, the patient's age, sex and weight, and
       the severity of the disease. The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention
       has a long in vivo half-life and excellent bioavailability, and thus the number and
       frequency of administration of the pharmaceutical composition can be significantly
       reduced.
[198]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preventing or treating
       diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications, the method comprising administering a
       pharmaceutically effective amount of the oxyntomodulin analog to a subject.
[199]    Herein, the oxyntomodulin analog, diabetes, diabesity and diabetic complications are
       as defined above.
[200]    As used herein, the term "subject" refers to a subject suspected of having diabetes,
       diabesity or diabetic complications. Specifically, the term means mammals, including
       humans, rats and domestic animals, which have or are at the risk of developing the
       above disease. In addition, the subject may be any subject that can be treated by the
       oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention.
[201]    The therapeutic method of the present invention may comprise administering a phar
       maceutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition comprising the
       conjugate. The total daily dose of the composition can be determined through ap
       propriate medical judgment by a physician, and the composition may be administered
       once or several times. However, in view of the purpose of the present invention, the
       specific therapeutically effective dose of the composition for any particular patient
       may vary depending on various factors well known in the medical field, including the
       kind and degree of response to be achieved, concrete compositions according to
       whether other agents are used therewith or not, the patient s age, body weight, health
       condition, sex and diet, the time and route of administration, the secretion rate of the
       composition, the duration of treatment, other drugs used in combination or coincident
       with the composition of the present invention, and other factors known in the medical
       field.
[202]    In still another aspect, the present invention provides the use of the oxyntomodulin
       analog of the present invention in the preparation of a medicament for preventing or
       treating diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications.
[203]    In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing the
       oxyntomodulin analog conjugate.
[204]    The preparation method of the present invention may comprise the steps of: (1) co
       valently linking a non-peptidyl polymer having a reactive aldehyde, maleimide or suc
       cinimide group at both ends to the amine or thiol group of an oxyntomodulin analog
       peptide; (2) separating a conjugate comprising the oxyntomodulin analog peptide,

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       having the non-peptidyl polymer covalently linked thereto at positions other than the
       amino terminal end, from the reaction mixture of step (1); and (3) covalently linking an
       immunoglobulin Fe region to the other end of the linked non-peptidyl polymer of the
       separated conjugate, thereby producing a peptide conjugate comprising the im
       munoglobulin Fc region and the oxyntomodulin analog peptide, linked to both ends of
       the non-peptidyl polymer, respectively.
[205]    More specifically, the preparation method may comprise the steps of: (1) covalently
       linking a non-peptidyl polymer, having a reactive aldehyde group and a reactive
       maleimide group at each end thereof, to the cysteine residue of an oxyntomodulin
       analog; (2) separating a conjugate comprising the oxyntomodulin analog, having the
       non-peptidyl polymer covalently linked to the cysteine residue, from the reaction
       mixture of step (1); and (3) covalently linking an immunoglobulin Fc region to the
       other end of the linked non-peptidyl polymer of the separated conjugate, thereby
       producing a peptide conjugate comprising the immunoglobulin Fc region and the
       oxyntomodulin analog, linked to both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer, respectively.
[206]
       Mode for the Invention
[207]    Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in further detail with reference to
       examples. It is to be understood, however, that these examples are for illustrative
       purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.
[208]
[209]    Example 1: Production of cell line for in vitro activation
[210]
[211]    Example 1-1: ProductionofcelllineshowingcAMPresponsetoGLP-1
[212]    Using a portion corresponding to the ORF (open reading frame) of cDNA (OriGene
       Technologies, Inc. USA) of the human GLP-1 receptor gene as a template, PCR was
       performed using reverse and forward primers including a HindIII cleavage site and an
       EcoRI cleavage site, respectively, thereby obtaining a PCR product.
[213]
[214]    Forward primer: 5'-CCCGGCCCCCGCGGCCGCTATTCGAAATAC-3' (SEQ ID
       NO: 50)
[215]    Reverse primer: 5'-GAACGGTCCGGAGGACGTCGACTCTTAAGATAG-3' SEQ
       ID NO: 51)
[216]
[217]    The PCR product was cloned into the known animal cell expression vector
       xOGC/dhfr, thereby constructing the recombinant vector xOGC/GLP-1R.
[218]    The recombinant vector xOGC/GLP-1R was introduced into a CHO DG44 cell line,

   WO 2014/073845                                                       PCT/KR2013/009990
       cultured in DMEM/F12 (10% FBS) medium, using lipofectamine (Invitrogene, USA),
       to obtain a transformant. The transformant was incubated in a selective medium
       containing 1 mg/mL G418 and 10 nM methotraxate, and monoclonal cell lines were
       selected therefrom. Then, a cell line showing a good concentration-dependent cAMP
       response to GLP- 1 was finally selected from the monoclonal cell lines.
[219]
[220]    Example 1-2: ProductionofcelllineshowinacAMP response toglucagon
[221]    Using a portion corresponding to the ORF (open reading frame) of cDNA (OriGene
       Technologies, Inc. USA) of the human glucagon receptor gene as a template, PCR was
       performed using reverse and forward primers including an EcoRI cleavage site and a
       XhoI cleavage site, respectively, thereby obtaining a PCR product.
[222]
[223]    Forward primer: 5'-CAGCGACACCGACCGTCCCCCCGTACTTAAGGCC-3'
       (SEQ ID NO: 52)
[224]    Reverse Primer: 5'-CTAACCGACTCTCGGGGAAGACTGAGCTCGCC-3'                       (SEQ
       ID NO: 53)
[225]
[226]    The PCR product was cloned into the known animal cell expression vector
       xOGC/dhfr, thereby constructing the recombinant vector xOGC/GCGR.
[227]    The recombinant vector xOGC/GCGR was introduced into a CHO DG44 cell line,
       cultured in DMEM/F12 (10% FBS) medium, using lipofectamine (Invitrogene, USA),
       to obtain a transformant. The transformant was incubated in a selective medium
       containing 1 mg/mL G418 and 10 nM methotraxate, and monoclonal cell lines were
       selected therefrom. Then, a cell line showing a good concentration-dependent cAMP
       response to glucagon was finally selected from the monoclonal cell lines.
[228]
[229]    Example 2: In vitro activity of oxvntomodulin analogs
[230]
[231]    Example 2-1: Synthesisofoxyntomodulinanalogs
[232]    In order to measure the invitro activities of oxyntomodulin analogs, oxyntomodulin
       analogs having the amino acid sequences shown in Table 1 below were synthesized.
[233]
[234]    Table 1

WO 2014/073845                                      PCT/KR2013/009990
    [Table 1]
    Oxyntornodulin and oxyntornodulin analogs
     SEQ ID NO            Sequence
     SEQ ID NO: 1         HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 2         CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNTKRNRNNI
                          A
     SEQ ID NO: 3         CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNTGPSSGAP
                          PPS
     SEQ ID NO: 4         CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNGGPSSGAPP
                          PS
     SEQ ID NO: 5         CA-GQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNGGPSSGAP
                          PPS
     SEQ ID NO: 6         CA-GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAAHSQGTFTSD
                          YSKYLD
     SEQ ID NO: 7         CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNTK
     SEQ ID NO: 8         CA-SQGTFTSDLSRQLEEEAVRLFIEWLMNK
     SEQ ID NO: 9         CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVXLFIEWLMNTKRNRNNI
                          A
     SEQ ID NO: 10        CA-SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLMNGGPSSGAP
                          PPSK
     SEQ ID NO: 11        CA-GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAAHSQGTFTSD
                          YSRYLDK
     SEQ ID NO: 12        CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDGGGHGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEA
                          VK
     SEQ ID NO: 13        CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDXEAVXLFIEWLMNTK
     SEQ ID NO: 14        CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVXLFIXWLMNTKRNRNNI
                          A
     SEQ ID NO: 15        CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIXWLMNTKRNRNNI
                          A
     SEQ ID NO: 16        CA-SQGTFTSDLSRQLEGGGHSQGTFTSDLSRQLEK
     SEQ ID NO: 17        CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWIRNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 18        CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWIRNGGPSSGAPPP
                          SK

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
        SEQ ID NO: 19            CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLD E EAV K LFIEWIRN
                                 TKRNRNNIA
        SEQ ID NO: 20            CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLD E EAV K LFIEWIRNGG
                                 PSSGAPPPSK
        SEQ ID NO: 21            CA-SQGTFTSDYSRQLEEEAVRLFIEWVRNTKRNRNNIA
        SEQ ID NO: 22            DA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLD E KRA K EFVQWLMNTK
        SEQ ID NO: 23            HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVCWLMNT
        SEQ ID NO: 24            HAibQGTFTSDY SKYLDEKRAK EFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 25            HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLD E KRA K EFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 26            HAibQGTFTSDYS K YLD E KRAKEFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 27            HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLD E QAA K EFICWLMNT
        SEQ ID NO: 28            HAibQGTFTSDY SKYLDEKRAK EFVQWLMNT
        SEQ ID NO: 29            H(d)SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNN
                                 IA
        SEQ ID NO: 30            CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNN
                                 IA
        SEQ ID NO: 31            CA-(d)SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNR
                                 NNIA
        SEQ ID NO: 32            CA-AibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 33            HAibQGTFTSDYAKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 34            YAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
[235]
[236]    In Table 1 above, the amino acids indicated by the bold letters mean ring formation,
       and the amino acids indicated by X mean alpha-methyl-glutamic acids that are non
       native amino acids. In addition, CA indicates 4-imidazoacetyl, DA indicates desamino
       histidyl, and (d)S indicates d-serine.
[237]
[238]    Example 2-2: Measurementof in vitro activitiesofoxyntomodulinanalogs
[239]    In order to measure the effects of the peptides prepared in Example 2-1 above, the in
       vitro activities of the peptides in cells were measured using the transformants prepared
       in Examples 1-1 and 1-2.
[240]    Each of the transformants was transformed so as to express each of human GLP- 1
       receptor and glucagon receptor genes in CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) and was

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       suitable for measuring the activities of GLP- 1 and glucagon. Thus, the activity of each
       of the oxyntomodulin analogs was measured using each of the transformants.
[241]    Specifically, each of the transformants was subcultured twice or three times a week,
       and the cells were dispensed into each well of a 96-well plate at a density of 1 X 10
       cells/well and cultured for 24 hours.
[242]    The cultured cells were washed with KRB buffer, suspended in 40 ml of 1 mM
       IBMX-containing KRB buffer, and then allowed to stand at room temperature for 5
       minutes. Each of oxyntomodulin (SEQ ID NO: 1) and the oxyntomodulin analogs
       (SEQ ID NOS: 2-6, 8, 10-13, 17, 18, 23-25, 27, 28 and 32-34) was serially diluted by
       five-fold from 1000 nM to 0.02 nM, and 40 m of each of the dilutions was added to
       the cells, which were then incubated in a CO 2 incubator at 37 'C for 1 hour. Then, 20
       ml of cell lysis buffer was added to lyse the cells, and the concentration of cAMP in
       each of the cell lysates was measured using a cAMP assay kit (Molecular Device,
       USA). From the results of the measurement, EC5 0 values were calculated and
       compared with each other (Table 2).
[243]
[244]    Table 2

   WO 2014/073845                                                          PCT/KR2013/009990
       [Table 2]
       Comparison of invitro activities of GLP- 1 receptor and glucagon receptor between
       oxyntomodulin analogs
        SEQ ID NO                   EC50 (nM)
                                    CHO/GLP-IR                     CHO/GCGR
        SEQIDNO:1                   50-210                          10-43
        SEQ ID NO: 2                51.8                            12.8
        SEQ ID NO: 3                >1,000                         637.7
        SEQ ID NO: 4                5.5                            >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 5                5.9                            >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 6                500.1                          >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 8                419.6                          >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 10               >1,000                         >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 11               >1,000                         >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 12               >1,000                         >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 13               >1,000                         >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 17               97.9                           >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 18               96.3                           >1,000
        SEQ ID NO: 23               2.46                           5.8
        SEQ ID NO: 24               1.43                           6.95
        SEQ ID NO: 25               1.9                             1.3
        SEQ ID NO: 27               2.8-5.5                        3.1-5.6
        SEQ ID NO: 28               3.1                            0.3
        SEQ ID NO: 32               41.3                            17.7
        SEQ ID NO: 33               2.2                             80.2
        SEQ ID NO: 34               12.5                            1.04
[245]    As can be seen in Table 2 above, the oxyntomodulin analogs showed excellent in
       vitro GLP-1 and glucagon receptor activities compared to the oxyntomodulin of SEQ
       ID NO: 1.
[246]    Oxyntomodulin is known to have the effect of treating obesity, hyperlipidemia, fatty
       liver disease or arteriosclerosis by activating the GLP- 1 receptor and the glucagon
       receptor. The oxyntomodulin analogs according to the present invention have a high

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       ability to activate the GLP- 1 receptor and the glucagon receptor invitro, compared to
       native oxyntomodulin, suggesting that these oxyntomodulin analogs are highly
       effective in treating diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications, compared to native
       oxyntomodulin.
[247]
[248]    Example 3: Preparation of a conjugate comprising oxyntomodulin analog ( SEO
       ID NO : 23) and immunoglobulin Fc (immunoglobulin Fc - conjugated oxyn
       tomodulin analog 23)
[249]
[250]    In order to PEGylate MAL-OK-ALD PEG (NOF., Japan) at a cysteine residue at
       position 24 of the amino acid sequence of the oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO:
       23), the oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 23) and MAL-OK-ALD PEG were
       allowed to react with each other at a molar ratio of 1:3 at a protein concentration of 3
       mg/m2 at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was performed in 50mM Tris
       buffer (pH 8.0) containing IM guanidine. After completion of the reaction, the reaction
       solution was applied to SOURCE S under the following conditions, thereby purifying
       an oxyntomodulin analog mono-PEGylated at the cysteine: column: SOURCE S, flow
       rate: 2.0 m2/min, gradient: A 0 ->100% 50 min B (A: 20 mM Na-citrate (pH 3.0) +
       45% ethanol, B: A + IM KCl).
[251]    Then, the purified mono-pegylated oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 23) and an
       immunoglobulin Fc were allowed to react with each other at a molar ratio of 1:5 at a
       protein concentration of 20 mg/m2 at 4 'C for 16 hours. The reaction was performed in
        100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) containing 20mM SCB as a reducing
       agent. After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was applied to a
       SOURCE purification column (column: SOURCE 15Q, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min,
       gradient: A 0 -> 4% 1 min, B -> 20% 80 min B (A: 20mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, B: A +
        IM NaCl)) and a Source ISO column (column: SOURCE ISO, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min,
       gradient: B 0 -> 100% 100 min A, (A: 20mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, B: A + 1.1M AS)),
       thereby purifying a conjugate comprising the oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 23)
       and the immunoglobulin Fc.
[252]
[253]    Example 4: Preparation of a conjugate comprising oxyntomodulin analog ( SEO
       ID NO : 25) and immunoglobulin Fc (immunoglobulin Fc - conjugated oxyn
       tomodulin analog 25)
[254]
[255]    In order to PEGylate MAL-OK-ALD PEG at a cysteine residue at position 30 of the
       amino acid sequence of an oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25), the oxyn
       tomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25) and MAL-OK-ALD PEG were allowed to react

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       with each other at a molar ratio of 1:3 at a protein concentration of 3 mg/m2 at room
       temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was performed in 50mM Tris buffer (pH 8.0)
       containing IM guanidine. After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was
       applied to SOURCE S under the following conditions, thereby purifying an oxyn
       tomodulin analog mono-PEGylated at the cysteine: column: SOURCE S, flow rate: 2.0
       m2/min, gradient: A 0 -> 100% 50 min B (A: 20 mM Na-citrate (pH 3.0) + 45%
       ethanol, B: A + IM KCl).
[256]    Then, the purified mono-PEGylated oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25) and an
       immunoglobulin Fc were allowed to react with each other at a molar ratio of 1:5 at a
       protein concentration of 20 mg/m2 at 4 'C for 16 hours. The reaction was performed in
       100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) containing 20mM SCB as a reducing
       agent. After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was applied to a
       SOURCE 15Q column (column: SOURCE 15Q, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min, gradient: A 0
       > 4% 1 min B -> 20% 80 min B (A: 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), B: A + IM NaCl)) and
       a Source ISO column (column: SOURCE ISO, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min, flow rate: B 0 ->
       100% 100 min A (A: 20mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), B: A + 1.1M AS)), thereby purifying a
       conjugate comprising the oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25) and the im
       munoglobulin Fc.
[257]
[258]    Example 5: Preparation of a conjugate comprising oxyntomodulin analog ( SEO
       ID NO : 27) and immunoglobulin Fc (immunoglobulin Fc - conjugated oxyn
       tomodulin analog 27)
[259]
[260]    In order to PEGylate MAL-OK-ALD PEG at a cysteine residue at position 30 of the
       amino acid sequence of an oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 27), the oxyn
       tomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 27) and MAL-OK-ALD PEG were allowed to react
       with each other at a molar ratio of 1:3 at a protein concentration of 3 mg/m2 at room
       temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was performed in 50mM Tris buffer (pH 8.0)
       containing IM guanidine. After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was
       applied to SOURCE S under the following conditions, thereby obtaining an oxyn
       tomodulin analog mono-PEGylated at the cysteine: column: SOURCE S, flow rate: 2.0
       m2/min, gradient: A 0 -> 100% 50 min B (A: 20 mM Na-citrate (pH 3.0) + 45%
       ethanol, B: A + IM KCl).
[261]    Then, the purified mono-PEGylated oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 27) and an
       immunoglobulin Fc were allowed to react with each other at a molar ratio of 1:5 at a
       protein concentration of 20 mg/m2 at 4 'C for 16 hours. The reaction was performed in
       100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) containing 20mM SCB as a reducing
       agent. After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was applied to a

   WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
       SOURCE 15Q column (column: SOURCE 15Q, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min, gradient: A 0
       > 4% 1 min B -> 20% 80 min B (A: 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), B: A + IM NaCl)) and
       a Source ISO column (column: SOURCE ISO, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min, gradient: B 0 ->
       100% 100 min A (A: 20mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), B: A + 1.1M AS)), thereby purifying a
       conjugate comprising the oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 27) and the im
       munoglobulin Fc.
[262]
[263]    Example 6: Effects of long - acting oxyntomodulin analog on reduction in the
       body weight and blood glucose level of high -fat diet - induced obesity ( HF DIO)
       mice
[264]
[265]    Example 6-1: Experimentalmethod
[266]    6-Week-old mice (C57BL/6, 120-130g) were purchased from OrientBIO (Korea).
       The purchased C57BL/6 mice are animals that are widely used in studies on obesity
       and diabetes, because obesity therein can be relatively easily induced by high-fat diet.
       HF DIO mice are rodents that are frequently used in diabetes studies, and naturally
       show obesity and diabetic conditions similar to those of humans as a result of trans
       planting a high-fat diet into the organ without genetic manipulation, unlike db/db mice
       with diabetes induced by a mutation in the leptin receptor. For this reason, in the
       present invention, these animals were used to examine the effects of the composition of
       the present invention on reductions in body weight and blood glucose levels in
       diabesity.
[267]    The animals were allowed access to a high-fat diet (60% Kcal from fat diet, D12492;
       Research Diets Inc.) sterilized by UV irradiation. Also, the animals were allowed
       access to filtered and UV-sterilized tap water using water bottles. The animals were
       kept in a breeding chamber satisfying GLP standards under a 12-hr light/12-hr dark
       cycle (lighting: am 6 to pm 6), and all the experimental procedures were performed
       according to the standard guideline for animal experiments. Drug administration was
       started after 26 weeks of obesity induction, and the animals were divided into five
       groups (n=6) as shown in Table 3 below.
[268]
[269]    Table 3

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       [Table 3]
        Groups                Drugs administered                       Methods of admin
                                                                       istration
        HF D10-induced        Vehicle (PBS)                            S.C.        Once a week
        group
        HF D10-induced        VICTOZA* 100 nmol/kg                     S.C.        Once a day
       plus drug-              SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate 1 nmol/ S.C.             Once a
        administered          kg                                                  week
        groups                 SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate 3 nmol/
                              kg
                               SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate 5 nmol/
                              kg
[270]    Specifically, group 1 (HF DIO-induced group, control group) was fed with high-fat
       feed and administered subcutaneously with 5 ml/kg (injection volume) of Dulbecco s
       phosphate buffered saline (DPBS, Sigma) once or more a week. For a blood glucose
       tolerance test, group 1 was administered subcutaneously with Dulbecco s phosphate
       buffered saline (DPBS, Sigma) at 24 hours before the test and fasted for 16 hours. The
       blood was collected from the tail portion to measure the fasting glucose level, and the
       blood glucose levels at 15 min, 30 min, 60 min, 90 min and 120 min after intra
       abdominal administration of 1 g/kg of glucose were measured.
[271]    Group 2 (HF DIO-induced and 100 nmol/kg VICTOZA -administered group) was fed
       with high-fat diet to induce obesity andhyperglycemia, and then administered once a
       day subcutaneously with 5 ml/kg (injection volume) of commercially available
       VICTOZA (GSK). For a blood glucose tolerance test, group 2 was fasted for 16 hours
       before the test and administered subcutaneously with 100 nmol/kg of VICTOZAat 4
       hours before the test. The blood was collected from the tail portion to measure the
       fasting glucose level, and the blood glucose levels at 15 min, 30 min, 60 min, 90 min
       and 120 min after intra-abdominal administration of 1 g/kg of glucose were measured.
[272]    Group 3 (HF DIO-induced and 1 nmol/kg SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate-ad
       ministered group) was fed with high-fat feed to induce obesity andhyperglycemia, and
       then administered subcutaneously once a week with 1 nmol/kg (injection volume of 5
       ml/kg) of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate prepared in Example 4. For a blood
       glucose tolerance test, group 3 was fasted for 24 hours before the test and administered
       subcutaneously with 1 nmol/kg of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate at 24 hours before
       the test and fasted for 16 hours. The blood was collected from the tail portion to
       measure the fasting glucose level, and the blood glucose levels at 15 min, 30 min, 60

   WO 2014/073845                                                       PCT/KR2013/009990
       min, 90 min and 120 min after intra-abdominal administration of 1 g/kg of glucose
       were measured.
[273]    Group 4 (HF DIO-induced and 3 nmol/kg SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate-ad
       ministered group) was fed with high-fat feed to induce obesity andhyperglycemia, and
       then administered subcutaneously once a week with 3 nmol/kg (injection volume of 5
       ml/kg) of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate prepared in Example 4. For a blood
       glucose tolerance test, group 3 was fasted for 24 hours before the test and administered
       subcutaneously with 3 nmol/kg of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate at 24 hours before
       the test and fasted for 16 hours. The blood was collected from the tail portion to
       measure the fasting glucose level, and the blood glucose levels at 15 min, 30 min, 60
       min, 90 min and 120 min after intra-abdominal administration of 1 g/kg of glucose
       were measured.
[274]    Group 5 (HF DIO-induced and 5 nmol/kg SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate-ad
       ministered group) was fed with high-fat feed to induce obesity andhyperglycemia, and
       then administered subcutaneously once a week with 5 nmol/kg (injection volume of 5
       ml/kg) of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate prepared in Example 4. For a blood
       glucose tolerance test, group 3 was fasted for 24 hours before the test and administered
       subcutaneously with 5 nmol/kg of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate at 24 hours before
       the test and fasted for 16 hours. The blood was collected from the tail portion to
       measure the fasting glucose level, and the blood glucose levels at 15 min, 30 min, 60
       min, 90 min and 120 min after intra-abdominal administration of 1 g/kg of glucose
       were measured.
[275]    For all the groups (n=6), saline or each drug was administered for 2 weeks, and then
       the effects thereof on reductions in the body weight and the blood glucose level were
       analyzed.
[276]
[277]    Example 6-2: Effectsoflong-actingoxvntomodulinanalog on reductionsinbodyweight
       andbloodalucoselevelofhigh-fat diet-inducedobesity (HFDIO) micewhicharestable
       obesity models
[278]    In order to examine the effect of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin analog of the
       present invention on a reduction in the blood glucose level of high-fat diet-induced (for
       26 weeks) obesity (HF DIO) mice which are stable obesity models, the DIO mice
       classified in Example 6-1 were administered subcutaneously with the long-acting
       oxyntomodulin analog once a week for 2 weeks. The body weight and the feed intake
       were measured every day, and the blood was collected from the tail portion of the DIO
       mice at days 0, 3, 7, 10 and 14, and the change in the blood glucose levels was
       analyzed using HITACHI 7020. The changes in the body weight and the blood glucose
       level are shown in FIGS. 1 and 2.

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
[279]    FIG. 1 shows the change in the body weight, and FIG. 2 shows the blood glucose
       AUC (area under curve). The obtained results were statistically processed, and the
       mean values and the standard deviations of the mean values were calculated.
[280]    In the verification of significance between the groups (n=6), data were statistically
       processed using Dunnett's test of one-way ANOVA, and a value of p < 0.05 was
       considered statistically significant.
[281]    Specifically, the results of measurement of the change in the body weight indicated
       that the body weight of the mice with obesity induced by high-fat diet for 26 weeks did
       not decrease, whereas, when the mice with obesity were administered with the long
       acting oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate), the body weight thereof
       decreased in a dose-dependent manner (FIG. 1).
[282]    The results of measurement of the blood glucose level indicated that the blood
       glucose level of the mice with obesity decreased in a dose-dependent manner, when the
       mice were administered with the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO:
       25-Fc conjugate). Particularly, when the mice with obesity were administered with 5
       nmol/kg of the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate), the
       blood glucose level thereof significantly decreased compared to that of the high-fat
       diet-induced DIG mice, and the blood glucose lowering effect of 5 nmol/kg of the
       long-acting oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate) was equal to or
       better than that of VICTOZAthat is a commercially available drug for treating diabetes
       (FIG. 2).
[283]    From the results of Example 6-2, it was found that the long-acting oxyntomodulin
       analog conjugate of the present invention, which comprises the oxyntomodulin analog
       covalently linked to the immunoglobulin Fc region by PEG, reduced the body weight
       and blood glucose level of the high-fat diet-induced obesity (HF DIG) mice,
       suggesting that it can be effectively used for the treatment of diabetes, diabesity or
       related diseases.
[284]
[285]    Example 7: Effects of long - acting oxyntomodulin analog on reductions in the
       body weight and blood glucose level of db / db mice with diabetes induced by
       mutation in leptin receptor
[286]
[287]    Example 7-1: Experimentalmethod
[288]    7-week old male BKS.Cg -+ Leprdb/-Leprdb/OlaHsd mice (25 3 g, Harlan U.S.A)
       were purchased from Doo Yeol Biotech (Korea). BKS.Cg -+ Leprdb/-Leprdb/OlaHsd
       mice (hereinafter referred to as db / db mice) are rodents that are most frequently used
       in diabetes studies together with ob/ ob mice, and these mice naturally show diabetic
       conditions similar to those of humans through a mutation in the leptin receptor. For

   WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
       this reason, in the present invention, these animals were used to examine the blood
       glucose lowering effect of the agent of the present invention in the development of an
       agent for treating diabetes.
[289]    The purchased animals were acclimated and adapted to the experimental en
       vironment for 1 week, and then randomly grouped according to their glucose levels.
[290]    The animals were allowed access to solid feed (Picolab Rodent diet 5053) sterilized
       by UV irradiation. Also, the animals were allowed access to filtered and UV-sterilized
       tap water using water bottles. The animals were kept in a breeding chamber satisfying
       GLP standards under a 12-hr light/12-hr dark cycle (lighting: 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.), and all
       the experimental procedures were performed according to the standard guideline for
       animal experiments. The animals were divided into four groups (n = 7) and ad
       ministered with drugs as shown in Table 4 below.
[291]    Table 4
       [Table 4]
        Groups           Drugs administered                         Methods of administration
        Control group    Vehicle (PBS)                              S.C.   Once a week x 4
        Groups ad-       VICTOZA* 60 nmol/kg                        S.C.   Once a day x 28
        ministered with VICTOZA* 100 nmol/kg
        drugs            SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate 15 nmol/        S.C.   Once a week x 4
                         kg
                         SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate 6 nmol/kg
[292]    Specifically, group 1 (vehicle), a control group, was administered subcutaneously
       with 5 ml/kg of Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline (DPBS, Sigma) once a week.
[293]    Group 2 (administered with 60 nmol/kg of VICTOZA*, a drug-administered group,
       was administered subcutaneously once a day with 60 nmol/kg (dose for diabetes;
       injection volume of 5 ml/kg) of commercially available Victoza(GSK).
[294]    Group (administered with 100 nmol/kg of VICTOZA*, a drug-administered group,
       was administered subcutaneously once a day with 100 nmol/kg (dose for obesity;
       injection volume of 5 ml/kg) of commercially available Victoza(GSK).
[295]    Group 4 (15 nmol/kg of SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate), a drug-administered group,
       was administered subcutaneously once a week with 15 nmol/kg (injection volume of 5
       ml/kg) of the SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate prepared in Example 4.
[296]    Group 5 (6 nmol/kg of SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate), a drug-administered group,
       was administered subcutaneously once a week with 6 nmol/kg (injection volume of 5
       ml/kg) of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate prepared in Example 4.
[297]    For all the groups (n=7), saline or each drug was administered for 4 weeks, and then

   WO 2014/073845                                                        PCT/KR2013/009990
       the effects thereof on reductions in the body weight and the blood glucose level were
       analyzed.
[298]
[299]    Example 7-2: Analysisoftheeffectsoflong-acting oxyntomodulin analogonreductions
       inthebodyweightand blood glucoselevelofdb/dbmicewithdiabetesbymutationin leptin
       receptor
[300]    In order to examine the effect of the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog of the present
       invention on a reduction in the blood glucose level of db/db mice with diabetes
       induced by a mutation in the leptin receptor, the db/db mice classified in Example 7-1
       were administered subcutaneously with the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog once a
       week for 4 weeks. The change in the body weight of the mice was measured twice a
       week, and the blood was collected from the tail portion of the db/db mice (every day at
       weeks 1 and 4, and twice a week at weeks 2 and 3), and the change in the blood
       glucose level was analyzed using HITACHI 7020.
[301]    FIG. 3 shows the change in the body weight, and FIG. 4 shows the blood glucose
       AUC (area under curve). The obtained results were statistically processed, and the
       mean values and the standard deviations of the mean values were calculated. In the
       verification of significance between the groups (n=6), data were statistically processed
       using Dunnett's test of one-way ANOVA, and a value of p < 0.05 was considered sta
       tistically significant.
[302]    Specifically, the results of measurement of the change in the body weight indicated
       that the body weight of the db/db mouse control group continuously increased from the
       day of start of administration, whereas, when the mice were administered with the
       long-acting oxyntomodulin analog (the SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate or the SEQ ID
       NO: 25-Fc conjugate), the body weight did not substantially change from the body
       weight measured at the day of state of administration, suggesting that the conjugate
       showed a significant effect of inhibiting the increase in the body weight (FIG. 3).
[303]    The results of measurement of the blood glucose level indicated that, when the mice
       were administered with the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog (the SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc
       conjugate or the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate), the blood glucose level significantly
       decreased compared to that of the control group. Particularly, administration of 6
       nmol/kg of the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog (SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate)
       showed a blood glucose lowering effect compared to that of VICTOZAthat is a com
       mercially available drug for treating diabetes (FIG. 4).
[304]    From the results of Example 7, it was found that the long-acting oxyntomodulin
       analog of the present invention, which comprises the oxyntomodulin analog covalently
       linked to the immunoglobulin Fc region by PEG, significantly reduced the blood
       glucose level (index of diabetes) in the db/db mice with diabetes induced by the

   WO 2014/073845                                                         PCT/KR2013/009990
       mutation in the leptin receptor, compared to the vehicle and VICTOZAthat is being
       used as a drug for treating diabetes, suggesting that the long-acting oxyntomodulin
       analog of the present invention can be very effectively used for the treatment of
       diabetes. In addition, the long-acting oxyntomodulin analog of the present invention
       showed a significant effect of inhibiting the increase in the body weight, suggesting
       that it can reduce diabetic cardiovascular complications.
[305]    From the results of Examples 6 and 7, it was seen that the long-lasting oxyn
       tomodulin analog conjugate of the present invention showed an excellent blood
       glucose-lowering effect equal to or better than VICTOZA known to have a blood
       glucose lowering effect, as well as an excellent body weight-reducing effect,
       suggesting that the long-lasting oxyntomodulin analog conjugate of the present
       invention can be effectively used as an agent for treating diabetes, diabesity and
       diabetic complications, by virtue of its blood level-lowering effect.
[306]    Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention may be
       embodied in other specific formed without departing from its spirit or essential charac
       teristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as il
       lustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the present invention is, therefore, indicated
       by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which
       come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced
       within the scope of the present invention.

   WO 2014/073845                                                    PCT/KR2013/009990
                                     Claims
[Claim 1]         A composition for preventing or treating diabetes, diabesity or diabetic
                  complications, the composition comprising an oxyntomodulin analog
                  as an active ingredient.
[Claim 2]         The composition of claim 1, wherein the oxyntomodulin analog has an
                  amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of amino acid
                  sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 2 to 34.
[Claim 3]         The composition of claim 1, wherein the oxyntomodulin analog is in
                  the form of a conjugate with one selected from the group consisting of
                  an immunoglobulin fragment, an antibody, elastin, albumin and fi
                  bronectin.
[Claim 4]         The composition of claim 3, wherein the conjugate is a conjugate in
                  which the oxyntomodulin analog having the amino acid sequence
                  selected from the group consisting of the amino acid sequences of SEQ
                  ID NOS: 2 to 34 is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region through a
                  non-peptidyl polymer.
[Claim 5]         The composition of claim 4, wherein the non-peptidyl polymer is
                  selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol,
                  polypropylene glycol, an ethylene glycol/propylene glycol copolymer,
                  polyoxyethylated polyol, polyvinyl alcohol, polysaccharides, dextran,
                  polyvinyl ethyl ether, PLA (polylactic acid), PLGA (polylactic-glycolic
                  acid), lipid polymers, chitins, hyaluronic acid, and combinations
                  thereof.
[Claim 6]         The composition of claim 4, wherein each end of the non-peptidyl
                  polymer is linked to the immunoglobulin Fc region and the amine
                  group or thiol group of the oxyntomodulin, respectively.
[Claim 7]         The composition of claim 1, further comprising a pharmaceutical agent
                  showing preventive or therapeutic effects against diabetes, diabesity or
                  diabetic complications.
[Claim 8]         The composition of claim 1, wherein the diabetes is insulin-dependent
                  type 1 diabetes or insulin-independent type 2 diabetes.
[Claim 9]         The composition of claim 1, wherein the diabesity results from obesity.
[Claim 10]        A method for treating diabetes, diabesity or diabetic complications, the
                  method comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount
                  of an oxyntomodulin analog to a subject.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                              PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <110>      HANMI SCI ENCE CO. , LTD.
              <120>      A c ompos i t i on f or t r eat i ng di abet es or di abes i t y c ompr i s i ng
                         ox y nt omodul i n anal og
              <130>      OPA13135PCT
              <150>      KR10- 2012- 0124724
              <151>      2012- 11- 06
              <160>      53
<removed-apn>
              <170>      Kopat ent I n 2. 0
              <210>      1
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n
              <400>     1
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      2
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     2
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      3
              <211>      39
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     3
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Al a Tr p Leu Ly s As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ser
                                                          Page 1

                                                   PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                         25                        30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                        35
              <210>     4
              <211>     39
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 1)
              <223>     Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      4
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                      30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                        35
              <210>     5
              <211>     39
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 1)
              <223>     Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      5
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                      30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                        35
              <210>     6
              <211>     42
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 1)
              <223>     Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      6
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Al a Al a Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr
                             20                      25                      30
                                                               Page 2

                                             PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p
                       35                     40
              <210>      7
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
<removed-apn>
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     7
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s
                             20                      25                    30
              <210>      8
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     8
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Leu Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Ly s
                             20                      25
              <210>      9
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 20)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <400>      9
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Xaa Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
                                                                Page 3

                                                    PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      10
              <211>      40
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
<removed-apn>
              <400>     10
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                     30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                        35                      40
              <210>      11
              <211>      43
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      11
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Al a Al a Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr
                             20                      25                      30
              Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Ly s
                       35                     40
              <210>      12
              <211>      38
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     12
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl y
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl y Gl y Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ly s Gl n Met
                              20                     25                   30
              Gl u Gl u Gl u Al a Val Ly s
                         35
                                                                Page 4

                                                    PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      13
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 16)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 20)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <400>     13
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Xaa
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Xaa Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s
                             20                     25                    30
              <210>      14
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 20)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 24)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <400>      14
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Xaa Leu Phe I l e Xaa Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                    25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      15
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
                                                                Page 5

                                                     PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>       ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 1)
              <223>       Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 24)
              <223>       Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
<removed-apn>
              <400>      15
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Xaa Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>       16
              <211>       34
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 1)
              <223>       Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     16
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Leu Gl u Gl y
                 1                 5                   10                    15
              Gl y Gl y Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Leu
                              20                    25                   30
              Gl u Ly s
              <210>       17
              <211>       37
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 1)
              <223>       Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     17
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                       30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
                                                                 Page 6

                                                    PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      18
              <211>      40
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
<removed-apn>
              <400>     18
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                        30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                        35                      40
              <210>      19
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     19
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ly s Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                       30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      20
              <211>      40
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     20
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ly s Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                        30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                        35                      40
              <210>      21
                                                                Page 7

                                                    PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     21
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Leu Gl u Gl u
<removed-apn>
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Val Ar g As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                     30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      22
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   des ami no- hi s t i dy l .
              <400>     22
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      23
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     23
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Cy s Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                              20                     25
              <210>      24
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
                                                                Page 8

                                                      PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>     24
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>     25
              <211>     30
<removed-apn>
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 2)
              <223>     Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     25
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>     26
              <211>     30
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 2)
              <223>     Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     26
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>     27
              <211>     29
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 2)
              <223>     Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     27
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl n Al a Al a Ly s Gl u Phe I l e Cy s Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                                                            Page 9

                                                    PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                               20                        25
              <210>      28
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
<removed-apn>
              <400>     28
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                              20                     25
              <210>      29
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Thi s " S" r ef er s a v ar i ant of s er i ne, d- s er i ne.
              <400>     29
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      30
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l
              <400>     30
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      31
              <211>      37
                                                               Page 10

                                                    PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
<removed-apn>
              <223>      Thi s " S" r ef er s a v ar i ant of s er i ne, d- s er i ne.
              <400>     31
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      32
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     32
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      33
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
                                                               Page 11

                                                       PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>     33
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Al a Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                      15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      34
              <211>      30
<removed-apn>
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     34
              Ty r Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      35
              <211>      8
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      gr oup R2
              <400>      35
              Ly s Ar g As n Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                 1                   5
              <210>      36
              <211>      10
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      gr oup R2
              <400>      36
              Gl y Pr o Ser Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                 1                 5                      10
              <210>      37
              <211>      11
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      gr oup R2
                                                                 Page 12

                                                      PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>      37
              Gl y Pr o Ser Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                 1                 5                      10
              <210>     38
              <211>     15
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup R2
              <400>     38
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              <210>     39
              <211>     16
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup R2
              <400>     39
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Ly s
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              <210>     40
              <211>     20
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup R2
              <400>      40
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ly s Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ly s
                             20
              <210>     41
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     41
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser Ar g
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                                                         Page 13

                                                      PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                            25
              <210>     42
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
<removed-apn>
              <400>     42
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u Gl u
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                             20                      25
              <210>     43
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     43
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u Ar g
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Al a Tr p Leu Ly s As n Thr
                              20                     25
              <210>     44
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>      44
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y
                             20                      25
              <210>     45
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>      45
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y
                                                         Page 14

                                                      PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                            25
              <210>     46
              <211>     26
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
<removed-apn>
              <400>      46
              Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Al a Al a
                             20                      25
              <210>     47
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     47
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Gl y
                             20                      25
              <210>     48
              <211>     24
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup B
              <400>      48
              Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p
                             20
              <210>     49
              <211>     14
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup B
              <400>     49
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p
                1                 5                    10
                                                                Page 15

                                                         PCTKR2013009990- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>        50
              <211>        30
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        pr i mer
              <400>           50
              c c c ggc c c c c gc ggc c gc t a t t c gaaat ac                            30
<removed-apn>
              <210>        51
              <211>        33
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        pr i mer
              <400>        51
              gaac ggt c c g gaggac gt c g ac t c t t aaga t ag                           33
              <210>        52
              <211>        34
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        pr i mer
              <400>        52
              c agc gac ac c gac c gt c c c c c c gt ac t t aa ggc c                      34
              <210>        53
              <211>        32
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        pr i mer
              <400>         53
              c t aac c gac t c t c ggggaag ac t gagc t c g c c                           32
                                                                   Page 16

