                                          Abstract
A tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism includes a rotating wheel pivotally arranged
inside a handle; a holding cavity is formed on an upper portion of the rotating wheel; a spring
and a brake block are arranged in the groove, such that a connection rod of the control piece
above the handle passes through a long slotted hole at a position opposite to the handle, and is
clamped and linked with the brake block; and the near ends of the two pull wires are extended
and are combined on the rotating wheel of the control mechanism. The positioning structure
can be operated with a single hand, which is different from the conventional two-hand control
manner; and the operation efficiency and the convenience are improved.

                                                    1
                  TRACHEOSCOPE PULL WIRE CONTROL MECHANISM
Technical Field
[0001] The utility model is a tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism, and mainly provides a
simple and convenient control mechanism which can achieve the effect of linking the far end of a
catheter of a tracheoscope to swing and bend by means of operating and moving a control piece
above a handle to drive displacements of pull wires; particularly, with a structural design for
positioning, the swing control range of the far end can be fixed, such that the operation convenience
is increased and the progressive practicability is achieved.
Background
[0002] A tracheoscope structure generally includes an elongated catheter so as to extend into a
human body. The far end of the catheter is combined with a shooting module, so as to shoot an
image in a human body cavity and send the image to an external screen, and therefore a medical
staff observes or gives treatment directly. In order to get images at different angular positions inside
the human body, a hose structure that may be bent is arranged at the far end of the catheter, so as to
control the swing using two pull wires and link the shooting module to rotate, thereby obtaining
multiple intracavitary images at different angles.
[0003] An early mechanism for linking the pull wires is arranged on an upper portion of a handle at
the near end of the tracheoscope. A knob mechanism that can be operated by a user on the handle is
provided so as to link pull wires to control the swing of the far end of the catheter. However, there is
a need to use both hands to control cooperatively, that is, one hand holds the handle, and the other
hand implements a locking or tightening action, such that the bending angle of the far end of the
catheter can be positioned, which is very inconvenient.

                                                     2
[0004] Then, there is an improved design of the control mechanism using a single hand operation.
For example, for Chinese application No. 200980153972.1, entitled "Mechanism for Controlling
Bending Section of Endoscope", a movable button is arranged outside a handle and is utilized to
link a cross rod piece inside to drive movements of the pull wires, such that the far end of a pipe of
the tracheoscope may be controlled to swing. However, the operation of the control mechanism still
is not convenient enough. When an operator pushes the button such that the far end of the catheter
is bent to be positioned, it is essential to press a clamping mechanism again to lock the button.
When there is a need to change an angle of the far end of the catheter, the unlocking action is
operated additionally, which brings very inconvenient troubles for a physician who must highly
focus on observing the image and performing the operation, and is difficult to achieve the purpose
of the single hand operation in well-known patents. Hence, it is necessary to make improvements.
Summary
[0005] The utility model is a tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism, and mainly provides a
simple and convenient control mechanism. By moving a control piece above a handle to drive pull
wires to generate a displacement, the far end of a catheter of a tracheoscope is linked to swing and
bend. A structure mainly includes a rotating wheel pivotally arranged inside a handle; a holding
cavity is formed on an upper portion of the rotating wheel; a spring and a brake block are arranged
in the groove; a connection rod of the control piece above the handle passes through a long slotted
hole at a position opposite to the handle, and is clamped and linked with the brake block; and the
near ends of the two pull wires are extended and are combined on the rotating wheel of the control
mechanism. Therefore, after the control piece is pressed simply, the pull wires are linked via a
simple operation in a manner of moving back and forth, thereby achieving the purpose of enabling
the far end of the catheter to bend to different directions. As long as a pressing finger is released,
the far end of the catheter can be positioned at the angular position, achieving an obvious progress.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0006] Fig. 1 is an external stereoscopic diagram of a tracheoscope handle of the utility model.

                                                    3
[0007] Fig. 2 is a breakdown stereoscopic diagram of a tracheoscope handle and a control
mechanism of the utility model.
[0008] Fig. 3 is a cross-section diagram of Fig. 1 of the utility model.
[0009] Fig. 4 is a state diagram after pressing of Fig. 3 of the utility model.
[0010] Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 are state diagrams of an embodiment of the utility model in which a control
piece is moved back and forth as shown in Fig. 4.
[0011] Reference numbers are set forth hereinafter:
[0012] 1 a handle; 11 a spherical body; 12 a long slot; 2 a rotating wheel; 21 a holding groove; 3 a
brake block; 31 a spring; 32 a non-slip piece; 33 a central hole; 4 a control piece; 41 a connection
rod; 5 a pull wire
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
[0013] Please referring to Fig. 1-3, the embodiment is an tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism,
which is mainly arranged inside a handle 1; a structure includes a rotating wheel 2, which is
pivotally arranged in an internal space of the handle 1 to form a rotatable structure; a holding
groove 21 is formed on an upper portion of the rotating wheel 2; a spring 31 and a brake block 3 are
arranged in the groove; an upper portion of the brake block 3 is of an arc shape and is combined
with a non-slip piece 32; an upper portion of the handle 1, relative to the rotating wheel 2, which is
arranged into a spherical body 11, and is provided with a longitudinal long slotted hole 12; a control
piece 4 is arranged above the spherical body 11 of the handle 1 and is provided with a connection
rod 41 thereunder, such that the connection rod 41 passes through the long slotted hole 12 and is
combined and fixed with a central hole 33 of the brake piece 3 thereunder; and thus, through the
movement of the control piece 4, the rotation of the brake block 3 to the rotating wheel 2 is

                                                   4
controlled. Additionally, the near ends of two pull wires 5 of the tracheoscope are extended and are
combined on the rotating wheel 2 of a control mechanism.
[0014] When the tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism is used, an operator can simply press
the control piece 4, such that the brake block 4 downwardly compresses the spring 31, and the
non-slip piece 32 leaves away from the inner surface of the spherical body 11. As shown in Fig. 4,
the control piece 4 can be operated easily to move back and forth so as to drive the rotating wheel 1
to rotate forwardly and reversely, thereby achieving the purpose of controlling relative positions of
the linked two pull wires 5 and thus enabling the far end of the catheter to bend toward different
directions. As shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, with such an operating manner, the operator can
implement easily only with a single hand without distraction. When the far end of the catheter is
bent to a certain special angle, as long as the pressing finger is released, the spring 31 pushes the
brake block 3 upward by a restoring force and the non-slip piece 32 is tightly attached to the inner
surface of the spherical body 11. Returning to a position as shown in Fig. 3, the positioning effect
like a brake is obtained. When the rotating wheel 3 is fixed at this position, the effect of positioning
the far end of the catheter at the bending angle is achieved. The operator does not need to spend a
mind and a power for maintenance, and can observe an image obtained at this angle wholeheartedly
and stably and can give the medical treatment, achieving the progressive and practical values of the
utility model.
[0015] In conclusion, the improved control mechanism of the utility model can support the operator
to simply and conveniently control the far end of the catheter of the tracheoscope to bend and swing
with a single hand and may fix them at the selected angle and position. The utility model has
excellent progress and practicability compared with the current design.

                                                    5
                                                Claims
1.     A tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism, which is arranged inside a handle of a
tracheoscope and is characterized by comprising:
a rotating wheel, which is pivotally arranged in an internal space of the handle to form a rotatable
structure, a holding groove being formed on an upper portion of the rotating wheel;
a brake block, which is arranged in the holding groove of the rotating wheel and is provided with a
spring thereunder and a central hole, an upper portion of the brake block being of an arc shape and
being additionally combined with a non-slip piece;
the upper portion of the tracheoscope handle, relative to the rotating wheel, being arranged into a
spherical body structure, and being provided with a longitudinal long slotted hole;
a control piece, which is arranged above the spherical body of the handle, and is provided with a
connection rod thereunder, the connection rod passing through a long slotted hole on the spherical
body, and being combined with the central hole of the brake piece thereunder; and
the near ends of two pull wires of the tracheoscope, being extended and being combined on the
rotating wheel of a control mechanism.
2.    The tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein when the
control piece is pressed such that the tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism is moved back and
forth, the brake block can be linked to drive the rotation of the rotating wheel and to change relative
positions of the pull wires, thereby enabling the far end of the catheter of the tracheoscope to
generate a bending angle.

                                                    6
3.    The tracheoscope pull wire control mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein when the
control piece is not pressed, the non-slip piece on the brake block is tightly attached to the inner
surface of the spherical body of the handle via an upward elastic force of the spring, such that the
rotating wheel, the pull wires, and the far end of the catheter all are in a stable positioned state.

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.1                              1/4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.2                              2/4

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.4   FIG.3                              3/4

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.6   FIG.5                              4/4

