                   COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR IMMUNOTHERAPY
                                        Abstract
The present invention provides immunoresponsive cells, including T cells, cytotoxic
T cells, regulatory T cells, and Natural Killer (NK) cells, expressing at least one of an
antigen recognizing receptor and one of a chimeric costimulatory receptor. Methods
of using the immunoresponsive cell include those for the treatment of neoplasia and
other pathologies where an increase in an antigen-specific immune response is
desired.

             COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR IMMUNOTHERAPY
                         Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2013327136, an Australian National Phase Application based on
PCT/US2013/063097. AU 2013327136 claims priority from US provisional
application no. 61/709,072 filed on 2 October 2012. The entire contents of Australian
Patent Application No. 2013327136 and US provisional application no. 61/709,072
are incorporated herein by cross-reference.
                                      Sequence Listing
[0002] This application contains a Sequence Listing, created on September 30,
2013; the file, in ASCII format, is designated 3314040AWOSequence
Listing_ST25.txt and is 27 .5 kilobytes in size. The sequence listing file is hereby
incorporated by reference in its entirety into the application.
                                 Background of the Invention
[0003] Prostate cancer is the most frequent cancer in males in the United
States and the cause of nearly 31,000 deaths per year. When diagnosed early,
cancer can be effectively treated by surgery or radiation. Postsurgical residual
disease requires radiation and/or hormonal therapy, which may prevent tumor
progression and metastasis. At present, there is no curative treatment for
hormone refractory, metastatic prostate cancer. Immunotherapy is a targeted
therapy that in principle provides for the treatment of such cancers.
[0004] Targeted T cell therapies utilizing genetically modified autologous T cells
are beginning to show evidence of therapeutic efficacy in melanoma and indolent B
cell malignancies. Current T cell engineering strategies retarget patient T cells to
tumor antigens through a transduced T cell receptor (TCR) or a chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR). The newfound ability to induce potent immune responses,
however, commands the need to confine immune attacks to the tumor and avoid
reactions against normal tissues that may express the targeted antigen. Alas,
the limited availability of truly tumor-restricted antigens often precludes
achieving highly specific targeting. Among the limitations precluding achieving
                                                1

highly specific targeting is the limited availability of truly tumor-restricted antigens.
Accordingly, new methods of treating neoplasia are urgently required.
                                 Summary of the Invention
10005] The present invention generally provides immunoresponsive cells,
including T cells and Natural Killer (NK) cells, expressing an antigen binding
receptor (e.g., CAR or TCR) having immune cell activating actvity and a chimeric
co-stimulating receptor (CCR), and methods of use therefore for the treatment of
neoplasia, infectious disease, and other pathologies.
[0006] In one aspect, the invention provides an isolated immunoresponsive cell
having an antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen with low
affinity, where the binding activates the immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric co
stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds a second antigen and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell.
[0007]    In another aspect, the invention provides a method of inducing tumor
cell death in a subject, the method comprising administering an effective
amount of an immunoresponsive cell comprising an antigen recognizing
receptor that binds a first antigen with low affinity, where the binding activates
the immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that
binds a second antigen and stimulates the immunoresponsive cell, thereby inducing
tumor cell death in the subject.
100081    In still another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating or
preventing a neoplasia in a subject, the method comprising administering an
effective amount of an immunoresponsive cell comprising an antigen recognizing
receptor that binds a first antigen with low affinity, where the binding activates the
immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds a
second antigen and stimulates the immunoresponsive cell, thereby treating or
preventing a neoplasia in the subject.
10009]    In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating
prostate cancer in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising
administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a T cell
                                               2

comprising an antigen recognizing receptor that binds PSCA or CD19 with low
affinity, where the binding activates the immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric
co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds PSMA and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell, thereby treating prostate cancer in the subject.
 [0010]   In still another, the invention provides a method for producing an
antigen- specific immunoresponsive cell, the method involving introducing into
the immunoresponsive cell a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a chimeric co
stimulating receptor (CCR), where the chimeric co-stimulating receptor has an
antigen-binding domain coupled to an intracellular signaling domain that
stimulates an immunoresponsive cell, where the immunoresponsive cell has an
antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen with low affinity, wherein the
binding activates the immunoresponsive cell.
[00111    In a related aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising an effective amount of an immunoresponsive cell of the invention
(e.g., a tumor antigen-specific T cell in a pharmaceutical composition for the
treatment of neoplasia) in a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
10012]    In an additional aspect, the invention provides a kit for treatment of a
neoplasia, pathogen infection, an autoimmune disorder, or an allogeneic
transplant, the kit containing an immunoresponsive cell having an antigen
recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen and activates the
immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds
a second viral antigen and stimulates the immunoresponsive cell. The kit may
further comprise written instructions for using the immunoresponsive cell for the
treatment of a subject having a neoplasia, a pathogen infection, an autoimmune
disorder, or an allogeneic transplant.
[0013]    In various embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the
immunoresponsive cell is selected as having an antigen recognizing receptor
with low affinity. This may involve selecting the immunoresponsive cell as having
an antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen with low affinity. In
various embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the antigen
recognizing receptor is selected as having low affinity for expression in the cell.
                                             3

This may involve introducing a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a
chimeric antigen receptor, where the chimeric antigen receptor comprises a
second antigen-binding domain coupled to a second intracellular signaling
domain that activates an immunoresponsive cell. In various embodiments of any
of the aspects delineated herein, the antigen recognizing receptor is a T cell
receptor (TCR) or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). In various embodiments, the
intracellular signaling domain of said antigen recognizing receptor is the CD3-chain
signaling domain. In various embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain of the
chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) is a CD97, CD11a-CD18, CD2, ICOS, CD27,
CD154, CD5, OX40, 4-1BB or CD28 signaling domain.
10014]    In various embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the
antigen recognizing receptor is exogenous or endogenous. In various
embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the antigen recognizing
receptor is recombinantly expressed. In various embodiments, the antigen
recognizing receptor is expressed from a vector. In various embodiments, the
chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) is expressed from a vector. In particular
embodiments, the immunoresponsive cell expresses a recombinant or an
endogenous antigen receptor that is 19z1 or Pz1.
[0015]    In various embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the
immunoresponsive cell is a T cell, a Natural Killer (NK) cell, a cytotoxic T
lymphocyte (CTL), a regulatory T cell, a human embryonic stem cell, or a
pluripotent stem cell from which lymphoid cells may be differentiated. In various
embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the immunoresponsive cell of
any one of claims 1-9, where said immunoresponsive cell is autologous.
[0016]    In various embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the
antigen is a tumor or pathogen antigen. In various embodiments of any of the
aspects delineated herein, one or more antigen-binding domains are tumor
antigen-binding domains. In various embodiments of any of the aspects
delineated herein, the antigens or tumor antigens are selected from CAIX, CEA,
CD5, CD7, CD10, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD34, CD38, CD41, CD44,
CD49f, CD56, CD74, CD133, CD138, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell
antigen, EGP-2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2,3,4, FBP, Fetal acetylcholine receptor,
                                            4

folate receptor-a, GD2, GD3, HER-2, hTERT, IL13R-a2, x-light chain, KDR, LeY,
LI cell adhesion molecule, MAGE-Al , MUC1, Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY
ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, ROR1, TAG-72, VEGF-R2, and
WT-1. In various embodiments, the first and second antigens are selected from
CD133, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, erbB2, KDR Mesothelin,
NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, CD19,
VEGF-R2, and WT-1. In particular embodiments, the first and second antigens are
selected from HER2, MUC1, CD44, CD49f, EpCAM, CEA, CD133, a
cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, EGP-2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2,3,4,
FBP, KDR, Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4),
PSCA, PSMA, VEGF-R2, or WT-1. In specific embodiments, the first and second
antigens are selected from CD10 and CD19. In other embodiments, the first and
second antigens are selected from CD56 and CD138. In certain embodiments, the
first and second antigens are selected from mesothelin, folate receptor-a, CD44,
and CD133.
[00171    In various embodiments of any of the aspects delineated herein, the
neoplasia is selected from the group consisting of prostate cancer, breast cancer, B
cell leukemia, multiple myeloma, and ovarian cancer. In various embodiments of
any of the aspects delineated herein, the method reduces the number of tumor
cells, reduces tumor size, and/or eradicates the tumor in the subject.
[00181    In various embodiments, the neoplasia is prostate cancer and the first and
second tumor antigens are distinct antigens selected from PSCA, PSMA, CD19,
CD133, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, erb-B2, KDR
Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), VEGF-R2, and
WT-I. In various embodiments, the neoplasia is breast cancer and the first and
second tumor antigens are distinct antigens selected from HER2, MUC1, CD44,
CD49f, EpCAM, CEA, CD133, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen,
EGP-2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2,3,4, FBP, KDR, Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY
ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, VEGF-R2, or WT-1. In particular
embodiments, the neoplasia is B cell leukemia and the first and second tumor
antigens are selected from CDIO and CD19. In certain embodiments, the neoplasia
is multiple myeloma and the first and second tumor antigens are selected from
CD56 and CD138. In various embodiments, the neoplasia is ovarian cancer and
                                           5

the first and second tumor antigens are distinct antigens selected from mesothelin,
folate receptor-a, CD44, and CD133.
[00191    The invention provides compositions and methods that provide for T cell
targeting of tumor cells. Compositions and articles defined by the invention were
isolated or otherwise manufactured in connection with the examples provided
below. Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
detailed description, and from the claims.
                          Brief Description of the Drawinas
[0020]    Figures 1A-C are graphics depicting chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)
and chimeric costimulatory receptor (CCR) vector design and expression via
transduction of primary human T cells. (A) depicts generation of CARs by fusing
heavy and light chains of immunoglobulin variable domains to the CD8
transmembrane domain, which is fused to the cytosolic signaling domains of CD3
By using an Internal Ribosomal Entry Site (IRES) to enable bicistronic expression,
CAR expression can be easily detected by correlation to dsRED fluorescence
(data not shown). The CCR was generated by fusing an scFv to a CD28
transmembrane and signaling domain 1 5 , fused to a 4-1BB (aka CD137)
cytosolic signaling domain.     CCR expression can be correlated to the
bicistronic expression of hrGFP (data not shown). Abbreviations: LTR -         Long
Terminal Repeat; SD -      Splice Donor site; SA -    Splice Acceptor site; VH or VL
-Variable Heavy or Light domains, respectively; EC - Extracellular domain; TM
Transmembrane domain; C -       Cytosolic domain; IRES -    Internal Ribosomal Entry
Site; dsRED - Discosoma sp. Red fluorescent protein, hrGFP -       Human
Recombinant Green Fluorescent Protein (B) depicts representative transduction
efficiencies of primary human T cells using these retroviral vectors. (C) depicts
transduction of CTLs with different and multiple CARs for the present studies.
100211    Figures 2A-D show that dual-receptor, CAR/CCR-mediated activation of
human T cells allowed for robust CTL function, long-term proliferation, and
enhanced tumor eradication upon binding of two antigens. (A) shows that T
cells expressing chimeric receptors lysed cells positive for antigen when the
CAR specific to CD1 9 is expressed by T cells in CTL assays, compared to
                                           6

untransduced or P28BB transduced T cells. Plots are representative of n > 4
experiments, with error bars representing standard deviation of the mean of 3
replicates. (B) shows long-term proliferation of T cells by absolute T cell counts
over 31 days of T cells expressing none, one, or both chimeric receptors that
were co-cultured with human tumor cell lines expressing both or either antigen
alone. Arrows indicate re-stimulation of T cells using freshly irradiated tumor
cells. Only when dual-receptor expressing T cells encounter both antigens is
robust long-term proliferation observed. Plots are representative of n > 4
experiments with error bars representing standard deviation of the mean of 3
replicates. (C) depicts the efficacy of systemic tumor eradication by tumor
sensing T (TTS) cells assessed by infusing 1.0     x 106 T cells intravenously (IV)
into NSG mice bearing luciferase expressing CD19'PSMA* PC3 human
prostate tumor. Tumor burden was quantitatively measured weekly by using
BLI. Images of two representative mice from each group are shown with the
pixel intensity from the luminescence of tumors represented in color. An
average of tumor burden was plotted with error bars representing standard
deviation from the mean of values from 6 mice per group. (D) depicts selective
eradication of DP tumors using a tri-tumor mouse model by subcutaneously
injecting 1 x 106 PC3 tumors cells each of cells positive for CD19 alone into the
left flanks, cells positive for PSMA alone into the right flanks, and cells positive
for both CD19 and PSMA into the backs of the mice. T cells expressing either
 19z1, P28BB, or both 19z1 + P28BB of the chimeric receptors were infused
intravenously 7 days post tumor infusion. Representative images of 2 mice per
group bearing these tumors are shown with luminescence of tumors represented
in color. Tumors were quantitatively measured using calipers and tumor volumes
were plotted versus time for each tumor. Error bars represent standard deviation
from the mean of 6 mice. Statistical significance was determined using two
tailed unpaired t tests to compare values obtained from 19z1 T cells and 19z1     +
P28BB T cells and p values are represented as * for <0.05 or ** for <0.01.
100221    Figures 3A-E depict that tumor-sensing T cTTS) cells selectively eradicated
human prostate tumors when targeting two prostate tumor antigens (A) depicts the
evaluation of three different scFvs specific to PSCA for their assembly into
bispecific antibodies that contain specificity for CD3 as well. T cells were co
cultured at ratio of 20:1 with PSCA* PC3 tumor cells and antibodies added at
                                          7

varying amounts and specific lysis was measured. (B) depicts generation of
CARs using the anti-PSCA scFvs that display varied efficacy in cytotoxicity
assays. The CAR mediated specific lysis of target cells expressing PSCA
corroborated the reduced efficacy of the LzI scFv by requiring a 50 fold high
effector : target ratio to achieve the same level of lysis of that for either Hzl or
Mzl. (C) and (D) depict selective eradication of systemic prostate tumors
expressing PSCA and PSMA was investigated by using these inefficient scFvs.
Tumors (Figure 5) were established and treated as described in Figure 2. After
14 days, 1.0 x 106 chimeric receptor positive T cells for MzI +P28BB (Figure 3C)
or LzI + P28BB (Figure 3D) were infused intravenously. Images of two
representative mice from each group are shown with luminescence from tumors
represented in color (from Blue = 5 x 105 to Red = 2 x 107 photons). The
average tumor burden was quantified by luminescence and plotted with error
bars representing standard deviation from the mean of values from 5 mice per
group. Two mice that received PSMA tumor (green line) died after day 49 and
therefore the mean value for luminescence was averaged from 3 values for days
56 and 63. Figure 3E Selective antitumor responses to only PSCA*PSMA*
tumors was achieved by LzI + P28BB T cells in mice that also had PSCA PSMA*
and PSCA*PSMA~ tumors, similar to Figure 2D. Statistical significance was
determined using two-tailed unpaired t tests to compare values obtained from LzI T
cells and LzI + P28BB T cells and p values are represented as * for <0.05 or ** for
<0.01.
100231   Figures 4A-D depict enhanced cytokine secretion and Bc1xL
expression is found by TTS cells when co-cultured on DP tumors. (A) depicts
multiplex cytokine analysis of untransduced T cells or T cells transduced with 19z1,
P28BB, or both 48 hours post first antigen stimulation using either untransduced
PC3 cells (Empty) or CD1 9*PSMA* PC3 cells. Error bars represent standard
deviation from the mean of 2 biological replicates. (B-D) depict multiplex cytokine
analysis of untransduced T cells or T cells transduced with Hz] (B), MzI (C), and
Lz1 (D) anti-PSCA CARs, P28BB CCRs, or both CAR + CCR is shown 48 hours
post second antigen stimulation using either Empty or PSCA+PSMA+ PC3
cells. (E) depicts Western blot analysis for Bc1xL performed using cellular
lysates of untransduced Tcells or Tcells transduced with 19z1, P28BB, or both
                                           8

after 24 hours post initial antigen stimulation. Total amount of Akt was used as a
loading control.
10024]     Figure 5 depicts generation of prostate tumor cells for the expression of
fusion protein GFP-Firefly Luciferase (GFP/Luc) and tumor antigens. Untransduced
PC3 cells (Empty) were transduced with GFP/Luc and either CD19, PSMA, PSCA,
or a combination of two antigens using retroviral expression constructs. Cells were
purified via double purity FACS for GFP/Luc, CD19, PSMA, and/or PSCA.
100251     Figures 6A-C illustrate the tumor-sensing T cell concept. (A) depicts that
TTS cells expressing an efficient CAR, become potently stimulated by A*1 13+ cells
to facilitate immune response against A+ cells. CAR*CCR* cells can bind tumor
antigen A+ cells with a CAR that supplies CD3 activation signals. This can result in
short-term cell lysis. CAR*CCR* cells can bind tumor antigen B+cells with a CCR
that supplies CD28 and CD1 37 signals. This signal alone is not sufficient to induce
lysis or proliferation. Only when CAR*CCR* cells bind tumor antigen A*B* cells with
a CAR and CCR can both activation and stimulation be provided. This results in
robust lysis, T cell proliferation, enhanced cytokine secretion, upregulation of BclxL,
and the ability to selectively eradicate tumors in vivo. However, depending on the
efficacy of the CAR, these CAR*CCR* cells can potentially recirculate to lyse cells
single positive for antigen specific to the CAR. Figure 6B depicts that by reducing
the efficacy of the CAR, TTs cells can be functionally rescued by CCR binding when
A*B* cells are encountered to selectively respond and eradicate A*13* cells, while
avoiding response to A+ cells. (C) shows that by co-expressing one CAR that
supplies a TCR activation signal upon binding a tumor antigen and a second CAR
that supplies stimulation signals upon binding a different tumor antigen, T
lymphocytes will only eradicate tumors expressing both antigens, but not tumors
expressing either antigen alone.
                          Detailed Description of the Invention
10026]     All patents, published applications and other references mentioned in
this specification are herein incorporated by reference into the present
disclosure.
                                             9

[00271 Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
have the meaning commonly understood by a person skilled in the art to which
this invention belongs. The following references provide one of skill with a
general definition of many of the terms used in this invention: Singleton et al.,
Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology (2nd ed. 1994); The
Cambridge Dictionary of Science and Technology (Walker ed., 1988); The
Glossary of Genetics, 5th Ed., R. Rieger et al. (eds.), Springer Verlag ( 1991);
and Hale & Marham, The Harper Collins Dictionary of Biology (1991). As used
herein, the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them below, unless
specified otherwise.
100281 By "activates an immunoresponsive cell" is meant induction of signal
transduction or changes in protein expression in the cell resulting in initiation
of an immune response. For example, when CD3 Chains cluster in response
to ligand binding and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motifs (ITAMs)
a signal transduction cascade is produced. In certain embodiments, when an
endogenous TCR or an exogenous CAR binds antigen, a formation of an
immunological synapse occurs that includes clustering of many molecules near
the bound receptor (e.g. CD4 or CD8, CD3 / / / , etc.) This clustering of
membrane bound signaling molecules allows for ITAM motifs contained within
the CD3 chains to become phosphorylated. This phosphorylation in turn
initiates a T cell activation pathway ultimately activating transcription factors,
such as NF-KB and AP-1. These transcription factors induce global gene
expression of the T cell to increase IL-2 production for proliferation and express
master regulator T cell proteins in order to initiate a T cell mediated immune
response. By "stimulates an immunoresponsive cell" is meant a signal that results
in a robust and sustained immune response. In various embodiments, this occurs
after immune cell (e.g., T-cell) activation or concomitantly mediated through
receptors including, but not limited to, CD28, CD137 (4-1BB), OX40, and ICOS.
Without being bound to a particular theory, receiving multiple stimulatory signals is
important to mount a robust and long-term T cell mediated immune response.
Without receiving these stimulatory signals, T cells quickly become inhibited and
unresponsive to antigen. While the effects of these co-stimulatory signals vary
and remain partially understood, they generally result in increasing gene
                                             10

expression in order to generate long lived, proliferative, and anti-apoptotic T cells
that robustly respond to antigen for complete and sustained eradication.
100291    The term "antigen recognizing receptor" as used herein refers to a
receptor that is capable of activating an immune cell (e.g., a T-cell) in response to
antigen binding. Exemplary antigen recognizing receptors may be native or
endogenous T cell receptors or chimeric antigen receptors in which a tumor
antigen-binding domain is fused to an intracellular signaling domain capable of
activating activating an immune cell (e.g., a T-cell). In various embodiments, an
antigen recognizing receptor is selected to have low or minimal affinity or avidity for
the antigen.
100301    By "affinity" is meant a measure of the binding strength between
antibody and a simple hapten or antigen determinant. Without being bound to
theory, affinity depends on the closeness of stereochemical fit between
antibody combining sites and antigen determinants, on the size of the area of
contact between them, and on the distribution of charged and hydrophobic
groups. Affinity also includes the term "avidity," which refers to the strength of the
antigen-antibody bond after formation of reversible complexes. Methods for
calculating the affinity of an antibody for an antigen are known in the art, including
use of binding experiments to calculate affinity. In the case of an antibody (Ab)
binding to an antigen (Ag), the affinity constant is used (expressed as inverted
dissociation constant).
                                     Ab + Ag = AbAg
                                    K,   = [AbAAg
                                          [Ab)] [Ag] K.
The chemical equilibrium of antibody binding is also the ratio of the on-rate (k
forward) and off-rate            constants. Two antibodies can have the same
                             ekback)
affinity, but one may have both a high on- and off-rate constant, while the other
may have both a low on- and off-rate constant.
                                     Ka = "forward = on-rate
                                        back        off-rate
                                                 11

Antibody activity in functional assays (e.g., cell lysis assay) is also reflective of
antibody affinity. In various embodiments of the invention, the antigen recognizing
receptor has low affinity. Low affinity includes micromolar and nanomolar affinities
(e.g. 10-5, 50-6, 10-6, 5x 10-7, 10-7 , 5x 10-", 10-", 5x10-, 10-9 M). Anitbody and affinities
can be phenotypically characterized and compared using functional assay (e.g.,
cell lysis assay).
[0031]     By "affinity" is meant a measure of the binding strength between
antibody and a simple The term "chimeric co-stimulatory receptor" (CCR), as
used herein refers to a specific type of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that
mediates costimulation independently of activation. When expressed on
immunoresponsive cells in combination with an antigen recognizing receptor
(e.g., CAR or TCR that activates the cell), the CCR is targeted to a second
antigen. In certain embodiments, the CCR has mid or high affinity for its target
antigen.
 [0032]    The term "chimeric antigen receptor" (CAR) as used herein refers to a
tumor antigen-binding domain that is fused to an intracellular signaling domain
capable of activating or stimulating T cells. Most commonly, the CAR's
extracellular binding domain is composed of a single chain variable fragment
(scFv) derived from fusing the variable heavy and light regions of a murine or
humanized monoclonal antibody. Alternatively, scFv's may be used that are derived
from Fab's (instead of from an antibody, e.g., obtained from Fab libraries). In
various embodiments, this scFv is fused to a transmembrane domain and then to
intracellular signaling domain. "First-generation" CARs include those that solely
provide CD3 signals upon antigen binding, "Second-generation" CARs include
those that provide both costimulation (e.g. CD28 or CD137) and activation
(CD3 ). "Third-generation" CARs include those that provide multiple
costimulation (e.g. CD28 and CD137) and activation (CD3 ). In CAR
applications to date, the CAR is selected to have high affinity or avidity for the
antigen, which is distinct and distinguishable from the invention described
herein.
                                                   12

[0033]   By "CD3    polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96,
97, 98, 99 or 100% identity to NCBI Reference No: NP_932170 or a fragment
thereof that has activating or stimulatory activity. An exemplary CD3 is provided in
Table 1 below. By "CD3 nucleic acid molecule" is meant a polynucleotide
encoding a CD3 polypeptide.
10034]   By "CD8 polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96,
97, 98, 99or 100% identity to NCBI Reference No: NP_001759 or a fragment
thereof that has stimulatory activity. An exemplary CD8 is provided in Table 1
below. By "CD8 nucleic acid molecule" is meant a polynucleotide encoding a
CD8 polypeptide.
[0035]   By "CD28 polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96,
97, 98, 99 or 100% identity to NCBI Reference No: NP_006130 or a fragment
thereof that has stimulatory activity. An exemplary CD28 is provided in Table 1
below. By "CD28 nucleic acid molecule" is meant a polynucleotide encoding a
CD28 polypeptide.
10036]   By "4-1 BB polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95,
96, 97, 98, 99 or 100% identity to NCBI Reference No: P41273 or NP_001 552 or a
fragment thereof that that acts as a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand. An
exemplary 4-1 BB is provided in Table 1 below. By "4-1 BBL nucleic acid molecule"
is meant a polynucleotide encoding a 4-1 BBL polypeptide.
10037]   By "CD80 polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96,
97, 98, 99 or 100% identity to NCBI Reference No: NP_005182 or a fragment
thereof that acts as an Ig superfamily ligand. An exemplary CD80 polypeptide is
provided in Table 1 below.
10038]   By "CD80 nucleic acid molecule" is meant any polynucleotide encoding
a CD80 polypeptide. An exemplary CD80 nucleic acid molecule is NM_005191
100391   By "OX4OL polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96,
97, 98, 99 or 100% identity to NCBI Reference No: BAB18304 or NP_003317 or a
                                            13

fragment thereof that is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand. By "OX4OL nucleic
acid molecule" is meant a polynucleotide encoding a OX40L polypeptide.
[00401    By "19z1 polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96, 97,
98, 99 or 100% identity to the sequence provided below and having activating
activity when bound to CD19.
[00411    By "P28z polypeptide" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96, 97,
98, 99 or 100% identity to the sequence provided below.
10042]    By " CD19" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99
or 100% identity to the sequence provided below and is able to bind CD19.
10043]    By " PSMA" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 or
100% identity to the sequence provided below and is able to bind PSMA.
10044]    By "P28BB" is meant a protein having at least 85, 90, 95, 96, 97, 98,
99 or 100% identity to the sequence provided below and having stimulatory
activity when bound to PSMA.
                                       Table 1
 SEQ
   ID         Name
  NO.
           CD3(          mkwkalftaa     ilqaqlpite     aqsfglldpk icylldgilf
                         iygviltalf     lrvkfsrsad     apayqqgqnq lynelnlgrr
                         eeydvldkrr     grdpemggkp     qrrknpqegl ynelqkdkma
                         eayseigmkg     errrgkghdg     lyqglsta tkdtydalhm
                         galppr
    2
           CD8           malpvtalli     plalllhaar     psqfrvspid      rtwnlgetve
                         lkcqvllsnp     tsgcswlfqp     rgaaasptfI      ly1sqnkpka
                         aegldtqrfs     gkrlgdtfvl     tisdfrrene      gyyfcsalsn
                         simyfshfvp     vflpakpttt     paprpptpap      tiasqplslr
                         peacrpaagg     avhtrgldfa     cdiyiwapla      gtcgvlllsl
                         vitlycnhrn     rrrvckcprp     vvksgdkpsi      saryv
    3
           CD28          mlrlilalnl     fpsiqvtgnk     ilvkqspmlv      aydnavnlsc
                         kysynlfsre     fraslhkgld     savevcvvyg      nysqqlqvys
                         ktgfncdgki     gnesvtfylq     nlyvnqtdiy      fckievmypp
                         pyldneksng     tiihvkgkhl     cpsplfpgps      kpfwvlvvvg
                         gvlacysllv     tvafiifwvr     skrsrllhsd      ymnmtprrpg
                         ptrkhyqpva     pprdfaayrs
                        mgnscyniva tll lvlnfer trslqdpcsn cpagtfccdnn
    4     4-1BB         rnqicspcpp nsfssaggqr
                                           14

            tcdicrqckg    vfrtrkecss  tsnaecdctp   gfhclgaucs
           mceqdckqgj     eltkkgckdc  cfgtfndqkr   gicrpwtncs
            1dg k svlvng  tkercivvcgp spadlspgas   svtppapare
           pghspqiisf     flaltstalli f-llffl-tlrf svvkrgrkk7L
            lvifkqpfmr    pvqttqeedg  cscrfpeeee   ggcel
            nghtrrqgts    pskcpylnff  q'llvlaglsh  fcsgvihvtk
     00C80 evkevatlsc     ahnvsveela  qtriywqkek   krnvltmrnsgd
           inniwpeyknr    tifditnnl's ivilalrpsd   egtyecvvl;k
           yekdafkreh     laevtlsvka  cifptpsisdf  eiptsnirri
            icstsggfpe    phlswlenge  elnainttvs   qdpetelyav
            ssk'ldfnmtt   nhsfmcliky  ghlrvnqtfn   wnttkqehfp
           dn'iipswait    lisvngifvi  ccltycfapr   crerrrnerl
           rresvrpv
           rnervqpleen    vgnaarprfe  rnklllvasv   iqglglii,7cf
6    OX40L  tyiclhfsal    qvshrypriq  sikvqfteyk   kekgfiiLtsq
            kedeimkvqn    nsviincdgf  ylislkgyfs   qevnislhyq
            kceeplfqlk    kvrsvnslrnv asltykdkvy   lnvttdnts'L
           ddfhvnggel     ilihqnpgef  cvi
7
    1 9z1  MALPVTALLLPLALLLHAEVKLQQSGAELVRPGS SVKI SCKAS
           GYAFSSYWMN~iVKQRPGQGLEW1IGQI YPGDGDTNYNGKFKGQA
           TLTADKSSSTAYMQLSC-LTSEDSAVYECARKTISSVVADFYFDY
           VGQGTTVTVSSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSDIELTQSPKFMSTSVGD
           RVSVTCKASQNVGTNVAJYQQKPGQS PKPL IYSATYRNSGVIPD
           RFTGSGSGTDFTLTITNVQSIKDLADYFCQQYNRYPYTSGGGTK
           LEIKRAAAPTTTPAPRPPTPAPTIASQPLSLRPEACRPAAGG A
           VHTRGLDF7ACDI YIWAPLAGTCGV\,LLLSLVITLYCNHRVKF-SR
           SAEPPAYQQGQNQLYNELNLGRR EEYDVLDKRR-RDPEMGGKP
           RR KNPQEGLYNELQKDKAAEAYSE I-GMKGERR.RGKGHDGLYQG
           LSTATKDTYDALHMQALPPR
           MALPVTALLLPLALLLHAEVQLQQSGPELVKPGTSVRISCKTSGYLT
  8 P28z    TEYT IHWVKQSHGKSLErNIGNINPNNGGTTYNQKFEDKATLTVDKSS
            S TAYMEL S LT SEDSAVYYCAAGWNFDYWGQGTTVTVS SGGGGSGGG
           GSGGGGSDIVMTQSHKF'MSTSVGDRVS IICKASQDVGTAVDWYQQKP
           GQSPKLLIYWASTRHTGVPDRFTGSGSGTDFTLTITNVQSEDLADYF
           CQQYNSYPLTFGAGTMLDLKR AAAIEVAYPPPYLDNEKSNGTI I'HVK
            GKHLCPSPLFPGPSKPFTVTLV'VVGGVL'ACYSLLVTVAFI IFWVRSKR
            SRLLH SDYMNMT PRRPPGPTRKHYQPYAPPRDFAAYRSRVKFSRSADA
            PAYQQGQNQLYNE LNLGRREE YDVL DKRRGRDPEMGGKPRRKN PQEG
            LYNELQKDKM AEAYSEIGMKGERRRGKGHDGLYQGLSTATKDTYDAL
           HMQALPPR
           EVKLQQSC-AELVRPC-SSVKI SCKASGYAFSSYWMNWVKQRPGQGLEW
                             15

    9      CD19         IGQIYPGDGDTNYNGKFKGQATLTADKSSSTAYMQLSGLTSEDSAVY
                        FCARKTISSVVDFYFDYWGQGTTVTVSSGGGGSGGGSGGGSDIEL
                        TQSPKFMSTSVGDRVSVTCKASQNVGTNVAWYQQKPGQS PKPLIYSA
                        TYRNSGVPDRFTGSGSGTDFTLTITNVQSKDLADYFCQQYNRYPYTS
                        GGGTKLEIKR
                        MMALPVTALLLPLALLLHAEVQLQQSGPELVKPGTSVRISCKTSGYT
   10      PSMA         FTEYTIHWVKQSHGKSLEWIGNINPNNGGTTYNQKFEDKATLTVDKS
                        S STAYMELRSLTSEDSAVYYCAAGWINFDYWGQGTTVTVSSGGGGSGG
                        GGSGGGGSDIVMTQSHKFMSTSVGDRVSIICKASQDVGTAVDWYQQK
                        PGQSPKLLIYWASTRHTGVPDRFTGSGSGTDFTLTITNVQSEDLADY
                        FCQQYNSYPLTFGAGTMLDLKR
                        MA7LPVTALLLPLALLLHAEVQLQQSGPELVKPGTSVRISCKTSGYTF
   11     P28BB         TEYTIHWVKQSHGKSLEWI GNINPNNGGTTYNQKFEDKATLTVDKSS
                        STAYMELRSLTSEDSAVYYCAAGWNFDYWGQGTTVTVSSGGGGSGGG
                        GSGGGGSDIVMTQSHKFMSTSVGDRVS II CKASQDVGTAVDWYQQKP
                        GQSPKLLIYWASTRHTGVPDRFTGSGSGTDFTLTITNVQSEDLADYF
                        CQQYNSYPLTFGAGTMLDLKRAAAIEVMYPPPYLDNEKSNGTIIHVK
                        GKHLCPSPLFPGPSKPFWVLVVVGGVLACYSLLVTVAFIIFWVRSKR
                        SRLLHSDYMiMTPRRPGPTRKHYQPYAPPRDFAAYRSRFSVVKRGRK
                        KLLYIFKQPFMRPVQTTQEEDGCSCRFPEEEEGGCE
100451   Nucleic acid molecules useful in the methods of the invention include
any nucleic acid molecule that encodes a polypeptide of the invention or a
fragment thereof. Such nucleic acid molecules need not be 100% identical with
an endogenous nucleic acid sequence, but will typically exhibit substantial
identity. Polynucleotides having "substantial identity" to an endogenous
sequence are typically capable of hybridizing with at least one strand of a double
stranded nucleic acid molecule. By "hybridize" is meant pair to form a double
stranded molecule between complementary polynucleotide sequences (e.g., a gene
described herein), or portions thereof, under various conditions of stringency. (See,
e.g., Wahl, G. M. and S. L. Berger (1987) Methods Enzymol. 152:399, Kimmel, A. R.
(1987) Methods Enzymol. 152:507).
[00461   For example, stringent salt concentration will ordinarily be less than about
750 mM NaCl and 75 mM trisodium citrate, preferably less than about 500 mM
NaC1 and 50 mM trisodium citrate, and more preferably less than about 250
mM NaC1 and 25 mM trisodium citrate. Low stringency hybridization can be
obtained in the absence of organic solvent, e.g., formamide, while high
stringency hybridization can be obtained in the presence of at least about 35%
formamide, and more preferably at least about 50% formamide. Stringent
                                           16

temperature conditions will ordinarily include temperatures of at least about 300
C, more preferably of at least about 370 C, and most preferably of at least
about 420 C. Varying additional parameters, such as hybridization time, the
concentration of detergent, e.g., sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and the
inclusion or exclusion of carrier DNA, are well known to those skilled in the art.
Various levels of stringency are accomplished by combining these various
conditions as needed. In a preferred: embodiment, hybridization will occur at 300 C
in 750 mM NaCl, 75 mM trisodium citrate, and 1% SDS. In a more preferred
embodiment, hybridization will occur at 370 C in 500 mM NaCl, 50 mM trisodium
citrate, 1% SDS, 35% formamide, and 1001.1g/ml denatured salmon sperm DNA
(ssDNA). In a most preferred embodiment, hybridization will occur at 420 C C. in
250 mM NaCl, 25 mM trisodium citrate, 1% SDS, 50% formamide, and 200
p.g/ml ssDNA. Useful variations on these conditions will be readily apparent to
those skilled in the art.
[00471    For most applications, washing steps that follow hybridization will also
vary in stringency. Wash stringency conditions can be defined by salt concentration
and by temperature. As above, wash stringency can be increased by decreasing
salt concentration or by increasing temperature. For example, stringent salt
concentration for the wash steps will preferably be less than about 30 mM NaC1
and 3 mM trisodium citrate, and most preferably less than about 15 mM NaCl and
1.5 mM trisodium citrate. Stringent temperature conditions for the wash steps will
ordinarily include a temperature of at least about 250 C, more preferably of at least
about 420 C, and even more preferably of at least about 680 C. In a preferred
embodiment, wash steps will occur at 25*C in 30 mM NaCl, 3 mM trisodium citrate,
and 0.1% SDS. In a more preferred embodiment, wash steps will occur at
42.degree C. in 15 mM NaC1, 1.5 mM trisodium citrate, and 0.1 % SDS. In another
embodiment, wash steps will occur at 680 C in 15 mM NaC1, 1.5 mM trisodium
citrate, and 0.1 % SDS. Additional variations on these conditions will be readily
apparent to those skilled in the art.
10048]    Hybridization techniques are well known to those skilled in the art and are
described, for example, in Benton and Davis (Science 196:180, 1977); Grunstein
and Hogness (Proc. Nat]. Acad.Sci., USA 72:3961, 1975); Ausubel et al. (Current
Protocols in Molecular Biology, Wiley Interscience, New York, 2001); Berger and
Kimmel (Guide to Molecular Cloning Techniques, 1987, Academic Press, New
                                           17

York); and Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory Press, New York.
[0049]   By "substantially identical" is meant a polypeptide or nucleic acid
molecule exhibiting at least 50% identity to a reference amino acid sequence
(for example, any one of the amino acid sequences described herein) or nucleic
acid sequence (for example, any one of the nucleic acid sequences described
herein). Preferably, such a sequence is at least 60%, more preferably 80% or 85%,
and more preferably 90%, 95% or even 99% identical at the amino acid level or
nucleic acid to the sequence used for comparison.
[00501   Sequence identity is typically measured using sequence analysis software
(for example, Sequence Analysis Software Package of the Genetics Computer
Group, University of Wisconsin Biotechnology Center, 1710 University Avenue,
Madison, Wis. 53705, BLAST, BESTFIT, GAP, or PILEUP/PRETTYBOX programs).
Such software matches identical or similar sequences by assigning degrees of
homology to various substitutions, deletions, and/or other modifications.
Conservative substitutions typically include substitutions within the following groups:
glycine, alanine; valine, isoleucine, leucine; aspartic acid, glutamic acid, asparagine,
glutamine; serine, threonine; lysine, arginine; and phenylalanine, tyrosine. In an
exemplary approach to determining the degree of identity, a BLAST program may be
used, with a probability score between e-3 and e-100 indicating a closely related
sequence.
[0051] By "analog" is meant a structurally related polypeptide or nucleic acid
molecule having the function of a reference polypeptide or nucleic acid
molecule.
[0052]   The term "ligand" as used herein refers to a molecule that binds to a
receptor. In particular, the ligand binds a receptor on another cell, allowing for
cell-to-cell recognition.
[0053] The term "constitutive expression" as used herein refers to expression
under all physiological conditions.
[0054]   By "disease" is meant any condition or disorder that damages or interferes
with the normal function of a cell, tissue, or organ. Examples of diseases include
neoplasia or pathogen infection of cell.
                                             18

[0055] By "effective amount" is meant an amount sufficient to arrest,
ameliorate, or inhibit the continued proliferation, growth, or metastasis (e.g.,
invasion, or migration) of a neoplasia.
[0056] By "enforcing tolerance" is meant preventing the activity of self-reactive
cells or immunoresponsive cells that target transplanted organs or tissues.
[00571 By "exogenous" is meant a nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide that is
not endogenously present in the cell, or not present at a level sufficient to
achieve the functional effects obtained when over-expressed. The term
"exogenous" would therefore encompass any recombinant nucleic acid molecule
or polypeptide expressed in a cell, such as foreign, heterologous, and over
expressed nucleic acid molecules and polypeptides.
[0058]    By a "heterologous nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide" is meant a nucleic
acid molecule (e.g., a cDNA, DNA or RNA molecule) or polypeptide that is not
normally present in a cell or sample obtained from a cell. This nucleic acid may be
from another organism, or it may be, for example, an mRNA molecule that is not
normally expressed in a cell or sample.
[0059]    By "immunoresponsive cell" is meant a cell that functions in an immune
response or a progenitor, or progeny thereof.
[0060]    By "isolated cell" is meant a cell that is separated from the molecular
and/or cellular components that naturally accompany the cell.
[0061]    The terms "isolated," "purified," or "biologically pure" refer to material
that is free to varying degrees from components which normally accompany it
as found in its native state. "Isolate" denotes a degree of separation from
original source or surroundings. "Purify" denotes a degree of separation that is
higher than isolation. A"purified" or "biologically pure" protein is sufficiently free
of other materials such that any impurities do not materially affect the biological
properties of the protein or cause other adverse consequences. That is, a
nucleic acid or peptide of this invention is purified if it is substantially free of
cellular material, viral material, or culture medium when produced by
recombinant DNA techniques, or chemical precursors or other chemicals when
chemically synthesized. Purity and homogeneity are typically determined using
analytical chemistry techniques, for example, polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis or high performance liquid chromatography. The term "purified"
                                            19

can denote that a nucleic acid or protein gives rise to essentially one band in an
electrophoretic gel. For a protein that canbe subjected to modifications, for
example,phosphorylation or glycosylation, different modifications may give rise to
different isolated proteins, which can be separately purified.
[0062]     The term "tumor antigen-binding domain" as used herein refers to a domain
capable of specifically binding a particular antigenic determinant or set of antigenic
determinants present on a tumor.
[0063]     By "modulate" is meant to alter positively or negatively. Exemplary
modulations include a 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, or 100% change.
[00641     By "neoplasia" is meant a disease characterized by the pathological
proliferation of a cell or tissue and its subsequent migration to or invasion of other
issues or organs. Neoplasia growth is typically uncontrolled and progressive, and
occurs under conditions that would not elicit, or would cause cessation of,
multiplication of normal cells. Neoplasias can affect a variety of cell types, tissues,
or organs, including but not limited to an organ selected from the group consisting
of bladder, bone, brain, breast, cartilage, glia, esophagus, fallopian tube,
gallbladder, heart, intestines, kidney, liver, lung, lymph node, nervous tissue,
ovaries, pancreas, prostate, skeletal muscle, skin, spinal cord, spleen, stomach,
testes, thymus, thyroid, trachea, urogenital tract, ureter, urethra, uterus, and
vagina, or a tissue or cell type thereof. Neoplasias include cancers, such as
sarcomas, carcinomas, or plasmacytomas (malignant tumor of the plasma cells).
Illustrative neoplasms for which the invention can be used include, but are not
limited to leukemias (e.g., acute leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute
myelocytic leukemi a, acute myeloblastic leukemia, acute promyelocytic leukemia,
acute myelomonocytic leukemia, acute monocytic leukemia, acute erythroleukemia,
chronic leukemia, chronic myelocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia),
polycythemia vera, lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's disease),
Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, heavy chain disease, and solid tumors such as
sarcomas and carcinomas (e.g., fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma,
liposarcoma,chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma,
endotheliosarcoma,lymphangiosarcoma,lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma,
mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, colon
carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer,
squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland
                                             20

carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary
adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, nile duct carcinoma,
choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilm's tumor, cervical
cancer, uterine cancer, testicular cancer, lung carcinoma, small cell lung
carcinoma, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma,
medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma,
hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, ligodenroglioma, schwannoma,
meningioma, melanoma, neuroblastoma, and retinoblastoma). In one
embodiment, screening methods of the invention identify compositions that are
useful for treating breast or lung cancer.
[0065] By "receptor" is meant a polypeptide, or portion thereof, present on a
cell membrane that selectively binds one or more ligands.
10066]   By "recognize" is meant selectively binds a target. A T cell that recognizes a
virus typically expresses a receptor that binds an antigen expressed by the virus.
10067] By "pathogen" is meant a virus, bacteria, fungi, parasite or protozoa
capable of causing disease.Exemplary viruses include, but are not limited to,
Retroviridae (e.g. human immunodeficiency viruses, such as HIV-1 (also referred
to as HDTV-Ill, LAVE or HTLV-Ill/LAV, or HIV-Ill; and other isolates, such as HIV
LP; Picornaviridae (e.g. polio viruses, hepatitis A virus; enteroviruses, human
Coxsackie viruses, rhinoviruses, echoviruses); Calciviridae (e.g. strains that cause
gastroenteritis); Togaviridae (e.g. equine encephalitis viruses, rubella viruses);
Flaviridae (e.g. dengue viruses, encephalitis viruses, yellow fever viruses);
Coronoviridae (e.g. coronaviruses); Rhabdoviridae (e.g. vesicular stomatitis
viruses, rabies viruses); Filoviridae (e.g. ebola viruses); Paramyxoviridae (e.g.
parainfluenza viruses, mumps virus, measles virus, respiratory syncytial virus);
Orthomyxoviridae (e.g. influenza viruses); Bungaviridae (e.g. Hantaan viruses,
bunga viruses, phleboviruses and Nairo viruses); Arena Viridae (hemorrhagic
fever viruses); Reoviridae (e.g. reoviruses, orbiviurses and
rotaviruses);Birnaviridae; Hepadnaviridae (Hepatitis B virus); Parvovirida
(parvoviruses);Papovaviridae (papilloma viruses, polyoma viruses);
Adenoviridae (most adenoviruses); Herpesviridae (herpes simplex virus (HSV)
                                           21

1 and 2, varicella zoster virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes virus; Poxviridae
(variola viruses, vaccinia viruses, pox viruses); and Iridoviridae (e.g. African
swine fever virus); and unclassified viruses (e.g. the agent of delta hepatitis
(thought to be a defective satellite of hepatitis B virus), the agents of non-A,
non-B hepatitis (class 1 = internally transmitted; class 2 = parenterally
transmitted (i.e. Hepatitis C); Norwalk and related viruses, and astroviruses).
10068]      Exemplary bacteria include, but are not limited to, Pasteurella,
Staphylococci, Streptococcus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas species, and
Salmonella species. Specific examples of infectious bacteria include but are
not limited to, Helicobacter pyloris, Borelia burgdoiferi, Legionella
pneumophilia, Mycobacteria sps (e.g. M.tuberculosis, M. avium, M.
intracellulare, M. kansaii, M. gordonae), Staphylococcus aureus, Neisseria
gonorrhoeae, Neisseria meningitidis, Listeria monocytogenes,
Streptococcus pyo genes (Group A Streptococcus), Streptococcus
agalactiae (Group B Streptococcus), Streptococcus (viridans group),
Streptococcus faecalis, Streptococcus bovis, Streptococcus (anaerobic
sps.), Streptococcus pneumoniae, pathogenicCampylobacter sp.,
Enterococcus sp,, Haemophilus influenzae, Bacillus antracis,
corynebacterium diphtheriae, corynebacterium sp., Erysipelothrix
rhusiopathiae, Clostridium perfringers, Clostridium tetani, Enterobacter
aerogenes, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pasturella multocida, Bacteroides sp.,
Fusobacterium nucleatum, Streptobacillus moniliformis, Treponema
pallidium, Treponema pertenue, Leptospira, Rickettsia, and Actinomyces
is ra elli.
10069]      By "specifically binds" is meant a polypeptide or fragment thereof that
recognizes and binds a polypeptide of interest, but which does not
substantially recognize and bind other molecules in a sample, for example, a
biological sample, which naturally includes a polypeptide of the invention.
100701      The term "tumor antigen" as used herein refers to any polypeptide
expressed by a tumor that is capable of inducing an immune response.
100711      By "virus antigen" is meant a polypeptide expressed by a virus that is
capable of inducing an immune response.

10072]    The terms "comprises", "comprising", and are intended to have the
broad meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent Law and can mean "includes",
"including" and the like.
100731    As used herein, "treatment" refers to clinical intervention in an attempt to
alter the disease course of the individual or cell being treated, and can be performed
either for prophylaxis or during the course of clinical pathology. Therapeutic effects
of treatment include, without limitation, preventing occurrence or recurrence of
disease, alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of any direct or indirect
pathological consequences of the disease, preventing metastases, decreasing
the rate of disease progression, amelioration or palliation of the disease state,
and remission or improved prognosis. By preventing progression of a disease or
disorder, a treatment can prevent deterioration due to a disorder in an affected
or diagnosed subject or a subject suspected of having the disorder, but also a
treatment may prevent the onset of the disorder or a symptom of the disorder in
a subject at risk for the disorder or suspected of having the disorder.
[00741    The term "subject" as used herein refers to a vertebrate, preferably a
mammal, more preferably a human.
100751    The term "immunocompromised" as used herein refers to a subject who
has an immunodeficiency. The subject is very vulnerable to opportunistic infections,
infections caused by organisms that usually do not cause disease in a person with a
healthy immune system, but can affect people with a poorly functioning or
suppressed immune system.
100761    Other aspects of the invention are described in the following disclosure and
are within the ambit of the invention.
100771    The present invention generally provides cells, including genetically
modified immunoresponsive cells (e.g., T cells, Natural Killer (NK) cells, cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTL) cells) expressing at least a combination of an antigen
recognizing receptor (e.g., TCR or CAR) and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor
(CCR), and methods of use therefore for the treatment of neoplasia and other
pathologies where an increase in an antigen-specific immune response is
                                           23

desired. The invention is based, at least in part, on the discovery that the
simultaneous engagement of two antigens co-expressed by a tumor cell by an
antigen-recognizing receptor and chimeric co-stimulating receptor is useful for
activating and stimulating an immunoreactive cell without systemic effects. In
particular, the reactivity against tissues expressing either antigen alone is
preferably minimal, inducing T cell activation in the presence of both antigens but
not either one alone. T cell activation is mediated by a TCR or a CAR targeted to an
antigen (e.g., CD19 or prostate stem cell antigen, PSCA). Costimulation is
independently mediated by a "chimeric costimulatory receptor" (CCR),12 1 3 which is
targeted to a second antigen (e.g., prostate-specific membrane antigen, PSMA).
Such an approach resulted in augmented reactivity against dual-antigen positive
(DP) tumors, but failed to avert enhanced reactivity against single antigen positive
(SP) tumors. It was found that tumor sensing T cells could be made to differentiate
DP tumors from SP tumors by attenuating T cell activation to a level where T cell
activation is by itself ineffective, but functionally rescued at the tumor site by a CCR
engaged by an independent, co-expressed antigen. This approach provides
immunogenicity within the tumor microenvironment for tumor eradication while not
affecting SP cells that are normal or non-neoplastic and represents a significant
advance over conventional adoptive T cell therapy.
[00781 Furthermore, this approach is not limited to the treatment of neoplasias,
but is amenable to a wide range of applications where an increase in an
antigen-specific immune response is desired, such applications include not only
the treatment of neoplasias, but also for the enhancement of an immune response
against a pathogen infection or an infectious disease and to reinforce immune
tolerance in regulatory T cells in the context of autoimmunity or allogeneic
transplantation.
Hematopoietic Cell Lineages
100791   Mammalian hematopoietic (blood) cells provide a diverse range of
physiologic activities. Hematopoietic cells are divided into lymphoid, myeloid
and erythroid lineages. The lymphoid lineage, comprising B, T and natural killer
(NK) cells, provides for the production of antibodies, regulation of the cellular
immune system, detection of foreign agents in the blood, detection of cells
foreign to the host, and the like. The term "T cells" as used herein refers to
                                              24

lymphocytes that mature in the thymus and are chiefly responsible for cell
mediated immunity. T cells are involved in the adaptive immune system. The
term "natural killer (NK) cells" as used herein refers to lymphocytes that are
part of cell-mediated immunity and act during the innate immune response.
They do not require prior activation in order to perform their cytotoxic effect on
target cells. Cytotoxic T cells (CTL or killer T cells) are a subset of T
lymphocytes capable of inducing the death of infected somatic or tumor cells.
Cells for Use in the Methods of the Invention
100801    The present invention provides cells expressing a combination of an
antigen-recognizing receptor that activates an immunoresponsive cell (e.g., TCR,
CAR) and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR), and methods of using such
cells for the treatment of a disease that requires an enhanced immune response.
In one approach, tumor antigen-specific T cells, NK cells, CTL cells or other
immunoresponsive cells are used as shuttles for the selective enrichment of
one or more co-stimulatory ligands for the treatment or prevention of neoplasia.
For example, a T cell expressing a chimeric antigen receptor 19z1 that
recognizes CD1 9 is co-expressed in a T cell that expresses a chimeric co
stimulatory receptor P28BB that recognizes and binds Prostate Specific
Membrane Antigen (PSMA). Such cells are administered to a human subject in
need thereof for the treatment or prevention of prostate cancer. In another
approach, viral antigen-specific T cells, NK cells, CTL cells can be used for the
treatment of viral diseases. For example, a chimeric co-stimulatory antigen
receptor that recognizes a first CMV antigen and a chimeric antigen receptor that
recognizes and binds a second CMV antigen are co-expressed in cytotoxic T
lymphocytes for the treatment of CMV.
                                          25

Tumor antigen-specific T lymphocytes (and NK cells)
[0081] Types of tumor antigen-specific human lymphocytes that can be used in
the methods of the invention include, without limitation, peripheral donor
lymphocytes genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs)
(Sadelain, M., et al. 2003 Nat Rev Cancer 3:35-45), peripheral donor
lymphocytes genetically modified to express a full-length tumor antigen
recognizing T cell receptor complex comprising the a and p heterodimer (Morgan,
R.A., et al. 2006 Science 314:126-129), lymphocyte cultures derived from tumor
infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in tumor biopsies (Panelli, M.C., et al. 2000 J Immunol
164:495-504; Panelli, M.C., et al. 2000 J /mmunoll64:4382-4392), and selectively
in vitro-expanded antigen-specific peripheral bloodleukocytes employing artificial
antigen-presenting cells (AAPCs) or pulsed dendritic cells (Dupont, J., et al. 2005
Cancer Res 65:5417-5427; Papanicolaou, G.A., et al. 2003 Blood 102:2498-2505).
The T cells may be autologous, allogeneic, or derived in vitro from engineered
progenitor or stem cells.
[0082]     Any suitable tumor antigen (antigenic peptide) is suitable for use in the
tumor-related embodiments described herein. Sources of antigen include, but
are not limited to cancer proteins. The antigen can be expressed as a peptide
or as an intact protein or portion thereof. The intact protein or a portion thereof
can be native or mutagenized. Suitable antigens include prostate specific
membrane antigen (PSMA) and prostate stem cell antigen (PCSA).
Viral antigen-specific T lymphocytes (and NK cells)
[0083]     Suitable antigens for use in the treatment of pathogen infection or other
infectious disease, for example, in an immunocompromised subject include,
without limitation, viral antigens present in Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein Barr
Virus (EBV), Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), and influenza virus.
[0084]     The unpurified source of CTLs may be any known in the art, such as
the bone marrow, fetal, neonate or adult or other hematopoietic cell source,
e.g., fetal liver, peripheral blood or umbilical cord blood. Various techniques
                                            26

can be employed to separate the cells. For instance, negative selection
methods can remove non-CTLs initially. mAbs are particularly useful for identifying
markers associated with particular cell lineages and/or stages of differentiation for
both positive and negative selections.
[00851     A large proportion of terminally differentiated cells can be initially removed
by a relatively crude separation. For example, magnetic bead separations can be
used initially to remove large numbers of irrelevant cells. Preferably, at least about
80%, usually at least 70% of the total hematopoietic cells will be removed prior to
cell isolation.
10086] Procedures for separation include, but are not limited to, density
gradient centrifugation; resetting; coupling to particles that modify cell density;
magnetic separation with antibody-coated magnetic beads; affinity
chromatography; cytotoxic agents joined to or used in conjunction with a mAb,
including, but not limited to, complement and cytotoxins; and panning with
antibody attached to a solid matrix, e.g. plate, chip, elutriation or any other
convenient technique.
[00871     Techniques for separation and analysis include, but are not limited to, flow
cytometry, which can have varying degrees of sophistication, e.g., a plurality of color
channels, low angle and obtuse light scattering detecting channels, impedance
channels.
[00881     The cells can be selected against dead cells, by employing dyes
associated with dead cells such as propidium iodide (PI). Preferably, the cells
are collected in a medium comprising 2% fetal calf serum (FCS) or 0.2%
 bovine serum albumin (BSA) or any other suitable, preferably sterile, isotonic
medium.
[00891     Accordingly, the invention generally provides an immunoresponsive cell,
such as a virus specific or tumor specific T cell comprising a receptor that binds a
first antigen and activates the immunresponsive cell and a receptor that binds a
second antigen and stimulates the immunresponsive cell.
                                             27

Vectors
[00901 Genetic modification of immunoresponsive cells (e.g., T cells, CTL cells, NK
cells) can be accomplished by transducing a substantially homogeneous cell
composition with a recombinant DNA construct. Preferably, a retroviral vector
(either gamma-retroviral or lentiviral) is employed for the introduction of the
DNA construct into the cell. For example, a polynucleotide encoding a receptor
that binds an antigen (e.g., a tumor antigen, or a variant, or a fragment thereof),
can be cloned into a retroviral vector and expression can be driven from its
endogenous promoter, from the retroviral long terminal repeat, or from a promoter
specific for a target cell type of interest. Non-viral vectors may be used as well.
[00911    For initial genetic modification of the cells to provide tumor or viral
antigen-specific cells, a retroviral vector is generally employed for transduction,
however any other suitable viral vector or non-viral delivery system can be
used. For subsequent genetic modification of the cells to provide cells
comprising an antigen presenting complex comprising at least two co
stimulatory ligands, retroviral gene transfer (transduction) likewise proves
effective. Combinations of retroviral vector and an appropriate packaging line
are also suitable, where the capsid proteins will be functional for infecting
human cells. Various amphotropic virus-producing cell lines are known,
including, but not limited to, PA12 (Miller, et al. (1985) Mol. Cell. Biol. 5:431
437); PA317 (Miller, et al. (1986) Mol. Cell. Biol. 6:2895-2902); and CRIP
(Danos, et al. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85:6460-6464). Non
amphotropic particles are suitable too, e.g., particles pseudotyped with VSVG,
RD1 14 or GALV envelope and any other known in the art.
[0092] Possible methods of transduction also include direct co-culture of the
cells with producer cells, e.g., by the method of Bregni, et al. (1992) Blood 80:1418
 1422, or culturing with viral supernatant alone or concentrated vector stocks with or
without appropriate growth factors and polycations, e.g., by the method of Xu, et al.
(1994) Exp. Hemat. 22:223-230; and Hughes, et al. (1992) J. Clin. Invest. 89:1817.
[00931    Other transducing viral vectors can be used to express a co-stimulatory
ligand of the invention in an immunoresponsive cell. Preferably, the chosen vector
                                              28

exhibits high efficiency of infection and stable integration and expression (see, e.g.,
Cayouette et al., Human Gene Therapy 8:423-430, 1997; Kido et al., Current Eye
Research 15:833-844, 1996; Bloomer et al., Journal of Virology 71:6641-6649,
1997; Naldini et al., Science 272:263-267, 1996; and Miyoshi et al., Proc. Nat].
Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 94:10319,1997). Other viral vectors that can be used include, for
example, adenoviral, lentiviral, and adeno-associated viral vectors, vaccinia virus, a
bovine papilloma virus, or a herpes virus, such as Epstein-Barr Virus (also see, for
example, the vectors of Miller, Human Gene Therapy 15-14, 1990; Friedman,
Science 244:1275-1281, 1989; Eglitis et al., BioTechniques 6:608-614, 1988;
Tolstoshev et al., Current Opinion in Biotechnology 1:55-61, 1990; Sharp, The
Lancet 337:1277-1278, 1991; Cornetta et al., Nucleic Acid Research and Molecular
Biology 36:311-322, 1987; Anderson, Science 226:401-409,1984; Moen, Blood
Cells 17:407-416, 1991; Miller et al., Biotechnology 7:980-990, 1989; Le Gal La
Salle et al., Science 259:988-990, 1993; and Johnson, Chest 107:77S-83S,
1995). Retroviral vectors are particularly well developed and have been used in
clinical settings (Rosenberg et al., N. Engl. J. Med 323:370, 1990; Anderson et
al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,399,346).
10094]   Non-viral approaches can also be employed for the expression of a
protein in cell. For example, a nucleic acid molecule can be introduced into a
cell by administering the nucleic acid in the presence of lipofection (Feigner et
al., Proc. Nat]. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84:7413, 1987; Ono et al., Neuroscience
Letters 17:259, 1990; Brigham et al., Am. J. Med. Sci. 298:278, 1989;
Staubinger et al., Methods in Enzymology 101:512, 1983), asialoorosomucoid
polylysine conjugation (Wu et al., Journal of Biological Chemistry 263:14621, 1988;
Wu et al., Journal of Biological Chemistry 264:16985, 1989), or by micro-injection
under surgical conditions (Wolff et al., Science 247:1465,1990).
10095]   Other non-viral means for gene transfer include transfection in vitro
using calcium phosphate, DEAE dextran, electroporation, and protoplast fusion.
Liposomes can also be potentially beneficial for delivery of DNA into a cell.
Transplantation of normal genes into the affected tissues of a subject can also
be accomplished by transferring a normal nucleic acid into a cultivatable cell
type ex vivo (e.g., an autologous or heterologous primary cell or progeny thereof),
after which the cell (or its descendants) are injected into a targeted tissue or are
injected systemically. Recombinant receptors can also be derived or obtained using
                                            29

transposases or targeted nucleases (e.g. Zinc finger nucleases, meganucleases, or
TALE nucleases). Transient expression may be obtained by RNA
electroporation.cDNA expression for use in polynucleotide therapy methods can be
directed from any suitable promoter (e.g., the human cytomegalovirus (CMV),
simian virus 40 (SV40), or metallothionein promoters), and regulated by any
appropriate mammalian regulatory element or intron (e.g. the elongation factor 1c
enhancerpromoter/intron structure). For example, if desired, enhancers known to
preferentially direct gene expression in specific cell types can be used to direct
the expression of a nucleic acid. The enhancers used can include, without
limitation, those that are characterized as tissue- or cell-specific enhancers.
Alternatively, if a genomic clone is used as a therapeutic construct, regulation
can be mediated by the cognate regulatory sequences or, if desired, by
regulatory sequences derived from a heterologous source, including any of the
promoters or regulatory elements described above.
100961    The resulting cells can then be grown under conditions similar to those
for unmodified cells, whereby the modified cells can be expanded and used for
a variety of purposes.
100971    Also included in the invention are 19z1,    CD19, CD8, CD3 , dsRed,
P28BB, PSMA, CD28, 4-1 BB, GFP polypeptides or fragments thereof that are
modified in ways that enhance their anti-neoplastic activity when expressed in
an immunoresponsive cell. The invention provides methods for optimizing an
amino acid sequence or nucleic acid sequence by producing an alteration in the
sequence. Such alterations may include certain mutations, deletions, insertions,
or post-translational modifications. The invention further includes analogs of any
naturally-occurring polypeptide of the invention. Analogs can differ from a
naturally-occurring polypeptide of the invention by amino acid sequence
differences, by post-translational modifications, or by both. Analogs of the
invention will generally exhibit at least 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%,
96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identity with all or part of a naturally-occurring
amino, acid sequence of the invention. The length of sequence comparison is at
least 5, 10, 15 or 20 amino acid residues, preferably at least 25, 50, or 75
amino acid residues, and more preferably more than 100 amino acid residues.
Again, in an exemplary approach to determining the degree of identity, a BLAST
                                           30

program may be used, with a probability score between e3 and e 100 indicating a
closely related sequence. Modifications include in vivo and in vitro chemical
derivatization of polypeptides, e.g., acetylation, carboxylation, phosphorylation,
or glycosylation; such modifications may occur during polypeptide synthesis or
processing or following treatment with isolated modifying enzymes. Analogs can
also differ from the naturally-occurring polypeptides of the invention by
alterations in primary sequence. These include genetic variants, both natural
and induced (for example, resulting from random mutagenesis by irradiation or
exposure to ethanemethylsulfate or by site-specific mutagenesis as described
in Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis, Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2d
ed.), CSH Press, 1989, or Ausubel et al., supra). Also included are cyclized
peptides, molecules, and analogs which contain residues other than L-amino
acids, e.g., D-amino acids or non-naturally occurring or synthetic amino acids,
e.g.,   - or - amino acids.
10098]     In addition to full-length polypeptides, the invention also provides
fragments of any one of the polypeptides or peptide domains of the invention. As
used herein, the term "a fragment" means at least 5, 10, 13, or 15 amino acids.
In other embodiments a fragment is at least 20 contiguous amino acids, at least
30 contiguous amino acids, or at least 50 contiguous amino acids, and in other
embodiments at least 60 to 80, 100, 200, 300 or more contiguous amino acids.
Fragments of the invention can be generated by methods known to those
skilled in the art or may result from normal protein processing (e.g., removal of
amino acids from the nascent polypeptide that are not required for biological
activity or removal of amino acids by alternative mRNA splicing or alternative protein
processing events).
10099]    Non-protein analogs have a chemical structure designed to mimic the
functional activity of a protein of the invention. Such analogs are administered
according to methods of the invention. Such analogs may exceed the
physiological activity of the original polypeptide. Methods of analog design are
well known in the art, and synthesis of analogs can be carried out according to
such methods by modifying the chemical structures such that the resultant
analogs increase the anti-neoplastic activity of the original polypeptide when
expressed in an immunoresponsive cell. These chemical modifications include,
                                            31

but are not limited to, substituting alternative R groups and varying the degree
of saturation at specific carbon atoms of a reference polypeptide. Preferably,
the protein analogs are relatively resistant to in vivo degradation, resulting in a
more prolonged therapeutic effect upon administration. Assays for measuring
functional activity include, but are not limited to, those described in the
Examples below.
Co-stimulatory ligands
[00100] The interaction with at least one co-stimulatory ligand provides a non
antigenspecific signal important for full activation of an immune cell (e.g., T cell). Co
stimulatory ligands include, without limitation, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
ligands, cytokines (such as IL-2, IL-12, IL-15 or IL21), and immunoglobulin (Ig)
superfamily ligands.
[00101] Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a cytokine involved in systemic
inflammation and stimulates the acute phase reaction. Its primary role is in the
regulation of immune cells. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligands share a
number of common features. The majority of the ligands are synthesized as
type II transmembrane proteins (extracellularC-terminus) containing a short
cytoplasmic segment and a relatively long extracellular region. TNF ligands include,
without limitation, nerve growth factor (NGF), CD4OL (CD40L)/CD154, CD137L/4
1BBL, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFa), CD134L/OX40L/CD252, CD27L/CD70,
Fas ligand (FasL), CD30L/CD153, tumor necrosis factor beta (TNF(3)/lymphotoxin
alpha (LTa), lymphotoxin-beta (ur(3), CD257/B cell-activating factor
(BAFF)/Blys/THANK/Tal 1-1, glucocorticoid-induced TNF Receptor ligand (GITRL),
and TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), LIGHT (TNFSF14). The
immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily is a large group of cell surface and soluble
proteins that are involved in the recognition, binding, or adhesion processes of
cells. These proteins share structural features with immunoglobulins -- they
possess an immunoglobulin domain (fold). Immunoglobulin superfamily ligands
include, without limitation, CD80 and CD86, both ligands for CD28.
1001021 Compositions comprising genetically modified immunoresponsive cells
of the invention (e.g., T cells, NK cells, CTL cells, or their progenitors) can be
                                            32

provided systemically or directly to a subject for the treatment of a neoplasia,
pathogen infection, or infectious disease. In one embodiment, cells of the
invention are directly injected into an organ of interest (e.g., an organ affected
by a neoplasia). Alternatively, compositions comprising genetically modified
immunoresponsive cells are provided indirectly to the organ of interest, for
example, by administration into the circulatory system (e.g., the tumor
vasculature). Expansion and differentiation agents can be provided prior to,
during or after administration of the cells to increase production of T cells, NK cells,
or CTL cells in vitro or in vivo.
100103] The modified cells can be administered in any physiologically acceptable
vehicle, normally intravascularly, although they may also be introduced into bone or
other convenient site where the cells may find an appropriate site for regeneration
and differentiation (e.g., thymus). Usually, at least Ix10 5 cells will be administered,
eventually reaching Ix10   10, or more. Genetically modified immunoresponsive cells
of the invention can comprise a purified population of cells. Those skilled in the art
can readily determine the percentage of genetically modified immunoresponsive
cells in a population using various well-known methods, such as fluorescence
activated cell sorting faces) . Preferable ranges of purity in populations
comprising genetically modified immunoresponsive cells are about 50 to about
55%, about 55 to about 60%, and about 65 to about 70%. More preferably the
purity is about 70 to about 75%, about 75 to about 80%, about 80 to about
85%; and still more preferably the purity is about 85 to about 90%, about 90 to
about 95%, and about 95 to about 100%. Dosages can be readily adjusted by
those skilled in the art (e.g., a decrease in purity may require an increase in
dosage). The cells can be introduced by injection, catheter, or the like. If desired,
factors can also be included, including, but not limited to, interleukins, e.g. IL-2, IL
3, IL-6, and IL-1 1, as well as the other interleukins, the colony stimulating
factors,such as G-, M- and GM-CSF, interferons, e.g. .gamma.-interferon and
erythropoietin.
1001041 Compositions of the invention include pharmaceutical compositions
comprising genetically modified immunoresponsive cells or their progenitors and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Administration can be autologous or
heterologous. For example, immunoresponsive cells, or progenitors can be
                                             33

obtained from one subject, and administered to the same subject or a different,
compatible subject. Peripheral blood derived immunoresponsive cells of the
invention or their progeny (e.g., in vivo, ex vivo or in vitro derived) can be
administered via localized injection, including catheter administration, systemic
injection, localized injection, intravenous injection, or parenteral administration.
When administering a therapeutic composition of the present invention (e.g., a
pharmaceutical composition containing a genetically modified immunoresponsive
cell), it will generally be formulated in a unit dosage injectable form (solution,
suspension, emulsion).
Formulations
100105] Compositions of the invention comprising genetically modified
immunoresponsive cells can be conveniently provided as sterile liquid
preparations, e.g., isotonic aqueous solutions, suspensions, emulsions,
dispersions, or viscous compositions, which may be buffered to a selected pH.
Liquid preparations are normally easier to prepare than gels, other viscous
compositions, and solid compositions. Additionally, liquid compositions are
somewhat more convenient to administer, especially by injection. Viscous
compositions, on the other hand, can be formulated within the appropriate
viscosity range to provide longer contact periods with specific tissues. Liquid or
viscous compositions can comprise carriers, which can be a solvent or dispersing
medium containing, for example, water, saline, phosphate buffered saline, polyol
(for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like) and
suitable mixtures thereof.
[00106] Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the
genetically modified immunoresponsive cells utilized in practicing the present
invention in the required amount of the appropriate solvent with various
amounts of the other ingredients, as desired. Such compositions may be in
admixture with a suitable carrier, diluent, or excipient such as sterile water,
physiological saline, glucose, dextrose, or the like. The compositions can also be
lyophilized. The compositions can contain auxiliary substances such as wetting,
dispersing, or emulsifying agents (e.g., methylcellulose), pH buffering agents,
                                             34

gelling or viscosity enhancing additives, preservatives, flavoring agents, colors, and
the like, depending upon the route of administration and the preparation desired.
Standard texts, such as "REMINGTON'S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCE", 17th
edition, 1985, incorporated herein by reference, may be consulted to prepare
suitable preparations, without undue experimentation.
100107] Various additives which enhance the stability and sterility of the
compositions, including antimicrobial preservatives, antioxidants, chelating agents,
and buffers, can be added. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be
ensured by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example,
parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and the like. Prolonged
absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the
use of agents delaying absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and
gelatin. According to the present invention, however, any vehicle,diluent, or
additive used would have to be compatible with the genetically modified
immunoresponsive cells or their progenitors.
[00108] The compositions can be isotonic, i.e., they can have the same osmotic
pressure as blood and lacrimal fluid. The desired isotonicity of the compositions of
this invention may be accomplished using sodium chloride, or other
pharmaceutically acceptable agents such as dextrose, boric acid, sodium
tartrate, propylene glycol or other inorganic or organic solutes. Sodium chloride
is preferred particularly for buffers containing sodium ions.
100109] Viscosity of the compositions, if desired, can be maintained at the
selected level using a pharmaceutically acceptable thickening agent.
Methylcellulose is preferred because it is readily and economically available
and is easy to work with. Other suitable thickening agents include, for example,
xanthan gum, carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, carbomer, and
the like. The preferred concentration of the thickener will depend upon the
agent selected. The important point is to use an amount that will achieve the
selected viscosity. Obviously, the choice of suitable carriers and other additives
will depend on the exact route of administration and the nature of the particular
dosage form, e.g., liquid dosage form (e.g., whether the composition is to be
                                           35

formulated into a solution, a suspension, gel or another liquid form, such as a time
release form or liquid-filled form).
100110] Those skilled in the art will recognize that the components of the
compositions should be selected to be chemically inert and will not affect the
viability or efficacy of the genetically modified immunoresponsive cells as described
in the present invention. This will present no problem to those skilled in chemical
and pharmaceutical principles,or problems can be readily avoided by reference to
standard texts or by simple experiments (not involving undue experimentation),
from this disclosure and the documents cited herein. One consideration concerning
the therapeutic use of genetically modified immunoresponsive cells of the invention
is the quantity of cells necessary to achieve an optimal effect. The quantity of cells
to be administered will vary for the subject being treated. In a one embodiment,
between 104 to 1010, between 105 to 109 or between 106 and 103 genetically
modified immunoresponsive cells of the invention are administered to a human
subject. More effective cells may be administered in even smaller numbers. In
some embodiments, at least about 1 x 108, 2 x 108, 3 x 108, 4 x 108, and 5 x 108
genetically modified immunoresponsive cells of the invention are administered to a
human subject. The precise determination of what would be considered an
effective dose may be based on factors individual to each subject, including their
size, age, sex, weight, and condition of the particular subject. Dosages can be
readily ascertained by those skilled in the art from this disclosure and the
knowledge in the art.
[001111 The skilled artisan can readily determine the amount of cells and optional
additives, vehicles, and/or carrier in compositions and to be administered in
methods of the invention. Typically, any additives (in addition to the active cell(s)
and/or agent(s)) are present in an amount of 0.001 to 50 % (weight) solution in
phosphate buffered saline, and the active ingredient is present in the order of
micrograms to milligrams, such as about 0.0001 to about 5 wt %, preferably about
0.0001 to about 1 wt %, still more preferably about 0.0001 to about 0.05 wt % or
about 0.001 to about 20 wt %, preferably about 0.01 to about 10 wt %, and still
more preferably about 0.05 to about 5 wt %. Of course, for any composition to be
administered to an animal or human, and for any particular method of
administration, it is preferred to determine therefore: toxicity, such as by
                                             36

determining the lethal dose (LD) and LD50 in a suitable animal model e.g., rodent
such as mouse; and, the dosage of the composition(s), concentration of
components therein and timing of administering the composition(s), which elicit a
suitable response. Such determinations do not require undue experimentation
from the knowledge of the skilled artisan, this disclosure and the documents
cited herein. And, the time for sequential administrations can be ascertained
without undue experimentation.
Methods of Treatment
100112] Provided herein are methods for treating neoplasia in a subject. Also
contemplated herein are methods for treating a pathogen infection or other
infectious disease in a subject, such as an immunocompromised human
subject. The methods comprise administering a T cell, NK cell, or CTL cell of
the invention in an amount effective to achieve the desired effect, be it
palliation of an existing condition or prevention of recurrence. For treatment,
the amount administered is an amount effective in producing the desired effect.
An effective amount can be provided in one or a series of administrations. An
effective amount can be provided in a bolus or by continuous perfusion.
100113] An "effective amount" (or, "therapeutically effective amount") is an amount
sufficient to effect a beneficial or desired clinical result upon treatment. An effective
amount can be administered to a subject in one or more doses. In terms of
treatment, an effective amount is an amount that is sufficient to palliate, ameliorate,
stabilize, reverse or slow the progression of the disease, or otherwise reduce the
pathological consequences of the disease. The effective amount is generally
determined by the physician on a case-by-case basis and is within the skill of
one in the art. Several factors are typically taken into account when
determining an appropriate dosage to achieve an effective amount. These
factors include age, sex and weight of the subject, the condition being treated,
the severity of the condition and the form and effective concentration of the
antigen-binding fragment administered.
1001141 For adoptive immunotherapy using antigen-specific T cells, cell doses
in the range of 106 -    1010 (e.g.,  1 0 9) are typically infused. Upon administration
                                               37

of the genetically modified cells into the host and subsequent differentiation, T
cells are induced that are specifically directed against the specific antigen.
"Induction" of T cells can include inactivation of antigen-specific T cells such
as by deletion or anergy. Inactivation is particularly useful to establish or
reestablish tolerance such as in autoimmune disorders. The modified cells can
be administered by any method known in the art including, but not limited to,
intravenous, subcutaneous, intranodal, intratumoral, intrathecal, intrapleural,
intraperitoneal and directly to the thymus.
100115] The invention provides methods for increasing an immune response in
a subject in need thereof. In one embodiment, the invention provides methods
for treating or preventing a neoplasia in a subject. The invention provides
therapies that are particularly useful for the treatment of subjects having
prostate cancer, or metastatic prostate cancer that is not amenable to
conventional therapeutic interventions. Suitablehuman subjects for therapy
typically comprise two treatment groups that can be distinguished by clinical
criteria. Subjects with "advanced disease" or "high tumor burden" are those
who bear a clinically measurable tumor. A clinically measurable tumor is one
that can be detected on the basis of tumor mass (e.g., by palpation, CAT scan,
sonogram, mammogram or X-ray; positive biochemical or histopathologic
markers on their own are insufficient to identify this population). A
pharmaceutical composition embodied in this invention is administered to
these subjects to elicit an anti-tumor response, with the objective of palliating
their condition. Ideally, reduction in tumor mass occurs as a result, but any
clinical improvement constitutes a benefit. Clinical improvement includes
decreased risk or rate of progression or reduction in pathological
consequences of the tumor.
[00116] A second group of suitable subjects is known in the art as the
"adjuvant group." These are individuals who have had a history of neoplasia,
but have been responsive to another mode of therapy. The prior therapy can
have included, but is not restricted to, surgical resection, radiotherapy, and
traditional chemotherapy. As a result, these individuals have no clinically
measurable tumor. However, they are suspected of being at risk for
progression of the disease, either near the original tumor site, or by
                                            38

metastases. This group can be further subdivided into high-risk and low-risk
individuals. The subdivision is made on the basis of features observed before
or after the initial treatment. These features are known in the clinical arts, and
are suitably defined for each different neoplasia. Features typical of high-risk
subgroups are those in which the tumor has invaded neighboring tissues, or who
show involvement of lymph nodes.
1001171 Another group have a genetic predisposition to neoplasia but have not
yet evidenced clinical signs of neoplasia. For instance, women testing positive
for a genetic mutation associated with breast cancer, but still of childbearing
age, can wish to receive one or more of the antigen-binding fragments
described herein in treatment         prophylactically to prevent the occurrence of
neoplasia until it is suitable to perform preventive surgery.
 1001181 Human neoplasia subjects having any of the following neoplasias:
glioblastoma, melanoma, neuroblastoma, adenocarcinoma, glioma, soft tissue
sarcoma, and various carcinomas (including prostate and small cell lung cancer)
are especially appropriate subjects. Suitable carcinomas further include any
known in the field of oncology, including, but not limited to, astrocytoma,
fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, oligodendroglioma, ependymoma,
medulloblastoma, primitive neural ectodermal tumor (PNET), chondrosarcoma,
osteogenic sarcoma, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, small and large cell lung
adenocarcinomas, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, squamous
cell carcinoma, bronchoalveolarcarcinoma, epithelial adenocarcinoma, and liver
metastases thereof, lymphangiosarcoma, lymphangioendotheliosarcoma,
hepatoma, cholangiocarcinoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor,
rhabdomyosarcoma, colon carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, sweat gland
carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary
adenocarcinoma, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma,
embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, testicular tumor, medulloblastoma,
craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic
neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma,
leukemia, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and heavy chain
disease, breast tumors such as ductal and lobular adenocarcinoma, squamous
                                             39

and adenocarcinomas of the uterine cervix, uterine and ovarian epithelial
carcinomas, prostatic adenocarcinomas, transitional squamous cell carcinoma
of the bladder, B and T cell lymphomas (nodular and diffuse) plasmacytoma,
acute and chronic leukemias, malignant melanoma, soft tissue sarcomas and
leiomyosarcomas.
100119] The subjects can have an advanced form of disease, in which case the
treatment objective can include mitigation or reversal of disease progression,
and/or amelioration of side effects. The subjects can have a history of the condition,
for which they have already been treated, in which case the therapeutic objective
will typically include a decrease or delay in the risk of recurrence.
100120] Accordingly, the invention provides a method of treating or preventing
a neoplasia in a subject, the method comprising administering an effective
amount of an immunoresponsive cell comprising a receptor that binds a tumor
antigen and activates the immunoresponsive cell (e.g., TCR, CAR) and a
vector encoding a receptor that binds another tumor antigen and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell. In one embodiment, the neoplasia is selected from the
group consisting of prostate cancer, breast cancer, blood cancers (e.g.
leukemias, lymphomas, and myelomas), ovarian cancer, bladder                 cancer,
brain cancer, colon cancer, intestinal cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, pancreatic
cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, stomach cancer, glioblastoma, and throat
cancer. In another embodiment, the tumor antigen is one or more of carbonic
anhydrase IX (CAIX), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CD5, CD7, CD10, CD19,
CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD34, CD38, CD41, CD44, CD49f, CD56, CD74,
CD133, CD138, an antigen of a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell (e.g., a cell
surface antigen), epithelial glycoprotein-2 (EGP-2), epithelial glycoprotein-40
(EGP-40), epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), receptor tyrosine-protein
kinases erb-B2,3,4, folate-binding protein (FBP), fetal acetylcholine receptor
(AChR), folate receptor-a, Ganglioside G2 (GD2), Ganglioside G3 (GD3),
human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER-2), human telomerase
reverse transcriptase (hTERT), Interleukin-13 receptor subunit alpha-2 (IL
13Ra2), ic-light chain, kinase insert domain receptor (KDR), Lewis Y (LeY), LI
cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM), melanoma antigen family A, 1 (MAGE-Al),
Mucin 1 (MUCI), Mesothelin (MSLN), NKG2D ligands, cancer-testis antigen
                                            40

NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA),
prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA), tumor-associated glycoprotein 72
(TAG-72), vascular endothelial growth factor R2 (VEGF-R2), or Wilms tumor
protein (WT-1).
[00121] As a consequence of surface expression of a receptor that binds a
tumor antigen and activates the immunoresponsive cell (e.g., TCR, CAR) and a
vector encoding a receptor that binds another tumor antigen and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell (e.g. CCR), adoptively transferred human T or NK cells
are endowed with augmented and selective cytolytic activity at the tumor site.
Furthermore, subsequent to their localization to tumor or viral infection and
their proliferation, co-stimulatory ligandexpressing T cells turn the tumor or
viral infection site into a highly conductive environment for a wide range of
immune cells involved in the physiological anti-tumor or antiviral response (tumor
infiltrating lymphocytes, NK-, NKT- cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages).
[00122] In other embodiments, the invention provides methods for treating
subjects with a pathogen infection (e.g., viral infection, bacterial infection,
fungal infection, parasite infection, or protozoal infection). The invention is
particularly useful for enhancing an immune response in an
immunocompromised subject. Exemplary viral infections susceptible to
treatment using a method of the invention include, but are not limited to,
Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), Human Immunodeficiency
Virus (HIV), and influenza virus infections.
[00123] Accordingly,the invention provides a method of treating or preventing a
pathogen infection in a subject, the method comprising administering an effective
amount of an immunoresponsive cell as described herein.
Kits
[00124] The invention provides kits for the treatment or prevention of a neoplasia,
pathogen infection, immune disorder or allogeneic transplant. In one embodiment,
the kit includes a therapeutic or prophylactic composition containing an effective
amount of an immunoresponsive cell comprising an activating antigen receptor and
a co-stimulatory antigen receptor in unit dosage form. In particular
                                           41

embodiments, the cells further comprise a co-stimulatory ligand. In some
embodiments, the kit comprises a sterile container which contains a
therapeutic or prophylactic vaccine; such containers can be boxes, ampules,
bottles, vials, tubes, bags, pouches, blister-packs, or other suitable container
forms known in the art. Such containers can be made of plastic, glass,
laminated paper, metal foil, or other materials suitable for holding
medicaments.
[001251 If desired the immunoresponsive cell is provided together with instructions
for administering the cell to a subject having or at risk of developing a neoplasia,
pathogen infection, immune disorder or allogeneic transplant. The instructions will
generally include information about the use of the composition for the treatment or
prevention of neoplasia, pathogen infection, immune disorder or allogeneic
transplant. In other embodiments, the instructions include at least one of the
following: description of the therapeutic agent; dosage schedule and administration
for treatment or prevention of a neoplasia, pathogen infection, immune disorder or
allogeneic transplant or symptoms thereof; precautions; warnings; indications;
counter-indications; overdosage information; adverse reactions; animal
pharmacology; clinical studies; and/or references. The instructions may be
printed directly on the container (when present), or as a label applied to the
container, or as a separate sheet, pamphlet, card, or folder supplied in or with
the container.
                                      EXAMPLES
[001261 The practice of the present invention employs, unless otherwise
indicated,conventional techniques of molecular biology (including recombinant
techniques), microbiology, cell biology, biochemistry and immunology, which are
well within the purview of the skilled artisan. Such techniques are explained fully in
the literature, such as, "Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual" second edition
(Sambrook, 1989); "Oligonucleotide Synthesis" (Gait, 1984); "Animal Cell Culture"
(Freshney, 1987); "Methods in Enzymology" "Handbook of Experimental
Immunology" (Weir, 1996); "Gene Transfer Vectors for Mammalian Cells" (Miller
and Calos, 1987); "Current Protocols in Molecular Biology" (Ausubel, 1987);
"PCR: The Polymerase Chain Reaction", (Mullis, 1994); "Current Protocols in
                                             42

Immunology" (Coligan, 1991). These techniques are applicable to the
production of the polynucleotides and polypeptides of the invention, and, as
such, may be considered in making and practicing the invention. Particularly
useful techniques for particular embodiments will be discussed in the sections that
follow.
[00127] The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary
skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and
use the assay, screening, and therapeutic methods of the invention, and are
not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention.
Example 1. T cells co-expressing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and a
chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) eradicated established tumors.
1001281 The invention provides "tumor-sensing T cells" that simultaneously
engage two antigens co-expressed by a tumor cell. Importantly, it has been found
that the reactivity against tissues expressing either antigen alone should be
negligible, only unleashing T cell activation in the presence of both antigens but not
either one alone. The invention is at least based in part on the discoveries that in
combination provide selective T cell immunoreactivity, and, thus, make this
approach clinically relevant. The first is to assign T cell activation to one
antigen (e.g., CD19 or prostate stem cell antigen, PSCA), which may be
mediated by a T cell receptor (TCR) or a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR).
Costimulation is independently mediated by a "chimeric costimulatory receptor"
(CCR     ),12,13 which is targeted to a second antigen (e.g., prostate-specific
membrane antigen, PSMA). This approach resulted in increased
immunoreactivity against dual antigen positive (DP) tumors, but failed to avert
enhanced immunoreactivity against single antigen positive (SP) tumors. The
second principle important for tumor sensing T cells to differentiate DP tumors
from SP tumors, is to diminish T cell activation to a level where it is by itself
ineffective, but functionally rescued at the tumor site by a CCR engaged by an
independent, co-expressed antigen. As CARs and CCRs recognize cell surface
antigens rather than HLA-peptide complexes, T cells engineered in this manner
are directly targeted to the tumor and will not be costimulated by interacting
                                             43

with cells cross-presenting the targeted antigens. As demonstrated herein, this
approach resulted in selective tumor eradication in multiple tumor-bearing
mice.
[00129] To demonstrate that both T cell activation and costimulation signals
can be supplied in vivo using two distinct antigen-specific receptors, the
combination of a CAR, providing a CD3         activation signal upon recognition of
the B cell marker CD19 14 and a CCR specific for PSMA 1 2        was evaluated.
Because of the synergy between CD28 and 4-1 BB16' 7 , including tandem
cytoplasmic domains'     21, 4-1 BB cytoplasmic domain was added to the PSMA
CCR P28 1 5 as described2 (Figure 1A). Primary human peripheral blood T cells
were transduced with the 19z1 and/or P28BB receptors and showed readily
detectable expression of both receptors, with transduction efficiencies in the
range of 4570% (Figure 1B). Four groups of T cells were analyzed in all
subsequent studies, comprising anti-CD19 CAR (19z1), anti-PSMA CCR
(P28BB), both anti-CD19 CAR and anti-PSMA CCR in combination
(19z1+P28BB), and a mock-transduced control group (mock) (Figure 1C). The
in vitro cytotoxic and proliferative response upon exposure to CD1 9 and/or
PSMA showed that cytotoxicity directed against CD19 was, as expected,
imparted by 19z1 and unaltered in the presence of PSMA.
100130] A quantitative comparison of the T cell groups, normalized to the
fraction of 19z1-transduced T cells for the 19z1 and 19z1+P28BB groups and
the P28BBtransduced fraction in the P28BB group showed that 19z1 and
19z1+P28BB T cells specifically lysed 40-47% CD19* targets at the 50:1 E:T
ratio while the P28BB-transduced T cells failed to lyse PSMA* targets (Figure
2A). However, upon repeated exposure to these antigens in the absence of
exogenous cytokine, only the 19z1 +P28BB T cells exhibited robust proliferation
with a 58-fold expansion for 31 days when co-cultured on artificial antigen
presenting cells (AAPCs) that expressed both antigens. By comparison, 19z1
or P28BB T cells only displayed modest expansion over the first 14 days, as did
the 19z1+P28BB T cells on CD19*PSMA~ APCs (Figure 2B). Further evidence
of stronger T cell activation in the presence of both antigens was provided by
the quantitative assessment of cytokine production and the induction of the
antiapoptotic molecule BclxL in 19z1+P28BB T cells, which were distinctly
                                           44

greater in the presence of CD19+PSMA APCs than in the presence of either
antigen alone (Figures 4A, 4E).
1001311      Initially, the in vivo ability of these dual-receptor expressing T cells to
eradicate established systemic human prostate tumors in immunocompromised
NOD/SCID-yC KO (NSG) mice bearing dual-positive (CD19 +PSMA +) tumor
cells was tested. The NSG mice were systemically engrafted with 2.0 x 106
firefly-luciferase expressing PC3 tumor cells that expressed both CD19 and
PSMA (Figure 5) and treated 19 days later with a single intravenous infusion of
 1.0 x  106 19z1, 19z1+P28BB, P28BB or control T cells. Thirty-five days later,
mice that received P28BB T cells or control T cells were sacrificed due to
tumor burden. In contrast, mice treated with 19z1 T cells had a marked
reduction of tumor burden. Strikingly, mice treated with 19z1+P28BB T cells
had undetectable tumor burden (Figure 2C). Over 70 days of post-infusion
monitoring, the CD19+ tumors eventually relapsed in mice that received 19z1 T
cells, while complete remission persisted in all mice that received 19z1+P28BB T
cells (Figure 2C). This result strongly indicated that tumor eradication had been
achieved.
[001321 These findings however posed a concern because of the potential
base line eradication of CD19*PSMA~ tumors by 19z1+P28BB T cells. There
was a likelihood that T cell immunoreactivity would be undesirably enhanced in
recipients bearing dual-positive CD19+PSMA* tumors due to recirculation of T
cells. To test this hypothesis, mice were subcutaneously infused with
CD19*PSMA~ tumors into the left flanks, CD19 PSMA* tumors into the right
flanks, and CD19'PSMA* tumors into their backs. One week later, mice were
administered one of 19z1, P28BB, or 19z1+P28BB T cells (1.0 x 106 cells)
intravenously. Mice that received P28BB T cells had progression of all three
tumors and needed to be sacrificed within 35 days (Figure 2D). In mice treated
with 19z1 T cells, the CD19*PSMX and CD19+PSMA* tumors underwent a
substantial reduction compared to their progression in recipients of P28BB T cells,
before eventually progressing. Consistent with prior results, mice treated with
19z1+P28BB T cells showed complete eradication of CD19*PSMA* tumors.
However, as hypothesized, rejection of CD19*PSMX tumors was also substantially
enhanced and superior to that observed in recipients of 19z1 T cells (Figure 2D,
                                                 45

lower panels). Thus, a split signal approach targeting two antigens failed to restrict
T cell reactivity and to protect single antigen tumors.
[00133] To address the problem of single antigen reactivity, it was proposed
that T cell activation would have to be minimized, almost to the point of
extinction, only to be rescued at the site of dual antigen expressing by an
adequate CCR engagement. Thus, CARs with diminished activity were sought.
For these experiments, a clinically relevant combination of antigens targeting
PSCA and PSMA were used. Three PSCA-specific scFvs were evaluated with
different binding affinities for PSCA (Figure 3A). While the Hzl scFv efficiently
lysed tumor cells down to the picogram range, the LzI scFv required 1,000
 10,000 fold more antibody to achieve similar efficiency of specific lysis. These
scFvs were used to derive three CD3 -based CARs with different activities in
cytotoxicity assays (Figure 3B). Two of the CARs, Hzl and Mzl, directed
moderate lytic activity against PSCA* targets (20% specific lysis at the 50:1
E:T ratio). In contrast the third CAR, Lzl, only reached 10%, qualifying it as a
inefficient antigen receptor. This hierarchy was further confirmed in cytokine
release assays, which showed enhanced cytokine secretion by 19z1+P28BB
T cells (Figure 4A) and Hz1 +P28BB T cells (Figure 4B) compared to cells with
either receptor alone. This
enhancement was less in Mzl+P28BB T cells (Figure 4C) and even further
decreased in Lz1+P28BB T cells (Figure 4D).
[001341 In order to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy and targeting profile of
PSCA+PSMA- reactive T cells, the anti-tumor activity of these T cells was
tested in animals bearing PSCA+PSMA- and/or PSCA+PSMA+ tumors. First, to
test the ability of Mzl+P28BB and Lz1+P28BB T cells to eradicate
PSCA+PSMA+ cells selectively, mice were inoculated intravenously with 2 x
 106 FFLuc-expressing PC3 cells positive for PSMA, PSCA, or both (Figure 5).
Fourteen days later, one set of mice received 1 x 106 Mzl+P28BB CAR+ T
cells infused intravenously, and another set of received 1 x 106 Lz1+P28BB
CARP T cells. Mice bearing PSCA+PSMA tumor cells that were treated with
the more efficient Mzl+P28BB T cells exhibited greater tumor regression than
mice treated with Lz1+PBB T cells (Figure 3C). Similar to the CD19 experiment
(Figure 2C), these tumors eventually relapsed and progressed. However, in
                                             46

mice bearing PSCA+PSMA+ tumor cells Mzl+P28BB T cells induced robust
and long-term tumor eradication. Consistent with the lesser potency of
Lzl+P28BB T cells, tumor eradication in mice bearing PSCA+PSMA+ tumor
cells treated with Lz1 +P28BB T cells was slower but nonetheless equally
successful, resulting in strong tumor eradication and long-term survival of all
treated mice (Figure 3C). Tumor eradication was not enhanced in control mice
bearing either PSCAVSMA- or PSCA-PSMA+ tumors (Figure 3C). A more
stringent evaluation of background activity against PSCAVSMA.- tumors was
tested in the context of animals also bearing PSCA+PSMA+ and PSCAPSMA+
tumors. Lz1+P28BB T cells mediated eradication of PSCA+PSMA+ tumors
without increasing eradication of PSCA+PSMA tumors (Figure 3E), which was
not different from that induced by Lzl T cells.
[00135] Thus, these results demonstrate the feasibility of decreasing T cell
activation to the point of averting immune reactivity against tissues expressing one
targeted antigen and rescuing T cell activation at the tumor site where two antigens
are co-expressed, without running the risk of igniting reactivity against the single
antigen-expressing tissues. In doing so, the results demonstrate proof-of
principle for achieving two complementary outcomes that determine specificity
and safety: 1) the ability to create targeting specificity in the absence of a
unique target antigen through combinatorial antigen recognition; and 2) the
protection of cells expressing only one of the antigens by titrating activation and
costimulatory signals, so as to practically confine activation to sites of target
antigen coexpression.
[001361 Targeted T cell therapies have the potential to provide curative treatments
but their applicability is limited by the paucity of validated tumor-specific targets.
Extra- tumoral expression results indeed in "on-target, off-tumor" effects that 2-4"
may be sometimes tolerable but are eventually lethal 1. The method described
herein provides improved targeting by supplying titrated activation and
costimulation signals through combinatorial antigen recognition (Figures 6A-6C).
[001371 In physiological antigen presentation,         T cells are primed in lymph
nodes by receiving activating and costimulatory signals and migrate to
peripheral sites, where effector functions of the T cells are not as dependent on
costimulation. Similarly, T cells engaged through an antigen receptor and a
                                             47

CCR may recirculate to other peripheral sites and display heightened cytolytic
activity against tissues expressing only one of the targeted antigens (Figure 6A).
Therefore, the present strategy was developed to address this problem of a
potential systemic effect in order to spare cells singly positive for the antigen,
including non-tumor cells (Figure 6B). In a tri-tumor mouse model (PSCA, PSMA*,
and PSCA*PSMA*), eradication of PSCAVSMA* was accomplished, while sparing
the PSCA*PSMA and PSCA PSMA* tumors (Figure 3E).
[001381 As shown by the present studies, this selectivity for DP tumors can be
achieved by reducing the efficacy of the CAR, which creates cells that are less
cytotoxic (Figure 3B) and that have reduced levels of cytokine secretion
(Figures 4A-4D). While the levels of both TH I and TH2 cytokines are relatively
high for both 19z1 and Hzl CARs, using less efficient CARs Mzl and Lzl resulted
in reducing these levels. The enhancement of cytokine levels in Lzl+P28BB T cells
compared to Lzl T cells was minimal except for IL-2 and IL-13. While IL-2 induces
proliferation and can promote either a TH 1 or TH2 response2 3 , IL-13 is associated
with a TH2 response specific to 4- 1 BB/CD1 37 signaling.
[00139] PSCA and PSMA are promising targets for the treatment of metastatic
prostate cancer     26,27, although neither is absolutely prostate-specific. In human
subjects, PSCA expression is found in prostate cancer and within the renal
pelvis, ureter, urinary bladder, and urethra. 2 8 Expression of PSMA strongly
correlates with primary prostate cancer, metastases, as well as in astrocytes
type 11,the kidney proximal tubule and the intestinal brush border.2 9 Dual
PSCA/PSMA targeting is thus expected to increase prostate cancer targeting
and reduce reactivity against these normal tissues. It is appreciated that this
principle can be extended to other tumor types which express a pair of
antigens, especially those that confer true tumor-specificity. For example,
HER2, MUC1, CD44, CD49f, and/or EpCAM could be used in this manner to
treat breast cancer 3 "1 Likewise, mesothelin, folate receptor-a, CD44, and/or
CD133 could be used to treat ovarian cancer.'       3 The targeting of tumor initiating
cells or cancer stem cells, for which unique target antigens/structures have not yet
been clearly identified34.3s would be particularly attractive using this approach.
                                              48

[00140] An important aspect of this approach is to constrain and nearly abolish T
cell activation in response to a single antigen. CARs with low affinity or low avidity
that only provide a poor activation signal were found to be useful for achieving this
effect. Alternatively, an endogenous TCR with low affinity or low avidity may be
used in combination with a CCR to provide antigen-specific costimulation.
Altogether, the results indicate the advantages of restricting the activity of
engineered T cells, reconciling potency with safety through combinatorial
antigen recognition by tumor-sensing T cells.
Gammaretroviral vector construction and viral production
[00141] The gammaretroviral vector SFG-19z1 has been extensively
described.     This backbone construct was used to exchange scFvs to generate
SFG-Hzl, SFG-Mzl, and SFG-Lzl by directional cloning utilizing a Ncol site
located 5' of the scFv and a Nod site located 3' of the scFv. To generate SFG
P28BB, the fused CD28 and CD137 domains were PCR amplified from SFG
P28BBz1 and ligated 3' of the PSMA scFv using a 5' Ncol site and a 3' BamHI
site to include a stop codon 3' of the BB domain, while the CD3 domain was
removed. 2 1 Bicistronic gene expression for CARs to be coexpressed with
dsRED and CCRs to be coexpressed with hrGFP was achieved by using an
Internal Ribosomal Entry Site as previously described. Vectors were used to
transiently transfect cell lines to generate stable viral producing lines as previously
described.
Generation of anti-PSCA scFvs
[001421 Three novel PSCA specific scFvs, termed Hzl, Mzl, and Lzl were
generated byamplifying the variable heavy (VH) and variable light (VL) domains
conferring PSCA antigen specificity of non-overlapping epitopes using
degenerate primers from hybridomas as previously described            6 These  VH and
VL domains were fused together using a linker and were used to replace the
CD19 scFv in the SFG-19z1 backbone using 5'Sphl to 3'Notl sites.
                                             49

Isolation, retroviral transduction, and culture of primary human T cells
[00143] Peripheral blood leukocytes were isolated using Ficoll gradients and
transduced as previously described. Briefly, after 48-hour activation with 2 &g/mL
phytohemagglutinin, cells were transduced twice via spinoculation for 1 hour
on retronectin coated plates over the next 48 hours and 20 U/mL of IL-2 was
added. After allowing 3 days for vector expression, transduction efficiencies
were determined via flow cytometry and bulk unsorted cells were used for
various assays or adoptive transfers.
Generation of antigen expressing tumor cell lines
[00144] The PC3 human prostate tumor line was obtained from ATCC and
retrovirally 6 transduced in order to generate PC3 -GFP/Luc, which was
subsequently used to create 10 PC3-CD19, PC3-PSMA, PC3-CD19-PSMA, PC3
PSCA, and PC3-PSCA-PSMA via retroviral transduction.
CTL Chromium Release Killing Assays
[00145] Target cells expressing desired antigen were labeled with            51 Cr and co
cultured with T cells at decreasing effector : target ratio's. After 4 hours of
culture, supernatant was removed and used to measure radioactivity released
from chromium. Specific lysis was determined by subtracting background
radioactivity of target cells not cultured with T cells and dividing by the
radioactivity measured from target cells completely lysed by using 0.2% Triton
X-100.
Long-term T cell proliferation assays
[00146] Tumor cells expressing desired antigen were irradiated with 30 Gy prior to
co-culture with 1.0  x 106 T cells at a 5:1 effector : target ratio. T cells were counted
weekly using an Invitrogen Countess cell counter and then re-stimulated with
irradiated tumor cells. No exogenous cytokines were added to these co
cultures.
Generation of tumor models in mice
[00147] PC3 tumor cells were infused into NOD/SCID-IL2Ry mice obtained from
either Jackson Laboratories or from in-house breeding under the protocol 04-10
                                             50

024 approved by the MSKCC Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. For
systemic tumor experiments, 2.0 x 106 tumor infused into mice with 1.0 x 106
chimeric receptor positive T cells infused 14 days later. For subcutaneous tumor
experiments, 1.0 x 106 tumor cells were injected per tumor site, established for 7
days upon which 1.0 x 106 chimeric positive T cells were infused IV.
Quantification of tumor burden
100148] For systemic tumor experiments, bioilluminescent imaging (BLI) was used
to
quantitatively measure tumor burden by correlating the amount of tumor burden to
luminescence using an IVIS 100 system (Caliper Life Sciences) as previously
described. For subcutaneous tumors, calipers were used to measure tumor size.
Tumor volume was calculated by multiplying the length, width, and height of each
tumor.
Bispecific antibody mediated tumor lysis
[001491 Bispecific antibodies containing a PSCA specific scFv fused to a CD3
specific scFv were added at various amounts to untransduced T cells co-cultured
with PSCA* PC3 at a 20:1 ratio, respectively in standard 4hr chromium release
assay assays.
Flow Cytometry
[001501 Cells were analyzed using an LSRII flow cytometer or sorted using a
FACSAria cell sorter (BD Biosciences) as previously described.16 Detection of
chimeric receptor at the cell surface could be achieved directly by using AF647
conjugated goat-anti-mouse antibody (Invitrogen). Antibodies for CD4-PE-Cy7,
CD8-Pacific Blue, and CD19-APC were obtained from Invitrogen while PSCA
antibodies were purified from hybridoma supernatants and PSMA antibodies were
obtained from MBL Interantional.
Cytokine Analysis
[001511 Supernatants harvested 48 hours after the second tumor stimulation from
long- term T cell proliferation experiments and were used for cytokine analysis by
                                           51

using a custom multiplex system HCYTMAG-60K (Millipore) and analyzed using a
Luminex 100 instrument (Luminex) as previously described.
 Western Blot Analysis
[00152] Cells were harvested 24 hours after initial tumor stimulation from long-term
T cell proliferation experiments to be used for western blot analysis of BclxL
expression. Western blots were performed as previously described2 1 using BclxL
and Akt primary antibodies (Cell Signaling Technology).
[00153] From the foregoing description, it will be apparent that variations and
modifications may be made to the invention described herein to adopt it to
various usages and conditions. Such embodiments are also within the scope of
the following claims.
[00154] The recitation of a listing of elements in any definition of a variable
herein includes definitions of that variable as any single element or
combination (or subcombination) of listed elements. The recitation of an
embodiment herein includes that embodiment as any single embodiment or in
combination with any other embodiments or portions thereof.
[00155] This application may be related to U.S. Patent Application No.
12/593,751, which is the U.S. national phase application, pursuant to 35 U.S.C.
371, of International Patent Application No.: PCT/US2008/004251, filed March
8, 2010, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No.
60/921,144, filed March 30, 2007, the disclosures of which are hereby
incorporated herein in their entireties by reference.
                                           52

References
i Robbins, P.F. et al. Tumor regression in patients with metastatic synovial cell
sarcoma and melanoma using genetically engineered lymphocytes reactive with
NY-ESO-1. Journal of clinical oncology: official journal of the American Society of
Clinical Oncology 29, 917-924 (2011).
2.  Kalos, M. et al. T cells with chimeric antigen receptors have potent antitumor
effects and can establish memory in patients with advanced leukemia. Sci Transl
Med 3, 95ra73 (2011).
3. Brentjens, R.J. et al. Safety and persistence of adoptively transferred
autologous CD19
ta rgeted T cells in patients with relapsed or chemotherapy refractory B-cell
leukemias. Blood 118, 4817-4828 (2011).
4 .         Kochenderfer, J.N. et al. B-cell depletion and remissions of
malignancy along with
cytokine-associated toxicity in a clinical trial of anti-CD1 9 chimeric-antigen
receptor
transduced T cells. Blood 119, 2709-2720 (2012).
5   Sadelain, M., Riviere, I. & Brentjens, R. Targeting tumours with genetically
enhanced T lymphocytes. Nat Rev Cancer 3, 35-45 (2003).
6.  Ho, W.Y., Blattman, J.N., Dossett, M.L., Yee, C. & Greenberg, P.D. Adoptive
immunotherapy: engineering T cell responses as biologic weapons for tumor mass
destruction.
Cancer cell 3, 431-437 (2003).
7.  Rosenberg, S.A., Restifo, N.P., Yang, J.C., Morgan, R.A. & Dudley, M.E.
Adoptive cell transfer: a clinical path to effective cancer immunotherapy. Nature
reviews. Cancer 8, 299-308 (2008) .
   8. Sadelain, M., Brentjens, R. & Riviere, I. The promise and potential pitfalls of
chimeric
antigen receptors. Curr Opin Immunol 21, 215-223 (2009).
                                              53

9. Jorritsma, A., Schotte, R., Coccoris, M., de Witte, M.A. & Schumacher, T.N.
Prospects and limitations of T cell receptor gene therapy. Current gene therapy 11,
276-287 (2011) .
io.Johnson, L.A. et al. Gene therapy with human and mouse T, cell receptors
mediates
cancer regression and targets normal tissues expressing cognate antigen. Blood
114, 535-546
(2009).
ii. Morgan, R.A. et al. Case report of a serious adverse event following the
administration of T cells transduced with a chimeric antigen receptor
recognizing ERBB2. Molecular therapy: the journal of the American Society of
Gene Therapy 18, 843-851 (2010).
  1 2 .Krause, A. et al. Antigen-dependent CD28 signaling selectively enhances
survival and
proliferation in genetically modified activated human primary T lymphocytes. J Exp
Med 188, 619-626 (1998).
13.  Wilkie, S. et al. Dual Targeting of ErbB2 and MUC1 in Breast Cancer Using
Chimeric Antigen Receptors Engineered to Provide Complementary Signaling.
Journal of clinical
  immunology (2012).
14.  Brentjens, R.J. et al. Eradication of systemic B-cell tumors by genetically
targeted human T lymphocytes co-stimulated by CD80 and interleukin-15.
Nature medicine 9, 279-286 (2003).
 15. Maher, J., Brentjens, R.J., Gunset, G., Riviere, I. & Sadelain, M. Human T
lymphocyte
cytotoxicity and proliferation directed by a single chimeric TCRzeta /CD28
receptor. Nat Bio
technol. 20, 70-75 (2002).
16.           Stephan, M .T. et al. T cell-encoded CD80 and 4-1BBL induce auto
and
transcostimulation, resulting i n potent tumor rejection. Nature medicine 13,
1440-1449 (2007).
                                              54

 17.         Watts, T.H. TNF/TNFR family members in costimulation of T cell
 responses. Annual
 review of immunology 23, 23-68 (2005).
  18. Wang, J. et al. Optimizing adoptive polyclonal T cell immunotherapy of
 lymphomas,
 using a chimeric T cell receptor possessing CD28 and CD 137 costimulatory
 domains. Human gene therapy 18, 712-725 (2007).
 19.         Ca rpe n ito, C . et al. Control of large, established tumor xenografts
with genetically
 retargeted human T cells containing CD28 and CD137 domains. Proceedings of
 the National
  Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 106, 3360-3365 (2009).
20. Tammana, S. et a 1. 4-1BB and CD28 signaling plays a synergistic role in
 redirecting umbilical cord blood T cells against B-cell malignancies. Hum Gene Ther
2 1, 75 -86 ( 2 0 10).
21  Zhong, X.S., Matsushita, M., Plotkin, J., Riviere, I. & Sadelain, M. Chimeric
 antigen receptors combining 4-1BB and CD28 signaling domains augment
 P13kinase/AKT/Bcl-X L
  activation and C D8+ T cell-mediated tumor eradication. Molecular therapy: the
journal of the
American Society of Gene Therapy 18, 413-420 (2010).
22. Schwartz, R . H . T cell a n e rgy. Annual review of immunology 21, 305-334
 (2003).
23  Liao, W., Lin, J .X . & Leonard, W.J . I L-2 family cytokines: new insights into
the complex roles of IL-2 as a broad regulator of T helper cell differentiation.
 Current opinion in
  immunology 23, 598-604 (2011).
 24.         Nam, K. 0 ., Shin, S . M. & Lee, H.W. Cross-linking of 4-IBB up
 regulates IL-13
expression in CD8(+) T lymphocytes. Cytokine 33, 87-94 (2006).
 25.         Shin, S M . et a 1. 4- IBB triggers IL-13 production from T cells to limit
the polarized,
Thl-mediated inflammation. Journal of leukocyte biology 81, 1455-1465 (2007).
                                               55

 26. Saeki, N., Gu, J., Yoshida, T. & Wu, X. Prostate stem cell antigen: a Jekyll and
Hyde
molecule? Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association
for Cancer Research 16, 3533-3538 (2010).
     27.       Olson, W.C., Heston, W.D. & Rajasekaran, A.K. Clinical trials of
cancer therapies targeting prostate-specific membrane antigen. Reviews on
recent clinical trials 2, 182-190 30 (2007).
 29.          Lam, J.S. et al. Prostate stem cell antigen is overexpressed in prostate
cancer metastases.
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer
Research 11, 2591-2596 (2005).
     29.       Silver, D.A., Pellicer, I., Fair, W.R., Heston, W.D. & Cordon-Cardo, C.
Prostate-specific
 membrane antigen expression in normal and malignant human tissues. Clinical
cancer research :
an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research 3, 81-85
(1997).
30.          Liu, J.C. et al. Seventeen-gene signature from enriched Her2/Neu
mammary tumor
initiating cells predicts clinical outcome for human HER2+:ERalpha- breast
cancer. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United
States of America 109, 58325837 (2012).
 31. Meyer, M.J. et al. CD44posCD49fhiCD133/2hi defines xenograft-initiating
cells in
estrogen receptor-negative breast cancer. Cancer research 70, 4624-4633
(2010).
32.  Strauss, R. et al. Analysis of epithelial and mesenchymal markers in ovarian
cancer reveals phenotypic heterogeneity and plasticity. PloS one 6, el 6186
(2011).
33  Shihle, M . & Davidson, B. Pathogenesis of ovarian cancer: clues from
selected
 overexpressed genes. Future Oncol 5, 1641-1657 (2009).
                                                 56

34. Nguyen, L.V., Vanner, R., Dirks, P. & Eaves, C.J. Cancer stem cells: an
evolving concept. Nature reviews. Cancer 12, 133-143 (2012).
35, Magee, J.A., Piskounova, E. & Morrison, S.J. Cancer stem cells: impact,
heterogeneity, and uncertainty. Cancer cell 21, 283-296 (2012).
 36. Orlandi, R., Gussow, D.H., Jones, P.T. & Winter, G. Cloning immunoglobulin
variable
domains for expression by the polymerase chain reaction. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 86, 3833-3837
(1989).
                                           57

The present invention also relates to the following non-limiting embodiments:
Embodiment 1. An immunoresponsive cell comprising:
         a.    an antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen with low
affinity, wherein binding of the receptor to the first antigen activates the
immunoresponsive cell, and
         b.    a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds a second antigen
and stimulates the immunoresponsive cell.
Embodiment 2. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiment 1, wherein the
cell is selected from the group consisting of a T cell, a Natural Killer (NK) cell, a
cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL), a regulatory T cell, a human embryonic stem cell, and
a pluripotent stem cell from which lymphoid cells may be differentiated.
Embodiment 3. The immunoresponsive cell of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein the
antigen is a tumor or pathogen antigen.
Embodiment 4. The immunoresponsive cell of any of embodiments 1 -3, wherein
said antigen recognizing receptor is a T cell receptor (TCR) or chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR).
Embodiment 5. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-4, wherein
said antigen recognizing receptor is exogenous or endogenous.
Embodiment 6. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-5, wherein
said antigen recognizing receptor is recombinantiy expressed.
Embodiment 7. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-6, wherein
the antigen recognizing receptor is expressed from a vector.
Embodiment 8. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-7, wherein
the chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) is expressed from a vector.
                                            58

Embodiment 9. The immunoresponsive ceil of any one of embodiments 1-8, wherein
said immunoresponsive ceil is autologous.
Embodiment 10. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-9,
wherein said first and second antigens are selected from the group consisting of
CAIX, CEA, CD5, CD7, CD10, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD34, CD38,
CD41, CD44, CD49f, CD56, CD74, CD133, CD138, a cytomegalovirus (CMV)
infected cell antigen, EGP-2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2,3,4, FBP, Fetal acetylcholine
receptor, folate receptor-a, GD2, GD3, HER-2, hTERT, IL-13R-a2, x-light chain,
KDR, LeY, LI cell adhesion molecule, MAGE-AI, MUC1, Mesotheiin, NKG2D ligands,
NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, ROR1, TAG-72, VEGF-R2, or
WT-1.
Embodiment 11. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-9,
wherein said first and second antigens are distinct antigens selected from the group
consisting of CD133, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, erb-B2, KDR
Mesotheiin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA,
CD19, VEGF-R2, and WT-1.
Embodiment 12. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-9,
wherein said first and second antigens are selected from the group consisting of
HER2, MUC1, CD44, CD49f, EpCAM, CEA, CD133, a cytomegalovirus (CMV)
infected cell antigen, EGP-2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2,3,4, FBP, KDR, Mesotheiin,
NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, VEGF-R2, or
WT-1.
Embodiment 13. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-11,
wherein said first and second antigens are CD10 and CD19.
Embodiment 14. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-11,
wherein said first and second antigens are CD56 and CD138.
Embodiment 15. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-11,
wherein said first and second antigens are distinct antigens selected from the group
consisting of mesotheiin, folate receptor-a, CD44, and CD133.
                                           59

Embodiment 16. The immunoresponsive ceii of any one of embodiments 1-15,
wherein the intracellular signaling domain of said antigen recognizing receptor is the
CD3 -chain signaling domain.
Embodiment 17. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1-16,
wherein the intracellular signaling domain of the chimeric co-stimulating receptor
(CCR) is a CD97, CD1 ia-CD18, CD2, ICOS, CD27, CD154, CD5, OX40, 4-1BB or
CD28 signaling domain.
Embodiment 18. The immunoresponsive cell of any one of embodiments 1 -17,
wherein the cell expresses an antigen receptor that is 19z1 or Pz1.
Embodiment 19. A method of inducing tumor cell death in a tumor, the method
comprising contacting said tumor eel! with an immunoresponsive cell comprising an
antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first tumor antigen with low affinity, wherein
the binding activates the immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating
receptor (CCR) that binds a second tumor antigen and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell, thereby inducing tumor eel! death in said tumor.
Embodiment 20. The method of embodiment 19, wherein the method reduces the
number of tumor cells.
Embodiment 21. The method of embodiment 19, wherein the method reduces tumor
size.
Embodiment 22. The method of embodiment 19, wherein the method eradicates the
tumor.
Embodiment 23. A method of treating or preventing a neoplasia in a subject, the
method comprising administering an effective amount of an immunoresponsive cell
comprising an antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen with low affinity,
wherein the binding activates the immunoresponsive ceii, and a chimeric co
stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds a second antigen and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell, thereby treating or preventing a neoplasia in the subject.
                                          60

Embodiment 24. The method of embodiment 23, wherein the neoplasia is selected
from the group consisting of prostate cancer, breast cancer, B cell leukemia, multiple
myeloma, and ovarian cancer.
Embodiment 25. The method of embodiment 23, wherein the neoplasia is breast
cancer and the first and second tumor antigens are distinct antigens selected from
the group consisting of HER2, MUC1, CD44, CD49f, EpCAM, CEA, CD133, a
cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, EGP-2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2.3.4,
FBP, KDR, Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1 , oncofetal antigen (h5T4),
PSCA, PSMA, VEGF-R2, or WT-1.
Embodiment 26. The method of embodiment 23, wherein the neoplasia is B cell
leukemia and the first and second tumor antigens are CD10 and CD19.
Embodiment 27. The method of embodiment 24, wherein the neoplasia is multiple
myeloma and the first and second tumor antigens are CD56 and CD138.
Embodiment 28. The method of embodiment 24, wherein the neoplasia is ovarian
cancer and the first and second tumor antigens are distinct antigens selected from
the group consisting of mesothelin, folate receptor-a, CD44, and CD133.
Embodiment 29. The method of any one of embodiments 23-28, wherein said
immunoresponsive cell is selected as having an antigen recognizing receptor with
low affinity.
Embodiment 30. The method of any one of embodiments 23-28, wherein said
antigen recognizing receptor is selected for expression in the cell as having low
affinity.
Embodiment 31. The method of any one of embodiments 23-28, wherein said
antigen recognizing receptor is a T cell receptor (TCR) or chimeric antigen receptor
(CAR).
                                           61

Embodiment 32. The method of any one of embodiments 23-28, wherein said
antigen recognizing receptor is exogenous or endogenous.
Embodiment 33. The method of any one of embodiments 23-32, wherein the antigen
recognizing receptor is expressed from a vector.
Embodiment 34. The method of any one of embodiments 23-32, wherein the
chimeric co- stimulating receptor (CCR) is expressed from a vector.
Embodiment 35. The method of any one of embodiments 23-34, wherein the cell is
selected from the group consisting of a T cell, a Natural Killer (NK) cell, a cytotoxic T
lymphocyte (CTL), a regulatory T cell, a human embryonic stem cell, and a
pluripotent stem cell from which lymphoid cells may be differentiated.
Embodiment 36. The method of any one of embodiments 23-35, wherein the method
reduces or eradicates the tumor burden in the subject.
Embodiment 37. A method of inducing tumor eel! death, the method comprising
administering an effective amount of an immunoresponsive cell comprising an
antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen with low affinity, wherein the
binding activates the immunoresponsive cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor
(CCR) that binds a second antigen and stimulates the immunoresponsive cell,
thereby inducing tumor cell death in the subject.
Embodiment 38. A method for producing an antigen-specific immunoresponsive cell,
the method comprising introducing into the immunoresponsive cell a nucleic acid
sequence that encodes a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR), wherein the
chimeric co-stimulating receptor comprises an antigen-binding domain coupled to an
intracellular signaling domain that stimulates an immunoresponsive cell, wherein the
immunoresponsive cell comprises an antigen recognizing receptor that binds a first
antigen with low affinity, wherein the binding activates the immunoresponsive cell.
Embodiment 39. The method of embodiment 38, the method further comprising
introducing a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a chimeric antigen
                                            62

receptor, wherein the chimeric antigen receptor comprises a second antigen-binding
domain coupled to a second intracellular signaling domain that activates an
immunoresponsive cell.
Embodiment 40. The method of any one of embodiments 38-39, wherein the tumor
antigens are distinct antigens selected from the list consisting of CAIX, CEA, CD5,
CD7, CDIO, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD34, CD38, CD41 , CD44, CD49f,
CD56, CD74, CD133, CD138, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, EGP
2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erbB2,3,4, FBP, Fetal acetylchoiine receptor, folate receptor-a,
GD2, GD3, HER-2,hTERT, IL-13R-a2, x-light chain, KDR, LeY, LI cell adhesion
molecule, MAGE-AI, MUC1 , Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1 , oncofetal
antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, ROR1 , TAG-72, VEGF-R2, or WT-1.
Embodiment 41. The method of any one of embodiments 38-40, wherein said
antigen recognizing receptor is a T cell receptor (TCR) or chimeric antigen receptor
(CAR).
Embodiment 42. The method of any one of embodiments 38-41, wherein said
antigen recognizing receptor is exogenous or endogenous.
Embodiment 43. The method of any one of embodiments 38-42, wherein said
antigen recognizing receptor is recombinantly expressed.
Embodiment 44. The method of any one of embodiments 38-43, wherein the antigen
recognizing receptor is expressed from a vector.
Embodiment 45. The method of any one of embodiments 38-44, wherein the
chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) is expressed from a vector.
Embodiment 46. The method of any one of embodiments 38-45, wherein the cell is
selected from the group consisting of a T cell, a Natural Killer (NK) cell, a cytotoxic T
lymphocyte (CTL), a regulatory T cell, a human embryonic stem cell, and a
pluripotent stem cell from which lymphoid cells may be differentiated.
                                           63

Embodiment 47. The method of any one of embodiments 38-46, wherein the
intracellular signaling domain of said antigen recognizing receptor is the CD3 -chain
signaling domain.
Embodiment 48. The method of any one of embodiments 38-47, wherein the
intracellular signaling domain of the chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) is a
CD97, CD11a-CD18, CD2, ICOS, CD27, CD154, CD5, OX40, 4-1 BB or CD28
signaling domain.
Embodiment 49. A method of treating prostate cancer in a subject in need thereof,
the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a T cell comprising an antigen recognizing receptor that binds PSCA or
CD19 with low affinity, wherein the binding activates the immunoresponsive cell, and
a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds PSMA and stimulates the
immunoresponsive cell, thereby treating prostate cancer in the subject.
Embodiment 50. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an immunoresponsive
cell of any one of embodiments 1-18 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
Embodiment 51. An immunoresponsive cell of any of embodiments 1-18 for use in
the
treatment of a neoplasia or tumor disease.
Embodiment 52. A T cell comprising an antigen recognizing receptor that binds
PSCA or CD19 with low affinity, wherein the binding activates the immunoresponsive
cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds PSMA and stimulates
the immunoresponsive cell for use in the treatment of prostate cancer.
Embodiment 53. A kit comprising an immunoresponsive cell comprising an antigen
recognizing receptor that binds a first antigen and activates the immunoresponsive
cell, and a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds a second viral antigen
and stimulates the immunoresponsive cell.
                                            64

CLAIMS
1.      An immunoresponsive cell comprising:
        (a) a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that binds to a first antigen, wherein
binding of the CAR to the first antigen is capable of delivering an activation signal to
the immunoresponsive cell, and
        (b) a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds to a second antigen,
wherein binding of the CCR to the second antigen is capable of delivering a
costimulatory signal to the immunoresponsive cell,
        wherein the immunoresponsive cell exhibits a greater degree of cytolytic
activity against cells that are positive for both the first antigen and the second
antigen as compared to against cells that are singly positive for the first antigen.
2.      The immunoresponsive cell of claim 1, wherein the cell is selected from the
group consisting of a T cell, a Natural Killer (NK) cell, a cytotoxic T lymphocyte
(CTL), a regulatory T cell, a human embryonic stem cell, and a pluripotent stem cell
from which lymphoid cells may be differentiated.
3.      The immunoresponsive cell of claim 1 or 2, wherein the one or both of the first
and second antigens is a tumor antigen or a pathogen antigen.
4.      The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-3, wherein said CAR binds
to the first antigen with a binding affinity Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or more, 5 x 10-8 M or more,
1 x 10-7 M or more, or 1 x 10-6 M or more.
5.      The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-4, wherein said CAR is
recombinantly expressed, or expressed from a vector.
6.      The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the CCR is
expressed from a vector.
7.      The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-6, wherein said
immunoresponsive cell is autologous.
                                              65

8.      The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said first and
second antigens are selected from the group consisting of PSCA, CAIX, CEA, CDS,
CD7, CD10, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD30, CD33, CD34, CD38, CD41, CD44, CD49f,
CD56, CD74, CD133, CD138, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cell antigen, EGP
2, EGP-40, EpCAM, erb-B2,3,4, FBP, Fetal acetylcholine receptor, folate receptor-a,
GD2, GD3, HER-2, hTERT, IL-13R-a2, x-light chain, KDR, LeY, LI cell adhesion
molecule, MAGE-Al, MUC1, Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal
antigen (h5T4), PSMA, ROR1, TAG-72, VEGF-R2, and WT-1.
9.      The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said first and
second antigens are:
        (a) CD10 and CD19, respectively;
        (b) CD56 and CD138, respectively;
        (c) selected from the group consisting of CD133, a cytomegalovirus (CMV)
infected cell antigen, erb-B2, KOR Mesothelin, NKG2D ligands, NY-ESO-1, oncofetal
antigen (h5T4), PSCA, PSMA, CD19, VEGF-R2, and WT-1;
        (d) selected from the group consisting of mesothelin, folate receptor-a, CD44,
and CD133; or
        (e) PSCA and PSMA, respectively.
10.     The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the intracellular
signaling domain of said CAR is a CD3-chain signaling domain.
11.     The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the
intracellular signaling domain of the CCR is a CD97, CA11a-CD18, CD2, ICOS,
CD27, CD154, CD5, OX40, 4-1BB or CD28 signaling domain.
12.     The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the CAR
comprises a CD3-chain signaling domain and an extracellular binding domain that
binds to PSCA.
13.     The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the CAR binds
to the first antigen with a binding affinity that is lower compared to the binding affinity
with which the CCR binds to the second antigen.
                                              66

14.     The immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the cell
exhibits substantially no or negligible cytolytic activity against cells that are singly
positive for the first antigen.
15.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising an immunoresponsive cell of any
one of claims 1-14 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
16.     A method for in vitro producing an antigen-specific immunoresponsive cell,
the method comprising:
        introducing into the immunoresponsive cell a first nucleic acid sequence that
encodes a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that binds to a first antigen, wherein
binding of the CAR to the first antigen is capable of delivering an activation signal to
the immunoresponsive cell; and
        introducing into the immunoresponsive cell a second nucleic acid sequence
that encodes a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds a second antigen,
wherein binding of the CCR to the second antigen is capable of delivering a
costimulatory signal to the immunoresponsive cell,
        wherein the immunoresponsive cell exhibits a greater degree of cytolytic
activity against cells that are positive for both the first and the second antigens as
compared to against cells that are singly positive for the first antigen.
17.     A method of treating or preventing a neoplasm, or inducing tumor cell death in
a subject, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of the
immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-14 or the pharmaceutical composition
of claim 15.
18.     Use of the immunoresponsive cell of any one of claims 1-14 or the
pharmaceutical composition of claim 15 in the manufacture of a medicament for
treating or preventing a neoplasm, or for inducing tumor cell death in a subject.
19.     The method of claim 17 or the use of claim 18, wherein said inducing tumor
cell death reduces the number of tumor cells, reduces the tumor size, and/or
eradicates the tumor, and/or wherein said treating or preventing reduces or
eradicates the tumor burden in the subject.
                                              67

20.      The method of claim 17 or 19 or the use of claim 18 or 19, wherein said
neoplasm is selected from the group consisting of prostate cancer, breast cancer, B
cell leukemia, multiple myeloma, and ovarian cancer.
21.      A T cell for use in treating prostate cancer, wherein the T cell comprises:
         a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that binds to PSCA, wherein binding of the
CAR to PSCA is capable of activating the immunoresponsive cell, and
         a chimeric co-stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds to PSMA, wherein binding
of the CCR to PSMA is capable of delivering a costimulatory signal to the
immunoresponsive cell,
         wherein the immunoresponsive cell exhibits a greater degree of cytolytic
activity against cells that are positive for both PSCA and PSMA as compared to
against cells that are singly positive for PSCA.
22.      A kit comprising an immunoresponsive cell comprising: (a) an CAR that binds
to a first antigen, wherein binding of the CAR to the first antigen is capable of
delivering an activation signal to the immunoresponsive cell, and (b) a chimeric co
stimulating receptor (CCR) that binds to a second antigen, wherein binding of the
CCR to the second antigen is capable of delivering a costimulatory signal to the
immunoresponsive cell, wherein the immunoresponsive cell exhibits a greater
degree of cytolytic activity against cells or that are positive for both the first and the
second antigens as compared to against cells that are singly positive for the first
antigen.
                        Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                               68

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                             <U+271C>                <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737>
                                            <U+271B> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                     <U+2701>    <U+2702><U+2704>                                    <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A>
                                                    <U+2726>      <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>
                                                   <U+2725> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
                     <U+260E><U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>                                    <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>
                               <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>       <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E>
                               <U+2715>
         <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>
                                 <U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A>

                                        <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2731> <U+2739>
                                                                                                                <U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27B5> <U+27B8><U+27BA> <U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27BB>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                               <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C> <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>             <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>
                              <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747>                                                                    <U+279E><U+27A0><U+27A1> <U+279B><U+279C><U+279D><U+279F>
              <U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>         <U+2748> <U+2749><U+274A>                                                                  <U+27A4><U+27A9><U+27A2><U+27A5><U+27A6><U+27A7> <U+27A8><U+27AB>
                               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>            <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>           |<U+2759>                                                  <U+27AD><U+27AF><U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BE><U+279A>
                              <U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772> <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C>             <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774>                                                                     <U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798>
                              <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C>
              <U+270F> <U+2716> <U+2711><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                     <U+2718> <U+2717><U+2719> <U+2715>   <U+275D><U+275E><U+2761> <U+2762><U+2763>
                              <U+2764><U+2710>
                                                                                                                             <U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE>
                              <U+2748><U+2765><U+2766>
                                                                                                      <U+27B1><U+2703><U+2750> <U+2752><U+276E><U+2770>               
              <U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725>                                                                         <U+2195>
                                                                                                <U+2799>
                                    <U+2767><U+2767><U+2660><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469> <U+2776><U+2665><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779><U+2666><U+2663>q<U+277A><U+277A>rst<U+277B><U+277C> <U+277A>t<U+277D><U+2663>t<U+2709><U+277A><U+277A><U+2708><U+2707><U+2460><U+277A><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781> <U+277A> <U+2461><U+2462><U+2777> <U+2782><U+2783><U+2463><U+2782><U+2784> <U+278D><U+2464><U+2785>
                                     <U+2786> <U+2787><U+2788><U+2789> <U+278A> <U+278B><U+278C>
         <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D>
                                      <U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792>                                                                      <U+2792>
                                          <U+2793> <U+2794><U+2192> <U+27A3><U+2194>

<removed-date>
                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704> <U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E> <U+270C><U+260E> <U+270D><U+2720><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2712><U+2701><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2706> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+271F><U+2720><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2718><U+2719><U+260E>
               <U+261E><U+2712><U+2716><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2701><U+2721><U+271D><U+271B><U+260E>             <U+273C><U+273D><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+273E><U+2701><U+2721><U+273F><U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2716> <U+2701><U+2740><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2715><U+2741><U+2713><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726>                              <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>
              <U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>                                    <U+2745> <U+2746><U+2747>
              <U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733>
         <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B>
                                         <U+2748> <U+2749><U+274A> <U+274B><U+2748>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2701>
                        <U+2702>
                                                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                            <U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714> <U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717> <U+2718> <U+2719> <U+271A>
                                <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E>
         <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734> <U+2735>
                                      <U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+273A>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                                                                      t<U+2709>
                                          <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                                             <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737> <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>
                                  <U+273C> <U+273D><U+273E>              <U+273F><U+2740> <U+2741><U+2742>
                                  <U+2743> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747>             <U+2748>
                                  <U+2756> P<U+25D7>                  <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> <U+274D><U+274F> <U+2751>
                                  |<U+25B2> <U+2759> <U+25BC><U+25C6> <U+275A> <U+276F> <U+276F> <U+276F> <U+276F> <U+276F>
                                       <U+2771> <U+2772> <U+2773><U+2768> <U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D> <U+276A><U+276B> <U+2774><U+2775> <U+2708><U+2707>
                                          <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767> <U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>qrs
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
         <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2706><U+270C>
                        <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712>

<removed-date>
                    <U+2701>                                             <U+25D7>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                 <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>          <U+2759>                       <U+275A> <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D>
                        <U+2706><U+271D>
                    <U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720>
                    <U+2721><U+261B>
                        <U+261E><U+271D>
                         <U+270C><U+270D>
                          <U+270E>
                                                            <U+273C> <U+273E>
                              <U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C> <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+272E><U+2734><U+2735> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B> <U+273D><U+272E>           <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763> <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765> <U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>q rst<U+2709>
                                       <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748>                                 <U+2708><U+2707><U+2460><U+2461><U+2462><U+2463> <U+2464> <U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468> <U+2469><U+2776><U+2777>
                    <U+270F>                                             |
                                      <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B> <U+25CF> <U+274D><U+274F><U+2751> <U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P                             <U+2778><U+2779> <U+277A> <U+277B><U+277C><U+277D><U+277E> <U+277F> <U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783><U+2784>
                                                                                                       <U+2785><U+2786><U+2787><U+2788>
                                                                                                         <U+2789><U+278A><U+278B><U+2786><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E><U+278F>
                                                                      <U+2790><U+2791><U+2792><U+2793><U+2794><U+2192> <U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195> <U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+279D><U+279E><U+279F>                 <U+27A0><U+27A1> <U+27A2>
                                                                                                         <U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6> <U+27A7><U+27A8>
                                                                             <U+27A9><U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF><U+27B2><U+27B3> <U+27B2> <U+27A9><U+27B2><U+27B5> <U+27B8><U+27BA><U+27BB><U+27BC><U+27BD> <U+27BE><U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798><U+27B4>
                                                                      <U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE><U+27B1> <U+2703><U+2750><U+2752><U+276E><U+2752><U+276E><U+2770>
                                                                            
                                                                                      
         <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717>
                                                             

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+270D>
                             <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
                            <U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>        <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734>             <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
          <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2701><U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C>
                                                          <U+273C> <U+273D><U+273E> <U+273F><U+2740>

<removed-date>
                        <U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C>              <U+270D><U+270E>
<removed-apn>                  <U+270F> <U+2734><U+2735>                       <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725> <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>
                                  <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>           <U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F> <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>
                                                              <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B> <U+2745><U+2746>    <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733>
                        <U+274A> <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> <U+274F><U+2751>
                           <U+25B2><U+25BC> <U+2766><U+2767> <U+25C6><U+2756>                <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768> <U+2769><U+276C> rs
                                            <U+2759><U+275A><U+273B> <U+276F><U+2771> <U+2666><U+2663>q
                                        P<U+25D7>| <U+2660><U+2665>                    t<U+2737><U+2709><U+2708> <U+2761><U+2762> <U+2707><U+2460><U+2461>
                                                          <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B> <U+2774><U+2775><U+275B> <U+275C><U+275D><U+275E>     <U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765>
                        <U+2462> <U+2463><U+2464><U+2465> <U+2466><U+2467><U+2468>
                                <U+2777><U+2778><U+2779><U+277A><U+277B>
                           <U+2469><U+2776> <U+277C><U+277D><U+277E>
                        <U+277F> <U+2780><U+2781> <U+2782><U+2783><U+2784>
                              <U+27AB><U+27AD> <U+278A><U+278B> <U+27AF><U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27B5>
                           <U+2785><U+2786> <U+2787><U+2788><U+2789>             <U+2793><U+2794> <U+2192> <U+27A3><U+2194><U+27BB><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B> <U+279C><U+279D> <U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BE>
                                    <U+278C><U+278D><U+278E><U+278F> <U+278A><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792> <U+27B8><U+27BA>                     <U+27A5><U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A9>
                                                             <U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1> <U+27A2><U+27A4> <U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                                                    <U+2798> <U+27B4><U+27B7> <U+27AC><U+27AE>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+270D>               <U+270E> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712>
                        <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717>
                        <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722>
                        <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2727> <U+272D><U+272E>
                         <U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A> <U+272B><U+272C>
                         <U+272F>
                         <U+2730><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
         <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2701><U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C>
                                   <U+2737> <U+2738><U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B>

<removed-date>
                               <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270E><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769> <U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710> <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467> <U+277C><U+276F><U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782> <U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+2467>
<removed-apn>
                                        <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B> <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665>    <U+2771><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>   <U+2783><U+2784><U+2785><U+2786><U+2787><U+2788> s<U+279C><U+2708><U+279D><U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1><U+27A2>
                                                           <U+277A><U+277B>                <U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6>
                                                                        <U+2666><U+2663>qrs
                                                                         t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>
                         <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>                            <U+2716>                                                                  <U+27A7><U+27A8>
                         <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>                                  <U+2789><U+278A><U+278B> <U+278D><U+278E><U+278C>
                         <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+271C><U+2722>                             <U+278F><U+2790> <U+2791><U+2792>
                         <U+2729><U+272A><U+2723><U+2724><U+272B><U+2725> <U+2726><U+272C><U+272D><U+2727><U+2605>                         <U+2793><U+2794>
                            <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>                      <U+2732><U+2733>
                             <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A> <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+273D><U+2741><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+2759>   <U+27A9><U+27BA><U+27BB><U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BE><U+27AF><U+279A><U+27B2><U+27BE><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798><U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE><U+2798><U+27B1><U+27B9><U+2703><U+2750><U+2752><U+276E><U+2770><U+27B3><U+27B5> <U+27BA> <U+27BE><U+27B8>
                                <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC> <U+25C6><U+2756> P <U+25D7>|                                  <U+2701>
                        <U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+260E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                                                                         <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2715>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2704><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2706><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E>
                                   <U+272F><U+2730><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2734> <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A> <U+273B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E>
                            <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                                                               <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759>
                                                            <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761> <U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710> <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666> <U+2663>qrs
                                 t<U+2709> <U+2773><U+2768><U+2708><U+2707>
                                 <U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772> <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D>    <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777>
                                                <U+277B><U+277C><U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781>   <U+2782><U+2783><U+2784><U+2785><U+2786><U+2787> <U+2788><U+2789><U+278A> <U+278B><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792> <U+2793><U+2794><U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C>
                                      <U+2778> <U+2779><U+2779> <U+277A>
                                                              
                                                                      
                    <U+27A0><U+279D>          <U+279E>                     <U+279F><U+27A1><U+27A2>
                      <U+27A4>      <U+27A5><U+27A5>
                     <U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A9>
                      <U+27AD><U+27AF> <U+27B2> <U+27B3>                            <U+27AB><U+27A6>
                                           <U+27B5><U+27BB>           <U+27B8>
                         <U+27BA>                            <U+27BC><U+27BD>
                         <U+27BE> <U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9>          <U+2752><U+276E> <U+2770><U+27B1>
                                <U+2798> <U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE><U+27B1> <U+2703><U+2750>
                             
              
                                                                                           <U+2724>
                                                                                           <U+2725><U+2726>
              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>               <U+261B>        <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712>                                  <U+2727>    <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>
              <U+2721>                                                                            <U+273C>    <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>
         <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                      <U+271B><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722> <U+271B><U+2723>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>
                       <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733> <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                            <U+2764>
                                                                                         <U+2737><U+2738><U+273B><U+273C><U+2739><U+273A><U+273D><U+2740><U+273E><U+273F> <U+2741><U+273B> <U+2742><U+2743> <U+2744> <U+2748><U+2745><U+2746><U+274B><U+2747><U+2749><U+25CF><U+274D><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+2772><U+2773><U+276F><U+2771> <U+2768><U+274A><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2762><U+275E><U+2761> <U+2763><U+2761><U+2774><U+2775><U+2710><U+2761><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+2761> <U+2765><U+2660><U+2666><U+2761><U+2663>s<U+2665><U+2709>t<U+2707><U+2708><U+2462><U+2463><U+2460><U+2761> <U+2464><U+2465><U+2466> <U+2467><U+2766><U+2767>q<U+2468><U+2469>r <U+2461> <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778>
                                                                                                                <U+274A>                                                                            <U+2779> <U+277A><U+277B><U+277C><U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781> <U+2782> <U+2783><U+2784><U+2785><U+2786>
                     <U+2787><U+279B> <U+279C> <U+279D><U+279E><U+279F>      <U+2788><U+2789> <U+27A0> <U+278A><U+27A1>            <U+278B><U+278B><U+278C><U+278B><U+278C><U+278B><U+278C><U+278C><U+278B><U+278D> <U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792><U+2793><U+2794><U+2192> <U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195> <U+2764><U+2799>
                                                            <U+27A2> <U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8> <U+27A9><U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF> <U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27B5><U+27B8><U+27BA><U+27BB><U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BE>
                                                                                        <U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798><U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE><U+27B1><U+2703><U+2750><U+2752><U+276E><U+2770>
                                                      
                                                                               
                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                                <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>                                                              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>            <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>
                                 <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733> <U+2734><U+2734> <U+2735> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>                                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                       <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6> <U+2756>P <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C>
                                      <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>      <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>
                                       <U+2776> <U+2777><U+2778><U+2779><U+277A><U+277B><U+277C><U+277D>                             <U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783> <U+2784><U+2785> <U+2786><U+2787><U+2788><U+2789><U+278A><U+278B><U+278C><U+278D>                                                              <U+278F>qrst<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+2460><U+2461><U+2462> <U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469> <U+2790><U+2791>
                                                                                                                                       <U+278E><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+275D><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660> <U+2665><U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                  <U+2792>                 <U+2793><U+2794>                   <U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+279D><U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1> <U+27A2><U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A9><U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF>                                 <U+27B2>                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                <U+27B8>                                                                <U+27BA>
                                                     <U+27B5>
                                                       <U+27BB><U+27BC>                 <U+27BD><U+27BE><U+279A><U+27AA> <U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798><U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC> <U+27AE> <U+27B1><U+2703><U+2750><U+2752> <U+276E><U+2770> <U+2703>                             
                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                
                                                                        <U+2768><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>                                 <U+260E>
                                                                                   <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>                                     <U+2712><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2730><U+2734><U+2735><U+2727><U+2736> <U+272F> <U+2737> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+273A>                                                                                              <U+274F> <U+2751> <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC>
                                                                                                                        <U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771>
                                                               <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+277B>
              <U+273B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743>              <U+2745>      <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749> <U+274A><U+274B> <U+25CF>           <U+2772>       <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763>                      <U+2764><U+2710>       <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>qr st<U+2709>                           <U+277C><U+277D>         <U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783><U+2784><U+2785> <U+2786><U+2787><U+2788><U+2789><U+278A><U+278B><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791>
                                                                   <U+2707>                                           <U+2463> <U+2464>      <U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468>
                                                                 <U+2708><U+2469>      <U+2460> <U+2461><U+2462>
                                                                            <U+2776>                                              <U+277A>                                    <U+2792>          <U+2793><U+2794><U+2192>
              <U+2744>                                                                                                <U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>
                                                                 <U+279F> <U+27A0>                                           <U+27A1> <U+27A2>
                                                                 <U+27A4><U+27A5>                                            <U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A9>     <U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF>
         <U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C> <U+279D><U+279E>
                                                                                         <U+27B2><U+27B3> <U+27B5><U+27B8> <U+27B2><U+27BA>

                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>        <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+270D><U+2721><U+270E><U+2719>
                         <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>            <U+271A><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>
                                            |<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+272B><U+272C> <U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F> <U+2730><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733> <U+2734><U+2733><U+272F><U+2735><U+272F><U+2736>
                        <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272A>
              <U+2737><U+2737>
             <U+2738>                                                  <U+2722><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+2772><U+276A><U+276B><U+276C><U+2774><U+2775>
                  <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273A><U+273B><U+2740><U+2741>
        <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2748><U+2749>                                  <U+274A><U+274B><U+273A><U+273B><U+25CF><U+273F><U+273A><U+273B><U+2740><U+2741>      <U+2724><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+276D><U+2772><U+276A><U+2774>
                                                    <U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2>

                                       3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
                      Sadelain, Michel
                      Kloss, Christopher C
              <120>   Compositions and Methods for Immunotherapy
              <130>   3314.040AWO
<removed-apn>
              <150>   US61/709,072
              <151>   2012-10-02
              <160>   11
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   164
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   1
              Met Lys Trp Lys Ala Leu Phe Thr Ala Ala Ile Leu Gln Ala Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Ile Thr Glu Ala Gln Ser Phe Gly Leu Leu Asp Pro Lys Leu Cys
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Leu Leu Asp Gly Ile Leu Phe Ile Tyr Gly Val Ile Leu Thr Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Phe Leu Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gln Gly Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Glu Tyr Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Gly Lys Pro Gln Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn
                          100                 105                 110
                                                   Page 1

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Glu Leu Gln Lys Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Gly Glu Arg Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Ser Thr Ala Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Pro Pro Arg
              <210>   2
              <211>   235
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   2
              Met Ala Leu Pro Val Thr Ala Leu Leu Leu Pro Leu Ala Leu Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ala Ala Arg Pro Ser Gln Phe Arg Val Ser Pro Leu Asp Arg Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Trp Asn Leu Gly Glu Thr Val Glu Leu Lys Cys Gln Val Leu Leu Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Pro Thr Ser Gly Cys Ser Trp Leu Phe Gln Pro Arg Gly Ala Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Ala Ser Pro Thr Phe Leu Leu Tyr Leu Ser Gln Asn Lys Pro Lys Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Glu Gly Leu Asp Thr Gln Arg Phe Ser Gly Lys Arg Leu Gly Asp
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Val Leu Thr Leu Ser Asp Phe Arg Arg Glu Asn Glu Gly Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Phe Cys Ser Ala Leu Ser Asn Ser Ile Met Tyr Phe Ser His Phe
                                                  Page 2

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
                          115             120                 125
              Val Pro Val Phe Leu Pro Ala Lys Pro Thr Thr Thr Pro Ala Pro Arg
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Pro Thr Pro Ala Pro Thr Ile Ala Ser Gln Pro Leu Ser Leu Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Pro Glu Ala Cys Arg Pro Ala Ala Gly Gly Ala Val His Thr Arg Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Asp Phe Ala Cys Asp Ile Tyr Ile Trp Ala Pro Leu Ala Gly Thr
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Gly Val Leu Leu Leu Ser Leu Val Ile Thr Leu Tyr Cys Asn His
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Asn Arg Arg Arg Val Cys Lys Cys Pro Arg Pro Val Val Lys Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Asp Lys Pro Ser Leu Ser Ala Arg Tyr Val
              225                 230                 235
              <210>   3
              <211>   220
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   3
              Met Leu Arg Leu Leu Leu Ala Leu Asn Leu Phe Pro Ser Ile Gln Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Gly Asn Lys Ile Leu Val Lys Gln Ser Pro Met Leu Val Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Asn Ala Val Asn Leu Ser Cys Lys Tyr Ser Tyr Asn Leu Phe Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Arg Glu Phe Arg Ala Ser Leu His Lys Gly Leu Asp Ser Ala Val Glu
                  50                  55                  60
                                                  Page 3

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Val Cys Val Val Tyr Gly Asn Tyr Ser Gln Gln Leu Gln Val Tyr Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Thr Gly Phe Asn Cys Asp Gly Lys Leu Gly Asn Glu Ser Val Thr
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Phe Tyr Leu Gln Asn Leu Tyr Val Asn Gln Thr Asp Ile Tyr Phe Cys
                          100                 105                 110
              Lys Ile Glu Val Met Tyr Pro Pro Pro Tyr Leu Asp Asn Glu Lys Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Gly Thr Ile Ile His Val Lys Gly Lys His Leu Cys Pro Ser Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Phe Pro Gly Pro Ser Lys Pro Phe Trp Val Leu Val Val Val Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Val Leu Ala Cys Tyr Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Val Ala Phe Ile Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Phe Trp Val Arg Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu His Ser Asp Tyr Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Met Thr Pro Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg Lys His Tyr Gln Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Tyr Ala Pro Pro Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              <210>   4
              <211>   255
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   4
              Met Gly Asn Ser Cys Tyr Asn Ile Val Ala Thr Leu Leu Leu Val Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 4

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Asn Phe Glu Arg Thr Arg Ser Leu Gln Asp Pro Cys Ser Asn Cys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Gly Thr Phe Cys Asp Asn Asn Arg Asn Gln Ile Cys Ser Pro Cys
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Pro Pro Asn Ser Phe Ser Ser Ala Gly Gly Gln Arg Thr Cys Asp Ile
                  50                  55                  60
              Cys Arg Gln Cys Lys Gly Val Phe Arg Thr Arg Lys Glu Cys Ser Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ser Asn Ala Glu Cys Asp Cys Thr Pro Gly Phe His Cys Leu Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Gly Cys Ser Met Cys Glu Gln Asp Cys Lys Gln Gly Gln Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Lys Lys Gly Cys Lys Asp Cys Cys Phe Gly Thr Phe Asn Asp Gln
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Arg Gly Ile Cys Arg Pro Trp Thr Asn Cys Ser Leu Asp Gly Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Val Leu Val Asn Gly Thr Lys Glu Arg Asp Val Val Cys Gly Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Pro Ala Asp Leu Ser Pro Gly Ala Ser Ser Val Thr Pro Pro Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Ala Arg Glu Pro Gly His Ser Pro Gln Ile Ile Ser Phe Phe Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Leu Thr Ser Thr Ala Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Phe Phe Leu Thr Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Phe Ser Val Val Lys Arg Gly Arg Lys Lys Leu Leu Tyr Ile Phe
                  210                 215                 220
                                                  Page 5

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Lys Gln Pro Phe Met Arg Pro Val Gln Thr Thr Gln Glu Glu Asp Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Cys Ser Cys Arg Phe Pro Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly Gly Cys Glu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              <210>   5
              <211>   288
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   5
              Met Gly His Thr Arg Arg Gln Gly Thr Ser Pro Ser Lys Cys Pro Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Asn Phe Phe Gln Leu Leu Val Leu Ala Gly Leu Ser His Phe Cys
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Gly Val Ile His Val Thr Lys Glu Val Lys Glu Val Ala Thr Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Cys Gly His Asn Val Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Ala Gln Thr Arg Ile
                  50                  55                  60
              Tyr Trp Gln Lys Glu Lys Lys Met Val Leu Thr Met Met Ser Gly Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Asn Ile Trp Pro Glu Tyr Lys Asn Arg Thr Ile Phe Asp Ile Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Asn Leu Ser Ile Val Ile Leu Ala Leu Arg Pro Ser Asp Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Tyr Glu Cys Val Val Leu Lys Tyr Glu Lys Asp Ala Phe Lys Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu His Leu Ala Glu Val Thr Leu Ser Val Lys Ala Asp Phe Pro Thr
                  130                 135                 140
                                                  Page 6

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Pro Ser Ile Ser Asp Phe Glu Ile Pro Thr Ser Asn Ile Arg Arg Ile
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Cys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Phe Pro Glu Pro His Leu Ser Trp Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Glu Asn Gly Glu Glu Leu Asn Ala Ile Asn Thr Thr Val Ser Gln Asp
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Glu Thr Glu Leu Tyr Ala Val Ser Ser Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn Met
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Thr Asn His Ser Phe Met Cys Leu Ile Lys Tyr Gly His Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Asn Gln Thr Phe Asn Trp Asn Thr Thr Lys Gln Glu His Phe Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asp Asn Leu Leu Pro Ser Trp Ala Ile Thr Leu Ile Ser Val Asn Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Phe Val Ile Cys Cys Leu Thr Tyr Cys Phe Ala Pro Arg Cys Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Arg Arg Arg Asn Glu Arg Leu Arg Arg Glu Ser Val Arg Pro Val
                      275                 280                 285
              <210>   6
              <211>   182
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   6
              Met Glu Arg Val Gln Pro Leu Glu Glu Asn Val Gly Asn Ala Ala Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Arg Phe Glu Arg Asn Lys Leu Leu Leu Val Ala Ser Val Ile Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Leu Gly Leu Leu Leu Cys Phe Thr Tyr Ile Cys Leu His Phe Ser
                                                  Page 7

                                        3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
                          35                40                  45
              Ala Leu Gln Val Ser His Arg Tyr Pro Arg Ile Gln Ser Ile Lys Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Phe Thr Glu Tyr Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Phe Ile Leu Thr Ser Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Lys Glu Asp Glu Ile Met Lys Val Gln Asn Asn Ser Val Ile Ile Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Asp Gly Phe Tyr Leu Ile Ser Leu Lys Gly Tyr Phe Ser Gln Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Asn Ile Ser Leu His Tyr Gln Asp Glu Glu Pro Leu Phe Gln Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Lys Val Arg Ser Val Asn Ser Leu Met Val Ala Ser Leu Thr Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asp Lys Val Tyr Leu Asn Tyr Thr Thr Asp Asn Thr Ser Leu Asp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Phe His Val Asn Gly Gly Glu Leu Ile Leu Ile His Gln Asn Pro
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Glu Phe Cys Val Leu
                          180
              <210>   7
              <211>   451
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   7
              Met Ala Leu Pro Val Thr Ala Leu Leu Leu Pro Leu Ala Leu Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ala Glu Val Lys Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Leu Val Arg Pro
                          20                  25                  30
                                                    Page 8

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Gly Ser Ser Val Lys Ile Ser Cys Lys Ala Ser Gly Tyr Ala Phe Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Tyr Trp Met Asn Trp Val Lys Gln Arg Pro Gly Gln Gly Leu Glu
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Trp Ile Gly Gln Ile Tyr Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Thr Asn Tyr Asn Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Phe Lys Gly Gln Ala Thr Leu Thr Ala Asp Lys Ser Ser Ser Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Tyr Met Gln Leu Ser Gly Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Cys Ala Arg Lys Thr Ile Ser Ser Val Val Asp Phe Tyr Phe Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Glu Leu Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gln Ser Pro Lys Phe Met Ser Thr Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Ser Val
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln Asn Val Gly Thr Asn Val Ala Trp Tyr Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Pro Leu Ile Tyr Ser Ala Thr Tyr
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Asn Ser Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Thr Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Thr Asn Val Gln Ser Lys Asp Leu Ala Asp
              225                 230                 235                 240
                                                  Page 9

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Tyr Phe Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asn Arg Tyr Pro Tyr Thr Ser Gly Gly Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg Ala Ala Ala Pro Thr Thr Thr Pro Ala
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Pro Arg Pro Pro Thr Pro Ala Pro Thr Ile Ala Ser Gln Pro Leu Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Arg Pro Glu Ala Cys Arg Pro Ala Ala Gly Gly Ala Val His Thr
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Gly Leu Asp Phe Ala Cys Asp Ile Tyr Ile Trp Ala Pro Leu Ala
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Thr Cys Gly Val Leu Leu Leu Ser Leu Val Ile Thr Leu Tyr Cys
                              325                 330                 335
              Asn Phe Ile Arg Val Lys Glu Ser Arg Ser Ala Glu Pro Pro Ala Tyr
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Gln Gly Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Glu Glu Tyr Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Gly Lys Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Gln Lys Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Gly Glu Arg Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ser Thr Ala Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu
                      435                 440                 445
                                                  Page 10

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Pro Pro Arg
                  450
              <210>   8
              <211>   478
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   8
              Met Ala Leu Pro Val Thr Ala Leu Leu Leu Pro Leu Ala Leu Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ala Glu Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Glu Leu Val Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Thr Ser Val Arg Ile Ser Cys Lys Thr Ser Gly Tyr Thr Phe Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Tyr Thr Ile His Trp Val Lys Gln Ser His Gly Lys Ser Leu Glu
                  50                  55                  60
              Trp Ile Gly Asn Ile Asn Pro Asn Asn Gly Gly Thr Thr Tyr Asn Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Phe Glu Asp Lys Ala Thr Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Ser Ser Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Tyr Met Glu Leu Arg Ser Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Trp Asn Phe Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Val Met Thr Gln Ser His Lys Phe Met Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                  Page 11

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Thr Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Ser Ile Ile Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Gly Thr Ala Val Asp Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Trp Ala Ser Thr Arg His Thr Gly Val Pro Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Phe Thr Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Asn Val Gln Ser Glu Asp Leu Ala Asp Tyr Phe Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Tyr Pro Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Thr Met Leu Asp Leu Lys Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Ala Ile Glu Val Met Tyr Pro Pro Pro Tyr Leu Asp Asn Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ser Asn Gly Thr Ile Ile His Val Lys Gly Lys His Leu Cys Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Pro Leu Phe Pro Gly Pro Ser Lys Pro Phe Trp Val Leu Val Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Gly Gly Val Leu Ala Cys Tyr Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Val Ala Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ile Ile Phe Trp Val Arg Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu His Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Met Asn Met Thr Pro Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg Lys His Tyr
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Pro Tyr Ala Pro Pro Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg Ser Arg Val
                      355                 360                 365
                                                  Page 12

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr Gln Gln Gly Gln Asn
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Tyr Asp Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
<removed-apn>
              Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met Gly Gly Lys Pro Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Gln Lys Asp Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys Gly Glu Arg Arg Arg
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala Thr Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Arg
              465                 470                 475
              <210>   9
              <211>   245
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   9
              Glu Val Lys Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Leu Val Arg Pro Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val Lys Ile Ser Cys Lys Ala Ser Gly Tyr Ala Glu Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Trp Met Asn Trp Val Lys Gln Arg Pro Gly Gln Gly Leu Glu Trp Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Gln Ile Tyr Pro Gly Asp Gly Asp Thr Asn Tyr Asn Gly Lys Phe
                  50                  55                  60
                                                  Page 13

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Lys Gly Gln Ala Thr Leu Thr Ala Asp Lys Ser Ser Ser Thr Ala Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Gln Leu Ser Gly Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr Phe Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Lys Thr Ile Ser Ser Val Val Asp Phe Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Trp
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Glu Leu Thr Gln Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Lys Phe Met Ser Thr Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Ser Val Thr Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Lys Ala Ser Gln Asn Val Gly Thr Asn Val Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Pro Leu Ile Tyr Ser Ala Thr Tyr Arg Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Glu Thr Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Leu Thr Ile Thr Asn Val Gln Ser Lys Asp Leu Ala Asp Tyr Phe
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asn Arg Tyr Pro Tyr Thr Ser Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg
                              245
              <210>   10
              <211>   257
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
                                                  Page 14

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              <400>   10
              Met Met Ala Leu Pro Val Thr Ala Leu Leu Leu Pro Leu Ala Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu His Ala Glu Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Glu Leu Val Lys
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Pro Gly Thr Ser Val Arg Ile Ser Cys Lys Thr Ser Gly Tyr Thr Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Glu Tyr Thr Ile His Trp Val Lys Gln Ser His Gly Lys Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Trp Ile Gly Asn Ile Asn Pro Asn Asn Gly Gly Thr Thr Tyr Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Lys Phe Glu Asp Lys Ala Thr Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Ser Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Ala Tyr Met Glu Leu Arg Ser Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ala Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Trp Asn Phe Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Val Met Thr Gln Ser His Lys Phe Met
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Thr Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Ser Ile Ile Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Val Gly Thr Ala Val Asp Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Trp Ala Ser Thr Arg His Thr Gly Val Pro
                                                  Page 15

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
                       195                200                 205
              Asp Arg Phe Thr Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Asn Val Gln Ser Glu Asp Leu Ala Asp Tyr Phe Cys Gln Gln Tyr
              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-apn>
              Asn Ser Tyr Pro Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Thr Met Leu Asp Leu Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg
              <210>   11
              <211>   412
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   11
              Met Ala Leu Pro Val Thr Ala Leu Leu Leu Pro Leu Ala Leu Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ala Glu Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Glu Leu Val Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Thr Ser Val Arg Ile Ser Cys Lys Thr Ser Gly Tyr Thr Phe Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Tyr Thr Ile His Trp Val Lys Gln Ser His Gly Lys Ser Leu Glu
                  50                  55                  60
              Trp Ile Gly Asn Ile Asn Pro Asn Asn Gly Gly Thr Thr Tyr Asn Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Phe Glu Asp Lys Ala Thr Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Ser Ser Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Tyr Met Glu Leu Arg Ser Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 16

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Trp Asn Phe Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Val Met Thr Gln Ser His Lys Phe Met Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Ser Ile Ile Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Gly Thr Ala Val Asp Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Trp Ala Ser Thr Arg His Thr Gly Val Pro Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Phe Thr Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Asn Val Gln Ser Glu Asp Leu Ala Asp Tyr Phe Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Tyr Pro Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Thr Met Leu Asp Leu Lys Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Ala Ala Ile Glu Val Met Tyr Pro Pro Pro Tyr Leu Asp Asn Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ser Asn Gly Thr Ile Ile His Val Lys Gly Lys His Leu Cys Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Pro Leu Phe Pro Gly Pro Ser Lys Pro Phe Trp Val Leu Val Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Gly Gly Val Leu Ala Cys Tyr Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Val Ala Phe
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                  Page 17

                                      3314040AWO_SequenceListing_ST25
<removed-date>
              Ile Ile Phe Trp Val Arg Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu His Ser Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Met Asn Met Thr Pro Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg Lys His Tyr
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              Gln Pro Tyr Ala Pro Pro Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg Ser Arg Phe
                      355                 360                 365
              Ser Val Val Lys Arg Gly Arg Lys Lys Leu Leu Tyr Ile Phe Lys Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Phe Met Arg Pro Val Gln Thr Thr Gln Glu Glu Asp Gly Cys Ser
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Cys Arg Phe Pro Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly Gly Cys Glu
                              405                 410
                                                  Page 18

