                                                49
                                          ABSTRACT
           The invention relates to the sphere of information technologies, in particular, to
 5 electronic systems and monetary-fund circulation methods and can be used for solving
   problems of mutual settlements between participants of the electronic payment system in
   real-time mode. In doing so, the analogue of monetary funds in the invention presented are
   electronic bank bearer checks complying with bank regulations and the requirements of
   applicable legislation. The client application units are rendered as grouped into modules
10 by categories corresponding to the user status determined by the unit of authorization of
   the client and server applications, with provision of the possibility of pre-setting a group
   of check circulation parameters for each category. The issue of checks is accompanied by
   the creation of legally-valid documents and reflection of transactions in the check register.

                ELECTRONIC CHECK-BASED PAYMENT SYSTEM AND
           METHODS FOR ISSUING, TRANSFERRING, PAYING AND
                           VERIFYING ELECTRONIC CHECKS
 5         Field of the Invention
           The invention relates to the sphere of information technologies, in particular, to
   electronic systems and monetary fund circulation methods and can be used for solving
   problems of mutual settlements between participants of the electronic payment system in
   real-time mode. In doing so, the analogue of monetary funds in the invention in question
10 are electronic bank bearer checks complying with bank regulations and the requirements
   of applicable legislation.
           Background of the Invention
           Electronic payment systems that use electronic checks for solving mutual
   settlement problems are well-known. In particular, the CyberCheck system, which uses
15 electronic checks as a means of payment for goods and services                 has become
   commonplace. In this system, a check is only used for the execution of payment
   operations and is only generated after its signing by the users, which does not ensure the
   full scope of monetary       fund circulation, considerably narrows settlement system
   capabilities and creates prerequisites for issuing uncovered checks.
20         Also familiar is the NetChex system, which is a conditionally electronic payment
   system. In this system, the customer's order to issue a check is only received in electronic
   form, and the check is to be sent to the supplier of services/goods in paper form, which
   also narrows settlement system capabilities and significantly complicates the check
   circulation process.
25         The use of Paymer digital checks for settlement purposes is also well-known. In
   the implementation of this system, information about checks upon their circulation is
   stored in documented form in hard copy, and the execution of transactions by means of
   checks between system users is possible both in electronic form and in hard copy. At that,
   checks are not referenced to a particular owner, whereby the problem of "joint possession"
30 of a check arises. It is evident that this system does not permit excluding risks in
   implementing electronic mutual settlements and does not ensure the transparency of all
   electronic check processing operations.

                                                  2
           Summary of the Invention
           The goal of this invention is to provide an electronic monetary system supporting
   electronic mutual settlements between its participants in real-time mode with the use of
 5 electronic analogues of bank checks, providing its participants with a high level of
   security and the possibility of obtaining a full, legally-valid documentary database on all
   transactions executed by the participants in the system.
           The technical result to be achieved by the invention involves the creation of a
   multifunctional electronic check circulation system as well as the security enhancement of
10 mutual settlements with the use of electronic checks ensured by both engineering means
   and methods of electronic check record-keeping, verification of the authenticity of
   electronic checks and the authentication of system participants, and by ensuring a full
   cycle of electronic check circulation including methods of the issue and payment of
   electronic checks and the execution of electronic check transfers.
15         For achievement of the aforementioned technical result, an electronic check
   settlement system is used containing at least one server computer device for data-handling
   and storage, including a server application, and at least one client computer device for
   data-handling, including firmware client modules ensuring the possibility of connection of
   the client computer device to the server device over Internet network communication
20 channels and the protection of communication channels by firmware means of server and
   client modules with the use of encryption and electronic digital signature. In doing so, the
   electronic settlement system for electronic checks in question differs from the prototype in
   that the client and server applications contain at least interconnected units of user
   authorization in the system being         interconnected,   a unit for the updating      and
25 synchronization of client and server application data, as well as a parameter-input unit for
   the execution of transfers and storage of information about client-application payments
   related by firmware with units for verification of the parameters of electronic check
   transfers connected to the unit of authorization and verification of user parameters and a
   unit for the registration and execution of server-application electronic check transfers
30 connected by feedback channels to units for electronic check management, check
   depositing, commissions, and the sending of notices to the user in real-time mode
   connected to a unit for the updating and synchronization of client-application data, as well

                                                 3
   as the inclusion of an electronic-signature unit in the composition of the client application,
   which is connected by firmware to the unit for the generation and storage of digital
   documentation of the server application connected to the unit for the registration and
   execution of electronic check transfers; at that, the electronic check management unit of
 5 the server application is connected by firmware over the feedback channels to
   interconnected units for the registration of electronic check transactions connected to the
   electronic check signature unit.
           In doing so, the client application units are grouped into modules by categories
   corresponding to the user status determined by the authorization unit of the client and
10 server applications, with provision of the possibility for pre-setting a group of check
   circulation parameters for each category.
           In particular, the system provides three categories of users - the initial category
   with a minimum set of check circulation parameters (in operating mode, when the transfer
   of electronic checks in the standard user category as well as those of the bank are
15 performed via a dealer (broker) - the initial category is used exclusively for registration
   and the sending of an application for changing status (user category)); the standard
   category - requiring the presentation of additional data on the participant and enabling the
   participant to present checks for payment to the bank and select a paying bank for its
   checks; and the extended category - having the widest set of functional capabilities,
20 intended for the operation of the Issuer, Partner-Banks and Dealers (Brokers) of the
   system, with provision of the possibility of generating an additional set of check
   circulation parameters for each category. In doing so, in order to take part in the system as
   a legal entity, the customer shall be assigned to the standard or extended category, which
   can only be obtained in the course of completing the corresponding status change
25 procedure, which guarantees the execution of all of the organization's necessary checks.
           The technical result is also achieved by the fact that methods are proposed for the
   payment, issue, transfer and verification of electronic checks with the use of the
   aforementioned payment system.
           In doing so, the method for implementing electronic check transfers, including the
30 stage of user-data input and its authorization in the system as well as the input of transfer
   data differs in that it allows check transfer in real-time mode in accordance with the
   limitations presented in the electronic check record-keeping method and includes the

                                                   4
   following stages: authorization in the System; receipt of account data; input of electronic
   check transfer parameters; verification of electronic check parameters; registration of
   requests for the implementation of electronic check transfer; transactions involving the
   sender's check exchange into several checks (transfer check, commission check, new
 5 balance check), including the presentation of checks for payment, the payment and issue
   of new checks; the placement of electronic check commissions in the Operator's account
   or in system operation mode when transferring electronic checks of the standard user
   category as well as those of the bank via a dealer (broker) - to the Dealer's (Broker's)
   account; placing the electronic check in the Payee's account; transactions involving the
10 payee's exchange of checks into a single check (in cases where the payee has a balance in
   its account), including the presentation of checks for payment; finalization of transfer to
   be accompanied by the creation and signature of electronic documents, and participant
   notification of transfer execution. This method for implementing electronic check transfers
   is accompanied by the creation of all of the necessary legally-valid documents, with all
15 completed actions reflected in the check register.
           The method for the issue of electronic checks provided by the invention only
   allows for the issuance of electronic checks following the completion of mandatory stages
   by several user categories. The method of issue includes mandatory stages of the
   generation of a check-issue request by the issuer, as well as the bank's verification of
20 money depositing in the issuer's settlement account (security for the issued check),
   conformity with request parameters and the bank's confirmation of electronic check
   issuance. Independent issue by a single participant is not possible. Issuance is
   accompanied by the creation of legally-valid documents and the reflection of transactions
   in the check register.
25         The method of electronic check payment also includes several stages and requires
   the obligatory participation of several user categories. The method includes the stages of
   the customer's sending an application to the bank for payment of the check; the bank's
   verification of the details specified in the application and the possibility of check payment;
   the bank's transfer of the invoice to the customer for placing the check; transfer of the
30 check to be presented for payment to the bank by the customer, by means of payment of
   the issued invoice; the bank's sending of a request to the issuer for verification of the
   check; the issuer's verification of the check presented for payment; the issuer's

                                                   5
   confirmation of the request by sending a verification notice; and the implementation of
   check payment.
           Brief Description of the Drawing
           Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the System, which uses methods relating to the
 5 invention.
           Fig. 2 Main units comprising the client application.
           Fig. 3 Main units comprising the server application.
           Fig. 4 Diagram of main client application DB sections.
           Fig. 5 Diagram of main server application DB sections.
10         Fig. 6 Diagram of unit interaction in implementing electronic check transfers.
           Fig. 7 Flow chart of the operating algorithm of the client K5 unit for parameter
   input and the implementation of transfers.
           Fig. 8 Flow chart of the procedure for the execution of operations of the server S5
   unit for registration and the implementation of electronic check transfers.
15         Fig. 9 Flow chart of the procedure for the exchange (combination) of electronic
   checks of the server S7 unit for electronic check management.
           Fig. 10 Diagram of unit interaction in implementing the electronic check issue
   procedure.
           Fig. 11 Diagram of unit interaction in implementing the electronic check payment
20 procedure.
           Fig. 12 Diagram of unit interaction in implementing the electronic check
   verification procedure.
           The following designations are used in the aforementioned illustrative diagrams:
           KI - client unit for registration in the system (KB R)
25         K2 - client unit for authorization in the system (KB A)
           K3 - client unit for data update, synchronisation of the client and server
           application DBs (KB ODS)
           K4 - client unit for interaction with the server (KB VS)
           K5 - client unit for parameter input, implementation of transfers (KB VDVP)
30         K6 - client unit for data input, sending of invoices for placing checks in an account
           (KB VDOS)

                                            6
   K7 - client unit for data input, sending of applications for the purchase, sale of
   electronic checks (KB OZPPECh)
   K8 - client unit for data input, sending of applications for the payment of
   electronic checks (KB OZOECh)
 5 K9 - client unit for the processing of received electronic check transfers (KB
   OPPECh)
   K1O - client unit for the processing of invoices received for placing checks in an
   account (KB OPSZCh)
   K 11 - client unit for the electronic signature of digital documentation (KB TsP)
10 K 11 (Issuer) - client unit for data input, sending of requests for the issue of
   electronic checks (KBE OZVECh)
   K12 (Issuer) - client unit for the processing of requests received for the
   verification of electronic checks (KBE OPZVFECh)
   K13 (Bank) - client unit for the processing of requests received for the issue of
15 electronic checks (KBB OPZVECh)
   K14 (Bank) - client unit for the processing of applications received for the
   payment of electronic checks (KBB OPZOECh)
   K15 (Bank) - client unit for data input, sending of requests for the verification of
   electronic checks (KBB VDOZVFECh)
20 K16 (Issuer) - client unit for the processing of applications received for the
   purchase of electronic checks (KBE OPZPECh)
   K16 (Dealer) - client unit for the processing of applications received for the
   purchase of electronic checks (KBE OPZPECh)
   K17 (Dealer) - client unit for the processing of applications received for the sale of
25 electronic checks (KBD OPZPrECh)
   SI - server unit for the registration, management of user accounts (SB RUUZP)
   S2 - server unit for the authorization and verification of user parameters (SB
   APPP)
   S3 - server unit for data update, synchronization of the client and server
30 application DBs (SB ODS)
   S4 - server unit for the verification of electronic check transfer parameters (SB
   PPPECh)

                                                   7
           S5 - server unit for the registration and implementation of electronic check
           transfers (SB RVPECh)
           S5 - server unit for user account management (SB UUSP)
           S6 - server unit for the registration of applications, requests, invoices for placing
 5         checks in an account (SB RZZSZECh)
           S7 - server unit for electronic check management (SB UECh)
           S8 - server unit for the registration of electronic check transactions in the register
           (SB ROEChR)
           S9 - server unit for the generation of digital documentation (SB GTsD)
10         S10 - server unit for the sending of online notices (SB OOU)
           S1I - server unit for the issue of electronic checks (SB VECh)
           S12 - server unit for the signature of electronic checks (SB PECh)
           S13 - server unit for the processing and execution of applications, requests (SB
           OIZZ)
15         S14 - server unit for the write-off of electronic checks (SB SECh)
           Detailed Description of the Embodiments
           This invention is aimed at providing an electronic check settlement system (a
   "System") between organizations and/or individuals in real-time mode. Technically,
   implementation of this System can involve at least one server computer device for data
20 processing and storage, the server application comprising it and client computer devices
   for data processing with the client applications comprising them, which provide for
   interaction between the client computer devices and the server computer device. The
   interaction of client computer devices with the server is carried out using the Internet
   network over protected communication channels. The protection of communication
25 channels is provided by means of server and client applications with the use of encryption
   and electronic digital signature algorithms.
           The methods provided herein are expressed in the corresponding operating
   algorithms of the server and client computer devices. The conformity of the operation of
   the devices to the given algorithms is ensured by execution of the sequence of program
30 instructions provided in the server and client applications. The architecture of the server
   device or set of devices shall be based on the use of one or several computers combined by
   a local area network and shall at least include the following modules: a database

                                                   8
   management system (DBMS), a web server (module providing for interaction with client
   applications via the Internet), an application server (module implementing main
   application logic and ensuring interaction with the DBMS), and a module of online
   messages (providing instant information to users about events within the System).
 5          Client device architecture can be based on the following possible solutions of the
   client application: a separate client application with its own user interface (to be described
   hereinafter); a client application in the form of a module built into a standard tool for
   viewing Internet network resources (a web browser) with its own user interface to be
   reflected in the web browser (with the same units and interaction patterns as described
10 hereinafter); in thin-client form based on the web browser, with the transfer of units for
   data processing and user interface generation to the server. In thin-client mode, only data
   input in the web browser user interface, electronic signature of digital documentation, data
   encryption, data transfer to the server, data reception from the server, decryption, and
   output to the web browser user interface are processed on the client device. In doing so, in
15 case of implementation of the client application in the form of a built-in module or thin
   client, the client device and the entire System as a whole have equal functional capabilities
   with the System in case of using a client device based on a separate client application with
   its own interface.
            The System described above does not restrict any possible implementations of this
20 invention.
            The structure of the client and server application in the form of functional units is
   given in Fig. 2 and 3. In the System implementation under consideration, the client
   application has several operating modes, which are determined by the status of the user
   that has authorized in the System. Additional units are allocated in the form the Issuer,
25 Bank, Dealer (Broker). The remaining units can be accessible in any operating modes
   (possible restrictions     are   determined    by   the   peculiarities   of specific    System
   implementation). Implementations are possible in which there is more than one client
   application, in each of which the corresponding set of units is accessible.
            Participant categories
30          It is assumed that there are three main statuses of Participants in the System.
   In doing so, the Participants shall be users (legal entities or individuals), with information
   about them presented in electronic form in the System database carrying out interaction

                                                  9
   with the System using client computer devices. The status causes a set of rights to be
   granted to the Participant whereby it obtains the possibility of execution of certain
   algorithms in the System and acquires access to a certain volume of information available
   in the System.
 5         The initial status is the Participant level, which is limited as to the set of
   possibilities within the System, and does not require the provision of documents for
   confirmation of the information entered by the user upon registration. At the initial level,
   registration is only possible as an individual. A legal entity can only be registered in the
   System in case of transfer from initial level to standard level. In doing so, in system
10 operating mode, when the transfer of the electronic checks of users with standard status as
   well as those of the bank is performed via a dealer (broker), the initial category is used
   solely for the registration and sending of a status request for change of status (user
   category).
           Standard status is the level designed for authorized Participants of the system,
15 whether individuals or legal entities. In order to obtain this status, the Participant is
   obliged to provide additional information about itself and a number of documents for its
   confirmation. This status enables the Participant to present checks to the Bank for
   payment and select the paying bank for its checks.
           Extended status is the level designed for the operation of the Issuer, Partner-Banks
20 and Dealers (Brokers) of the System.
           In order to ensure operability of the methods presented in the invention, the
   following Participants shall be obligatorily registered in the System:
        * Issuer - the organization on whose behalf the issue of electronic checks is
           performed;
25      0 Operator - the owner of rights to the System ensuring its functioning;
        e at least one Bank - a partner-bank, in which the monetary funds serving as the
            security for issued checks are placed in the Issuer's settlement account;
        * at least one Dealer (Broker) - a legal entity that executes electronic check
           purchase-and-sale transactions with the Participants on a permanent basis as well
30          as the purchase of checks from the Issuer.
           The Participants registered as the Bank, Dealer (Broker) can also act as customers
   and use standard system functionality.

                                                    10
            An approximate diagram of a similar System is given in Fig. 1.
            In order to acquire the corresponding status and obtain the possibility of working in
   the System, the Participant shall complete registration, which, depending upon the status
   requested, consists of a different number of stages. The first stage of registration in the
 5 System is performed by means of client application and includes the input of the
   participant's personal data, setup of safety parameters, familiarization with the offer
   agreement, and generation of electronic keys for EHS (equivalent handwritten signature).
   As a result of the first stage of registration, the Participant is assigned a unique registration
   number - a public key designed for EHS verification is registered with its name in the
10 System server, and the Participant's data are recorded in the System database.
            As a result of the first stage of registration, the user is assigned Initial status. In
   order to obtain Standard or Extended status, the Participant shall, via the System, generate
   an electronic application, in which it shall specify the category (individual/legal person)
   and enter all of the information requested. For confirmation of the entered information, the
15 Participant shall provide duly-certified copies of documents. Only after successful
   completion of the document verification stage and, if necessary, entering into additional
   agreements (for the Bank, Dealer (Broker), Issuer), the Participant will be issued the
   requested status and provided with the corresponding set of rights within the System.
            Participants with any status in the System can open an unlimited number of
20 accounts expressed in the currency types supported by the System. Participants with a
   status greater than initial have the possibility of selecting the bank to serve as the paying
   bank for the check, whose nominal value is equal to the account balance. Upon the
   opening of an account, it will be assigned a unique number in the System, according to
   which the identification of the Participant can be performed unambiguously.
25          Electronic checks
            The equivalent of monetary funds in the System is electronic checks. An electronic
   check is a bearer check in non-documentary form and contains the following obligatory
   details:
       *    check number - unique identifier of the check;
30     e    description of the "check" included in the document text and expressed in the
            language of the country in which the document has been drawn up;
            requirement to pay a certain amount (nominal value of the check);

                                                 11
       e   name of the paying bank;
       *   indication of the account from which payment shall be executed;
       e   indication of payment currency;
       *   indication of the date and place of check execution;
 5     e   Issuer's (check drawer's) signature.
           A non-documentary form of checks shall be considered lawful and checks drawn
   up in such form deemed a valid payment instrument in accordance with the Bank of
   Russia Regulation "On Cashless Settlements in the Russian Federation," which predicates
   the peculiarities of the electronic check processing methods described below.
10         The electronic check is presented in the form of a DB record. Electronic check
   signature is presented in the form of EHS (equivalent handwritten signature) obtained as a
   result of the cryptographic conversion of check details using the Issuer's closed key and
   ensures electronic check protection against forgery while allowing identification of the
   check drawer and determination of the absence of information distortion in electronic
15 checks.
           The record-keeping of electronic checks is performed in Participants' accounts.
   Upon completion of check exchange operations, only one check, whose nominal value is
   the balance in the account, can be referenced to one standard customer's account in the
   System. For the purposes of the record-keeping of checks presented to the bank for
20 payment, specialized accounts are used, in which several electronic checks can be placed
   simultaneously.
           Electronic checks are characterized by the following states:
               *   The check is in circulation - a valid check is at the disposal of one of the
                   system Participants;
25             *   The check has been submitted for payment (to the paying bank);
               *   The check has been submitted for payment via collection;
               *   The check has been paid.
           A change in the state of the electronic check or change in the check owner can
   occur as a result of certain operations such as check issue, check transfer, check
30 submission for payment, check submission for payment via collection, check payment, or
   collection of payment. All electronic check transactions shall be recorded in the check

                                                  12
   register and accompanied by the generation of legally-valid documents certified with the
   EHS of the corresponding parties.
            Electronic checks have a limited period of validity, upon whose expiry they are
   automatically exchanged for equivalent checks with a new number and date of issue.
 5          Method for the implementation of electronic check transfers
            The method for the implementation of electronic check transfers presented here
   consists of a certain sequence of main stages of the process, whether obligatory or non
   obligatory for execution. The obligatoriness of stages is determined by the fulfilment of
   certain conditions disclosed in the algorithms described below. The peculiarities of the
10 implementation      of the   algorithms   such as programming          language,   architectural
   particularities of the software implementing the method are not limited by the given
   invention.
            The method assumes that the Participant's computer device is configured so that it
   allows    for the    execution  of programmed       instructions   of the client    application
15 implementing the method and interaction with the server computer device via the Internet.
            The beginning of implementation of the transfer process is the user's start-up of the
   client application, during which the K2 client unit for authorization in the System is
   initialized. In the course of execution of this unit, verification of the Participant's account
   and its investment with the rights corresponding to the respective status shall be carried
20 out. For the execution of these operations, the K2 client unit through the K4 unit for
   interaction with the server connects with the S2 server unit for authorization and
   verification of user parameters. In doing so, in the K4 unit, when a command and the
   necessary data are received, the following will be performed: generation of a request in the
   required format, encryption, signature of request, establishment of connection with the
25 server, transfer of the request (via the Internet over a protected communication channel)
   and processing of the reply. It is assumed that the interaction of all client units with server
   units is carried out through the K4 unit and shall not be mentioned further.
            The implementation of the client and server authorization unit is not the subject of
   this invention and can include various combinations of well-known methods for the
30 authentication and authorization of users.
            Obligatory for these units is the verification of the Participant's account,
   accessibility and correctness of the storage of electronic keys, which further will be used

                                                 13
   for creating an equivalent handwritten signature (EHS) of requests and electronic
   documents as well as obtaining information about the status and corresponding rights of
   the Participant. On the basis of the Participant's status, the possibility is blocked for the
   Participant to carry out actions which are not provided for by its status; at that, blocking
 5 occurs both at the level of client application (absence of the corresponding user interface,
   execution of the algorithms of checks in the client application) and at the level of sever
   application (the server units comprising this application apply to the S2 unit in case of the
   processing of each request received in order to verify user status and other parameters).
           The successful execution of the authorization unit guarantees that the Participant is
10 not removed or blocked, its closed electronic key corresponds to the public key registered
   in the System.
           The successful execution of the authorization unit is an obligatory condition for
   transfer to the next K3 unit for updating, synchronisation of client and server application
   data. The client K3 unit communicates with the server S3 unit for data update,
15 synchronization of client and server applications. In the course of the execution of K3, S3
   units, information is received about the current state of Participant's accounts, transfers
   received, and invoices for check placement in an account. Depending upon the
   Participant's status, the corresponding types of applications, requests are received and
   their states are updated. The execution of these units shall guarantee the Participant's
20 access to information on all transfers, invoices for placing checks in an account,
   applications, requests and other information, both sent and received by the Participant (for
   example, by means of synchronization of the client application database with the server
   application database). The methods of implementation of these units are well-known and
   are not the subject of this invention. As an example of System implementation, a version
25 is considered whereby the information received from the server is stored in the local
   database, whose diagram is shown in Fig. 4.
           After the successful completion of operation of the K3 unit, the application will
   display the information received in the user interface, including information about all
   customer's accounts: number, name of the account, active balance in the account, number
30 of the electronic check referenced to the account, details of the bank associated with the
   account, etc. The volume of information to be received and displayed shall be determined
   by the System implementation version.

                                                    14
           The successful execution of the S3 server unit and K3 client unit for updating,
   synchronization of client and server application data is an obligatory condition for transfer
   to the K5 unit for parameter input and the execution of transfers.
           For initialization of this unit, the Participant shall select the corresponding section
 5 in the user interface of the client application.
           The K5 unit enables the user to enter the required initial data for transferring the
   electronic check. This unit can provide various possibilities for entering transfer
   parameters: direct input of parameters (input of the payee's account, check amount
   receivable or check amount to be written off, purpose of payment), selection of the
10 variants of parameters from the lists of possible values (selection from the list of the
   sender's private accounts, selection of the recipient's            account number from the
   corresponding reference book), generation of transfer on the basis of the invoice received
   for placing the checks in an account or an application of a certain type (for example,
   application for the purchase of electronic checks). The latter variant is based on the use of
15 information received      in the course of execution of the K3 unit for updating,
   synchronization of client and server application data and stored in the application by the
   method corresponding to the specific implementation of the System (in the random-access
   memory or read-only memory of the computer device). The method of input of transfer
   parameters can include automatic validation to be performed in the course of parameter
20 input, whereby the user will immediately be notified of any errors. The method can
   include automatic calculation of the amount of commission to be collected for the transfer
   in the course of reception of transfer amount data by the application. The calculation of
   commission can be carried out by the module on the basis of the local data of the
   application (to be stored in the random-access memory or DB, downloaded, for example,
25 at the stage of reception of account data) or on the basis of the commission rate, to be
   downloaded from the server by means of a separate request. This possibility can be used
   for implementation of more complicated commission setup variants such as dependence of
   the commission rate upon the Participant's status in the group (in this case, in order to
   determine the commission, both data on the sender and data on the recipient of the transfer
30 will be required), possibility of setup of the individual commission of the Participant, etc.
   After calculation of the commission, the module will notify the user about the sum of

                                                  15
   commission to be collected for the transfer and the sum to be written off (or sum
   receivable, depending upon the parameter filled in).
           An example of the operating algorithm of the K5 unit for parameter input,
   execution of transfers is given in Fig. 7.
 5         Implementations are possible whereby, in the course of input of transfer
   parameters, information about the transfer recipient is downloaded on the basis of the
   recipient's account number and displayed to the participant in order to minimize the risk
   of input of incorrect data.
           The method can include a stage for the preliminary verification of transfer
10 parameters, in the course of which the K5 unit will generate an electronic request for data
   verification and transmit it to the S4 server unit for verification of electronic check transfer
   parameters. The request includes the sender's account and transfer recipient's account
   numbers, value, currency of the transfer. In the course of checks, the S4 unit will
   determine whether the execution of transfer with the parameters specified is accessible.
15 Execution of the S2 server unit is triggered, in the course of which the necessary
   verifications of both the sender (including a check of the request EHS) and the transfer
   recipient (including verification of the accessibility of the recipient's account) are
   performed. The retrieval of data from the DB about the electronic check available in the
   transfer sender's account, comparison of the nominal value of the check with the amount
20 to be written off (implementations are possible, whereby the blocking of a separate
   amount in the account, followed by a comparison of the amount to be written off against
   the sum of accessible active balance occurs) and other checks provided by the peculiarities
   of the specific implementation of the System are performed. The checks shall be
   performed by collation with the information stored in the System database, checks of the
25 account settings in the DB, execution of the algorithms of verification of the electronic
   digital signature.
           The K5 client unit for parameter input and the execution of transfers receives
   information from the S4 unit about the results of check and displays to the user either a
   message on the resulting error, or a window with information on the transfer, which the
30 customer shall repeatedly confirm. At this stage, the module can display any data on the
   transfer (amounts, payee's name, INN, etc.), corresponding implementations of the
   method.

                                                  16
           Having received confirmation of the transaction from the participant, the K5 unit
   will generate an electronic request to execute the transfer containing the number of the
   account for write-off, the number of the invoice for placing checks in an account, amount,
   currency of transfer, purpose of payment, and will transfer it to the S5 server unit for the
 5 registration and execution of electronic check transfers.
           Having received a request for execution of the transfer, the S5 unit will execute the
   transfer registration procedure. In the course of this procedure, in order to check the
   request received, transfer to the S4 unit is performed for verifying electronic check
   transfer parameters (all the data received are transferred), and after its successful
10 execution, the information on the transfer will be recorded in the System database, the
   amount of commission will be calculated and recorded. In cases where the S4 unit returns
   an error, the transfer will not be registered, and the erroneous result of transfer execution
   will be returned to the K5 client unit (for example, state of the transaction, error code).
           At the stage of the sending and registration of the transfer execution request, the
15 unit for the generation and storage of digital documentation can be executed (S9). The
   method implies the inclusion of this unit either in the server application or in the client
   application. As a result of operation of this unit (in the given case, procedures for the
   generation of an application for execution of the transfer), a separate electronic document
   will be generated (for example, in pdf format), which contains all details of the application
20 for electronic check transfer, and the Participant's EHS will be confirmed through the
   client unit of electronic signature of digital documentation (K17). The method implies
   various variants for storing this document, for example, the document can be transmitted
   to the server, saved along with EHS and other information in the application database and
   then become accessible to all stakeholders through specialized services of the server
25 application.
           In cases where the document has been generated on the server, the unit for the
   electronic signature of digital documentation (K17) shall implement the procedure for
   downloading electronic documents from the server.
           After the successful recording of the transfer in the server DB, the S5 unit will
30 execute the transaction implementation procedure. An example of implementation of this
   procedure is given in Fig. 8. The input parameters for this procedure are all of the data
   received about the transfer being executed.

                                                  17
           The S5 unit for the registration and execution of electronic check transfers receives
   data from the System database about the electronic check in the transfer sender's account
   and amount of commission ("Information about user accounts," "Information about
   electronic checks," "Information about electronic check transfers" sections).
 5         If the nominal amount of the balance check on the sender's account coincides with
   the amount of transfer and, at that, the commission for transfer is not collected, the
   electronic check will be transferred from the sender's account directly to the recipient
   account.
           For transferring a check, the S5 unit initiates execution of the S7 server unit for
10 electronic check management. In doing so, the procedure for electronic check transfer is
   triggered, to whose input the following data are transmitted: number of the electronic
   check, number of the transfer sender's account, number of the transfer recipient's account.
   In implementing the procedure, the modification of information in the DB in the
   "Information on user accounts" is performed: the information about the check in the
15 transfer sender's account will be removed, the data on the number of the balance check
   will be introduced into the account record; the information about the check holder will be
   modified in the "Information about electronic checks" section.
           Within the framework of this procedure, the execution of the S8 unit is initiated for
   the registration of electronic check transactions in the Register. The input parameters upon
20 triggering of the procedure for recording the check transfer transaction in the Register are
   as follows: number of the electronic check, number of the transfer sender's account,
   number of the transfer recipient's account, type of transaction ("check transfer"). Possible
   types of transactions in the Check Register are as follows: "check issue," "check transfer,"
   "check submission for payment," "check submission for payment via collection,"
25 "payment of check," "check collection." On the basis of input parameters, the S8 units
   retrieves the necessary data from the DB, introduces records into the "Electronic check
   register" DB section containing at least the following information: number, date, time of
   transaction, amount, currency, number of the check being transferred, sender's account
   and recipient's account numbers, type of transaction, data on balances in the accounts.
30 After successful recording of the transaction in the Check Register, the procedure for
   electronic check transfer of the S7 unit will be terminated.

                                                 18
            Implementations are possible, whereby in a similar situation, when the whole
   nominal value of the check shall be transferred to the recipient, the electronic check will
   first be transferred to the Operator, and the Operator will transfer the check to the transfer
   recipient. The check transfer (as in all further references thereto) is carried out within the
 5 framework of the procedure for electronic check transfer of the S7 server unit for
   electronic check management described above.
            If the aforementioned condition is not met (the nominal value of the check shall
   not be transferred to the recipient in full), the S5 unit will trigger the procedure for
   exchange of the electronic check of the S7 unit for electronic check management. The S5
10 unit transfers the following data to the input of this procedure: number of the electronic
   check whose nominal value is the balance in the sender's account, nominal values of the
   electronic checks into which the exchange shall be performed, equal to the amount of
   transfer and amount of commission to be collected for the transfer.
            Within the framework of the procedure for electronic check exchange of the S7
15 unit, the sender's electronic check will be transferred to the System Operator (the
   procedure is executed for electronic check transfer of the S7 server unit for electronic
   check management, to whose input the following data are transferred: number of the
   electronic check, number of the transfer sender's account, number of the Operator's
   account).
20          The Operator submits the electronic check received for payment to the paying
   bank. Submission of the electronic check for payment is carried out by execution of the
   procedure for submission of the check for payment of the S7 unit for electronic check
   management, to whose input the following data are transferred: number of the electronic
   check, information about the bank (registration number), number of the account from
25 which the check is presented (Operator's account). In implementing this procedure, the
   number of the specialized bank account is determined, to which the check will be
   transferred. Then the check transfer is performed similarly to the standard check transfer
   procedure. One difference is the change of the electronic check state in the System DB to
   the "submitted for payment" state ("Information about electronic checks" section) and the
30 indication in the Check Register of the type of transaction: "submission of the check for
   payment" or "submission of the check for payment via collection" in case of execution of
   the S8 unit for registration of electronic check transactions in the Register. The type of

                                                 19
   transaction "submission of the check for payment via collection" is used when the bank to
   which the electronic check is being presented for payment and the paying bank for the
   given check do not coincide.
           After successful execution of the procedure for submission of the check for
 5 payment, insofar as the bank to which the electronic check is submitted for payment and
   the paying bank for the given check coincide, the execution of the check write-off
   procedure of the S7 unit is triggered, to whose input the electronic check number is
   transferred. Within the framework of this procedure in the "Information about electronic
   checks" section, the data on the paid check will be changed, and the execution of the S8
10 unit for registration of electronic check transactions in the Register will be triggered.
   Within the framework of the procedure for recording the check write-off transaction in the
   Register in the "Electronic check register" section, a record will be introduced containing
   the following data: number, date, time of the transaction, value, currency, number of the
   check to be written off, number of the account to which the check being written off refers,
15 type of transaction, data on the balance in the given account. Execution of the electronic
   check write-off procedure is only possible in case of payment of the check and the
   transmitting of real monetary funds equal to the nominal value of the check to its bearer or
   in case of set-off of the monetary funds released with payment of the check upon the
   purchase of new electronic checks with the System Issuer by the person that has submitted
20 the check for payment.
           After successful recording of the transaction in the Check Register, the procedure
   for electronic check write-off of the S7 unit will be terminated.
           Using the funds received (released), the Operator will buy new checks of the
   required nominal values from the Issuer:
25         0       Check for the amount of transfer.
           o       Check for the amount of the commission (can be equal to 0, in which case
                   no check will be issued).
           0       Check for the amount of balance (balance can be equal to 0, in which case
                   no check will be issued).
30         To this end, the S7 unit, within the framework of the electronic check exchange
   procedure, triggers sequentially the execution of the S11 unit for electronic check issue for
   each of the checks in question. Data shall be transferred to the input of this unit on details

                                                 20
   of the new checks, which at least include the following: nominal value, check currency,
   data on the paying bank. As the payer for new checks, the paying bank for the check
   transferred for exchange will be indicated.
           In implementing the S 11 unit, the necessary data are retrieved from the system DB
 5 for indication of all check details, the execution of the S12 unit for electronic check
   signature is triggered (whereby check signature on behalf of the Issuer is created by means
   of execution of the electronic digital signature algorithms), and a record on the new
   electronic check will be created in the "Information about electronic checks" DB section.
           In implementing the electronic check issue, the SI1 unit will cause the execution
10 of the procedure for recording the check issue transaction of the S8 unit for registration of
   electronic check transactions in the Register. As the input parameters in cases where this
   procedure is triggered, the following data are transferred: number of the electronic check,
   number of the account to which the issued check will be referred to (Issuer's account),
   type of transaction ("check issue"). Within the framework of this procedure, a record shall
15 be introduced into the "Electronic check register" DB section containing the following
   data: number, date, time of the transaction, value, currency, number of the issued check,
   type of transaction, number of the account to which the issued check will be referred, data
   on the balance in the given account. After successful recording of the transaction in the
   Check Register, the operation of the SI1 unit for electronic check issue will be terminated
20 for the check for which unit execution has been triggered.
           After successful termination of operation of the SI1 unit, the issued checks will be
   transferred to the Operator (in accordance with the procedure for electronic check transfer
   of the S7 unit for electronic check management).
           If the balance check has been issued successfully, the Operator will transfer this
25 check to the transfer sender. After successful termination of this action, the procedure for
   electronic check exchange will be terminated for the transfer sender's check.
           Within the framework of operation of the S5 unit, the Operator will transmit a
   check for the amount of transfer to the recipient's account. From the database
   ("Information on user account" section), the S5 unit will retrieve information on the
30 balance in the transfer recipient's account and account settings. In cases where there is a
   balance check in the recipient's account or a bank different from the paying bank for the
   transfer check is specified in the settings of the given account, the S5 unit will trigger the

                                                 21
   procedure for electronic check exchange (combination) of the S7 unit for electronic check
   management (Fig. 9). Within the framework of this procedure, the electronic checks
   (check) shall be transferred from the recipient's account to the System Operator's account.
           The Operator shall submit the electronic checks (check) received for payment to
 5 the bank specified as the paying bank according to the transfer recipient's "balance
   check," or to the Bank specified in the settings of the account in cases where the balance is
   missing. Apart from the information provided,             other methods are possible for
   determination of the bank which will be the payer according to the new check of the
   transfer recipient, for example, instead of using the account settings and data of the current
10 balance check, a paying bank can be selected according to the electronic check with a
   larger nominal value.
           The submission of checks to the Bank for payment shall be performed within the
   framework of the procedure for submission of the check for payment of the S7 unit for
   electronic check management.
15         Check submission for payment to a bank different from the bank specified as the
   paying bank for the given check shall be carried out in accordance with the mechanism of
   check presentation for collection. This procedure guarantees the availability of a sufficient
   amount of monetary funds in the Issuer's settlement accounts in partner-banks acting as
   security for the checks issued by the Issuer.
20         For the electronic check submitted for payment to the paying bank (in the
   implementation being described, the balance check from the transfer recipient's account),
   execution of the standard check write-off procedure of the S7 unit for electronic check
   management is triggered.
           Using the released funds, the Operator acquires a new check from the Issuer,
25 whose nominal value is equal to the sum of nominal values of the checks submitted for
   exchange (or equal to the nominal value of the check submitted for exchange to the check
   of another paying bank).
           To this end, the S7 unit, within the framework of the procedure for electronic
   check exchange (combination), triggers the execution of the S 11 unit for electronic check
30 issue, transferring to its input the nominal value, currency of the check (equal to the
   currency of checks to be combined), and data on the paying bank. The payer for the new
   check will be the bank that has performed payment of the checks submitted for exchange.

                                                 22
            The Issuer shall transfer the issued check to the System Operator. The Operator
   shall transfer the new check to the transfer recipient. After the successful implementation
   of these actions, the procedure for electronic check exchange (combination) will be
   terminated.
 5          Implementations are possible whereby the exchange of transfer of the sender's
   checks is not performed, and the record-keeping of any number of electronic checks is
   maintained in the recipient's account. For example, in the implementation being
   described, the procedure for the exchange of electronic checks is not executed if the
   transfer implementation is carried out within the framework of check submission for
10 payment and the check is transferred to a specialized bank's account.
            In cases where a commission is collected for the transfer, the S5 unit will trigger
   the execution of the S13 unit for placing the commission check in an account. In the
   implementation being described, if there is a balance check in the Operator's account or a
   bank differing from the paying bank for the commission check is indicated in the settings
15 of the Operator's account, the S13 unit will also initiate the execution of the procedure for
   electronic check exchange (combination) of the S7 unit for electronic check management,
   in the course of which a new check including the amount of commission for the completed
   transfer shall be placed in the Operator's account. The order of exchange of the operator's
   electronic checks is similar to the exchange of the transfer recipient's check exchange,
20 except transactions involving check transfer to the Operator and reception of the check
   from the System Operator. It is also necessary to take into account that if the check
   transfer is performed via a dealer (broker), then a commission shall be charged in the S13
   unit to the Dealer (Broker) acting as an intermediary in the implementation of transfer
   rather than to the Operator. Check exchange transactions are always performed via the
25 Operator, irrespective of the recipient of commission.
            In implementing the procedure for execution of the transaction of the S5 unit for
   the registration and execution of electronic check transfers, the execution of the S9 unit is
   triggered for the generation and storage of digital information. As a result of operation of
   this unit, on the basis of the information about the transfer parameters being received,
30 digital reporting documentation is created for the purposes of its signature by Participants'
   EHS and providing the possibility of further printout.

                                                  23
           In the implementation being described, in the course of operation of the S9 unit,
   the following documents are generated: Certificate of acceptance of the electronic check,
   Certificate of the services provided, pro forma invoice. Documents stemming from
   execution of the K17 unit for the electronic signature of digital documentation are signed
 5 with the EHS of the corresponding parties.
           After successful execution of the transfer and generation of the required
   documentation, the S5 unit will initiate the execution of the Si0 unit for sending online
   notices. Information about the transfer recipient and type of message being sent is
   transmitted to the input of this unit. As a result of execution of this unit, the execution of
10 the K3 unit is triggered for updating, synchronization of client and server application data.
   After receiving information about the transfer, execution of the K17 unit can be triggered
   for the electronic signature of digital documentation for the purposes of signature of the
   Certificate of acceptance of the check by the transfer recipient.
           Under termination of operation of the S5 unit for the registration and execution of
15 electronic check transfers, a message is generated with the result of the transaction, which
   is transmitted to the K5 unit for parameter input, execution of transfers and storage of
   information about payments of the transfer sender's application. Implementations are
   possible (operating modes of applications) whereby the procedure of execution of
   transaction of the S5 unit for the registration and execution of electronic check transfers is
20 not executed in online mode, i.e. after successful termination of the procedure for
   registration of the transfer of the S5 unit, a message will be sent at once to the transfer
   sender (K5 unit) about the fact that the transfer has been received by the System, and the
   transaction execution procedure is performed later.
           In cases of reception of the message about termination of the transaction, the K5
25 unit for parameter input, execution of transfers and storage of information about payments
   of the transfer sender displays information about the result of transfer to the user, triggers
   execution of the K3 unit for updating, synchronisation of client and server application
   data, upon whose operation termination the updating of information about the current
   balance in user accounts is carried out.
30         Method of electronic check issue
           Below, the method is presented for electronic check issue to be used in situations
   different from transactions involving the automatic exchange of electronic checks in the

                                                 24
   implementation of transfers. This method is aimed at ensuring the safety of the process of
   the reception of new checks for circulation issued using real monetary funds received in
   the issuer's settlement account, for example, in purchasing checks by a dealer (broker),
   rather than using payment for other electronic checks.
 5         The beginning of the process of electronic check issue is the launch of the client
   application by the user with the Issuer's account, in the course of which the client K2 unit
   for authorization in the System is initialized, after which execution the K3 unit will be
   started for updating, synchronization of client and server application data. Successful
   execution of the K2 and K3 units is an obligatory condition for transfer to the K11 unit for
10 data input and the sending of requests for the issue of electronic checks. For initialization
   of this unit, the Issuer shall select the corresponding section in the user interface of the
   client application.
           The K11 unit provides the user with the possibility of input of the required initial
   data for generating a request for the issue of an electronic check. This unit can provide
15 various possibilities for entering the request parameters, e.g. direct input of parameters,
   selection of parameter variants from the lists of possible values (selection from the list of
   paying banks), generation of the request on the basis of the check purchase request
   received from the dealer (broker).
           The obligatory parameters of the request to issue an electronic check are the
20 Issuer's details (registration number, description, etc.), nominal value, currency of the
   check being issued, paying bank, number of the Issuer's settlement account in which
   payment for the check will be placed, data on the check buyer and payer (name, INN,
   registration number, data on the purchase application, buyer's account for placing the
   check in an account). After the Issuer's correct completion of all required parameters of
25 the request, the K11 unit will generate a request to issue a check in the form of an
   electronic document certified with the Issuer's EHS. The K11 unit will transmit the
   request to the S6 server unit for the registration of applications, requests, invoices for
   placing checks in an account.
           The S6 unit executes the procedure for verification of the request to issue a check;
30 execution of the S2 server unit is triggered, in the course of which the necessary
   verifications are carried out of both the sender (including verification of the request EHS)
   and the request recipient. In case of successful fulfilment of all verifications, the request

                                                 25
   will be registered on the server. The records will be introduced into the DB in the
   "Information about applications, requests, accounts for placing checks in the account"
   section. A message on the availability of a new request will be sent to the Recipient
   (paying bank for the check being issued) by means of the Si0 unit for sending online
 5 notices.
            Upon entry into the Bank System or in case of an online notice being received, the
   K3 unit (update, synchronisation of client and server application data) for the Bank's
   client application by means of interaction with the S3 unit will download a request from
   the server to issue the electronic check.
10          In doing so, the S3 server unit for data update and synchronization of client and
   server application DBs will perform verification of the fact that request downloading is
   being carried out solely by the recipient with the "Bank" status specified in the request.
            After successful reception of the request, triggering of the K13 unit for the Bank's
   client application is performed for processing the requests received to issue electronic
15 checks. The K13 unit will display the information in the user interface about the check
   issue request and provide an option to the Bank to decline or confirm the request.
            Having received the request, the Bank verifies the availability of payment for the
   check being issued that has been received from the payer indicated in the request for
   electronic check issue, compares the data in the Issuer's request (for example: nominal
20 value of the check, currency, number of the check purchase application, payer's details)
   with the data from the Issuer's account statement. In cases where monetary funds for
   purchase of the check are received in the Issuer's account, the Bank, through the client
   application, will confirm the Issuer's Request. In doing so, the K13 unit for processing
   received requests for electronic check issue shall generate electronic confirmation of the
25 request and transfer it to the S13 server unit for the processing and execution of
   applications, requests.
            The S13 unit, in the course of the procedure for confirmation of the application for
   the issue of an electronic check, will retrieve data from the DB about the request to issue
   the check being confirmed and perform the necessary verifications (including the
30 triggering of the K2 unit for verification of the Bank's account); after their successful
   completion, execution of the S1I unit is triggered for the issue of electronic checks. Data
   on the details of the new check received from the request for issue are transmitted to the

                                                  26
   input of this unit, which include the following: nominal value, check currency, data on the
   paying bank. A description of the S 11 unit is given above (see Method for the execution of
   electronic check transfers).
           Upon the successful termination of operation of the SI1 unit, the S13 unit, in the
 5 course of the procedure for confirmation of the application to issue the electronic check,
   triggers execution of the S5 unit for the registration and execution of electronic check
   transfers (transfer registration procedure) for the purposes of the automatic creation and
   execution of transfer of the check issued from the Issuer's account to the check buyer's
   account. Data from the application for issuing the electronic check retrieved from the DB,
10 i.e. recipient's account, nominal value, check currency, etc., shall be transferred to the
   input of the procedure for registration of the transfer of the S5 unit.
           After termination of operation of the procedure for registration of the transfer of
   the S5 unit, the procedure shall be executed for implementation of the operation of the S5
   unit (in accordance with the sequence given above).
15         The S13 unit will transmit the successful result of processing the request to the
   K13 client unit of the Bank's application, which records the updated state of the processed
   request for check issue as well as, through the S10 unit, to the client application of the
   sender of the check issue request (Issuer) (to the S3 unit for data update, synchronization
   of client and server application DBs, which updates and displays to the Issuer the updated
20 state of the request and information about the automatic transfer of the check to the
   buyer).
           Method of payment of electronic checks
           Below, a method is presented for the payment of electronic checks to be used in
   situations where the check is submitted to the bank for the purposes of receiving real
25 monetary funds according to the check in the bearer's settlement account. This method is
   aimed at ensuring the safety of the process of receiving payment according to the check,
   both on the part of the check bearer and on the part of the bank performing payment.
           The beginning of the process of submission of the electronic check for payment
   shall be the user's launch of the client application, in the course of which the K2 client
30 unit for authorization in the System is initialized, after which execution of the K3 unit will
   be launched for the updating and synchronization of client and server application data.
   The successful execution of the K2 and K3 units is an obligatory condition for transfer to

                                                  27
   the K8 data for data input, sending the applications for the payment of electronic checks.
   The K8 unit can be accessible to various user categories (for example, only to legal
   entities with a higher status in the System than initial).
           For initialization of this unit, the System Participant selects the corresponding
 5 section in the user interface of the client application.
           The K8 unit provides the user with the possibility of input of the required initial
   data for generating an application for electronic check payment, such as the account from
   which the check write-off will be carried out, nominal value of the check, bank details for
   placing the payment. On the basis of the data entered by the user, the K8 unit determines
10 the bank acting as the payer according to the Participant's check.
           Following correct completion of the obligatory details of the application, the K8
   unit will generate the application for payment of the electronic check in the form of an
   electronic document certified with the user's EHS. The K8 unit transfers the application to
   the S6 server unit for the registration of applications, requests, accounts for placing checks
15 in an account.
           The S6 unit will execute the procedure for verification of the application for
   payment of the electronic check - execution of the S2 server unit is triggered, in the
   course of which the necessary verifications are carried out with respect to both the sender
   (including verification of the request EHS) and the request recipient, and verification of
20 the correctness of the bank details of the customer for placing the payment (in particular,
   according to the applicable bank reference book according to BIC) and the sufficiency of
   funds in the sender's account is executed, along with the other verifications necessary for
   proper execution of the transaction.
           In case of the successful fulfilment of all verifications, the application will be
25 registered on the server. The records will be introduced into the DB in the "Information
   about applications, requests, accounts for placing checks in an account" section. A
   message will be sent about the availability of the new application to the recipient (paying
   bank) by means of the S10 unit for sending online notices.
           When the Bank enters into the System or in case of the reception of an online
30 notice, the K3 unit (updating, synchronization of client and server application data) of the
   Bank's client application, by means of interaction with the S3 unit, downloads the
   application for payment of the electronic check from the server. In doing so, the S3 server

                                                  28
   unit for data update, synchronization of client and server application DBs performs
   verification of the fact that request downloading is being carried out solely by a recipient
   with the "Bank" status specified in the request.
           After successful reception of the request, triggering of the K14 unit of the Bank's
 5 application is performed for processing the applications received for the payment of
   electronic checks. The K14 unit will display the information about the application for
   payment of the electronic check in the user interface and provide the Bank with the option
   to decline or confirm the application.
           Having received the application, the Bank will verify the correctness of the
10 Application parameters, accessibility of the necessary amount of funds in the Issuer's
   settlement account. Confirmation of the application shall be an invoice issued through the
   System for placing the check in an account.
           The Bank issues the invoice by means of execution of the K6 client unit for data
   input, sending invoices for placing checks in an account. In the course of execution of this
15 unit, an invoice will be generated whose parameters are determined on the basis of the
   application for payment of the check and partially completed by the Bank. The Bank shall
   specify the details of its account allocated for checks to be submitted for payment. As the
   basis for the invoice, it is necessary to specify the number of the application for payment
   of the check and indicate the bank details of the check bearer for placing the payment.
20         Following the correct completion of invoice details, the K6 unit will generate the
   invoice to place the check in an account in the form of an electronic document certified
   with the user's EHS. The K6 unit will transfer the invoice to the S6 server unit for the
   registration of applications, requests, invoices for placing checks in an account.
           The S6 unit executes the procedure for verification of the parameters of the invoice
25 for placing checks in an account - execution of the S2 server unit is triggered, in the
   course of which the necessary verifications are performed of both the sender (including
   verification of the request EHS) and the request recipient. In case of the successful
   fulfilment of all verifications, the invoice will be registered on the server. The records are
   introduced into the DB in the "Information about applications, requests, invoices for
30 placing checks in an account" section. A message on the availability of the new invoice
   will be sent to the Recipient by means of the S10 unit for the sending of online notices.

                                                  29
           Following successful issue of the invoice, the K14 unit of the Bank's client
   application for the processing of applications received for the payment of electronic
   checks will execute the update of application state. To this end, the corresponding notice
   shall be sent to the S13 server unit for the processing and fulfilment of applications,
 5 requests, in the course of which the new state of the application will be recorded in the
   server DB and a notice will be sent to the sender.
           In cases where the Application cannot be satisfied (the check bearer has not passed
   the necessary verifications), the Bank will select the "Decline the application" option and
   indicate the basis for the denial. In doing so, the K14 unit for the processing of
10 applications received for the payment of electronic checks will send a command to the
   S13 server unit for the processing and execution of applications, requests (the procedure
   for denial of payment by the S13 unit is triggered). In the course of execution of this
   procedure, data on the application being declined will be retrieved from the DB, the
   necessary verification will be performed and the triggering of the S9 unit for the
15 generation of digital documentation will be carried out (procedure for generation of the
   Notice on refusal to pay the check). Data on the customer, bank, currency of the check
   being paid as well as the basis for refusal shall be sent to the input of this procedure. The
   document, due to execution of the K17 unit for the electronic signature of digital
   documentation, will be signed with the Bank's EHS. The S13 unit will notify the customer
20 of the change in the state of the application being sent by the customer.
           The Participant, having received the aforementioned invoice to place the check in
   an account, will execute a transfer to the bank into the specialized account in the System
   specified. The execution of transfer is carried out in accordance with the method described
   above for the execution of electronic check transfers.
25         The Bank, having received the transfer (K9 unit for the processing of received
   electronic check transfers), will perform verification of the fact that the check bearer's
   details specified in the purpose of payment, number of the application and other
   parameters of the transfer conform to the parameters of the confirmed check payment
   application and initiate the procedure for verification of the electronic check received. The
30 method for electronic check verification is described below.
           Only when the Notice on verification of the check and change in the state of the
   Request for verification in the System to "confirmed" has been received will the bank

                                                30
   perform payment of the check by transferring the respective monetary funds to the
   Participant's settlement account (and if the Participant is a credit organization, then to its
   correspondent account) and write off the check.
           The process of write-off of an electronic check occurs upon selecting the
 5 corresponding options in the user interface of the Bank's application. In doing so, the
   execution of the K18 unit for electronic check write-off is triggered. The K18 unit, on the
   basis of the confirmed request for verification, will generate an electronic request to write
   off the electronic check containing the number of the request for verification, certify it
   with the Bank's EHS and send it to the S14 server unit for the write-off of electronic
10 checks. The K18 unit can additionally include execution of the stage of the Bank's input
   of the parameters of the payment order on whose basis the transfer of real monetary funds
   will be carried out to the check bearer.
           The Si 4 server unit for the write-off of electronic checks executes the stage of
   verifications, in the course of which the data on the request confirmed for verification of
15 the check are retrieved from the DB; the K2 unit is triggered for verification of the Bank's
   account and request EHS, and verification of the electronic check being written off is
   executed. After successful completion of all verifications, the S14 unit will carry out
   write-off of the check, and the corresponding changes will be introduced into the DB in
   the "Information about electronic checks" section (the electronic check state and other
20 required parameters will be changed).
           In implementing the write-off of the electronic check, the S14 unit triggers
   execution of the procedure for recording the check write-off transaction of the S8 unit for
   the registration of operations with electronic checks in the Register. As the input
   parameters in cases where this procedure is triggered, the following data will be
25 transferred: number of the electronic check, number of the account in which the check
   being written off was placed, type of transaction ("check write-off (paid)"). Within the
   framework of this procedure, a record containing the following data will be introduced
   into the "Electronic check register" DB section: number, date, time of transaction, value,
   currency, number of the check being written off, type of transaction, number of the
30 account to which the check refers, data on the balance in the given account.
           After successful recording of the transaction in the Check register, the S14 unit
   performs updating of the state of application for check payment, request for verification

                                                  31
   (into "payment of the check has been performed"). The corresponding notices shall be
   sent to System participants by means of the S10 unit.
            Method for the verification of electronic checks
            The method for verification of the electronic check enables the Bank to receive
 5 confirmation of the authenticity of the check to be submitted for payment and shall be an
   obligatory stage preceding payment of the check.
            The verification process begins when the Bank, having received the electronic
   check transfer to the specialized account with an indication of the data in the purpose of
   payment on the application for payment of the check, generates a Request for verification
10 of payment of the submitted electronic check.
            In the bank's selection of the "Request for verification" option, execution of the
   K15 unit for data input and sending of requests for electronic check verification will be
   initiated. The K15 unit will provide the bank with the possibility of automatic completion
   of the parameters of the request on the basis of the transfer received. The request for
15 verification contains data on the electronic check as well as on the person that has
   submitted the check for payment.
            The K15 unit will certify the request completed in the form of an electronic
   document with the Bank's EHS and send it to the S6 server unit for the registration of
   applications, requests, invoices for placing checks in an account.
20          The S6 unit executes the procedure for verification of the parameters of the request
   for verification of the electronic check, which includes automatic verification of the
   electronic check details, in the course of which the check EHS is verified (the algorithm of
   verification of the electronic digital signature will be executed with the use of the Issuer's
   public key and record on the check in the DB, which guarantees the invariability of all
25 details of the electronic check), as are the current state of the electronic check and the
   request sender's account (execution of the S2 server unit is triggered).
            In case of the successful execution of all verifications, the S6 unit will determine
   the Issuer's registration number and save the request on the server. The records will be
   introduced into the DB in the "Information about applications, requests, accounts for
30 placing checks in an account" section. A message on the availability of the new request
   will be sent to the Recipient (Issuer) by means of the S10 unit for the sending of online
   notices.

                                                  32
           When the Issuer enters into the System or in case of the reception of an online
   notice, the K3 unit (updating, synchronization of client and server application data) of the
   Issuer's client application, by means of interaction with the S3 unit, downloads the request
   for verification of the electronic check from the server. In doing so, the S3 server unit for
 5 data update, synchronization of client and server application DBs performs verification of
   the fact that request downloading is being carried out solely by the recipient with the
   "Issuer" status specified in the request.
           Following successful reception of the request, triggering of the K12 unit of the
   Issuer's client application is performed for processing the requests received for
10 verification of electronic checks. K12 unit will display the data in the user interface on the
   request for verification of the electronic check and provide the Issuer with an option to
   decline or confirm the request.
           The Issuer, having received the Request for verification, will trace the electronic
   check history with the use of the Check Register - verify the correctness of the check
15 details (the System provides the possibility of viewing the electronic check in graphical
   form), reliability of the data on the check bearer.
           If all of the verifications have been performed successfully, the Issuer will confirm
   the Request for verification of the check.
           In doing so, the K12 unit for processing of the requests received for payment of
20 electronic checks will send the request to the S13 server unit for the processing and
   execution of applications, requests (the procedure for confirmation of the request for
   verification of the check of the S13 unit will be triggered). In the course of execution of
   this procedure, the data on the confirmed request will be retrieved from the DB, the
   necessary verifications will be performed and the triggering of the S9 unit for the
25 generation of digital documentation will be carried out (procedure for generating the
   Notice on electronic check verification). The data on the electronic check received on the
   basis of the request for verification will be transferred to the input of this procedure. The
   document will be signed by the Issuer's EHS due to execution of the K17 unit for the
   electronic signature of digital documentation. The S13 unit will notify the Bank about the
30 change in the state of the application sent by the Bank.

                                             33
        In cases where the Request cannot be confirmed, the Issuer will select the "Decline
the request" option and specify the basis for refusal. Denial of the request occurs similarly
to refusal of the application for check payment by the Bank.

                                                 34
   CLAIMS
    1.     An electronic system of settlement by means of electronic checks containing at
   least one server computer device for data processing and storage, a server application and
   client computer devices for data processing comprising it, including the firmware client
 5 modules ensuring interaction of the client computer devices with the server device, with
   provision of the possibility of connection between the client computer devices and the
   server computer device over communication channels of the Internet network and the
   possibility of protection of the communication channels by means of the hardware and
   software facilities of the server and client modules with the use of encryption and
10 electronic digital signature, wherein the client and server applications contain at least an
   interconnected unit for user authorization in the system, a unit for the updating and
   synchronization of client and server application data as well as a unit for the input of
   parameters of the execution of transfers and storage of information on payments of the
   client application, which is connected by hardware and software facilities with the units
15 for verification of the parameters of electronic check transfers connected with the unit for
   the authorization and certification of user parameters and a unit for the registration and
   execution of electronic check transfers of the server application, which are connected by
   feedback channels with the units for electronic check management, for placing the
   commission check in an account and sending notices to the user in real-time mode,
20 connected to the unit for the updating and synchronization of client and server application
   data as well as inclusion of the electronic signature unit in the composition of the client
   application, which is connected by hardware and software facilities with the unit for the
   generation and storage of digital documentation of the server application, connected to the
   unit for the registration and execution of electronic check transfers; in doing so, the
25 electronic check management unit of the server application is rendered as connected, by
   means of hardware and software facilities over feedback channels, with the interconnected
   units for the registration of transactions with electronic checks in the register and issue of
   electronic checks, as connected to the unit for electronic check signature.
   2.      The electronic system according to claim 1, wherein the client application units are
30 rendered as grouped into modules by categories corresponding to the user status
   determined by the unit for the authorization of the client and server applications, with

                                                  35
   provision of the possibility of pre-setting a set of parameters of check circulation for each
   category.
   3.      The electronic system according to claim 2, wherein the client application units are
   rendered as grouped into modules by three categories including the initial level, with a
 5 minimum set of check circulation parameters, with provision of the possibility of
   submitting checks for payment to the bank and selecting a paying bank for its checks, and
   the extended level, with provision of the possibility of generating an additional set of
   check circulation parameters for operation of the Issuer, partner-banks and Dealers
   (Brokers) of the system.
10 4.      The electronic system of settlement by means of electronic checks according to any
   of claims 1 or 2, wherein the client device includes a separate client application with its
   own user interface and/or a client application in the form of built-in module in the
   standard means for viewing the resources of the Internet network with its own user
   interface, to be displayed in the web browser, and/or a client application rendered in the
15 form of thin client on the basis of a web browser with provision of the possibility of
   transferring the units for information processing and generation of the user interface to the
   server.
   5.      The electronic system of settlement by means of electronic checks according to any
   of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein the client device containing a user application in thin-client
20 mode has been rendered with provision of the possibility of data input in the web browser
   user interface, electronic signature of digital documentation, data encryption, data transfer
   to the server, data reception from the server, decryption, output to the web browser user
   interface.
   6.      A method for implementing electronic check transfers in the electronic check
25 settlement system containing a server computer device for data processing and storage, an
   information display device and the server application comprising it, and a client computer
   processing device containing a device for information display and client applications
   connected over channels of wireless and/or Internet communication, comprising the
   sequentially implemented stages of the participant authorization in the system; the accounts

                                                  36
   data reception; input of electronic check transfer parameters; verification of electronic check
   parameters; registration of a request for execution of the electronic check transfer; execution
   of the transaction of the sender's check exchange into several checks including the transfer
   check, commission check, balance check; submission of checks for payment, payment and
 5 issue of new checks; placing the electronic commission check in the system operator's
   account and/or in the Dealer's (Broker's) account upon the transfer of electronic checks of
   the standard user category as well as in the bank account via a dealer (broker); placing the
   electronic check in the participant's account; finalization of the transfer accompanied by the
   creation and signature of electronic documents, notifying participants of execution of the
10 transfer.
   7.      The method according to claim 6, additionally comprising the transaction of the
   recipient's exchange into one check to be performed after the stage of placing the
   electronic check in the participant's account, including the submission of checks for
   payment, in particular, via the collection, payment and issue of new checks.
15 8.      The method according to claim 6, wherein the authorization of the participant in
   the system includes the user's launch of the client application, in the course of which the
   client authorization unit will be initialized and the account data will be entered and
   transferred, via the K4 unit for interaction with the server, by means of the Internet
   network over a protected communication channel, to the S2 server unit for the
20 authorization and verification of user parameters where verification of the participant's
   account, the accessibility and correctness of storage of the electronic keys is performed,
   with provision of the possibility of generating the equivalent handwritten signature (EHS)
   for requests and electronic documents, the participant's status and corresponding rights are
   confirmed, synchronization of client and server application data is carried out, with
25 provision of the possibility of outputting the information to the client and server
   application terminal about the current state of the participant's accounts, transfers,
   invoices for placing the received check in an account and initialization of the unit for
   parameter input and execution of transfers of the client application are performed.

                                                    37
   9.       The method according to claim 8, wherein the input and verification of the account
   and its empowering with the rights corresponding to the account category shall be
   performed upon initialization of the client unit for authorization.
    10.     The method according to claim 6, wherein the server application of the module for
 5 information update will perform the displaying, at least, of the accounting information in
   the user interface, including information about all of the participant's accounts: number,
   description of the account, active balance in the account, number of the electronic check
   referenced to the account, data on the bank associated with the account, etc., after
   successful completion of the stage of authorization.
10  11.     The method according to claim 6, wherein the input of the transfer parameters and
   execution of the transfer are performed stage by stage upon initialization of the K5 unit for
   parameter input, execution of transfers, which is carried out in case of forced selection of the
   corresponding section in the user interface of the client application; the input of the required
   initial data for the electronic check transfer is performed, which are pre-set in the system for
15 each category of participants; the transfer is generated on the basis of the invoice received
   for placing the checks in an account or an application of a certain type.
    12.     The method according to claim 6, wherein the input of the transfer parameters
   includes automatic validation to be performed in the process of parameter input, with
   simultaneous generation of an error message and its transfer to the participant's client
20 application and computer device.
    13.     The method according to claim 6, comprising the automatic calculation of the
   commission to be collected for the transfer in the process of reception of the data by the
   application on the amount of transfer, which is performed, by means of software and
   hardware facilities, by the server application with simultaneous generation of a message
25 and its transmission to the client application and client computer device.
    14.     The method according to claim 13, wherein the calculation of commission is
   performed by the module on the basis of local data of the application to be stored in the
   random-access memory and/or downloaded, for example, at the stage of reception of the

                                                    38
   account data and/or on the basis of the rate of commission pre-set in the memory of the
   server computer device. All with the possibility of its update and transfer from the server
   by means of a separate request from the client application, generating a report on the
   amount of commission to be collected for the transfer and the amount to be written off (or
 5 amount receivable, depending upon the parameter being completed), which is to be
   transferred to the K5 unit of the client application.
    15.    The method according to claim 6, additionally comprising a stage for the
   preliminary verification of transfer parameters, in the course of which an electronic
   request is generated by means of the K5 unit for data verification and transferred to the S4
10 server unit for verification of the parameters of electronic check transfers; the S4 unit shall
   determine in the course of verifications whether the execution of transfer with the
   parameters specified is accessible, and in cases where a positive response is received, the
   execution of the S2 server unit is triggered, in the course of which the necessary
   verifications of the sender's authenticity, at least verification of the request EHS and the
15 transfer recipient, at least verification of the accessibility of the recipient account, and the
   data on the electronic check available in the transfer sender's account will be retrieved
   from the DB, the nominal value of the check will be compared to the amount to be written
   off and other verifications will be performed, as provided by the peculiarities of the
   specific implementation of the System.
20  16.    The method according to claim 15, wherein the blocking of a separate amount in
   the account shall be additionally performed, with comparison of the amount to be written
   off against the amount of accessible active balance.
    17.    The method according to claim 15, wherein the stage of the registration request for
   the transfer and its recording in the system DB performs calculations and fixed the amount
25 of commission.
    18.    The method according to claim 15, wherein the stage of the registration request for
   the transfer additionally comprising the initialization of the S9 unit of the generation and
   storage of digital documentation with provision of the possibility of generating an
   electronic document in a format suitable for printing on paper, which contains all of the

                                                   39
   details of the application for electronic check transfer and has been confirmed with the
   Participant's EHS by means of the client unit of electronic signature of digital
   documentation (K17).
    19.    The method according to claim 18, wherein the electronic document in a format
 5 suitable for its printing on paper is transferred to the DB on the server and stored along
   with the EHS and other information in the application database.
   20.     The method according to claim 4, wherein the unit S5 for the registration and
   execution of electronic check transfers, at runtime of the transfer, receives data from the
   System database on the electronic check in the transfer sender's account and the amount of
10 commission and performs a comparison of the nominal value of the balance check in the
   sender's account with the amount of transfer; in case of the coincidence of the value being
   compared, the transfer of the electronic check is carried out from the sender's account to
   the recipient's account.
   21.     The method according to claim 20, wherein the the S5 unit, for transfer of the
15 check, initiates the execution of the server's management unit S7 of electronic check; in
   doing so, the data will be transferred to the input at least on the number of the electronic
   check, number of the transfer sender's account, number of the transfer recipient account,
   and in case of the confirmation of execution of the transfer, the S7 unit will implement
   changes in the information in the DB; at that, information about the check in the transfer
20 sender's account will be deleted, the data on the number of the new balance check will be
   introduced into the recipient's account and the information about the check holder will be
   changed; at the same time, the transfer of information to the S8 unit and registration of
   electronic check transactions in the Register by the S8 unit will be performed and then the
   information about successful finalization of the transfer will be generated and transmitted
25 to the S7 unit.
   22.     The method according to claim 20, wherein the electronic check will first be
   transferred to the Operator and the Operator will transmit the check to the transfer recipient.

                                                  40
   23       The method of Claim 20, wherein the nominal value of the check will not be fully
   transmitted to the recipient, in case of a request for transfer, and the S5 unit will trigger the
   procedure for electronic check exchange of the S7 unit for electronic check management;
   in doing so, the S5 unit will transfer the following data to the input of this procedure:
 5 number of the electronic check, whose nominal value is equal to the balance in the
   sender's account, nominal values of the electronic checks into which the exchange shall be
   performed, equal to the amount of transfer and the amount of commission to be collected
   for the transfer..
   24.      The method according to claim 23, wherein the S7 unit will transmit the sender's
10 electronic check to the System Operator, in case of electronic check exchange; in doing so,
   the Operator will submit the electronic check received for payment to the paying bank; at
   that, the submission of electronic check for payment is performed by execution of the
   procedure for submission of the check for payment of the S7 unit for electronic check
   management, to whose input at least the following data are transmitted: number of the
15 electronic check, information about the bank, number of the account from which the check
   is being submitted, and after successful execution of the procedure for check submission
   for payment, execution of the procedure for check writing-off will be performed by means
   of triggering the S7 unit for electronic check management, to whose input the electronic
   check number will be transmitted, the data of the paid check will be changed and the
20 registration and recording of the electronic check transaction in the register will be carried
   out by means of initialization of the S8 unit and the transaction involving electronic check
   write-off will be finalized upon the transmission of a control signal to the S7 unit.
   25.      The method according to claim 24, wherein the S7 unit, within the framework of
   the procedure for electronic check exchange, will sequentially trigger execution of the S11
25 unit for the issue of electronic checks for each of the checks specified; in doing so, the
   data on details of the new check will be transmitted to the input of this unit, which at least
   includes the following: nominal value, currency of the check, data on the paying bank,
   with provision of the possibility of acquiring new checks by the Operator from the Issuer
   for the amount of transfer and/or checks for the amount of commission and/or checks for
30 the amount of balance of the required nominal values.

                                                   41
   26.     The method according to claim 25, wherein the necessary data will be retrieved
   from the system DB for specification of the check details under execution of the S 11 unit,
   and the execution of the S12 unit for electronic check signature will be triggered and a
   record on the new electronic check in the DB will be created.
 5 27.     The method according to claim 24, wherein the SI1 unit, under implementation of
   the electronic check issue, will trigger execution of the procedure for recording the check
   issue transaction of the S8 unit for registration of the electronic check transactions in the
   Register, and after successful recording in the register, the operation of the SI1 unit for
   electronic check issue will be finalized for the check and the issued checks will be
10 transmitted to the Operator in accordance with the procedure for electronic check transfer
   of the S7 unit for electronic check management; in doing so, the Operator will transfer the
   balance check to the transfer sender.
   28.     The method according to claim 24, wherein the Operator, within the framework of
   the procedure for execution of the transaction of the S5 unit, will perform the transmission
15 of a check for the amount of transfer to the recipient's account; in doing so, the S5 unit will
   retrieve information about the balance in the transfer recipient's account and about the
   account settings; in doing so, if a balance is available in the check recipient's account and/or
   a bank is specified in the account parameters that is different from the paying bank
   according to the transfer check, the S5 unit will trigger the procedure for the exchange
20 and/or combination of electronic checks of the S7 unit for electronic check management; in
   doing so, the electronic checks from the recipient's account will be transferred to the System
   Operator's account, and the Operator will submit the electronic checks (check) received for
   payment to the bank specified as the payer according to the "balance check" of the transfer
   recipient, or to the Bank specified in the account settings; in cases where the balance is
25 missing and for the electronic check submitted for payment to the paying bank, execution of
   the procedure for check write-off of the S7 unit for electronic check management is
   triggered, upon whose termination the Operator will acquire a new check from the Issuer,
   whose nominal value will be the sum of the nominal values of the checks submitted for
   exchange, and/or it equal to the nominal value of the check submitted for exchange into a
30 check of another paying bank; the S7 unit, within the framework of the procedure for
   electronic check exchange (combination), will trigger the execution of the S11 unit for the

                                                   42
   issue of electronic checks and determine that the payer according to the new check will be
   the bank that has performed payment of the checks submitted for exchange; the issuer will
   transfer the check issued to the System Operator, and the Operator will transfer the new
   check to the transfer recipient, and the procedure for electronic check exchange and/or
 5 combination will be finalized after successful implementation of the aforementioned actions.
   29.     The method according to any of claims 24, 25, 26, 27 or 28, wherein the execution
   of the S9 unit for the generation and storage of digital documentation will be triggered and
   generate the required digital reporting documentation, in implementing the procedure for
   execution of the transaction of the S5 unit for the registration and execution of electronic
10 check transfers, with provision of the possibility of its signing with the Participants' EHS
   and subsequent printout.
   30.     The method according to claim 29, wherein the digital images of the following
   documents will be generated, under execution of the S9 unit: Certificate of acceptance of the
   electronic check, Certificate of services provided, Proforma invoice, which shall be
15 transferred to the input of the K17 unit for the electronic signature of digital documentation,
   with provision of the possibility of signature with the EHS of the corresponding parties.
   31.     The method according to claim 30, wherein the S5 unit, after successful
   implementation of the transfer and generation of the required documentation, will initiate
   execution of the S10 unit for sending online notices; information about the transfer recipient,
20 type of the message being sent will be transmitted to the input of the S10 unit; in doing so,
   the S10 unit will trigger execution of the K3 client unit for the updating and synchronization
   of client and server application data; at the same time, the S5 unit will transfer information
   to the K5 unit, which saves information about transfer sender's payments.
   32.     A method for issuing electronic checks in the electronic check settlement system
25 containing a server computer device for data processing and storage, an information
   display device and the server application device comprising it, and client computer
   processing devices containing an information display device and client applications
   connected over wireless and/or Internet communication channels, comprising at least the
   obligatory stages of a request by the issuer for issuing a check, the bank's verification of

                                                   43
   the receipt of monetary funds in the issuer's account, which serve as security for the given
   check, for conformity with the request parameters and the bank's confirmation of the
   electronic check issue, with provision of the possibility of the generation of legally-valid
   documents and the reflection of transactions in the check register to be generated and
 5 stored on the system server.
   33.     The method according to claim 32, comprising the launch of the client application
   on the client computer device by the user with the Issuer's account and execution of the
   customer's authorization in the system; in doing so, the K2 client units for authorization in
   the System and the K3 unit for the updating and synchronization of client and server
10 application data will be sequentially initialized in the course of the input of account data,
   which transfer the account data over the communication channels to the corresponding SI
   server units for authorization and the S2 unit for data synchronization where the account
   data are compared against the DB server data, and upon termination of the execution of the
   processing of account data, the control signal will be transferred to the K2 and K3 units for
15 blocking or the permission of access of the account entry to the system applications and
   perform an update of the data as of the date of the account entry, with provision of the
   possibility of displaying the result on the client information display device; if the
   authorization is confirmed, the K3 unit will transfer the account data to the K11 unit for data
   input and sending requests for the issue of electronic checks, which generates a client
20 application with the interface corresponding to the check issue transaction and the data of
   the request for electronic check issue will be entered, on which basis the K11 unit will
   generate a request for check issue in the form of an electronic document certified with the
   Issuer's EHS and transfer the request to the S6 server unit for registration of applications to
   place the checks in an account, which will execute the procedure for verification of the
25 parameters of the check issue request, generate a request for authorization and initialize
   execution of the S2 server unit, in the course of which the necessary verifications will be
   performed for both sender's accounts (including verification of the request EHS) and the
   request recipient's accounts, and in case of the positive result of the verification of all data,
   the S2 unit will generate a confirmation message about passing the verification to the S6
30 unit and the request will be registered on the server, and the request data will be recorded in
   the DB; in doing so, a message will be sent to the paying bank for the check being issued by

                                                    44
   means of the S10 unit for sending online notices about the availability of a new request to
   the bank's K3 unit, and the bank's K3 unit, by sending a request with the Bank's
   identification data to S3, will perform downloading of the data of the request for the
   electronic check issue after confirmation of the Bank authorization in the system to be
 5 performed by the S2 and S3 units on the basis of the request, and will transfer data on the
   request to the K13 Bank's client unit for processing the requests received for the issue of
   electronic checks, with provision of the output of data in the user interface about the request
   for check issue and implementation of the selection to accept or decline the request; in doing
   so, the Bank's K13 unit will verify the availability of payment received from the payer
10 specified in the request for the issue of an electronic check for the check being issued and
   collate the data in the Issuer's request with the data from the statement from the Issuer's
   account received from S3, and in cases where monetary funds are received in the Issuer's
   account for acquisition of the check, the bank's K13 unit will generate electronic
   confirmation of the request and transfer it to the S13 server unit for the processing and
15 execution of applications, which will retrieve the data from the DB on the request for check
   issue being confirmed, perform the necessary verifications of the Bank's account and, upon
   their successful finalization, transfer the check issue data to the S11 unit for the issue of
   electronic checks, which will perform initialization of the S5 unit for the registration and
   execution of electronic check transfers, which will generate the electronic check and
20 implement the transfer of the check issued from the Issuer's account to the check Buyer's
   account, with generation of a report on execution of the transaction and its forwarding to the
   S11 unit, with its subsequent transfer to S10 via S13 with the possibility of generation of a
   message on the transaction executed to the Bank's and Issuer's K3 units; in doing so, the
   S13 unit will transfer the check issue data to the Bank's K13 unit, which will record the
25 updated state of the processed check issue request, and the S10 unit will update the issuer's
   account data, with provision of the possibility of the simultaneous output of the updated
   state of the request and the information about automatic transfer to the buyer of the check to
   the issuer's information display device.
   34.      The method according to claim 33, wherein the parameters of the data for the request
30 for issue of the electronic check include at least the data on the check details, which include
   the following: nominal value, currency of the check, data on the paying bank.

                                                     45
   35.      A method of payment of electronic checks in the electronic check settlement system
   containing a server computer device for data processing and storage, an information display
   device and the server application device comprising it, client computer processing devices
   containing an information display device and client applications connected over wireless
 5 and/or Internet communication channels, comprising the launch of the client application, in
   the course of which the K2 client unit for authorization in the system will be initialized, after
   whose execution the K3 unit will be launched for the updating and synchronization of client
   and server application data, in case of whose successful execution the initialization of the of
   the K8 unit for data input, the sending of an application for electronic check payment and
10 input of the required initial data for generation of the application for payment of the electronic
   check will be performed; in doing so, the K8 unit will determine the bank acting as the payer
   for the Participant's electronic check on the basis of the input data, generate an application for
   payment of the electronic check in the form of an electronic document certified with the user's
   EHS and transfer the application to the S6 server unit for the registration of applications,
15 requests, invoices for placing checks in an account, as carried out through the S2 unit, and
   perform the verification of data by comparing them with the data to be stored in the system
   DB, and in case of the positive result of verification, the application will be registered on the
   server, and the records will be introduced into the DB; at that, a message will be sent to the
   Recipient (paying bank) through the S10 unit for sending online notices on the availability of a
20 new application; the Bank, by means of interaction with the S3 unit, will download the
   application from the server for payment of the electronic check; in doing so, the S3 server unit
   for data update, synchronization of client and server application DBs will perform verification
   of the fact that the request download has been carried out by the recipient with the "Bank"
   status specified in the request; after successful reception of the request, the triggering of the
25 K114 unit of the Bank's client application will be performed for processing the applications
   received for payment of electronic checks, which will generate and output the data in the user
   interface on the application for payment of the electronic check and provide the Bank with the
   option of declining or confirming the application; the Bank will verify the correctness of
   Application parameters, availability of the necessary amount of funds in the issuer's
30 settlement account, and in case of successful verification, it will perform the generation, via
   the System, of the invoice for placing checks in an account by means of execution of the K6
   unit of the client application for data input, sending invoices for placing checks in an account,

                                                    46
   which will generate the invoice for placing checks in an account in the form of an electronic
   document certified with the user's EHS and transfer the invoice to the S6 server unit for the
   registration of applications, requests, invoices for placing checks in an account; the S6 unit
   will execute the procedure for verification of the parameters of the invoice for placing checks
 5 in an account by means of the S2 server unit, perform registration of the invoice on the server
   in the system DB in case of the successful performance of verifications, and generate a
   message to the Recipient by means of the S10 unit for sending online notices about the
   availability of a new request; in cases where a system message is received, the K14 unit of the
   Bank's client application for the processing of applications received for the payment of
10 electronic checks will perform updating of the state of application; the participant, having
   received the aforementioned invoice for placing checks in an account, will carry out transfer to
   the bank to the account in the System specified; in doing so, in cases where the transfer is
   received by means of the K9 unit for the processing of received electronic check transfers, the
   verification of payment details and other transfer parameters will be carried out, comparison
15 with the parameters of the application confirmed for payment of the check to be stored in the
   DB and the procedure for verification of the received electronic check will be initiated;
   following receipt of the Notice of check verification from the Issuer and change in the state of
   Request for verification in the system to "confirmed," the bank will perform payment
   according to the check by remitting the respective monetary funds to the Participant's
20 settlement account and carry out write-off of the check.
   36.      The method according to claim 35, wherein the Bank will select the "Decline the
   application" option and specify the basis for refusal, in cases where the Application cannot
   be satisfied and/or the check bearer has not passed the necessary verifications; in doing so,
   the K14 unit for the processing of applications received for the payment of electronic checks
25 will send a command to the S13 server unit for the processing and execution of applications,
   requests and trigger the procedure for payment refusal of the S13 unit, in the course of
   execution of this procedure, the data on the application being declined will be retrieved from
   the DB, the necessary verifications will be carried out and the triggering of the S9 unit will
   be performed for the generation of digital documentation, with provision of the possibility of
30 generation of the Notice of refusal of check payment, and the electronic signature of digital
   documentation with the Bank's EHS will be implemented by means of execution of the K17

                                                   47
   unit; in doing so, the S13 unit will notify the customer about the change in the state of the
   application sent by the customer.
   37.      The method according to any of claims 35 or 36, wherein the electronic check write
   off process will be performed upon selection of the corresponding option in the user
 5 interface of the Bank's application; in doing so, the execution of the K18 unit will be
   triggered for writing off electronic checks, which, on the basis of the confirmed request for
   verification, will generate an electronic request to write off the electronic check containing
   the number of the request for verification, certify it with the Bank's EHS and send it to the
   S14 server unit for the write-off of electronic checks, which, after execution of the
10 verification stage, in the course of which the data will be retrieved from the DB on the
   confirmed request for verification of the check, triggering of the K2 unit will be performed
   for verification of the Bank's account, request EHS as well as verification of the electronic
   check to be written off, carry out write-off of the check and the corresponding changes will
   be introduced into the DB and, by means of the S14 unit, the record and registration of the
15 write-off transaction in the register will be carried out, after which the S14 unit will perform
   an update of the state of the application for payment of the check, request for verification
   (into "check payment has been performed") and the corresponding notices will be sent to the
   System participants by means of the S10 unit.
   38.      A method for verification of electronic checks in the electronic check settlement
20 system containing a server computer device for data processing and storage, an information
   display device and the server application device comprising it, and client computer
   processing devices containing an information display device and client applications
   connected over wireless and/or Internet communication channels, distinct in that it will be
   launched in cases where the Bank has received the transfer of the electronic check to the
25 specialized account with indication of the data, in the purpose of payment, on the application
   for payment of the check; in doing so, the Request for verification of the electronic check
   submitted for payment will be generated; at that, the execution of the K115 unit will be
   initiated for data input, sending requests for the verification of electronic checks; the K15
   unit will provide the bank with the possibility of automatic completion of the request
30 parameters on the basis of the received transfer; in doing so, the K115 unit will certify the
   request in the form of an electronic document with the bank's EHS and send it to the S6

                                                    48
   server unit for the registration of applications, requests, invoices for placing checks in an
   account, which will execute the procedure for verification of the parameters of the request
   for verification of the electronic check, and in case of successful fulfilment of all
   verifications, it will determine the Issuer's registration number and save the request to the
 5 server in the system DB; at that, a message will be sent to the recipient (Issuer) by means of
   the S10 unit for sending online notices on the availability of a new request; the Issuer, by
   means of interaction with the S3 unit, will download the request for verification of the
   electronic check from the server; in doing so, the S3 server unit for data involving the
   updating, synchronization of client and server application DBs will perform verification of
10 the fact that the request download is being performed by the recipient with the "Issuer"
   status indicated in the request, and after successful reception of the request, the triggering of
   the K12 unit of the Issuer's client application will be carried out for the processing of
   requests received for the verification of electronic checks, which will output the data in the
   user interface on the request for the verification of an electronic check and provide the
15 Issuer with the option to decline or confirm the request; in cases where all verifications have
   been performed successfully, the Issuer shall confirm the Request for verification of the
   check; at that, the K12 unit for the processing of applications received for the payment of
   electronic checks will send the request to the S13 server unit for the processing and
   execution of applications, requests and trigger the procedure for confirmation of the request
20 for verification of the check of the S13 unit, in the course of whose execution, the data on
   the request being confirmed will be retrieved from the DB, the necessary verifications will
   be carried out and the triggering of the S9 unit will be performed for the generation of
   digital documentation, with provision of the possibility of generation of the Notice of the
   verification of an electronic check; at that, the document, by means of execution of the K17
25 unit for the electronic signature of digital documentation, will be signed with the Issuer's
   EHS. The S13 unit will notify the Bank about the change in the state of the application sent
   by the Issuer.
                   My Partners And Global Stars Investments (MP&GSI) Ltd
30                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                            1/12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Banks                                        Issuer               Operator
                                                                                           Web server
                           ...
                                                                                               Application
                                                                                                 server
                 Bank 1          Bank N
                                                                                            Online message
                                                                                                module
              Dealers
                                                                    Server
                           ...                                                                    DBMS
                Dealer 1         Dealer M            Customers (individuals and legal entities)
                                                                      ...
                                                     Customer 1                   Customer K
                                            Fig. 1

                                                          2/12
<removed-date>
                                               Client application. Main units
                                                                                  Units additionally accessible in
              Units accessible
              in the Customer mode
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+270C><U+261B> <U+2716><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717><U+261B><U+270E><U+270F><U+260E> <U+271E><U+2711><U+261B><U+270E><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B>
                                                                                          K11. Unit for data input, sending
                                             K5. Unit for parameter input,
                                                                                         requests for the issue of electronic
                                                execution of transfers
                                                                                                       checks
                                                                                    K12. Unit for processing the requests
                                            K6. Unit for data input, sending        received for verification of electronic
                                           invoices for placing checks in an                        checks
               K1. Unit for registration
                                                        account
                   in the System
<removed-apn>
                                           K7. Unit for data input, sending             K16. Unit for processing applications
                                           applications for purchase, sale              for the purchase of electronic checks
                     K2. Unit for
                    authorization                of electronic checks
                   in the System
                                           K8. Unit for data input, sending       Units additionally accessible
                                             applications for payment of          <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2704><U+270C><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2706><U+2701><U+2715><U+270F><U+260E> <U+271E><U+2711><U+261B><U+270E><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B>
                                                  electronic checks
                K3. Unit for updating                                                    K13. Unit for processing the requests
                data, synchronization                                                   received for issue of electronic checks
                                             K9. Unit for processing the
               of the client and server
                                             electronic check transfers
                   application DBs                                                           K14. Unit for processing the
                                                       received
                                                                                         applications received for payment of
                                              K10. Unit for processing the                         electronic checks
                                             invoices received for placing
                                                                                         K15. Unit for data input, sending of
                                                 checks in an account
                                                                                           requests for the verification of
                                             K11. Unit for the electronic                        electronic checks
                                                signature of digital
                                                                                          K18. Unit for writing off electronic
                                                  documentation
                                                                                                        checks
                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+271E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2704><U+270C><U+261B> <U+270D><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+261B><U+270E><U+270F><U+260E> <U+271E><U+2711><U+261B><U+270E><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B>
                                               K16. Unit for processing the                    K17. Unit for processing the
                                                applications received for                    applications received for sale of
                                              purchase of electronic checks                         electronic checks
                                             K4. Unit for interaction with the server
                                                          Fig. 2

                                                                                    3/12
<removed-date>
                                                          <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+2701><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720> <U+260E><U+271E> . <U+2721><U+261B><U+260E><U+2706><U+2704><U+260E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271F><U+2706><U+270D><U+271E>
              Requests for registration in the System,                                                Requests for opening,
              change of status, viewing, change of                                                    closing, change of
              account data                           S1. Unit for registration, management            account properties
                                                                of user accounts
                                                                                                             S5. Unit for user account management
                        Requests for authorization          S2. Unit for authorization and
                                                            verification of user parameters
              Requests for updating information
<removed-apn>
              on accounts, reception of transfers,
              applications, requests, invoices for
              placing checks in an account                    S3. Unit for data update,
                                                                                                                                         Banks' requests for
                                                           synchronization of the client and
                                                                                                                                         electronic check write-off
                                                               server application DBs
                                                                                                                S14. Unit for electronic due to payment
                                                                                                                   check write-off
              Requests for verification of the
              parameters of electronic check
                                                             S4. Unit for verification of the
              transfers
                                                            parameters of electronic check               S8. Unit for registration of electronic
                                                                        transfers                         check transactions in the Register
              Requests for execution of
              electronic check transfers                S5. Unit for registration and execution           S7. Unit for electronic          S11. Unit for the issue
                                                             of electronic check transfers                 check management                 of electronic checks
              Applications, requests, invoices          S6. Unit for registration of applications,       S9. Unit for generation of       S12. Unit for electronic
              for placing checks in an account           requests, invoices for placing checks            digital documentation              check signature
                                                                      in an account
                                                                  S10. Unit for sending         Online notices to users
                                                                     online notices
                    Requests for confirmation,
                    denial, execution of applications           S13. Unit for processing and
                                                             execution of applications, requests
                                                                                    Fig. 3

                                                                                 4/12
<removed-date>
                        Client application. Diagram of main local DB sections
                                                                                                   <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+270C><U+271F><U+2720><U+271D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2720> <U+2721><U+270F><U+2702> <U+2711> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2702><U+2704><U+271D><U+2721><U+270C><U+2720><U+2713> <U+2714><U+271F><U+261E><U+2702>
                  Information about the user                          Information about
                                                                      the user accounts            Information about I <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701><U+2720><U+2721>
                Registration number
                                                              Number of the account                  Unique identifier
                Personal data or data on
<removed-apn>
                organization                                  Currency, type, paying bank and
                                                                                                     Number of the account
                                                              other properties of the account
                <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>    <U+2721><U+271D><U+2721><U+2701>
                                                                                                     Information about partner-bank
                                                              Number of the electronic check
                Security settings
                                                                                                     Balance in the subaccount
                                                                                                     Additional parameters
              Information about the sent/received             Information about transfers, sent/
               applications, requests, invoices for                       received
                  placing checks in an account
                                                             Unique identifier
              Unique identifier
                                                             Information about the sender,
              Information about the sender,
                                                             recipient of the transfer
              recipient of the transfer
                                                            Value, commission, currency and
              Parameters of application,                    other parameters of the transfer
              request, invoice
                                                            Status, results of the transfer and
              Status and other service
                                                            other service information
              information
                                                                                 Fig. 4

                                                                       5/12
<removed-date>
                  Server application. Diagram of main server DB sections
                 Information about applications,             Information about I <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              requests, invoices for placing checks                subaccounts
                          in an account
                                                         Unique identifier
               Unique identifier
               Information about the sender,             Information about partner-bank
               recipient
                                                                                              Information about electronic checks
               Parameters of application,                Balance in the subaccount
               request, invoice                                                                Number of the check
<removed-apn>
               Status and other service                  Additional parameters                 Nominal value, currency of the
               information                                                                     check
                                                                                               Paying bank for the check
                    Information about users             Information about the user accounts
                     (System Participants)                                                    Date, place of preparation of the
                                                                                              check, <U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2702> <U+261E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              Registration number                         Number of the account               settlement account and other
                                                                                              mandatory details
              Personal data or data on                    Currency, type, paying bank and
              organization                                other properties of the account     Status and other service
                                                                                              information
              User status                                Number of the electronic check
                                                         (balance in the account)
              Parameters for authorization                                                         Electronic check register
                                                                                              Number of the transaction in the
              Settings (deleted, blocked) and                                                 register
              other additional information                                                    Information about the sender,
                                                                                              recipient
                                                         Information about electronic check
                                                                      transfers               Number, nominal value, currency
                       Digital information
                                                                                              of the electronic check
              Number, type of document, time of         Unique identifier
              creation                                                                        Information about balances in the
                                                                                              accounts as a result of execution
              Information about the sender,             Information about the sender,         of the transaction
              recipient of the document                 recipient of the transfer
                                                                                              Date, type of the transaction and
                                                        Value, commission, currency and       other information
              Content of the document
                                                        other parameters of the transfer
              Data on signatures and other              Status, result of the transfer and
              information                               other service information
                                                                      Fig. 5

                                                                                  6/12
<removed-date>
                         Client application                      Server application
                 K2. Unit for authorization in the         S2. Unit for authorization and
                              System                       verification of user parameters
                    K3. Unit for updating and                S3. Unit for data update,
                 synchronization of the client and        synchronization of the client and
                     server application data                  server application DBs
<removed-apn>
                                                            S4. Unit for verification of the
              K5. Unit for parameter input, execution                                                                S13. Unit for placing the
                                                           parameters of electronic check
              of transfers and storage of information                                                             commission check in an account
                                                                       transfers
                          about payments
                                                        S5. Unit for registration and execution                   S7. Unit for electronic              S11. Unit for the issue of
                                                             of electronic check transfers                         check management                       electronic checks
               K17. Unit for electronic signature of       S9. Unit for the generation and               S8. Unit for the registration of electronic       S12. Unit for the
                                                          storage of digital documentation                 check transactions in the Register           signature of electronic
                     digital documentation
                                                                                                                                                               checks
                                                                                          S10. Unit for sending
                                                                                             online notices
                                                                                 Fig. 6

                                                                   7/12
<removed-date>
                                    K5. Unit for parameter input, execution of transfers
                                             The transfer execution window is displayed
                                              Input of transfer parameters
                                                                                          The calculation of
                                                                                          commission can be
                                                                                          performed until
<removed-apn>
                                              Calculation of commission for the           termination of the
                                              transfer                                    parameter input stage,
                                                                                          after completion of the
                                                                                          required details for the
                                              Generation, signature, sending of the
                                                                                          calculation of commission
                                              request for verification of transfer
                                              parameters
                                              Obtaining the result of execution of the
                                              transfer
                                              No        Has the verification
                                                          been passed
                                                          successfully?
                                                                   Yes
              Displaying of error messages
                                              Confirmation of the transfer
                                              No        Confirmation of the
                                                              transfer
                                                                    Yes
                                              Generation, signature, sending the
                                              request for the execution of transfer
                                              Obtaining the result of execution of the
                                              transfer
                                             No          Has the transfer
                                                         been executed
                                                          successfully?
                                                                    Yes
                                              Information about the successful
                                              execution of the transfer
                                              Data updating, synchronization.
                                              Reception of electronic documents
                                              relating to the transfer
                                                   Termination of the operation
                                                                   Fig. 7

                                                                                                                     8/12
<removed-date>
              Unit S5 for the registration and execution of electronic check transfers.
              Algorithm of the procedure for execution of the transaction
                    Retrieval of the data from the DB about the electronic
                    <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+270C> <U+261E><U+260E> <U+2721><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2721><U+271D><U+270D><U+260E><U+2704><U+270E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E><U+2704> <U+270D><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+270F><U+260E><U+2721>, amount of
                    commission
                                         Amount of commission
                                                                                                                                                 Unit S7. Procedure for electronic
                                           for the transfer = 0                       Yes                                                        check transfer ()
                                      AND the nominal volume of the                              Electronic check is transferred to
                                        check being transferred =                                the transfer recipient
<removed-apn>
                                     nominal value of the check in the
                                          Customer's account
                                                       No
               Unit S7. Procedure for electronic check exchange
                                                                                            S7. Procedure for
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E><U+2704> <U+2702><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+261B><U+260E><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2704> <U+2721><U+271D><U+270D><U+260E><U+2704><U+270E><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2706>                      electronic check transfer ()
                          to the System Operator
                                                                                            S7. Procedure for submission of the
                          The Operator submits the electronic check to
                                                                                            electronic check for payment ()
                          the paying bank
                                                                                            S7. Procedure for write-off
                          The write-off of the check occurs in the Bank
                                                                                            of the check ()
                          due to payment
                                                                                            S11. Unit for the issue of
                          The Issuer performs the issue of the
                                                                                            electronic checks
                          electronic check transfer
                                                                               No                                                   No
                                          Is the amount of                                       Is the amount of balance in
                                         commission > 0 ?                                         the sender's account after
                                                                                                       the transfer >0 ?
              S11. Unit for the
              issue of electronic                   Yes                                            Yes
              checks                                                                                                                       S11. Unit for the issue of
                                 The Issuer performs the issue of                        The Issuer performs the issue of an               electronic checks
                                 an electronic check for the                             electronic check for the amount of
                                 amount of commission                                    balance (balance before transfer <U+2711>
                                                                                         commission <U+2711> amount of transfer)
              S7. Procedure for the
              transfer of electronic
               checks ()
                                The Issuer transfers the electronic
                                checks issued to the Operator
                                                                                                           S7. Procedure for
                                                                                                           electronic check transfer ()
                                              Has the                Yes
                                                                                    The Operator transfers the balance
                                           balance check
                                                                                    electronic check to the transfer sender
                                           been received?
                                                         No
                                               Has the                                                                                   S13. Unit for placing the
                                             commission
                                                                         Yes          The transaction of placing the commission
                                                                                                                                         commission check
                                             check been                               <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714><U+271B><U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+271B><U+2723><U+2724> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2712><U+2722><U+2725><U+2717><U+2718>*
                                              received?
              S7. Procedure for the                                                                                                                      Unit S7. Procedure for the
              transfer of electronic                   No                                                                                                exchange (combination) of
              checks ()                                                                                                              Yes                 electronic checks
                              The Operator transfers the electronic                                    Is the balance check
                              check of the transfer to the recipient                                 available in the recipient's                    A
                                                                                                              account?
                                                                                                             No
                                                                                                      Is the setting of the paying         Yes
                                                                                                          bank available in the
                                                                                                          recipient's account?
                                                                                                             No
                                                                                    The generation of the following documents is performed:              S9. Unit for the generation and
                                                                                    Certificate of acceptance of the electronic check, Certificate       storage of digital documentation
                                                                                    of the services provided, Proforma invoice
                                                                                The recipient is informed on reception of the transfer                   S9. Unit for the generation and
                                                                                in its account. He signs the Certificate of acceptance                   storage of digital documentation
                                                                                of the electronic check.
                                                                                             Return of the result to the calling unit
                                                                                                                     Fig. 8

                                                                                  9/12
<removed-date>
                               Unit S7. Algorithm of the procedure for the exchange (combination)
                               of electronic checks
                                                                 A
                                   Electronic checks are transferred from the sender's              S7. Procedure for
                                   account to the System Operator (transfer check and               electronic check transfer ()
<removed-apn>
                                   balance check)
                                   The paying bank is determined according to the new
                                   check (Bank 2)
                                                                                                                    S7. Procedure for submission of the
                                                                                          No                        electronic check for payment ()
                                                                                  The paying bank for the      The Operator submits the
                                                        Has the balance check     transfer check / balance
                                                        been received from the                                 electronic check to Bank 2
                                                         recipient's account?
                                                                                  check does not coincide      for collection
              S7. Procedure for submission of                                           with Bank 2
                                                     Yes                                                     Mutual settlements between Bank 2
              the electronic check for
                                                                                                             and the paying bank according to
              payment ()
                                       The Operator submits the electronic check to                          the electronic check are performed
                                       the paying bank (Bank 2)                                              within the framework of the
                                                                                                             collection procedure
              S7. Procedure for
              electronic check
              write-off ()                 The check will be written off in the Bank due
                                           to payment
              S11. Unit for the issue of
              electronic checks
                                           The Issuer performs the issue of the
                                           recipient's electronic balance check
               S7. Procedure for electronic
               check transfer ()
                                        The Issuer transfers the check issued to the
                                        Operator
               S7. Procedure for electronic
               check transfer ()
                                        The Operator transfers the electronic check
                                        of the transfer to the recipient
                                               Return of the result to the calling unit
                                                                                 Fig. 9

                                                                    10/12
<removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2704><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+270C><U+2720>                Server application                                        <U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2704><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+270C><U+2720>
               K2. Unit for authorization in the      S2. Unit for the authorization and                            K2. Unit for authorization in the
                            System                     verification of user parameters                                           System
                  K3. Unit for the updating,              S3. Unit for data update,                                   K3. Unit for the updating,
               synchronization of the client and       synchronization of the client and                           synchronization of the client and
                   server application data                 server application DBs                                      server application data
<removed-apn>
                                                        S6. Unit for the registration of
               K11. Unit for data input, sending      applications, requests, invoices for                           K13. Unit for processing of the
              requests for the issue of electronic      placing checks in an account                               requests received for the issue of
                            checks                                                                                         electronic checks
                                                     S10. Unit for sending online notices
                                                       S13. Unit for the processing and
                                                      execution of applications, requests
                                                        S11. Unit for the issue of   S12. Unit for the signature
                                                           electronic checks           of electronic checks
                                                         S8. Unit for the registration
                                                             of electronic check
                                                         transactions in the Register
                                                        S5. Unit for the registration and
                                                     execution of electronic check transfers
                                                                    Fig. 10

                                                                       11/12
<removed-date>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2704><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2721><U+260E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2704>
                                                                   Server application                   <U+261E><U+2701><U+271E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2721><U+260E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2704> <U+2701><U+271D><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+270D><U+271E>
                            application
                 K2. Unit for authorization in the          S2. Unit for the authorization and      K2. Unit for authorization in the
                              System                         verification of user parameters                     System
                    K3. Unit for the updating,                 S3. Unit for data update,               K3. Unit for the updating,
                 synchronization of the client and          synchronization of the client and       synchronization of the client and
<removed-apn>
                     server application data                    server application DBs                  server application data
                                                             S6. Unit for the registration of
                 K8. Unit for data input, sending          applications, requests, invoices for      K14. Unit for processing of the
                 applications for the payment of             placing checks in an account         requests received for the payment of
                        electronic checks                                                                   electronic checks
                                                           S10. Unit for sending online notices
                  K10. Unit for processing of the                                                       K6. Unit for data input,
              invoices received for placing checks in                                                 sending invoices for placing
                            an account                                                                   checks in an account
                                                            S13. Unit for the processing and
              K5. Unit for parameter input, execution      execution of applications, requests         K9. Unit for processing the
                            of transfers                                                               electronic check transfers
                                                                                                                 received
                                                                S14. Unit for the write-off
                                                                  of electronic checks              K15. Unit for data input, sending
                                                                                                     requests for the verification of
                                                                                                          electronic checks
                                                              S8. Unit for the registration
                                                                  of electronic check
                                                              transactions in the Register               K18. Unit for electronic
                                                                                                            check write-off
                                                           S5. Unit for the registration and
                                                        execution of electronic check transfers
                                                                      Fig. 11.

                                                                   12/12
<removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2701><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+2702>                 Server application                   <U+270C><U+2706><U+2706><U+270D><U+2720><U+270E><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2701><U+261B><U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+2702>
                K2. Unit for authorizsation in the      S2. Unit for the authorization and       K2. Unit for authorization in the
                             System                      verification of user parameters                      System
<removed-apn>
                   K3. Unit for the updating,              S3. Unit for data update,               K3. Unit for the updating,
                synchronization of the client and       synchronization of the client and       synchronization of the client and
                    server application data                 server application DBs                  server application data
                                                         S6. Unit for the registration of
                                                       applications, requests, invoices for   K12. Unit for processing the requests
              K9. Unit for processing the electronic
                                                         placing checks in an account            received for the verification of
                   check transfers received
                                                                                                        electronic checks
                                                       S10. Unit for sending online notices
                K15. Unit for data input, sending
                 requests for the verification of
                      electronic checks
                                                        S13. Unit for the processing and
                                                       execution of applications, requests
                                                                   Fig. 12

