                                               Abstract
The tracheoscope catheter bending structure mainly includes a main elastic spring ring, two small
elastic spring rings and a fixed seat, wherein the main elastic spring ring is arranged inside a hose at
the far end of a tracheoscope catheter; the two small elastic spring rings are arranged at the internal
opposite two side positions of the main elastic spring ring; two pull wires provided for a
tracheoscope are respectively penetrated through the two small elastic spring rings; the fixed seat is
held at the farthest end of the hose; the far ends of the two pull wires respectively pass through
penetration holes at the two sides of the fixed seat and are fixed; the other ends of the pull wires are
extended and are combined with a control mechanism inside a handle.

              1/4
    al
            a13
all al2
            FIG.1
           33     31
        32        c
                     5
            FIG.2

                                                    1
              TRACHEOSCOPE CATHETER BENDING STRUCTURE
Technical Field
[0001] The utility model is a tracheoscope catheter bending structure, and mainly provides an
innovative bending structure which can simply control the far end of a catheter to swing in the
catheter of a tracheoscope by cooperation of multiple elastic spring rings and pull wires and has
progressive practicability.
Background
[0002] A tracheoscope generally includes an elongated catheter so as to extend into a human body.
The far end of the catheter is combined with a shooting module, so as to shoot an image in a human
body cavity and send the image to an external screen, and therefore a medical staff observes or
gives treatment directly. In order to get images at different angular positions inside the human body,
a hose structure that may be bent is arranged at the far end of the catheter, so as to control the hose
to swing and link the shooting module to rotate, thereby obtaining multiple intracavitary images at
different angles.
[0003] A common bending structure is provided with multiple riveted units inside the hose at the far
end of the catheter to form a structure capable of swinging laterally. To provide a hose at the far end
of the bent catheter, a well-known unit al structure as shown in Fig. 1, the two sides of a cylindrical
body al l is respectively provided with a combination piece a12; by riveting two combination pieces
a12 of one unit al with the cylindrical body al l of the other unit al via a micro rivet a13 or riveting
using laser welding, then combining the multiple units in sequence, arranging inside the hose at the
far end of the catheter and cooperating with driving of the two pull wires, the purpose of bending is
achieved. Although in such a manner, the far end of the catheter can be swung by means of the
structure of riveting each unit, but the procedure of riveting each unit is very troublesome and

                                                    2
difficult. Moreover, for each catheter, there is a need to combine multiple units. Thus, the
manufacturing is not convenient enough and there is an improved space.
[0004] Additionally, there is the conventional art having Chinese patent application No.
201380069722.6 titled "Hinged End Part for Endoscope". Herein, the hinged units can be buckled
one another into a bendable structure, and the far end of a pipe provided for the endoscope can be
controlled to swing. Although the structure of the combined unit is relatively simple, the machining
cost is high. There is a need to combine the units one by one, being not convenient enough. In
application, for swinging and bending among the units, if there is any poor performance, an
unrepairable fault may be caused and thus it is necessary to make improvements.
Summary
[0005] The utility model is a tracheoscope catheter bending structure, and mainly provides an
innovative bending structure. The tracheoscope catheter bending structure is applied to the inside of
a catheter of a body tracheoscope and has better progress and practicability.
[0006] The objectives of the utility model are implemented by the following technical solutions.
[0007] A tracheoscope catheter bending structure includes a main elastic spring ring, two small
elastic spring rings and a fixed seat, wherein the main elastic spring ring is arranged inside a hose
which is located at the far end of a tracheoscope catheter; the two small elastic spring rings are
arranged at the internal two opposite side positions of the main elastic spring ring; two pull wires of
a tracheoscope are respectively penetrated through the two small elastic spring rings; the fixed seat
is held at the farthest end of the hose; the fixed seat is provided with a central vertical plate;
multiple penetration holes are formed at the two sides of the central vertical plate; the far ends of
the two pull wires respectively pass through middle penetration holes at the two sides of the central
vertical plate of the fixed seat and are fixed by positioning plates. Therefore, by applying a force to
different pull wires, the fixed seat can be linked to swing to a corresponding one side, thereby

                                                    3
achieving the purposes of controlling the far end of the catheter to laterally swing and bend and
obtaining obvious progress.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0008] Fig. 1 is a combined diagram of a tracheoscope catheter unit structure of the conventional
art.
[0009] Fig. 2 is a stereoscopic diagram of a tracheoscope catheter bending structure of the utility
model.
[0010] Fig. 3 is a plane diagram of a far end of Fig. 2 of the utility model.
[0011] Fig. 4 is a systematic diagram for swinging a catheter of the utility model.
[0012] Fig. 5 is a stereoscopic diagram of another embodiment of the utility model.
[0013] Reference numbers are set forth hereinafter:
[0014] 1 a main elastic spring ring; 2 a small elastic spring ring; 3 a fixed seat; 31 a central vertical
plate; 32 a penetration hole; 33 a fixed plate; 4 a catheter; 5 a pull wire; 6 a fixed seat; 61 a central
opening; 62 a penetration hole; 63 a directing strip
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
[0015] Please referring to Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, the embodiment is a tracheoscope catheter bending
structure, which mainly includes a main elastic spring ring 1, two small elastic spring rings 2 and a
fixed seat 3, wherein the main elastic spring ring 1 is arranged inside a hose at the far end of a

                                                     4
tracheoscope catheter 4; the outer diameter of the main elastic spring ring 1 is smaller than the inner
diameter of the catheter 4; the two small elastic spring rings 2 are arranged at the internal opposite
two side positions of the main elastic spring ring 1; two pull wires 5 provided for a tracheoscope are
respectively penetrated through the two small elastic spring rings 2; the fixed seat 3 is arranged at
the farthest end of the catheter 4; the fixed seat is provided with a central vertical plate 31; multiple
penetration holes 32 are formed at the two sides of the central vertical plate 31; the far ends of the
two pull wires 5 respectively pass through middle penetration holes at the two sides of the central
vertical plate 31 of the fixed seat 3 and are respectively fixed by a positioning plate 33, thereby
finishing a bendable structure of the utility model. Power wires and connection wires can be
arranged in other penetration holes on the fixed seat 3 in the penetration manner, so as to connect a
shooting module and luminophors at the far end as well as a control mechanism and a power
mechanism at the near end.
[0016] When the tracheoscope catheter bending structure is used, the main elastic spring ring 1 and
the small elastic spring rings 2 have the bendability in itself, so by applying a force to different pull
wires 5, the positioning plates 33 at the far ends of the pull wires 5 can link the fixed seat 3 to swing
to a corresponding direction. With the separation of the central vertical plate 31, the fixed seat 3 can
guarantee that it only can bend and incline to the two sides of the central vertical plate 31, thereby
achieving the purposes of controlling a hose portion at the far end of the catheter, stabilizing the
state of swinging toward the two sides as shown in Fig. 4 and enabling the far end of the catheter 4
to bend; and thus, it has significant progress.
[0017] Please referring to Fig. 5 again, it is a changed embodiment of the utility model, wherein the
fixed seat 6 is provided with a central opening 61, and is provided with a plurality of the penetration
holes 62 on an annular external portion; the central opening 61 can be used for connecting a pipe to
form a working channel; the far ends of the two pull wires 5 are also respectively arranged in two
penetration holes at opposite sides of the fixed seat 6 in a penetration manner; a directing strip 63 is
arranged in each of the two penetration holes at the other two sides of the two pull wires 16; the
fixed seat 6 can be bent accurately toward a corresponding direction under the linkage of the
different pull wires 2, and the hose portion at the far end of the catheter is driven to bend and swing.

                                                   5
Hence, the utility model increases the application range and improves the practicability.
[0018] In conclusion, according to the improved bending structure of the utility model, the
manufacturing process is simple; the multiple units do not need to be buckled or riveted and pivoted
for multiple times and can be simply combined inside the hose at the far end of the pipe, thereby
achieving the purpose of simply controlling the far end of the tracheoscope catheter to bend and
swing; and thus, the utility model apparently has excellent practicability and progress compared
with the well-known design.

                                                     6
                                                 Claims
1.     A tracheoscope catheter bending structure, which is characterized by comprising:
a main elastic spring ring, two small elastic spring rings and a fixed seat, wherein
the main elastic spring ring is arranged inside a hose which is located at the far end of a
tracheoscope catheter; the outer diameter of the main elastic spring ring is slightly smaller than the
inner diameter of a catheter;
  the two small elastic spring rings are arranged at the internal two opposite side positions of the
main elastic spring ring; two pull wires of a tracheoscope are respectively penetrated through the
two small elastic spring rings; and
the fixed seat is combined at the farthest end of the hose and is provided with multiple penetration
holes; the far ends of the two pull wires respectively pass through two penetration holes and are
respectively fixed by a positioning plate.
2.     The tracheoscope catheter bending structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fixed seat is
provided with a central vertical plate; the penetration holes are arranged at the two sides of the
central vertical plate, such that the far ends of the two pull wires respectively pass through middle
penetration holes at the two sides of the central vertical plate of the fixed seat.
3.     The tracheoscope catheter bending structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fixed seat is
provided with a central opening; the central opening can be combined with a pipe to form a working
channel; each of the penetration holes is arranged at an annular portion at the outer edge of the fixed
seat; a directing strip is respectively arranged in the penetration holes at the opposite two sides; the
far ends of the two pull wires respectively pass through two penetration holes which are located at

                                                    7
the other two sides of the fixed seat.
4.     The tracheoscope catheter bending structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein with the
movements of different pull wires, the fixed seat can be accurately swung to a corresponding
position; and the hose portion at the far end of the catheter is bent and turn to the same side.

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.2   FIG.1                              1/4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.3                              2/4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.4                              3/4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 5                              4/4

