  10D1394754
  ABSTRACT:
             The invention provides methods that relate to a novel therapeutic strategy for the
  treatment of hematological malignancies and inflammatory diseases. In particular, the method
  comprises administration of a compound of formula A, wherein R is H, halo, or C1 -C6 alkyl; R'
5 is Cl-C6 alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and optionally a pharmaceutically
  acceptable excipient.
                                           NCI
                          RN                      R                 (A)
                                            HN        N
                                                         -N
                                                     NH;

                            THERAPIES FOR HEMATOLOGIC MALIGNANCIES
   Related Applications
              10001] This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application no.
   <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian patent application no. <removed-apn>, which is a
 5 divisional application of Australian patent application no. 2009313878, the entire disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein by reference. Application no. 2009313878 claims benefit of U.S. application Serial
   Numbers 61/245,196 filed September 23, 2009; 61/231,278 filed August 4, 2009; 61/180,768 filed May 22,
   2009; 61/155,057 filed February 24, 2009; 61/142,845 filed January 6, 2009; and 61/114,434 filed
   November 13, 2008, which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
 0 Technical Field
              10002] The invention is in the field of therapeutics and medicinal chemistry. In particular, the
   invention concerns uses of certain quinazoline derivatives for the treatment of hematologic malignancies
   and certain other conditions.
   Background Art
 5            10003] Cell signaling via 3-phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety
   of cellular processes, e.g., malignant transformation, growth factor signaling, inflammation, and
   immunity.     The   enzyme      responsible   for  generating   these  phosphorylated   signaling  products,
   phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase; P13K), was originally identified as an activity associated with
   viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol
 o (PI) and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3-hydroxyl of the inositol ring.
              10004] PI 3-kinase activation, is believed to be involved in a range of cellular responses
   including cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis.
              10005] The initial purification and molecular cloning of PI 3-kinase revealed that it was a
   heterodimer consisting of p85 and p 1 10 subunits. Four distinct Class I PI3Ks have been identified,
25 designated P13K a,     P, 6, and 7. each consisting of a distinct 110 kDa catalytic subunit and a regulatory
   subunit. More specifically, three of the catalytic subunits, i.e., p1 1a, p1 10    and p1106, each interact
   with the same regulatory subunit, p85; whereas p1l107 interacts with a distinct regulatory subunit, p101.
   The patterns of expression of each of these PI3Ks in human cells and tissues are also distinct.
              10006] Identification of the p1106 isoform of PI 3-kinase is described in Chantry et al. , J Biol
30 Chem, 272: 19236-41 (1997). It was observed that the human p1106 isoform is expressed in a tissue
   restricted fashion. It is expressed at high levels in lymphocytes and lymphoid tissues,
                                                           1

suggesting that the protein might play a role in PI 3-kinase-mediated signaling in the immune
system. The p110p isofor of PIK may also play a role in P13K-mediated signaling in certain
cancers.
    [00071   There is a need for a treatment relating to P13K mediated disorders relating to cancers,
inflammatory diseases, and autoinmune diseases.
    [0007a] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgment, or any rorm of suggestion, that this prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge in Australia or any otherjurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected
to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
    Summar
    [00081 The present invention provides a class of quinazolinone type compounds and a method to
use these compounds in the treatment of cancer, inflammatory, and autoimmune diseases. In
particular, cancers that are hematologic malignancies, such as leukemia and lymphoma, are treated
by the methods herein. Also provided are methods of using the quinazolinone compounds in
combination with other therapeutic treatments in patients in need thereof.
    [00091 In one aspect, the invention provides the use of a compound for the manufacture of a
medicament for the treatment of a condition in a subject, wherein the condition is cancer or an
autoimmune condition; wherein the compound is of formula A,
                                         R-i
                                                         R'
                                                     HN     N
                                                       NNH      (A)
            wherein R is H, halo, or Cl C6 alkyl; R' is CA-C6 alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof; and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
    [00101 In one embodiment, the compound is predominantly the S-enantiomer.
    [00111 In some of the foregoing embodiments, R is fluom (F) and is attached to position 5 or 6
of the quinazolinyl ring.
    [00121 In some of the foregoing embodiments, R is H or F; and R' is methyl, ethyl or
    prmpyl.
                                                     2

[00131 Insome embodiments, the compound is
                                        HN I  N
                                             NH (I")
                                         2A

    [0014] In some embodiments, compound is
                                 F           N
                                          N
                                              HN    N
                                                N
                                                      NH(II").
    [0015] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the autoimmune disease is allergic rhinitis,
asthma, COPD, or rheumatoid arthritis.
    [0016] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the condition is cancer.
    [0017] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is a hematological malignancy.
    [0018] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the hematological malignancy is leukemia.
    [0019] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the hematological malignancy is lymphoma.
    [0020] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the hematological malignancy is selected
from the group consisting of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia
(AML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), multiple
myeloma (MM), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), follicular
lymphoma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM), B-cell lymphoma and diffuse large B
cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
    [0021] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is acute lymphocytic leukemia
(ALL).
    [0022] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is acute myeloid leukemia
(AML).
    [0023] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is chronic lymphocytic leukemia
(CLL).
    [0024] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is multiple myeloma (MM).
    [0025] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is B-cell lymphoma.
    [0026] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
(DLBCL).
    [0027] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is B-cell or T-cell ALL.
    [0028] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    [0029] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the cancer is breast, lung, colon, prostate or
ovarian cancer.
                                               3

    [0030] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to chemotherapy
treatment, or in relapse after treatment with chemotherapy.
    [0031] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the compound is prepared for administration
with at least one additional therapeutic agent.
    [0032] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is a
proteasome inhibitor.
    [0033] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is combined
with the compound of Formula A.
    [0034] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is selected
from the group consisting of bortezomib (Velcade*), carfilzomib (PR-171), PR-047, disulfiram,
lactacystin, PS-519, eponemycin, epoxomycin, aclacinomycin, CEP-1612, MG-132, CVT
63417, PS-341, vinyl sulfone tripeptide inhibitors, ritonavir, PI-083, (+/-) 7 methylomuralide,
(-)-7-methylomuralide.
    [0035] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is
bortezomib.
    [0036] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the compound is prepared for administration
with at least a group of at least two agents, wherein said group of agents is selected from the
groups consisting of a-q,
        a)      CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone);
        b)      R CHOP (rituximab CHOP);
        c)      hyperCVAD (hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin,
dexamethasone, methotrexate, cytarabine);
        d)      R-hyperCVAD (rituximab-hyperCVAD);
        e)      FCM (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone);
        f)      R-FCM (rituximab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone);
        g)      bortezomib and rituximab;
        h)      temsirolimus and rituximab;
        i)      temsirolimus and Velcade*;
        j)      Iodine-131 tositumomab (Bexxar*) and CHOP;
        k)      CVP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone);
        1)      R-CVP (rituximab-CVP);
        m)      ICE (iphosphamide, carboplatin, etoposide);
        n)      R-ICE (rituximab-ICE);
        o)      FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab);
                                                  4

        p)      FR (fludarabine, rituximab); and
        q)      D.T. PACE (dexamethasone, thalidomide, cisplatin, Adriamycin*,
cyclophosphamide, etoposide).
   [0037] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the compound of formula A is present in a
pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of formula A and at least one
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
   [0038] In another aspect, the invention provides the use of a compound for the manufacture
of a medicament for the treatment of a condition in a subject, wherein the condition is selected
from the group consisting of multiple myeloma, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute
myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), B-cell lymphoma, diffuse
large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), B cell ALL, T cell ALL, Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast, and
ovarian cancer, wherein the compound is a compound of formula I" or formula II":
                    F                              F              1N
                                                              N5'
                                                                  HN   N
                            HN     N
                                     N                                   N
                               N\-N H (I")                         N -NH   (I)
    [0039] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to chemotherapy
treatment or in relapse after treatment with chemotherapy.
    [0040] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject has a cancer that constitutively
expresses Akt phosphorylation activity.
    [0041] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject has a cancer with high p1106
activity and low p110a activity.
    [0042] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the compound is used in combination with
bortezomib.
    [0043] In another aspect, the invention provides the use of a compound I" or II" in the
manufacture of a medicament for treating a hematological cancer, wherein the medicament is
prepared for administration with bortezomib or carfilzomib.
    [0044] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the compound maintains an average blood
concentration above the EC50 level for PI3K6 activation and below the level for EC50 PI3Ky
activation in basophils over a period of at least 12 hours from compound administration.
                                                   5

    [0045] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the compound maintains an average blood
plasma concentration between 100 nM and 1100 nM over a period of at least 12 hours from
compound administration.
    [0046] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is resistant to standard
chemotherapeutic treatments.
    [0047] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject has at least one enlarged lymph
node.
    [0048] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least two
standard or experimental chemotherapy treatments had at least two prior chemotherapy
treatments.
    [0049] In some of the foregoing embodiments, each chemotherapy treatment is selected
from the group consisting of fludarabine, alkylating agents, rituximab, alemtuzumab, and the
treatments a-q listed above.
Brief Description of the Drawings
    [0050] Figure 1 shows a graphical summary of multiple myeloma (MM) cell growth as a
function of varying concentrations of cytokines IGF- 1 and IL-6 in combination with
compound I, using LB cells.
    [0051] Figure 2 shows a graphical summary of cell growth of multiple myeloma (MM) cells
as a function of varying concentrations of compound I and the presence or absence of bone
marrow stromal cells (BMSC) after 48 hours.
    [0052] Figure 3 shows a graphical summary of apoptosis of Chronic Lymphocytic
Leukemia (CLL) cells as a function of varying concentrations of compound of formula I.
    [0053] Figure 4 shows a summary chart of the effect of compound I on cell viability,
reduction in Akt (Ser473) phosphorylation, and caspase 3 activation in several different Acute
Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) cell lines.
    [0054] Figure 5 shows a summary of the effect of compound I on the cell cycle of acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cell lines.
    [0055] Figure 6 shows a graphical summary of the effect of varying concentration of
compound I on cellular growth in breast cancer T47D and HS-578T cell lines at 48 hrs
and 72 hrs.
    [0056] Figure 7 shows a graphical summary of the effect of varying concentrations of
compound I on cellular growth of ovarian IGROV-1 and OVCAR-3 cell lines at 48 hrs
and 72 hrs.
                                                 6

    [0057] Figure 8 shows a summary of the effect of compound I on Akt phosphorylation in
many leukemia and lymphoma cell lines.
    [0058] Figure 9 shows SDS-PAGE images and displays of Akt and pAkt in various
hematopoietic cancer cell lines as a function of the presence or absence of compound I, showing
compound I inhibits Akt phosphorylation.
    [0059] Figure 10 shows graphical summaries of apoptotic and viable cell populations in
breast cancer cell lines as a function of varying concentrations of compound formula I,
demonstrating that the compound induces apoptosis.
    [0060] Figure 11 shows the concentration of compound I in the blood of a healthy human
subject over 12 hours after oral administration of 50, 100 and 200 mg doses of said compound.
    [0061] Figure 12 shows the comparison of lesion areas in a human patient diagnosed with
mantle cell lymphoma after 28 days (1 cycle) of treatment with compound I and lesion areas
prior to treatment.
    [0062] Figure 13 shows the ALC (absolute lymphocyte count) in the blood of a patient over
a period of 4 weeks after 28 days (1 cycle) of treatment with the compound of formula I.
    [0063] Figure 14 shows the concentration of compound I in the blood of patients with and
without mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) over 6 hours after administration (50 mg BID) at day 28,
compared to the concentration in the blood of a normal healthy volunteer at day 7 (D7) using
the same dosing schedule or dosing with 100 mg BID of Compound I.
    [0064] Figure 15 shows P13K isoform expression in a panel of lymphoma and leukemia cell
lines.
    [0065] Figure 16A shows cell viability and apoptosis data in leukemia cell lines exposed to
Compound I. In figure 16B the Annexin staining indicates an increase in apoptosis in the
treated cells.
    [0066] Figures 17A-D shows PAGE results of different P13K isoform expression in CLL
patient cells.
    [0067] Figure 18 shows the induction of (A) caspase 3 and (B) PARP cleavage in the
presence of compound I.
    [0068] Figure 19 shows increased apoptosis of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) cells
from poor prognosis patients caused by exposure to compound I, demonstrating that compound
I is effective in drug resistant patients.
    [0069] Figure 20 shows increased apoptosis of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) cells
from refractory/ relapsed patients caused by exposure to the compound of formula I.
                                                  7

    [0070] Figure 21 shows the results of Phospho-Akt production in the absence or presence of
0.1, 1.0, 10 pM of compound I.
    [0071] Figure 22 shows flow cytometry results relating to P13K signaling in basophils,
demonstrating that (B) anti-FCrR1 or (C) fMLP increases CD63 expression compared to no
stimulation (A).
    [0072] Figure 23 shows inhibition of P13K inhibition by compound I in basophils, and
demonstrates that Compound I is especially effective at inhibition of CD63 expression induced
by a p1106 pathway, but also effective at micromolar concentration to inhibit expression
induced by a p1 107 pathway.
    [0073] Figure 24 shows pharmacokinetic data of (A) single dose administration of
compound I at different dose amounts in healthy volunteers, and (B) a pharmacokinetic profile
that maintains an effective dosage over a 12 hour period.
    [0074] Figure 25 shows the effects of various doses of compound I on (A) glucose and
(B) insulin levels, exhibiting little off-target activity.
    [0075] Figure 26A shows the P13K isoform expression in a panel of DLBCL cell lines.
    [0076] Figure 26 B shows an SDS-PAGE image of pAkt in DLBCL cell lines in the
presence or absence of compound I.
    [0077] Figure 27 shows the effects of a 10 pM concentration of compound I on the
phosphorylation of Akt and S6 in ALL cell lines in SDS-PAGE.
    [0078] Figure 28 shows a dose dependent reduction of phosphorylation of Akt, S6, and
GSK-3p after treatment with a series of compound I dilutions.
    [0079] Figure 29 shows dose dependent effects of compound I on ALL cell lines in the
downregulation of cFLIP, cleavage of Caspase 3, and cleavage of PARP.
    [0080] Figure 30 shows expression of p1106 in A) MM cell lines and B) patient MM cells;
and C) in MM.1S and LB cells.
    [0081] Figure 31A shows expression of p1106 from LB and INA-6 cells transfected with
p1106 siRNA (Si) or control siRNA (mock).
    [0082] Figure 31B shows a graph of INA-6 cell growth after transfection with p1106 siRNA
(Si) or control siRNA (mock).
    [0083] Figure 31C shows the % of viable cells cultured with or without compound I for 48
hours.
    [0084] Figure 31D shows the % of viable MM cells after being cultured with compound I at
concentrations from 0 to 20 pM for 48 hours.
                                                     8

    [0085] Figure 31E shows the % of viable peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy
donors after being cultured with compound I at various concentrations for 72 hours.
    [0086] Figure 31F shows immunoblotting results of lysates from INA-6 cells cultured with
compound 1 (0-5 pM) for 120 hours.
    [0087] Figure 32 shows immunoblot AKT and ERK expression profiles after culturing of
A) INA-6 cells with compound I or LY294002 for 12 hours; B) INA-6 and MM.1S cells with
compound I at various concentrations for 6 hours; C) LB and INA-6 cells with compound I for
0-6 hours.
    [0088] Figure 33A shows fluorescent and transmission electron microscopic images of
INA-6 and LB MM cells treated with compound I for 6 hours and LC3 accumulation; arrows
indicate autophagosomes.
    [0089] Figure 33B shows fluorescence microscopy images of INA-6 cells treated with 5 PM
of compound I or serum starvation for 6 hours.
    [0090] Figure 33C shows immunoblots of LC3 and beclin-1 protein levels from INA-6 cells
treated with or without compound 1 and 3-MA (3-methyl adenine, a known inhibitor of
autophagy).
    [0091] Figure 33D shows % growth of p1106 positive LB cells after treatment with up to
100 pM of 3-MA for 24 hours.
    [0092] Figure 34 shows the levels of growth inhibition of A) LB or B) INA-6 cells co
cultured with 0, 5, and 10 pM of compound I in the presence or absence of varying amounts of
IL-6 or IGF-1; Legend: control media ( U); compound I at 5.0 pM (      ) or 10 pM ( E).
    [0093] Figure 34C and 34D show MM cell growth inhibition in the presence of BMSC.
Legend for 34C only: control media ( E ), Compound I 2.5 pM (i), 5 pM (I), and 10 pM (U).
    [0094] Figure 34 E shows immunoblots of IL-6 in culture supernatants from BMSCs
cultured with compound I or control media for 48 hours.
    [0095] Figure 34F shows immunoblots of AKT and ERK expression profiles in INA-6 cells
treated with compound I cultured with our without BMSCs.
    [0096] Figure 34G shows % BMSC cell growth in two different patients after culturing with
compound I for 48 hours.
    [0097] Figure 35A shows microscopic images of HuVECs (human umbilical vein
endothelial cells) cultured with 0, 1 and 10 pM of compound I for 8 hours and microtubule
formation assessed.
    [0098] Figure 35B shows a bar chart summarizing endothelial cell tube formation in
HuVEC cells treated with compound I.
                                                 9

    [0099] Figure 35 C shows a graph charting % cell growth of HuVECs as a function of the
increasing culture concentration of compound I.
    [0100] Figure 35 D shows decreasing Akt and ERK expression of HuVEC cell lysates after
being cultured with compound I for 8 hours.
    [0101] Figure 36A charts the tumor volume in SCID mice with human MM xenografts
treated with 0, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg of compound II as a function of time, showing strong in
vivo activity on the human xenograft tumor
    [0102] Figure 36 B shows a photograph comparing the tumor from human MM xenografts
on a mouse treated with compound II for 12 days to a control mouse.
    [0103] Figure 36C shows the survival rate of SCID mice with human MM xenografts
treated with 0, 10, and 30 mg/kg compound II over time.
    [0104] Figure 36D shows images from immuno-histochemistric analysis of tumors
harvested from a mouse treated with compound II in comparison to the control; wherein CD31
and P-AKT positive cells are dark brown.
    [0105] Figure 36E shows immunoblots detecting PDK-1 and AKT levels from tumor tissues
harvested from mice treated with compound II in comparison to a control.
    [0106] Figure 36F shows a chart of sIL6R levels measured in mice treated with 0, 10 mg/kg
or 30 mg/kg of compound II over a period of 4 weeks of treatment as determined by ELISA.
    [0107] Figure 37A show the %of viable LB or INA-6 MM cells after treatment with
compound I with varying amounts of bortezomib (B); Legend: medium (i), compound I
1.25 pM (i), 2.5 pM ( ), or 5.0 pM (o).
    [0108] Figure 37B shows immunoblots comparing levels of phosphorylation of AKT in
INA-6 cells treated for 6 hours with compound I and/or bortezomib.
    [0109] Figure 38 shows (A) P13K isoform expression in a panel of follicular lymphoma cell
lines; (B) reduction in the expression of pAkt, Akt, pS6 and S6 after exposure to compound I;
and (C)Increase in PARP and caspase-3 cleavage after exposure to compound I in a dose
dependent manner.
    [0110] Figure 39 shows (A) amounts of constitutive P13K signaling in primary MCL cells in
various amounts of compound I; (B) reduction in pAkt production in MCL cell lines containing
a survival factor and varying amounts of compound I.
    [0111] Figure 40 show a computer tomography axillary image of a bulky lymphadenopathy
in a patient with CLL (A) before treatment with compound I and (B) after 1 cycle of treatment
with compound I.
                                                 10

Modes of Carrying Out the Invention
    [01121 Unless otherwise defined, all terms of art, notations and other scientific terms or
terminology used herein are intended to have the meanings commonly understood by those of skill
in the art to which this invention pertains. In some cases, terms with commonly understood
meanings are defined herein for clarity and/or for ready reference, and the inclusion of such
definitions herein should not necessarily be constred to represent a substantial difference over
what is generally understood in the art. Many of the techniques and procedures described or
referenced herein are well understood and commonly employed using conventional methodology by
those skilled in the art. As appropriate, procedures involving the use of commercially available kits
and reagents are generally carried out in accordance with manufacturer defined protocols and/or
parameters unless otherwise noted.
    [01l2a] As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the tern "comprise" and
variations of the tern, such as "comprising", 'comprises" and 'comprised", are not intended to
exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
    [01131 The discussion of the general methods given herein is intended for illustrative purposes
only. Other alternative methods and embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon
review ofthis disclosure.
    [01141 A group of items linked with the conjunction "or" should not be read as requiring mutual
exclusivity among that group, but rather should also be read as 'and/or" unless expressly stated
otherwise. Although items, elements, or components of the invention may be described or claimed
in the singular, the plural is contemplated to be within the scope thereof unless limitation to the
singular is explicitly stated.
    [01151 The invention provides methods that relate to a novel therapeutic strategy for the
treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases. In one aspect, the invention provides a method of
treating cancer or an autoimmune disease in a subject comprising administering to said subject a
compound of formula A
                                                   HN     N      (A)
                                                      tNH
                                                    It

   wherein R is H, halo, or Cl-C6 alkyl; R' is Cl-C6 alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof; and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
   [0116] In a particular embodiment, halo is F; and R' is methyl, ethyl or propyl.
   [0117] In a particular embodiment, R is attached to position 5 of the quinazolinyl ring,
   having the structure
                                                 11A

                                        RN
                                             N       R
                                                HNN
                                                         -N
                                                   N
                                                      'N H.
    [0118] In a particular embodiment, R is attached to position 6 of the quinazolinyl ring,
having the structure
                                     R            N
                                               N
                                                   HN     N
                                                           -l)N
                                                          NH
    [0119] The term 'compound' used herein, unless otherwise specified, refers to a compound
of formula A, such as compound I, compound II, or an enantiomer, such as I" or II", or an
enantiomeric mixture.
   [0120] The "compound of formula I" or "compound I" refers to the chemical compound
5-fluoro-3-phenyl-2-[l-(9H-purin-6-ylamino)-propyl]-3H-quinazolin-4-one, structure of
formula I:
                                     F
                                          N
                                               HN       N
                                                HN      N N
                                                    NH
                                                        NNH (I).
    [0121] The S-enantiomer of compound I is shown here, designated I":
                               F~f
                                    N
                                      HN     N     (I", S-enantiomer)
                                        NN
                                            NH
    [0122] The "compound of formula II" or "compound II" refers to the chemical compound 2
(1-(9H-purin-6-ylamino)ethyl)-6-fluoro-3-phenylquinazolin-4(3H)-one, structure of formula II:
                                                12

                                   F
                                              N
                                                   HN     N
                                                              N
                                                      N NH      (II).
   [0123] The S-enantiomer of compound II is shown here, designated II":
                           F    ,       N
                                     N
                                         HN      N      (II", S-enantiomer)
                                           NN
                                            N NH
    [0124] In one embodiment, the compound of formula A is a compound of formula I. In
another embodiment, the compound of formula A is a compound of formula II. In certain
embodiments, the compound is a racemic mixture of R- and S-enantiomers. In certain
embodiments, the compound is used as a mixture of enantiomers, and is often enriched with the
S-enantiomer. In some embodiments, the compound is predominantly the S-enantiomer. In
some embodiments, the compound of formula A, used in the methods described herein is at
least 80% S-enantiomer. In certain embodiments, the compound is primarily composed of the
S-enantiomer, wherein the compound comprises at least 66-95%, or 85-99% of the
S-enantiomer. In some embodiments the compound has an enantiomeric excess (e.e.) of at least
90% or at least 95% of S-enantiomer. In some embodiments the compound has an S
enantiomeric excess (e.e.) of at least 98% or at least 99%. In certain embodiments, the
compound comprises at least 95% of the S-enantiomer. In the cellular and patient experiments
provided in the Example section, the sample of compound I used was over 95% S-enantiomer.
   [0125] In specific embodiments, the compound of formula I or II, used in the methods
described herein is at least 80% S-enantiomer. In certain embodiments, the compound of
formula I or II is primarily composed of the S-enantiomer, wherein the compound comprises at
least 66-95%, or 85-99% of the S-enantiomer. In some embodiments the compound of formula
I or II has an enantiomeric excess (e.e.) of at least 90% or at least 95% of S-enantiomer. In
some embodiments the compound of formula I or II has an S-enantiomeric excess (e.e.) of at
least 98% or at least 99%. In certain embodiments, the compound of formula I or II comprises
                                                   13

at least 95% of the S-enantiomer. In the cellular and patient experiments provided in the
Example section, the sample of compound I used was over 95% S-enantiomer.
    [0126] In a particular embodiment, the compound selectively inhibits P13K p 1 106 compared
to other P13K isoforms.
    [0127] In a particular embodiment, the autoimmune disease is allergic rhinitis, asthma,
COPD, or rheumatoid arthritis.
    [0128] In a particular embodiment, the cancer is a hematological malignancy and/or solid
tumor. In another particular embodiment, the hematological malignancy is leukemia or
lymphoma.
    [0129] In some embodiments, lymphoma is a mature (peripheral) B-cell neoplasm. In
specific embodiments, the mature B-cell neoplasm is selected from the group consisting of B
cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia / small lymphocytic lymphoma; B-cell prolymphocytic
leukemia; Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma; Marginal zone lymphoma, such as Splenic marginal
zone B-cell lymphoma (+/- villous lymphocytes), Nodal marginal zone lymphoma (+/
monocytoid B-cells), and Extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated
lymphoid tissue (MALT) type; Hairy cell leukemia; Plasma cell myeloma/plasmacytoma;
Follicular lymphoma, follicle center; Mantle cell lymphoma; Diffuse large cell B-cell
lymphoma (including Mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma,
and Primary effusion lymphoma); and Burkitt's lymphoma/Burkitt's cell leukemia.
    [0130] In some embodiments, lymphoma is selected from the group consisting of multiple
myeloma (MM) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), follicular
lymphoma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM) or B-cell lymphoma and diffuse large B
cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
    [0131] In a further particular embodiment, leukemia is selected from the group consisting of
acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic
leukemia (CLL), and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). Acute lymphocytic leukemia is also
known as acute lymphoblastic leukemia and may be used interchangeably herein. Both terms
describe a type of cancer that starts from the white blood cells, lymphocytes, in the bone
marrow.
    [0132] In some embodiments, Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) falls into one of two
categories, aggressive NHL or indolent NHL. Aggressive NHL is fast growing and may lead to
a patient's death relatively quickly. Untreated survival may be measured in months or even
weeks. Examples of aggressive NHL includes B-cell neoplasms, diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma, T/NK cell neoplasms, anaplastic large cell lymphoma, peripheral T-cell lymphomas,
                                                 14

precursor B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, precursor T-lymphoblastic
leukemia/lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, Adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia (HTLV1+),
primary CNS lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, polymorphic post-transplantation
lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD), AIDS-related lymphoma, true histiocytic lymphoma, and
blastic NK-cell lymphoma. The most common type of aggressive NHL is diffuse large cell
lymphoma.
    [0133] Indolent NHL is slow growing and does not display obvious symptoms for most
patients until the disease has progressed to an advanced stage. Untreated survival of patients
with indolent NHL may be measured in years. Non-limiting examples include follicular
lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma (such as extranodal
marginal zone lymphoma (also called mucosa associated lymphoid tissue - MALT lymphoma),
nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (monocytoid B-cell lymphoma), splenic marginal zone
lymphoma), and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia).
    [0134] In some cases, histologic transformation may occur, e.g., indolent NHL in patients
may convert to aggressive NHL.
    [0135] In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating a patient with
aggressive NHL or indolent NHL.
    [0136] In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating a patient with a
condition selected from the group consisting of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), diffuse large B
cell lymphoma (DLBCL), follicular lymphoma (FL), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute
myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and small lymphocytic
lymphoma (SLL), multiple myeloma (MM), and marginal zone lymphoma.
    [0137] In some embodiments, the methods of the invention are administered to patients with
relapsed or refractory conditions.
    [0138] In another embodiment, the cancer is breast, lung, colon or prostate cancer.
    [0139] In a particular embodiment, the cancer or autoimmune disease is associated with
abnormal P13K activity compared to P13K activity in a subject without cancer or without an
autoimmune disease.
    [0140] In a particular embodiment, the preferred subject is refractory to chemotherapy
treatment, or in relapse after treatment with chemotherapy. In an alternative embodiment, the
subject is a de novo patient.
    [0141] In a particular embodiment, the method comprises reducing the level of PI3K6
activity in said patient.
    [0142] In a particular embodiment, the subject is a human subject.
                                                 15

    [0143] Subjects that undergo treatment with known therapeutic agents may experience
resistance to treatment. For example, although bortezomib was FDA approved for
relapsed/refractory, relapsed, and newly diagnosed MM, some patients do not respond and
others acquire resistance to bortezomib. In some embodiments, the quinazolinone compound
described herein synergistically augments efficacy of a known therapeutic agent. In some
embodiments, the compounds described herein can augment any of the therapeutic agents
described herein. In more specific embodiments, the compounds described herein
synergistically augment proteasome inhibitors. In some of the foregoing embodiments, the
subject is resistant to chemotherapeutic treatment. In some of the foregoing embodiments, the
subject is resistant to proteasome inhibitors. In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject
is resistant bortezomib or carfilzomib. In one example, the compounds described herein
synergistically augment bortezomib-induced MM cytotoxicity. Without being bound by theory,
in some embodiments, the compounds discussed herein inhibit bortezomib-induced
phosphorylation of AKT. In some embodiments, the methods described herein are used to
overcome resistance to proteasome inhibitor treatment. In some embodiments, the invention
provides a method to treat a subject that is resistant or has developed a resistance to therapeutic
agents.
    [0144] While not being bound by theory, the synergistic effects between a compound of
formula A and conventional therapies may be attributed to the ability of the compound of the
invention to induce tumor cell mobilization into peripheral circulation. Inducing the peripheral
circulation of the tumor cells increases the ability of conventional therapy to act upon and more
effectively neutralize the tumor. This synergy has been demonstrated in CLL patients.
    [0145] Accordingly, the method comprises administering in addition to a compound of
formula A to a patient, a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic
agent and/or a therapeutic procedure selected to treat said cancer or autoimmune disease in said
patient. "Therapeutic agent" may refer to one or more compounds, as used herein. The
therapeutic agent may be a standard or experimental chemotherapy drug. The therapeutic agent
may comprise a combination of more than one chemotherapy drug. Typical chemotherapy drug
combinations are listed a-q herein. A particular therapeutic agent may be chosen depending on
the type of disease being treated. Non-limiting examples of conventional chemotherapeutic
treatments for particular hematologic disease are described in later sections. In a particular
embodiment, the invention provides a method to treat a hematopoietic cancer patient, e.g., a
CLL patient, with bortezomib and a compound of formula A (e.g., formula I, II, I", or II"),
wherein the combination provides a synergistic effect.
                                                   16

    [0146] In a particular embodiment, said therapeutic agent is selected from the following
group consisting of bortezomib (Velcade*), carfilzomib (PR-171), PR-047, disulfiram,
lactacystin, PS-519, eponemycin, epoxomycin, aclacinomycin, CEP-1612, MG-132, CVT
63417, PS-341, vinyl sulfone tripeptide inhibitors, ritonavir, PI-083, (+/-)-7-methylomuralide,
(-)-7-methylomuralide, perifosine, rituximab, sildenafil citrate (Viagra*), CC-5103,
thalidomide, epratuzumab (hLL2- anti-CD22 humanized antibody), simvastatin, enzastaurin,
Campath-1H*, dexamethasone, DT PACE, oblimersen, antineoplaston A10,
antineoplaston AS2-1, alemtuzumab, beta alethine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
hydrochloride, PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, prednisone, prednisolone,
cladribine, vincristine sulfate, fludarabine, filgrastim, melphalan, recombinant interferon alfa,
carmustine, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, etoposide, melphalan, dolastatin 10,
indium In 111 monoclonal antibody MN-14, yttrium Y 90 humanized epratuzumab, anti
thymocyte globulin, busulfan, cyclosporine, methotrexate, mycophenolate mofetil, therapeutic
allogeneic lymphocytes, Yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, sirolimus, tacrolimus, carboplatin,
thiotepa, paclitaxel, aldesleukin, recombinant interferon alfa, docetaxel, ifosfamide, mesna,
recombinant interleukin-12, recombinant interleukin- 11, Bcl-2 family protein inhibitor ABT
263, denileukin diftitox, tanespimycin, everolimus, pegfilgrastim, vorinostat, alvocidib,
recombinant flt3 ligand, recombinant human thrombopoietin, lymphokine-activated killer cells,
amifostine trihydrate, aminocamptothecin, irinotecan hydrochloride, caspofungin acetate,
clofarabine, epoetin alfa, nelarabine, pentostatin, sargramostim, vinorelbine ditartrate, WT- 1
analog peptide vaccine, WT1 126-134 peptide vaccine, fenretinide, ixabepilone, oxaliplatin,
monoclonal antibody CD19, monoclonal antibody CD20, omega-3 fatty acids, mitoxantrone
hydrochloride, octreotide acetate, tositumomab and iodine 1131 tositumomab,
motexafin gadolinium, arsenic trioxide, tipifarnib, autologous human tumor-derived HSPPC-96,
veltuzumab, bryostatin 1, anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies, chlorambucil, pentostatin,
lumiliximab, apolizumab, Anti-CD40, and Ofatumumab, or a combination thereof.
Combination of therapeutic agents are used in current and experimental therapies such as those
combinations a-q listed above.
    [0147] In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is preferably a proteasome inhibitor. In
some embodiments, the methods comprise administering a compound with a proteasome
inhibitor. Proteasome inhibitors include natural and synthetic compounds. Non-limiting
examples of proteasome inhibitors include bortezomib, ([(1R)-3-methyl-1-({ (2S)-3-phenyl-2
[(pyrazin-2-ylcarbonyl)amino]propanoyl I amino)butyl]boronic acid), which is marketed as
'Velcade*' by Millennium pharmaceuticals; carfilzomib (PR-171) and the oral analog, PR-047,
                                                   17

both of which are developed by Proteolix, Inc. Other examples of proteasome inhibitors include
disulfiram; lactacystin; synthetic compounds such as PS-519, eponemycin, epoxomycin, and
aclacinomycin; calpain inhibitors, such as CEP-1612, MG-132, CVT-63417, PS-341; vinyl
sulfone tripeptide inhibitors; ritonavir; PI-083; (+/-)-7-methylomuralide; and (-)-7
methylomuralide. In particular embodiments, the compound of formula A is administered in
combination with bortezomib or carfilzomib. In more particular embodiments, the compound
of formula I is administered in combination with bortezomib or carfilzomib. In other particular
embodiments, the compound of formula II is administered in combination with bortezomib or
carfilzomib.
    [0148] In one aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
compound of Formula I:
                                        F
                                             N
                                                 HN     N
                                                  HN    N N
                                                      NH
                                                         NNH (I),
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and at least one pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient. In one embodiment, the composition is enriched with the S-enantiomer.
    [0149] In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
compound of Formula II:
                                   F
                                              N
                                                  HN     N
                                                       11I
                                                           N
                                                       \NH
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and at least one pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient. In one embodiment, the composition is enriched with the S-enantiomer.
    [0150] In one aspect, the invention provides a method of treating multiple myeloma (MM)
in a patient comprising administering a combination of a compound of formula A and an
additional therapeutic agent. In some embodiments, formula A is compound I or II. In specific
embodiments, formula A is compound I". In other embodiments, formula A is compound II".
In some of the foregoing embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is a proteasome
                                                   18

inhibitor. In specific embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is bortezomib. In a specific
embodiment, the method of treating multiple myeloma in a patient comprises administering
compound I" with bortezomib. In a specific embodiment, the method of treating multiple
myeloma in a patient comprises administering compound II" with bortezomib. In some of the
foregoing embodiments, compound I" or II" has an enantiomeric excess of at least 60%. In
some of the foregoing embodiments, compound I" or II" has an enantiomeric excess of at least
70%. In some of the foregoing embodiments, compound I" or II" has an enantiomeric excess of
at least 80%. In some of the foregoing embodiments, compound I" or II" has an enantiomeric
excess of at least 90%. In some of the foregoing embodiments, compound I" or II" has an
enantiomeric excess of at least 95%. In some of the foregoing embodiments, compound I" or
II" has an enantiomeric excess of at least 98%. In some of the foregoing embodiments,
compound I" or II" has an enantiomeric excess of at least 99%.
    [0151] In a particular embodiment, a combination of therapeutic agents is administered with
a compound of Formula A, wherein said combination is selected from the group consisting of
         a)     CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone);
         b)     R-CHOP (rituximab-CHOP);
         c)     hyperCVAD (hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin,
dexamethasone, methotrexate, cytarabine);
         d)     R-hyperCVAD (rituximab-hyperCVAD);
         e)     FCM (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone);
         f)     R-FCM (rituximab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone);
         g)     bortezomib and rituximab;
         h)     temsirolimus and rituximab;
         i)     temsirolimus and Velcade*;
         j)     Iodine-131 tositumomab (Bexxar*) and CHOP;
         k)     CVP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone);
         1)     R-CVP (rituximab-CVP);
         m)     ICE (iphosphamide, carboplatin, etoposide);
         n)     R-ICE (rituximab-ICE);
         o)     FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab);
         p)     FR (fludarabine, rituximab); and
         q)     D.T. PACE (dexamethasone, thalidomide, cisplatin, Adriamycin*,
cyclophosphamide, etoposide).
                                                 19

    [0152] In alternative embodiments, the compound is used in combination with a therapeutic
procedure. In a particular embodiment, the therapeutic procedure is selected from the group
consisting of peripheral blood stem cell transplantation, autologous hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation, autologous bone marrow transplantation, antibody therapy, biological therapy,
enzyme inhibitor therapy, total body irradiation, infusion of stem cells, bone marrow ablation
with stem cell support, in vitro-treatedperipheral blood stem cell transplantation, umbilical cord
blood transplantation, immunoenzyme technique, immunohistochemistry staining method,
pharmacological study, low-LET cobalt-60 gamma ray therapy, bleomycin, conventional
surgery, radiation therapy, high-dose chemotherapy and nonmyeloablative allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
   [0153] In a particular embodiment, the method further comprises obtaining a biological
sample from said patient; and analyzing said biological sample with an analytical procedure
selected from the group consisting of blood chemistry analysis, chromosomal translocation
analysis, needle biopsy, fluorescence in situ hybridization, laboratory biomarker analysis,
immunohistochemistry staining method, flow cytometry or a combination thereof.
   [0154] For nomenclature purposes, the quinazolinyl and purinyl components of the
compound are numbered accordingly:
                                 6     H7                            8    1
                                        /> 86                                    3
                             2   N     N                         6           N 3.
                     purine       3     9          quinazoline       5     4
    [0155] As used herein, the term "alkyl," includes straight-chain, branched-chain and cyclic
monovalent hydrocarbyl radicals, and combinations of these, which contain only C and H when
they are unsubstituted. Examples include methyl, ethyl, isobutyl, cyclohexyl, cyclopentylethyl,
and the like. The total number of carbon atoms in each such group is sometimes described
herein, e.g., when the group can contain up to ten carbon atoms it can be represented as 1-10C
or as C1-ClO or C1-10.
    [0156] "Halo", as used herein, includes fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo. Fluoro and chloro
are often preferred.
    [0157] The term "selective PI3K6 inhibitor" or "selective PI3K inhibitor", etc., as used
herein, refers to a compound that inhibits the PI3K6 or PI3K isozyme, respectively, more
effectively than at least one other isozymes of the P13K family. The selective inhibitor may also
be active against other isozymes of P13K, but requires higher concentrations to achieve the same
degree of inhibition of the other isozymes. "Selective" can also be used to describe a compound
                                                 20

that inhibits a particular P13-kinase more so than a comparable compound. A "selective PI3K6
inhibitor" compound is understood to be more selective for PI3K6 than compounds
conventionally and generically designated P13K inhibitors, e.g., wortmannin or LY294002.
Concomitantly, wortmannin and LY294002 are deemed "nonselective P13K inhibitors." In
certain embodiments, compounds of any type that selectively negatively regulate P13K6
expression or activity can be used as selective PI3K6 inhibitors in the methods of the invention.
Moreover, compounds of any type that selectively negatively regulate PI3K6 expression or
activity and that possess acceptable pharmacological properties can be used as selective PI3K6
inhibitors in the therapeutic methods of the invention. Without being bound by theory, targeting
p110 delta inhibition with a compound of the invention provides a novel approach for the
treatment of hematological malignancies because this method inhibits constitutive signaling
resulting in direct destruction of the tumor cell. In addition, without being bound by theory,
p110 delta inhibition represses microenvironmental signals which are crucial for tumor cell
homing, survival and proliferation.
    [0158] In an alternative embodiment, compounds of any type that selectively negatively
regulate PI3K expression or activity can be used as selective PI3K inhibitors in the methods
of the invention. Moreover, compounds of any type that selectively negatively regulate P13KP
expression or activity and that possess acceptable pharmacological properties can be used as
selective PI3K inhibitors in the therapeutic methods of the invention.
    [0159] "Treating" as used herein refers to inhibiting a disorder, i.e., arresting its
development; relieving the disorder, i.e., causing its regression; or ameliorating the disorder,
i.e., reducing the severity of at least one of the symptoms associated with the disorder. In some
embodiments, "treating" refers to preventing a disorder from occurring in an animal that can be
predisposed to the disorder, but has not yet been diagnosed as having it. "Disorder" is intended
to encompass medical disorders, diseases, conditions, syndromes, and the like, without
limitation.
    [0160] "Autoimmune disease" as used herein refers to any group of disorders in which
tissue injury is associated with humoral or cell-mediated responses to the body's own
constituents.
    [0161] In another aspect, the invention includes a method for suppressing a function of
basophils and/or mast cells, and thereby enabling treatment of diseases or disorders
characterized by excessive or undesirable basophil and/or mast cell activity. According to the
method, a compound of the invention can be used that selectively inhibits the expression or
activity of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta (PI3K6) in the basophils and/or mast cells.
                                                   21

Preferably, the method employs a PI3K6 inhibitor in an amount sufficient to inhibit stimulated
histamine release by the basophils and/or mast cells. Accordingly, the use of such compounds
and other PI3K6 selective inhibitors can be of value in treating diseases characterized by
histamine release, i.e., allergic disorders, including disorders such as chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, ARDS, emphysema, and related disorders.
    [0162] The present invention enables methods of treating such diseases as arthritic diseases,
such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, monoarticular arthritis, osteoarthritis, gouty
arthritis, spondylitis; Behget disease; sepsis, septic shock, endotoxic shock, gram negative
sepsis, gram positive sepsis, and toxic shock syndrome; multiple organ injury syndrome
secondary to septicemia, trauma, or hemorrhage; ophthalmic disorders such as allergic
conjunctivitis, vernal conjunctivitis, uveitis, and thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy;
eosinophilic granuloma; pulmonary or respiratory disorders such as asthma, chronic bronchitis,
allergic rhinitis, ARDS, chronic pulmonary inflammatory disease (e.g., chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease), silicosis, pulmonary sarcoidosis, pleurisy, alveolitis, vasculitis,
emphysema, pneumonia, bronchiectasis, and pulmonary oxygen toxicity; reperfusion injury of
the myocardium, brain, or extremities; fibrosis such as cystic fibrosis; keloid formation or scar
tissue formation; atherosclerosis; autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus
(SLE), autoimmune thyroiditis, multiple sclerosis, some forms of diabetes, and Reynaud's
syndrome; and transplant rejection disorders such as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and
allograft rejection; chronic glomerulonephritis; inflammatory bowel diseases such as chronic
inflammatory bowel disease (CIBD), Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and necrotizing
enterocolitis; inflammatory dermatoses such as contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis, psoriasis,
or urticaria; fever and myalgias due to infection; central or peripheral nervous system
inflammatory disorders such as meningitis, encephalitis, and brain or spinal cord injury due to
minor trauma; Sjogren's syndrome; diseases involving leukocyte diapedesis; alcoholic hepatitis;
bacterial pneumonia; antigen-antibody complex mediated diseases; hypovolemic shock; Type I
diabetes mellitus; acute and delayed hypersensitivity; disease states due to leukocyte dyscrasia
and metastasis; thermal injury; granulocyte transfusion-associated syndromes; and cytokine
induced toxicity.
    [0163] The method can have utility in treating subjects who are or can be subject to
reperfusion injury, i.e., injury resulting from situations in which a tissue or organ experiences a
period of ischemia followed by reperfusion. The term "ischemia" refers to localized tissue
anemia due to obstruction of the inflow of arterial blood. Transient ischemia followed by
reperfusion characteristically results in neutrophil activation and transmigration through the
                                                   22

endothelium of the blood vessels in the affected area. Accumulation of activated neutrophils in
turn results in generation of reactive oxygen metabolites, which damage components of the
involved tissue or organ. This phenomenon of "reperfusion injury" is commonly associated
with conditions such as vascular stroke (including global and focal ischemia), hemorrhagic
shock, myocardial ischemia or infarction, organ transplantation, and cerebral vasospasm. To
illustrate, reperfusion injury occurs at the termination of cardiac bypass procedures or during
cardiac arrest when the heart, once prevented from receiving blood, begins to reperfuse. It is
expected that inhibition of P13K6 activity will result in reduced amounts of reperfusion injury in
such situations.
    [0164] In certain embodiments, the invention provides methods to treat a solid tumor. In
specific embodiments, the cancer is breast, lung, colon, or prostate cancer. In certain
embodiments, the invention provides methods to treat a solid tumor that is associated with
abnormal or undesirable cellular signaling activity mediated by P13K.      In certain embodiments,
a solid tumor is selected from the group consisting of pancreatic cancer; bladder cancer;
colorectal cancer; breast cancer, including metastatic breast cancer; prostate cancer, including
androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer; renal cancer, including, e.g.,
metastatic renal cell carcinoma; hepatocellular cancer; lung cancer, including, e.g., non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC), bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (BAC), and adenocarcinoma of the
lung; ovarian cancer, including, e.g., progressive epithelial or primary peritoneal cancer;
cervical cancer; gastric cancer; esophageal cancer; head and neck cancer, including, e.g.,
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck; melanoma; neuroendocrine cancer, including
metastatic neuroendocrine tumors; brain tumors, including, e.g., glioma, anaplastic
oligodendroglioma, adult glioblastoma multiforme, and adult anaplastic astrocytoma; bone
cancer; and soft tissue sarcoma.
    [0165] Genetic ablation of p1106 has been found to result in mild phenotype restricted to
immune system. General observations include organisms that are fertile with no gross
anatomical or behavioral abnormalities. A histological examination revealed major organs to
appear normal. The total class I P13K activity was reduced 30-50% in B and T cells. In
addition, no increase in susceptibility to infections was observed. Furthermore, the effect on the
hematopoietic system includes normal peripheral blood cell counts, the occurrence of lymphoid
hypoplasia and the lack of germinal centers in spleen and lymph nodes, a reduced number of
B220 + IgM + B cell progenitors in bone marrow, a reduced level of serum immunoglobulin,
and normal T cell development in the thymus.
                                                   23

    [0166] Genetic ablation of p1106 affects myeloid and B cell signaling, which is important
for oncogenesis. In particular, tyrosine kinase signaling, development, proliferation and
survival are affected in myeloid cells. B cell function is most affected and includes
proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and response to B cell survival factors (BCR, CD40, IL
4, chemokines). Thus, the invention includes methods of treating disease states in which one or
more of these myeloid and B cell functions are abnormal or undesirable.
    [0167] A pan P13K inhibitor that targets on a molecular level p110lO, p110p, p 1 106, p 1 10y,
(hvPS34, mTOR, DNA-PK, and others), in turn targets all tissues. The potential clinical
indication includes cancer but clinical adverse events include hyperinsulinemia in cancer
patients. The advantage of a p1106 selective inhibitor which targets cells mediating
inflammation and cancer cells, wherein potential clinical indication include cancer, rheumatoid
arthritis, asthma, allergies and COPD, is that treatment is well tolerated, and side effects like
hyperinsulinemia are avoided. Thus in one aspect the invention provides a method to treat
patients having insulin resistance, or type 2 diabetes, for cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma,
allergies, COPD, or other conditions treatable with the compounds of the invention. For
patients needing such treatment who have excessive insulin conditions or tendencies, the
compounds of the invention are particularly advantageous over pan-PI3K inhibitors. In certain
embodiments, a compound of formula I or I" is preferred because it provides therapeutic
benefits to treating hematologic malignancies without adversely affecting insulin signaling.
    [0168] In one embodiment, the invention relates to methods of inhibiting P13K p 1 106. In
another embodiment, the invention relates to methods of inhibiting P13K p1 103 or p1 10y.
    [0169] In certain embodiments, the method described herein has little or no off target
activity. In particular, compound of formula I used in the method show little activity against
over 300 protein kinases including those summarized in Table 3 of Example 16. In certain
embodiments, the method described herein has no or minimal hyperinsulinemia effects in
cancer patients compared to methods comprising the administration of pan-PI3K inhibitors. In
certain embodiments, the method described herein is useful in targeting cells mediating Akt
phosphorylation, because the compounds of Formula A inhibit Akt phosphorylation. Suitable
patients for treatment with the compounds of the invention can thus be selected, in one
embodiment, by selecting a patient exhibiting elevated Akt phosphorylation associated with a
hematopoietic cancer such as lymphoma, leukemia or multiple myeloma.
    [0170] The methods herein avoid off-target liabilities and are characterized by negative
results in receptor gram screens, having no hERG inhibition and no significant P450 inhibition.
                                                  24

    [0171] Another advantage of the inventive method is the absence of adverse cardiovascular,
respiratory, or central nervous system effects as demonstrated in safety pharmacology studies.
In addition, a 28-day toxicity study in rats and dogs demonstrated a high therapeutic index, e.g.,
a NOAEL (no observable adverse effect level) >> 10 pM. This is the highest experimental dose
of a chemical at which there is no statistically or biologically significant increase in frequency
or severity of a toxicological effect between an exposed group and its appropriate control.
Adverse effects are defined as any effects that result in functional impairment and/or
pathological lesions that may affect the performance of the whole organism or that reduce an
organism's ability to respond to an additional challenge.
   [0172] In another embodiment, the inventive methods are non-genotoxic in a standard
battery of tests.
   [0173] Another advantage of the invention is that compound selectivity for one or two P13K
isoforms results in an improved safety profile over compounds having pan-PI3K inhibition. In
yet another advantage, compound I has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with good target
coverage, and no adverse effects on glucose or insulin levels, and is well tolerated at doses
above commonly used therapeutic doses by normal healthy volunteers. Another advantage of
the invention includes the ability to treat a wide range of hematological malignancies as
demonstrated by the examples herein.
   [0174] In certain embodiments, the methods of the invention are directed towards treating a
cancer or an autoimmune disease. In certain embodiments, the cancer is a hematological
malignancy. In specific embodiments, the hematological malignancy is selected from the group
consisting of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), multiple myeloma (MM), and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).
In certain embodiments, the non-Hodgkin lymphoma is selected from the group consisting of
large diffuse B-cell lymphoma (LDBCL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia (WM) and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma.
   [0175] P13K is implicated in many hematological malignancies and preclinical proof of
concept relating to treatment with compound I has been established. The table below
summarizes particular hematological malignancies and the method of action on the primary
patient cell or disease cell line.
                                                  25

                      Indication                    Effects of compounds of formula A
        Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia             Primary patient    ells
                                                 Blocks survival factors
                                                 Primary patient cells
        Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML)         Blocks P13K signaling
                                                 Inhibits proliferation
                                                 Cell Lines
        Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL)         Blocks P13K signaling
                                                 Induces apoptosis
                                                 Cell Lines
        Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHL)
        (MCL, DLBCL, FL)                         Blocks P13K signaling
                                                 Induces apoptosis
                                                 Primary patient cells
        Multiple Myeloma (MM)                    P110 6 overexpressed in 24/24 samples
                                                 Induces apoptosis
    [0176] Data provided herein demonstrates that the compounds of the invention are useful to
treat lymphomas and leukemias. Lymphomas and leukemias generally express the delta
isoform of p110 selectively, e.g., Figure 15 demonstrates that pl10 is prevalent in most
lymphoma cell lines, while p110a is not generally observed. Moreover, data presented in
Figure 16A shows that cell cultures from six different leukemia cell lines were sensitive to
Compound I, and were strongly affected by 5-10 micromolar concentrations of this compound.
Figures 8 and 9 support compound I as reducing Akt(Ser473) production in several cell lines.
    [0177] CLL, for example, produces mainly p1106 and to a lesser extent p1107 for signaling
purposes, thus compounds that inhibit p1106 and/or p1107 are expected to exhibit selective
cytotoxicity towards these cells. In Example 3, for example, shows dose-dependent
cytotoxicity for compound I (Figure 3), in CLL cells, including cells taken from poor prognosis
patients (Figure 19), and cells from patients shown to be resistant to other CLL treatments
(Figure 20). In addition, Example 13 and Figure 13 demonstrate that compound I administered
to a CLL patient at a rate of 50 mg BID for a 28-day cycle provides a significant therapeutic
effect. An ALC concentration percent decrease in lymphocytes is observed. Thus in one
aspect, the invention provides methods for treating CLL patients with drug-resistant CLL using
compounds of Formula A. On the other hand, Example 17 suggests that a fibroblast cell line
relying mainly on p110a for signaling was not sensitive to Compound I. Thus in one aspect,
patient selection can include excluding patients having a cancer that relies mainly on p110a for
signaling.
                                                 26

    [0178] The compounds of Formula A are also useful to treat lymphoma, including both B
cell and T-cell lymphomas. Data in Figure 4 demonstrates that six different ALL cell lines were
sensitive to Compound I, which caused a significant reduction in cell viability in all six cell
lines.
    [0179] Figure 12 and Example 12 demonstrate that mantle cell lymphoma patients treated
with 50 mg BID of Compound I for 28 days experienced on average a 44% decrease in tumor
burden. Moreover, Figure 14 demonstrates that an MCL patient at the end of the 28 day cycle
experienced similar plasma levels of Compound I following administration of a 50 mg dose to
that observed in a normal healthy volunteer (NHV); thus the compound does not build up
excessively over the course of a cycle of treatment, nor does the patient become tolerant by
increased metabolism over the course of a treatment cycle.
    [0180] In addition, the compounds of Formula A, or Formula I, are useful to treat
hematopoietic cancers that constitutively express Akt phosphorylation activity. Example 8, and
Figures 8 and 9 list cancer cell lines that demonstrate constitutive Akt phosphorylation,
including B-cell lymphomas, T-cell lymphomas, ALL, malignant histiocytosis, DLBCL and
AML. Exposure of the cell to compound I results in the reduction of Akt phosphorylation. See
also Example 19, which shows that constitutive Akt phosphorylation was inhibited by
Compound I in 13 of 13 cell lines.
    [0181] In certain embodiments, the cancer is a solid tumor. In specific embodiments, the
cancer is breast, ovarian, lung, colon, or prostate cancer. Figure 6, for example, shows that
Compound I reduces cellular proliferation of two breast cancer cell lines, and Figure 10
illustrates cytotoxicity to three different breast cancer cell lines. Similarly, Figure 7
demonstrates that Compound I is cytotoxic to two ovarian cancer cell lines.
    [0182] For the treatment of a solid tumor, it is advantageous to use a compound of
Formula A that expresses good activity (e.g., IC5 0 less than about 1 p M, and preferably less than
about 250 nM-see Example 15) against p110P, since solid tumors often utilize this isozyme
rather than or more than p1106. Thus a compound of formula A that has an IC50 less than about
250 nM is preferred for treatment of a solid tumor; compound I, I", II, or II" is suitable for this
use, as demonstrated herein.
    [0183] In some embodiments, the subject for treatments described herein as one who has
been diagnosed with at least one of the conditions described herein as treatable by the use of a
compound of Formula A. In some embodiments, the subject has been diagnosed with a cancer
named herein, and has proven refractory to treatment with at least one conventional
chemotherapeutic agent. For instance, patients who have failed to respond to treatments such as
                                                   27

proteasome inhibitors, autologous stem cell transplant, CHOP regimens, rituximab, fludarabine,
alemtuzumab, conventional anticancer nucleoside analogues and alkylating agents frequently
respond to the methods of treatment described herein. Thus, in one embodiment, the treatments
of the invention are directed to patients who have received one or more than one such treatment.
    [0184] In certain embodiments, the autoimmune disease is allergic rhinitis, asthma, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or rheumatoid arthritis.
    [0185] In certain embodiments, the methods of the invention are directed to B-cell, or B
lymphocyte, related diseases. B-cells play a role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases.
    [0186] The compounds of Formula A (particularly Formulas I, I", II and II") are suitable for
treating a variety of subjects having the conditions described herein, especially hematological
cancers in humans. In some embodiments, the subject selected for treatment of a hematological
malignancy that is a subject experiencing relapse after other treatments or is refractory to other
treatments. In some embodiments, the subject is selected for treatment of a hematological
malignancy that is resistant to other cancer drugs. In some embodiments, the subject is selected
for treatment of a hematological malignancy that exhibits a high level of pl106 activity. In
some embodiments, the subject is selected for treatment of a hematological malignancy that
exhibits a relatively low level of p110a activity. In some embodiments, the subject is selected
for treatment of a hematological malignancy that constitutively expresses Akt phosphorylation
activity.
    [0187] In one embodiment, the method described herein comprises administering to a
subject a compound of formula A described herein, in combination with a therapy used to treat
cancer or an autoimmune disease. "Therapy" or "treatment", as used herein, is a treatment of
cancer or an autoimmune disease by any well-known conventional or experimental form of
treatment used to treat cancer or an autoimmune disease that does not include the use of a
compound of formula A. In certain embodiments, the combination of a compound of formula A
with a conventional or experimental therapy used to treat cancer or an autoimmune disease
provides beneficial and/or desirable treatment results superior to results obtained by treatment
without the combination. In certain embodiments, therapies used to treat cancer or an
autoimmune disease are well-known to a person having ordinary skill in the art and are
described in the literature. Therapies include, but are not limited to, chemotherapy,
combinations of chemotherapy, biological therapies, immunotherapy, radioimmunotherapy, and
the use of monoclonal antibodies, and vaccines.
    [0188] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the combination method provides for a
compound of formula A administered simultaneously with or during the period of
                                                  28

administration of the therapy. In some of the foregoing embodiments the compound of formula
A is administered simultaneously with the other chemotherapeutic treatment. In certain
embodiments, the combination method provides for a compound of formula A administered
prior to or after the administration of the therapy.
    [0189] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least one
standard or experimental chemotherapy. In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is
refractory to at least two standard or experimental chemotherapies. In some of the foregoing
embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least three standard or experimental chemotherapies.
In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least four standard or
experimental chemotherapies.
    [0190] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least one
standard or experimental chemotherapy selected from the group consisting of fludarabine,
rituximab, alkylating agents, alemtuzumab and the chemotherapy treatments a-q listed above.
    [0191] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least two
standard or experimental chemotherapies selected from the group consisting of fludarabine,
rituximab, alkylating agents, alemtuzumab and the chemotherapy treatments a-q listed above.
    [0192] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least three
standard or experimental chemotherapies selected from the group consisting of fludarabine,
rituximab, alkylating agents, alemtuzumab and the chemotherapy treatments a-q listed above.
    [0193] In some of the foregoing embodiments, the subject is refractory to at least four
standard or experimental chemotherapies selected from the group consisting of fludarabine,
rituximab, alkylating agents, alemtuzumab and the chemotherapy treatments a-q listed above.
    [0194] The exact details regarding the administration of the combination may be determined
experimentally. The refinement of sequence and timing of administering a compound of
formula A with a selected therapy will be tailored to the individual subject, the nature of the
condition to be treated in the subject, and generally, the judgment of the attending practitioner.
    [0195]   Non-limiting examples of experimental or standard therapy are described below. In
addition, treatment of certain lymphomas is reviewed in Cheson, B.D., Leonard, J.P.,
"Monoclonal Antibody Therapy for B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma" The New England
Journalof Medicine 2008, 359(6), p. 613-626; and Wierda, W.G., "Current and Investigational
Therapies for Patients with CLL" Hematology 2006, p. 285-294. Lymphoma incidence patterns
in the United States is profiled in Morton, L.M., et al. "Lymphoma Incidence Patterns by WHO
Subtype in the United States, 1992-2001" Blood 2006, 107(1), p. 265-276.
                                                  29

    [0196] Treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, especially of B cell origin, include, but are
not limited to use of monoclonal antibodies, standard chemotherapy approaches (e.g., CHOP,
CVP, FCM, MCP, and the like), radioimmunotherapy, and combinations thereof, especially
integration of an antibody therapy with chemotherapy.
    [0197] Non-limiting examples of unconjugated monoclonal antibodies for Non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma/B-cell cancers include rituximab, alemtuzumab, human or humanized anti-CD20
antibodies, lumiliximab, anti-TRAIL, bevacizumab, galiximab, epratuzumab, SGN-40, and anti
CD74. Non-limiting examples of experimental antibody agents used in treatment of Non
Hodgkin's lymphoma/B-cell cancers include ofatumumab, ha20, PRO131921, alemtuzumab,
galiximab, SGN-40, CHIR-12.12, epratuzumab, lumiliximab, apolizumab, milatuzumab, and
bevacizumab. Any of the monoclonal antibodies can be combined with rituximab, fludarabine,
or a chemotherapy agent/regimen.
    [0198] Non-limiting examples of standard regimens of chemotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma/B-cell cancers include CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine,
prednisone), FCM (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone), CVP (cyclophosphamide,
vincristine and prednisone), MCP (mitoxantrone, chlorambucil, and prednisolone), R-CHOP
(rituximab plus CHOP), R-FCM (rituximab plus FCM), R-CVP (rituximab plus CVP), and
R-MCP (R-MCP).
    [0199] Non-limiting examples of radioimmunotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma/B
cell cancers include yttrium-90-labeled ibritumomab tiuxetan, and iodine- 131-labeled
tositumomab. These therapeutic agents are approved for use in subjects with relapsed or
refractory follicular or low-grade lymphoma.
    [0200] Therapeutic treatments for mantle cell lymphoma include combination
chemotherapies such as CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone),
hyperCVAD (hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone,
methotrexate, cytarabine) and FCM (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone). In
addition, these regimens can be supplemented with the monoclonal antibody rituximab
(Rituxan) to form combination therapies R-CHOP, hyperCVAD-R, and R-FCM. Other
approaches include combining any of the abovementioned therapies with stem cell
transplantation or treatment with ICE (iphosphamide, carboplatin and etoposide).
    [0201] Another approach to treating mantle cell lymphoma includes immunotherapy such as
using monoclonal antibodies like Rituximab (Rituxan). Rituximab is also effective against
other indolent B-cell cancers, including marginal-zone lymphoma, WM, CLL and small
lymphocytic lymphoma. A combination of Rituximab and chemotherapy agents is especially
                                                30

effective. A modified approach is radioimmunotherapy, wherein a monoclonal antibody is
combined with a radioisotope particle, such as Iodine-131 tositumomab (Bexxar*) and Yttrium
90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin*). In another example, Bexxar* is used in sequential
treatment with CHOP. Another immunotherapy example includes using cancer vaccines, which
is based upon the genetic makeup of an individual patient's tumor. A lymphoma vaccine
example is GTOP-99 (MyVax*).
    [0202] Another approach to treating mantle cell lymphoma includes autologous stem cell
transplantation coupled with high-dose chemotherapy.
    [0203] Another approach to treating mantle cell lymphoma includes administering
proteasome inhibitors, such as Velcade* (bortezomib or PS-341), or antiangiogenesis agents,
such as thalidomide, especially in combination with Rituxan. Another treatment approach is
administering drugs that lead to the degradation of Bcl-2 protein and increase cancer cell
sensitivity to chemotherapy, such as oblimersen (Genasense) in combination with other
chemotherapeutic agents. Another treatment approach includes administering mTOR inhibitors,
which can lead to inhibition of cell growth and even cell death; a non-limiting example is
Temsirolimus (CCI-779), and Temsirolimus in combination with Rituxan*, Velcade or other
chemotherapeutic agents.
    [0204] Other recent therapies for MCL have been disclosed (NatureReviews; Jares, P.
2007). Non-limiting examples include Flavopiridol, PD0332991, R-roscovitine (Selicilib,
CYC202), Styryl sulphones, Obatoclax (GX15-070), TRAIL, Anti-TRAIL DR4 and DR5
antibodies, Temsirolimus (CCl-779), Everolimus (RAD001), BMS-345541, Curcumin,
Vorinostat (SAHA), Thalidomide, lenalidomide (Revlimid*, CC-5013), and
Geldanamycin (17-AAG).
    [0205] Non-limiting examples of other therapeutic agents used to treat Waldenstrom's
Macroglobulinemia include perifosine, bortezomib (Velcade), rituximab, sildenafil citrate
(Viagra), CC-5103, thalidomide, epratuzumab (hLL2- anti-CD22 humanized antibody),
simvastatin, enzastaurin, campath-111, dexamethasone, DT PACE, oblimersen, antineoplaston
A10, antineoplaston AS2-1, alemtuzumab, beta alethine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
hydrochloride, prednisone, vincristine sulfate, fludarabine, filgrastim, melphalan, recombinant
interferon alfa, carmustine, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, etoposide, melphalan,
dolastatin 10, indium In 111 monoclonal antibody MN-14, yttrium Y 90 humanized
epratuzumab, anti-thymocyte globulin, busulfan, cyclosporine, methotrexate, mycophenolate
mofetil, therapeutic allogeneic lymphocytes, Yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, sirolimus,
tacrolimus, carboplatin, thiotepa, paclitaxel, aldesleukin, recombinant interferon alfa, docetaxel,
                                                  31

ifosfamide, mesna, recombinant interleukin- 12, recombinant interleukin- 11, Bcl-2 family
protein inhibitor ABT-263, denileukin diftitox, tanespimycin, everolimus, pegfilgrastim,
vorinostat, alvocidib, recombinant flt3 ligand, recombinant human thrombopoietin, lymphokine
activated killer cells, amifostine trihydrate, aminocamptothecin, irinotecan hydrochloride,
caspofungin acetate, clofarabine, epoetin alfa, nelarabine, pentostatin, sargramostim,
vinorelbine ditartrate, WT-1 analog peptide vaccine, WT1 126-134 peptide vaccine, fenretinide,
ixabepilone, oxaliplatin, monoclonal antibody CD19, monoclonal antibody CD20, omega-3
fatty acids, mitoxantrone hydrochloride, octreotide acetate, tositumomab and iodine 1-131
tositumomab, motexafin gadolinium, arsenic trioxide, tipifarnib, autologous human tumor
derived HSPPC-96, veltuzumab, bryostatin 1, and PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin
hydrochloride, and any combination thereof.
    [0206] Non-limiting examples of other therapeutic agents used to treat diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma (DLBCL) drug therapies (Blood 2005 Abramson, J.) include cyclophosphamide,
doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies, etoposide, bleomycin,
many of the agents listed for Waldenstrom's, and any combination thereof, such as ICE and
R-ICE.
    [0207] Non-limiting examples of therapeutic procedures used to treat Waldenstrom's
Macroglobulinemia include peripheral blood stem cell transplantation, autologous
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, autologous bone marrow transplantation, antibody
therapy, biological therapy, enzyme inhibitor therapy, total body irradiation, infusion of stem
cells, bone marrow ablation with stem cell support, in vitro-treated peripheral blood stem cell
transplantation, umbilical cord blood transplantation, immunoenzyme technique,
pharmacological study, low-LET cobalt-60 gamma ray therapy, bleomycin, conventional
surgery, radiation therapy, and nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation.
    [0208] Non-limiting examples of other therapeutic agents used to treat Chronic
Lymphocytic Leukemia (Spectrum, 2006, Fernandes, D.) include Chlorambucil (Leukeran),
Cyclophosphamide (Cyloxan, Endoxan, Endoxana, Cyclostin), Fludarabine (Fludara), Pentstatin
(Nipent), Cladribine (Leustarin), Doxorubicin (Adriamycin*, Adriblastine), Vincristine
(Oncovin), Prednisone, Prednisolone, Alemtuzumab (Campath, MabCampath), many of the
agents listed for Waldenstrom's, and combination chemotherapy and chemoimmunotherapy,
including the common combination regimen: CVP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone);
R-CVP (rituximab-CVP); ICE (iphosphamide, carboplatin, etoposide); R-ICE (rituximab-ICE);
FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab); and FR (fludarabine, rituximab).
                                                  32

    [0209] In certain embodiments, the method comprises administering in addition to a
compound of I or II to said patient, a therapeutically effective amount of at least one therapeutic
agent and/or therapeutic procedure selected to treat said cancer or autoimmune disease in said
patient. In certain embodiments, the method comprises administering in addition to a
compound of I or II to said patient, a therapeutically effective amount of a combination of
therapeutic agents selected from the group consisting of a) CHOP (cyclophosphamide,
doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone); b) R-CHOP (rituximab-CHOP); c) hyperCVAD
(hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone, methotrexate,
cytarabine); d) R-hyperCVAD (rituximab-hyperCVAD); e) FCM (fludarabine,
cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone); f) R-FCM (rituximab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide,
mitoxantrone); g) bortezomib and rituximab; h) temsirolimus and rituximab; i) temsirolimus and
Velcade*; j) Iodine-131 tositumomab (Bexxar*) and CHOP; k) CVP (cyclophosphamide,
vincristine, prednisone); 1) R-CVP (rituximab-CVP); m) ICE (iphosphamide, carboplatin,
etoposide); n) R-ICE (rituximab-ICE); o) FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab); and
p) FR (fludarabine, rituximab).
    [0210] The compounds of the invention may be formulated for administration to animal
subject using commonly understood formulation techniques well known in the art.
Formulations which are suitable for particular modes of administration and for the compounds
of formula A may be found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, latest edition, Mack
Publishing Company, Easton, PA.
    [0211] The compounds of the invention may be prepared in the form of prodrugs, i.e.,
protected forms which release the compounds of the invention after administration to the
subject. Typically, the protecting groups are hydrolyzed in body fluids such as in the
bloodstream thus releasing the active compound or are oxidized or reduced in vivo to release the
active compound. A discussion of prodrugs is found in Smith and Williams Introduction to the
Principles of Drug Design, Smith, H.J.; Wright, 2nd ed., London (1988).
    [0212] A compound of the present invention can be administered as the neat chemical, but it
is typically preferable to administer the compound in the form of a pharmaceutical composition
or formulation. Accordingly, the present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions
that comprise a compound of formula A and a biocompatible pharmaceutical carrier, adjuvant,
or vehicle. The composition can include the compound of Formula A as the only active moiety
or in combination with other agents, such as oligo- or polynucleotides, oligo- or polypeptides,
drugs, or hormones mixed with excipient(s) or other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.
                                                 33

Carriers and other ingredients can be deemed pharmaceutically acceptable insofar as they are
compatible with other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.
    [0213] The pharmaceutical compositions are formulated to contain suitable
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, and can optionally comprise excipients and auxiliaries that
facilitate processing of the active compounds into preparations that can be used
pharmaceutically. The administration modality will generally determine the nature of the
carrier. For example, formulations for parenteral administration can comprise aqueous solutions
of the active compounds in water-soluble form. Carriers suitable for parenteral administration
can be selected from among saline, buffered saline, dextrose, water, and other physiologically
compatible solutions. Preferred carriers for parenteral administration are physiologically
compatible buffers such as Hank's solution, Ringer's solution, or physiologically buffered
saline. For tissue or cellular administration, penetrants appropriate to the particular barrier to be
permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art. For
preparations comprising proteins, the formulation can include stabilizing materials, such as
polyols (e.g., sucrose) and/or surfactants (e.g., nonionic surfactants), and the like.
    [0214] Alternatively, formulations for parenteral use can comprise dispersions or
suspensions of the active compounds prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions.
Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils, such as sesame oil, and synthetic fatty
acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions
can contain substances that increase the viscosity of the suspension, such as sodium carboxy
methylcellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the suspension also can contain suitable
stabilizers or agents that increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the preparation of
highly concentrated solutions. Aqueous polymers that provide pH-sensitive solubilization
and/or sustained release of the active agent also can be used as coatings or matrix structures,
e.g., methacrylic polymers, such as the Eudragit* series available from Rohm America Inc.
(Piscataway, N.J.). Emulsions, e.g., oil-in-water and water-in-oil dispersions, also can be used,
optionally stabilized by an emulsifying agent or dispersant (surface active materials;
surfactants). Suspensions can contain suspending agents such as ethoxylated isostearyl
alcohols, polyoxyethlyene sorbitol and sorbitan esters, microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum
metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar, gum tragacanth, and mixtures thereof.
    [0215] Liposomes containing the active compound of Formula A also can be employed for
parenteral administration. Liposomes generally are derived from phospholipids or other lipid
substances. The compositions in liposome form also can contain other ingredients, such as
stabilizers, preservatives, excipients, and the like. Preferred lipids include phospholipids and
                                                   34

phosphatidyl cholines (lecithins), both natural and synthetic. Methods of forming liposomes are
known in the art. See,. e.g., Prescott (Ed.), Methods in Cell Biology, Vol. XIV, p. 33,
Academic Press, New York (1976).
    [0216] The pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compound of Formula A in
dosages suitable for oral administration can be formulated using pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers well known in the art. The preparations formulated for oral administration can be in the
form of tablets, pills, capsules, cachets, dragees, lozenges, liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, elixirs,
suspensions, or powders. To illustrate, pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained
by combining the active compounds with a solid excipient, optionally grinding the resulting
mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired, to
obtain tablets or drag6e cores. Oral formulations can employ liquid carriers similar in type to
those described for parenteral use, e.g., buffered aqueous solutions, suspensions, and the like.
    [0217] Preferred oral formulations include tablets, dragees, and gelatin capsules. These
preparations can contain one or excipients, which include, without limitation:
         a) diluents, such as sugars, including lactose, dextrose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol;
         b) binders, such as magnesium aluminum silicate, starch from corn, wheat, rice,
potato, etc.;
         c) cellulose materials, such as methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, and
sodium carboxymethylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gums, such as gum arabic and gum
tragacanth, and proteins, such as gelatin and collagen;
         d) disintegrating or solubilizing agents such as cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone,
starches, agar, alginic acid or a salt thereof, such as sodium alginate, or effervescent
compositions;
         e) lubricants, such as silica, talc, stearic acid or its magnesium or calcium salt, and
polyethylene glycol;
         f) flavorants and sweeteners;
         g) colorants or pigments, e.g., to identify the product or to characterize the quantity
(dosage) of active compound; and
         h) other ingredients, such as preservatives, stabilizers, swelling agents, emulsifying
agents, solution promoters, salts for regulating osmotic pressure, and buffers.
    [0218] In some preferred oral formulations, the pharmaceutical composition comprises at
least one of the materials from group (a) above, or at least one material from group (b) above, or
at least one material from group (c) above, or at least one material from group (d) above, or at
                                                      35

least one material from group (e) above. Preferably, the composition comprises at least one
material from each of two groups selected from groups (a)-(e) above.
    [0219] Gelatin capsules include push-fit capsules made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed
capsules made of gelatin and a coating such as glycerol or sorbitol. Push-fit capsules can
contain the active ingredient(s) mixed with fillers, binders, lubricants, and/or stabilizers, etc. In
soft capsules, the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended in suitable fluids, such as
fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycol with or without stabilizers.
    [0220] Dragee cores can be provided with suitable coatings such as concentrated sugar
solutions, which also can contain gum arabic, talc, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carbopol gel,
polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer solutions, and suitable organic solvents or
solvent mixtures.
    [0221] The pharmaceutical composition can be provided as a salt of the active compound.
Salts tend to be more soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents than the corresponding free
acid or base forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known in the art. Compounds
that contain acidic moieties can form pharmaceutically acceptable salts with suitable cations.
Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable cations include, for example, alkali metal (e.g., sodium or
potassium) and alkaline earth (e.g., calcium or magnesium) cations.
    [0222] Compounds of structural formula (A) that contain basic moieties can form
pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts with suitable acids. For example, Berge, et al.,
describe pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail in J Pharm Sci, 66:1 (1977). The salts can
be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds of the invention
or separately by reacting a free base function with a suitable acid.
    [0223] Representative acid addition salts include, but are not limited to, acetate, adipate,
alginate, citrate, aspartate, benzoate, benzenesulfonate, bisulfate, butyrate, camphorate,
camphorolsulfonate, digluconate, glycerophosphate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate,
fumarate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate (isothionate),
lactate, maleate, methanesulfonate or sulfate, nicotinate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, oxalate,
pamoate, pectinate, persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, pirate, pivalate, propionate, succinate,
tartrate, thiocyanate, phosphate or hydrogen phosphate, glutamate, bicarbonate,
p-toluenesulfonate, and undecanoate. Examples of acids that can be employed to form
pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include, without limitation, such inorganic acids
as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, and phosphoric acid, and such organic
acids as oxalic acid, maleic acid, succinic acid, and citric acid.
                                                   36

    [0224] Basic nitrogen-containing groups can be quaternized with such agents as lower alkyl
halides such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, and butyl chlorides, bromides and iodides; dialkyl sulfates
like dimethyl, diethyl, dibutyl, and diamyl sulfates; long chain alkyl halides such as decyl,
lauryl, myristyl, and stearyl chlorides, bromides, and iodides; arylalkyl halides such as benzyl
and phenethyl bromides; and others. Products having modified solubility or dispersibility are
thereby obtained.
    [0225] Compositions comprising a compound of the invention formulated in a
pharmaceutical acceptable carrier can be prepared, placed in an appropriate container, and
labeled for treatment of an indicated condition. Accordingly, there also is contemplated an
article of manufacture, such as a container comprising a dosage form of a compound of the
invention and a label containing instructions for use of the compound. Kits are also
contemplated under the invention. For example, the kit can comprise a dosage form of a
pharmaceutical composition and a package insert containing instructions for use of the
composition in treatment of a medical condition. In either case, conditions indicated on the
label can include treatment of inflammatory disorders, cancer, etc.
         Methods of administration
    [0226] Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula A can be
administered to the subject by any conventional method, including parenteral and enteral
techniques. Parenteral administration modalities include those in which the composition is
administered by a route other than through the gastrointestinal tract, for example, intravenous,
intraarterial, intraperitoneal, intramedullarly, intramuscular, intraarticular, intrathecal, and
intraventricular injections. Enteral administration modalities include, for example, oral
(including buccal and sublingual) and rectal administration. Transepithelial administration
modalities include, for example, transmucosal administration and transdermal administration.
Transmucosal administration includes, for example, enteral administration as well as nasal,
inhalation, and deep lung administration; vaginal administration; and rectal administration.
Transdermal administration includes passive or active transdermal or transcutaneous modalities,
including, for example, patches and iontophoresis devices, as well as topical application of
pastes, salves, or ointments. Parenteral administration also can be accomplished using a high
pressure technique, e.g., POWDERJECT         h
    [0227] Surgical techniques include implantation of depot (reservoir) compositions, osmotic
pumps, and the like. A preferred route of administration for treatment of inflammation can be
local or topical delivery for localized disorders such as arthritis, or systemic delivery for
                                                   37

distributed disorders, e.g., intravenous delivery for reperfusion injury or for systemic conditions
such as septicemia. For other diseases, including those involving the respiratory tract, e.g.,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, and emphysema, administration can be
accomplished by inhalation or deep lung administration of sprays, aerosols, powders, and the
like.
    [0228] In some foregoing embodiments, the compound of formula A is administered before,
during, or after administration of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and/or surgery. The formulation
and route of administration chosen will be tailored to the individual subject, the nature of the
condition to be treated in the subject, and generally, the judgment of the attending practitioner.
    [0229] The therapeutic index of the compound of formula A can be enhanced by modifying
or derivatizing the compounds for targeted delivery to cancer cells expressing a marker that
identifies the cells as such. For example, the compounds can be linked to an antibody that
recognizes a marker that is selective or specific for cancer cells, so that the compounds are
brought into the vicinity of the cells to exert their effects locally, as previously described (see
for example, Pietersz, et al., Immunol Rev, 129:57 (1992); Trail, et al., Science, 261:212 (1993);
and Rowlinson-Busza, et al., Curr Opin Oncol, 4:1142 (1992)). Tumor-directed delivery of
these compounds enhances the therapeutic benefit by, inter alia, minimizing potential
nonspecific toxicities that can result from radiation treatment or chemotherapy. In another
aspect, the compound of formula A and radioisotopes or chemotherapeutic agents can be
conjugated to the same anti-tumor antibody.
    [0230] The characteristics of the agent itself and the formulation of the agent can influence
the physical state, stability, rate of in vivo release, and rate of in vivo clearance of the
administered agent. Such pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic information can be collected
through preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies, later confirmed in humans during the course of
clinical trials. Thus, for any compound used in the method of the invention, a therapeutically
effective dose can be estimated initially from biochemical and/or cell-based assays. Then,
dosage can be formulated in animal models to achieve a desirable circulating concentration
range that modulates expression or activity of a particular P13K isoform or combination of
isoforms. As human studies are conducted, further information will emerge regarding the
appropriate dosage levels and duration of treatment for various diseases and conditions.
    [0231] Although compounds of the invention are well tolerated, an example of a limit to the
treatment dosage is elevated liver function tests (LFT). LFT involve standard clinical
biochemistry tests on the patient's serum or plasma to provide information about the state of a
patient's liver. Levels, such as alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, alkaline
                                                     38

phosphatase, bilirubin, and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, that are outside the normal range
can signal possible liver toxicity. Dosing of the therapeutic compound can be adjusted to avoid
or reduce elevated liver function test values and subsequent potential for liver toxicity. For
instance, a subject may be administered escalating doses of a compound. At a certain dose
amount, the subject begins to develop elevated LFT levels outside a normal range, signaling
potential liver toxicity at that dosage. In response, the dosage may be reduced to an amount
such that LFT levels are reduced to an acceptable range as judged by the treating physician, e.g.
a level that is in the range normal for the subject being treated, or within about 25% to 50% of
normal. Therefore, liver function tests can be used to titrate the administration dosage of a
compound.
    [0232] Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such compounds can be determined by standard
pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g., for determining the
LD 50 (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED50 (the dose therapeutically effective
in 50% of the population). The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the
"therapeutic index," which typically is expressed as the ratio LD50/ED50. Compounds that
exhibit large therapeutic indices, i.e., the toxic dose is substantially higher than the effective
dose, are preferred. The data obtained from such cell culture assays and additional animal
studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for human use. The dosage of such
compounds lies preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED 50
with little or no toxicity.
    [0233] Dosage may be limited by treatment-related toxicity symptoms. Such symptoms
besides elevated liver function tests include anemia, vision blurring, diarrhea, vomiting, fatigue,
mucositis, peripheral edema, pyrexia, peripheral neuropathy, pleural effusion, night sweats, and
orthopnea, or a combination thereof. At a certain dose amount, if the subject develops
intolerable levels of such symptoms, the dosage may be reduced such that the adverse event is
eliminated and no longer adverse or reduced to an acceptable level as judged by a treating
physician.
    [0234] Another consideration in determining the appropriate dose of compound for a patient
is the desired concentration circulating in the blood plasma. In a particular embodiment, the
concentration of compound in the blood is between 40-3,000 ng/mL over a 12 hour period from
the time of administration. In another particular embodiment, the concentration of compound in
the blood is between 75-2,000 ng/mL over a 12 hour period from the time of administration. In
another particular embodiment, the concentration of compound in the blood is between 500
2,000 ng/mL over a 12 hour period from the time of administration. In a preferred embodiment,
                                                    39

the concentration of compound in the blood is between 40-3,000 ng/mL over a 12 hour period
from the time of administration, wherein the compound is a formula of I, I", II, or II" and is
orally administered in an amount of about 50 mg, 100 mg, or 200 mg. In a preferred
embodiment, the concentration of compound in the blood is between 40-3,000 ng/mL over a 12
hour period from the time of administration, wherein the compound is a formula of I and is
orally administered in an amount of about 50 mg, 100 mg, or 200 mg. In a preferred
embodiment, the concentration of compound in the blood is between 40-3,000 ng/mL over a 12
hour period from the time of administration, wherein the compound is a formula of II and is
orally administered in an amount of about 50 mg, 100 mg, or 200 mg. In some of the foregoing
embodiments, the maximum concentration in the blood plasma is achieved within two hours of
administration.
    [0235] In certain embodiments, the dosage of the compound of Formula I or II is selected to
produce a plasma concentration of drug of about 10 nM or higher over a period of 8 to 12 hours,
on average, and to provide a peak plasma concentration of about 500 nM or higher, preferably
about 1000 nM or higher. In certain embodiments, the dosage of the compound of Formula I or
II is selected to produce a plasma concentration of drug of about 100 nM or higher over a period
of 8 to 12 hours, on average, and to provide a peak plasma concentration of about 500 nM or
higher, preferably about 1000 nM or higher. In certain embodiments, the dosage of the
compound of Formula I or II is selected to produce a plasma concentration of drug of about 200
nM or higher over a period of 8 to 12 hours, on average, and to provide a peak plasma
concentration of about 500 nM or higher, preferably about 1000 nM or higher.
    [0236] In certain embodiments, the dosage of the compound of formula I or II is selected to
produce a plasma concentration wherein the trough concentration of the compound is in the
range where a therapeutic effect, such as apoptosis of cancer cells, is observed. In certain
embodiments, the dosage of the compound of formula I or II is selected to produce a trough
plasma concentration at or higher than the EC 50 PI3K6 isoform activation in blood plasma. In
certain embodiments, the dosage of the compound of formula I or II is selected to produce an
trough blood concentration above the EC50 level for P13K6 activation and below the level for
EC 50  PI3Ky activation in a cell during a period of at least 12 hours from compound
administration. For instance, if the EC50 value for P13K 6 basophil activation is 65 nM and the
EC 50  value for P13K 7 basophil activation is 1100 nM in whole blood plasma, then the dosage of
the compound selected provides a trough plasma concentration of the compound between 60
nM and 1100 nM during a period of 8-12 hours from compound administration. Similarly, a
dosage can be selected to produce an trough blood concentration above the EC50 level for PI3K6
                                                  40

basophil activation and below the EC 50 level for P13K -a, -P or -7 basophil activation. The EC 50
values for the P13K isoform activation or inhibition in vivo can be determined by a person
having ordinary skill in the art. In alternative embodiments, the upper range of the trough
concentration of the drug may exceed and is not limited by the EC50 value of the P13K -7, -a, or
-P isoform in blood plasma. Moreover, the blood concentration range of the drug is at a level
which is therapeutically beneficial in treating the hematologic malignancy, while minimizing
undesirable side effects.
    [0237] For instance, while being delta-selective, the compounds can exhibit sufficient
activity on p1 107 to be clinically useful, i.e., to be effective on a cancer that relies upon p1 107
for signaling, because a plasma level above the effective dosage for inhibition of p 1107 can be
achieved while still being selective relative to other isoforms, particularly the alpha isoform.
Thus, in some embodiments, the dosage of the compound is selected to produce a blood
concentration effective for selectively inhibiting p1 106 and p1 107.
    [0238] In some embodiments, the dosage of the compound provides a trough blood plasma
concentration between 65 nM and 1100 nM during a period of 8 to 12 hours from compound
administration. In some foregoing embodiments, the period is at least 12 hours from compound
administration.
    [0239] In a particular embodiment, the compound is administered in a therapeutically
effective amount.
    [0240] In a particular embodiment, the compound is administered at a dose
of 20-500 mg/day. In a particular embodiment, the compound is administered at a dose of 50
250 mg/day.
    [0241] In a particular embodiment, the compound is administered at a dose of 25 to 150 mg
per dose, and two doses are administered per day (e.g., BID dosing with 25 to 150 mg doses).
In a preferred embodiment, a subject is treated with 50 mg to 100 mg of a compound of formula
A twice per day.
    [0242] In a particular embodiment, the method comprises administering to said patient an
initial daily dose of 20-500 mg of the compound and increasing said dose by increments until
clinical efficacy is achieved. Increments of about 25, 50, or 100 mg can be used to increase the
dose. The dosage can be increased daily, every other day, twice per week, or once per week.
    [0243] In a particular embodiment, the method comprises continuing to treat said patient by
administering the same dose of the compound at which clinical efficacy is achieved or reducing
said dose by increments to a level at which efficacy can be maintained.
                                                     41

    [0244] In a particular embodiment, the method comprises administering to said patient an
initial daily dose of 20-500 mg of the compound and increasing said dose to a total dosage of
50-400 mg per day over at least 6 days. Optionally, the dosage can be further increased to about
750 mg/day.
    [0245] In a particular embodiment, the compound is administered at least twice daily.
    [0246] In a particular embodiment, the compound is administered orally, intravenously or
by inhalation. Preferably, the compound is administered orally. In some embodiments, it is
administered orally at a dosage of about 50 mg BID or at a dosage of about 100 mg BID.
    [0247] For the methods of the invention, any effective administration regimen regulating the
timing and sequence of doses can be used. Doses of the agent preferably include pharmaceutical
dosage units comprising an effective amount of the agent. As used herein, "effective amount"
refers to an amount sufficient to modulate PI3K6 expression or activity and/or derive a
measurable change in a physiological parameter of the subject through administration of one or
more of the pharmaceutical dosage units. "Effective amount" can also refer to the amount
required to ameliorate a disease or disorder in a subject.
    [0248] Suitable dosage ranges for the compounds of formula A vary according to these
considerations, but in general, the compounds are administered in the range of
10.0 pg/kg-15 mg/kg of body weight; 1.0 pg/kg-10 mg/kg of body weight, or 0.5
mg/kg-5 mg/kg of body weight. For a typical 70-kg human subject, thus, the dosage range is
from 700 pg-1050 mg; 70 pg-700 mg; or 35 mg-350 mg per dose, and two or more doses may
be administered per day. Dosages may be higher when the compounds are administered orally
or transdermally as compared to, for example, i.v. administration. The reduced toxicity of a
compound of formula A, permits the therapeutic administration of relatively high doses. In
some of the foregoing embodiments, oral administration of up to 750 mg/day of a compound of
the invention is suitable. In some of the foregoing embodiments, a compound of formula A is
administered at a dose of 50 mg BID. In some of the foregoing embodiments, a compound of
formula A is administered at a dose of 100 mg BID. In some of the foregoing embodiments, a
compound of formula A is administered at a dose of 200 mg BID. In some of the foregoing
embodiments, a compound of formula A is administered at a dose of 350 mg BID. In specific
embodiments, for treatment of leukemias, lymphomas and multiple myeloma, a dosage of about
50-350 mg per dose, administered orally once or preferably twice per day, is often suitable.
    [0249] In some of the foregoing embodiments, oral administration of up to 750 mg/day of
compound I" or II" is suitable. In some of the foregoing embodiments, a compound of formula
I" or II" is administered at a dose of 50 mg BID. In some of the foregoing embodiments, a
                                                 42

compound of formula I" or II" is administered at a dose of 100 mg BID. In some of the
foregoing embodiments, a compound of formula I" or II" is administered at a dose of 200 mg
BID. I In some of the foregoing embodiments, a compound of formula I" or II" is administered
at a dose of 350 mg BID. In some of the foregoing embodiments, for treatment of leukemias,
lymphomas and multiple myeloma, a dosage of about 50-350 mg per dose of a compound of
formula I" or II", administered orally once or preferably twice per day, is often suitable.
    [0250] The compounds may be administered as a single bolus dose, a dose over time, as in
i.v. or transdermal administration, or in multiple dosages.
    [0251] Dosing may be continued for at least seven days. In some embodiments, daily
dosing is continued for about 28 days. In some embodiments, dosing is continued for about 28
days and is then discontinued for at least 7 days. In some embodiments, a complete cycle is
continuous daily dosing for 28 days. Evaluation of a clinical response in the patient can be
measured after each cycle. The clinical results can be used to make a decision to increase,
decrease, discontinue or maintain the dosage.
    [0252] Depending on the route of administration, a suitable dose can be calculated
according to body weight, body surface area, or organ size. The final dosage regimen will be
determined by the attending physician in view of good medical practice, considering various
factors that modify the action of drugs, e.g., the agent's specific activity, the identity and
severity of the disease state, the responsiveness of the patient, the age, condition, body weight,
sex, and diet of the patient, and the severity of any infection. Additional factors that can be
taken into account include time and frequency of administration, drug combinations, reaction
sensitivities, and tolerance/response to therapy. Further refinement of the dosage appropriate
for treatment involving any of the formulations mentioned herein is done routinely by the
skilled practitioner without undue experimentation, especially in light of the dosage information
and assays disclosed, as well as the pharmacokinetic data observed in human clinical trials.
Appropriate dosages can be ascertained through use of established assays for determining
concentration of the agent in a body fluid or other sample together with dose response data.
    [0253] The frequency of dosing will depend on the pharmacokinetic parameters of the
compound of Formula A and the route of administration. Dosage and administration are
adjusted to provide sufficient levels of the active moiety or to maintain the desired effect.
Accordingly, the pharmaceutical compositions can be administered in a single dose, multiple
discrete doses, continuous infusion, sustained release depots, or combinations thereof, as
required to maintain desired minimum level of the compound. Short-acting pharmaceutical
compositions (i.e., short half-life) can be administered once a day or more than once a day (e.g.,
                                                   43

two, three, or four times a day). Long acting pharmaceutical compositions might be
administered every 3 to 4 days, every week, or once every two weeks. Pumps, such as
subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, or subdural pumps, can be preferred for continuous infusion.
    [0254]     Subjects that will respond favorably to the method of the invention include medical
and veterinary subjects generally, including human patients. Among other subjects for whom
the methods of the invention is useful are cats, dogs, large animals, avians such as chickens, and
the like. In general, any subject who would benefit from a compound of formula A is
appropriate for administration of the invention method. In some foregoing embodiments, the
patient has a cytogenetic characteristic of del(17p) or del(1 lq). In some foregoing,
embodiments, the patient has a lymphadenopathy. In some foregoing embodiments, the use of
compound I, I", II, or II" reduces the size of a lymphadenopathy in a patient. In some foregoing
embodiments, the use of compound I, I", II, or II" reduces the size of a lymphadenopathy after
one cycle of treatment. In some foregoing embodiments, the use of compound I, I", II, or II"
reduces the size of a lymphadenopathy by at least 10 % after one cycle of treatment. In some
foregoing embodiments, the use of compound I, I", II, or II" reduces the size of a
lymphadenopathy by at least 25 % after one cycle of treatment. In some foregoing
embodiments, the use of compound I, I", II, or II" reduces the size of a lymphadenopathy by at
least 30 % after one cycle of treatment. In some foregoing embodiments, the use of compound
I, I", II, or II" reduces the size of a lymphadenopathy by at least 40 % after one cycle of
treatment. In some foregoing embodiments, the use of compound I, I", II, or II" reduces the
size of a lymphadenopathy by at least 50 % after one cycle of treatment. In some foregoing
embodiments, the use of compound I, I", II, or II" reduces the size of a lymphadenopathy by at
least 75 % after one cycle of treatment.
    [0255] In one aspect, the invention provides a method of treating a condition, comprising
administering a compound of formula I, II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and one
or more therapeutic agents to a subject in need of such treatment, wherein the condition is a
cancer or an autoimmune condition. In preferred embodiments, the therapeutic agent is a
proteasome inhibitor. In more specific embodiments, the therapeutic agent is bortezomib. In
some of the foregoing embodiments, the condition is a hematologic malignancy. In preferred
embodiments, the condition is selected from the group consisting of multiple myeloma, acute
lymphocytic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell
lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, B-cell ALL, T-cell ALL and Hodgkin's lymphoma.
In preferred embodiments, the compound is substantially comprised of the S-enantiomer. In
specific embodiments, the compound comprises at least 95% of the S-enantiomer. In some of
                                                    44

the foregoing embodiments, the administration of said compound and therapeutic agent
provides a synergistic benefit superior to results obtained without the combination of the
compound and therapeutic agent.
   [0256] The following examples are offered to illustrate but not to limit the invention. In the
examples below, references to the 'compound of formula I' or 'compound I' refer to the S
enantiomer shown here, and samples used for these Examples exhibited a 98.2%ee as measured
by chiral HPLC methods:
                                  F
                                          HN    N     (S-enantiomer)
                                                   N
                                            N
                                               NH
   [0257] In addition, an analysis of this compound reveals the following characteristics of the
material:
                     Test                      Test Result
                     Appearance                Slightly off-white powder
                     1H-NMR                    Spectrum conforms to the
                                               reference
                     HPLC Assay                98.1 %
                                               (Anhydrous, solvent-free
                                               basis)
                     Chiral Purity             98.2 %ee
                     (HPLC)
                      Test                        Test Result
                      Residual on Ignition        0.11 %
                      Infrared Spectroscopy       Spectrum in agreement
                      (FTIR)                      with the reference
                      13C-NMR                     Spectrum conforms to the
                                                  reference
                      Particle Size Analysis      Median diameter: 11.3 pm
                      Water (Coulometric          0.56 %
                      Karl Fischer)
                  Property or Test            Test Result
                  Elemental Analysis                        Ixpected    Found
                  % C, H, F, N
                                              %C           63.3         63.5
                                              %H           4.4          4.4
                                              %N           23.5         23.1
                                              %F           4.5          4.5
                                                  45

                                             Example 1
                              Inhibition of Cell Growth in MM Cells
    [0258] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I inhibits the cellular growth
stimulatory effects of cytokines (JGF-1 and IL-6) in multiple myeloma (MM) cells. LB cells
(Myelomonocytic myeloma cell line) were cultured for 48h with control media; with the
compound of formula I, in the presence or absence of either IL-6 or IGF-1. The inhibitory
effect of the compound of formula I on MM cell growth was assessed by measuring
3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrasodium bromide (MTT; Chemicon International)
dye absorbance. Cells were pulsed with 10 pL of 5 mg/mL MTT to each well for the last
4 hours of 48-hour cultures, followed by 100 p L isopropanol containing 0.04 N HCl.
Absorbance was measured at 570/630 nm using a spectrophotometer (Molecular Devices). A
summary of the results is shown in Figure 1. Exposure of 0.625 pM-2.5 pM of Compound I
inhibits MM cell growth even in the presence of cell growth stimulatory cytokines.
                                             Example 2
                                  Effect of BMSC on Cytotoxicity
    [0259] This example demonstrates Bone Marrow Stromal Cells (BMSCs) do not protect
against compound I-induced LB cell cytotoxicity. LB cells were cultured with control media,
and with the compound of formula I for 48 hours, in the presence or absence of BMSCs. Cell
proliferation was assessed using [3 H]-thymidine uptake assay. All data represent mean ( SD)
of triplicate experiment. A summary of the results is shown in Figure 2. LB cell growth is
reduced after exposure to 0.625 pM-10 pM of compound I even in the presence of BMSC.
                                             Example 3
                          Effect of Compound on Apoptosis of CLL Cells
    [0260] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I induces apoptosis in patient
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Peripheral blood was obtained from patients with
B-CLL through the CLL Research Consortium from Ohio State University. Primary CD19
positive cells were isolated using Rosette-Sep (StemCell Technologies). Cells were maintained
in RPMI 1640 (Invitrogen) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum,
2 mmol/L L-glutamine, and penicillin (100 units/mL)/streptomycin (100 pg/mL; Invitrogen) at
37 0 C, 5% C0 2 , and high humidity. After incubation with the compound of formula I or
medium for 96 hours, 5 x 105 cells were washed with PBS and then resuspended in binding
                                                 46

buffer (10 mmol/L HEPES/NaOH, pH 7.4, 150 mmol/L NaCl 5 mmol/L KCl, 1 mmol/L MgCl 2 ,
1.8 mmol/L CaCl 2 ) containing 2 p L of Annexin V-FITC stock (BioWhittaker, Inc) and 10 P L of
20 pg/mL PI (Sigma). After incubation for 10 minutes at room temperature in a light-protected
area, the specimens were quantified by flow cytometry on a FACScanTM (Becton Dickinson).
    [0261] Treatment of CLL patient cells with compound I results in apoptosis and the result
appears to be dose-dependent, as seen in Figure 3.
    [0262] Compound I induced apoptosis was seen in CLL cells from poor prognosis patients,
as the data indicates in Figure 19.
    [0263] Compound I induced apoptosis was also seen to be effective in CLL cells from
refractory/relapsed patients as shown in Figure 20.
                                              Example 4
                               Effect of compound in ALL cell lines
    [0264] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I results in a reduction of Akt
phosphorylation and a decrease in cellular proliferation accompanied by cell death in both T
ALL and B-ALL (Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia) leukemic cell lines. Viability assays of cell
lines were performed using the AlamarBlue assay (Invitrogen). Cells (1 x 106 per well) in a
volume of 100 pL were placed in a 96-well flat-bottom plate and the compound of formula I
(100 pL per well at 2x final concentration) or medium alone was added to the plates. All were
performed in quadruplicate. Cells were incubated for fixed times (48 hours). After the
incubation, 10 p L AlamarBlue* was added to each well. Cells were incubated for 4 hours and
the optical density at 530-560 nm was obtained using a SpectraMax* M5 plate reader 2001.
Cell viability was expressed as a percentage of absorption between treated cells/control sample.
These results are summarized in the table shown in Figure 4. Exposure to compound I result in
substantial reduction in cellular viability in a variety ALL cell lines as well as reduction in Akt
phosphorylation.
                                              Example 5
                             Effect of Compound on ALL Cell Cycle
    [0265] This example demonstrates treatment of the acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
cell line CCRF-SB with the compound of formula I results in GO/G1 cell cycle arrest.
Representative fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis of propidium iodide-stained
CCRF-SB cells under normal growth conditions, and growth in the presence of the compound
                                                   47

of formula I. The average percentage of cells in Go-G 1 , S, and G2 -M phases is calculated in the
table below the histographs. Results are shown in Figure 5.
                                               Example 6
                         Inhibition of Proliferation of Breast Cancer Cells
    [0266] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I inhibits proliferation of
breast cancer cell lines. T47D and HS-578T cell lines were grown in the presence of serum plus
the indicated concentrations of the compound of formula I. Proliferation was measured in
triplicate wells by AlamarBlue* assay (Invitrogen) 96-well plates. Results of proliferation
assays are expressed as the mean cellular percentage values and shown in Figure 6.
                                               Example 7
                      Inhibition of Proliferation of Ovarian Cancer Cell Lines
    [0267] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I inhibits proliferation of
ovarian cancer cell lines. IGROV-1 and OVCAR-3 cell lines were grown in the presence of
serum plus the indicated concentrations of the compound of formula I. Proliferation was
measured in triplicate wells by AlamarBlue assay (Invitrogen) 96-well plates. Results of
proliferation assays are expressed as the mean cellular percentage values and are shown in
Figure 7.
                                              Example 8
                                 Reduction of Akt Phosphorylation
    [0268] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I reduces constitutive Akt
phosphorylation in hematopoietic tumor cell lines that exhibited constitutive Akt
phosphorylation. A large panel of leukemia and lymphoma cell lines was assessed for
constitutive Akt phosphorylation. These cell lines represent B-lymphoma, T-lymphoma, ALL,
Malignant histiocytosis, DLBCL and AML. Cell lines that demonstrated serum independent Akt
phosphorylation were treated with the compound of formula I for 2 hours. Thereafter, cell were
lysed, size-fractioned and immunoblotted with antibodies directed against phospho
Akt(Ser473). Results are shown in Figure 8. Reduction in Akt(Ser473) was achieved for all
cell lines after exposure to compound I.
                                                   48

                                             Example 9
                                  Compound I Effective in DLBCL
    [0269] This example provides evidence that compound I blocks P13K signaling and induces
apoptosis in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cells. P1 106 is expressed in DLBCL cell lines as
shown in Figure 26A. Figure 26B shows that exposure to compound I reduces pAKT levels in
several DLBCL cell lines.
                                            Example 10
                          Inducement of Apoptosis in Breast Cancer Cells
    [0270] This example demonstrates the compound of formula I induces apoptosis in breast
cancer cell lines. HS-578T, T47D, and MCF7 cells were treated with the compound of
formula I or corresponding DMSO concentrations for 24 h. The percentage of apoptotic cells
was determined by Annexin V-FITC/7AAD staining. Bottom left, viable cells (Annexin V
FITC/PI negative); bottom right, early apoptotic cells (Annexin V-FITC positive only); top
right, mid-late apoptotic cells (Annexin V-FITC/7AAD double-positive); and top left, late
apoptotic/necrotic (7AAD positive only). Percentages of cells in each quadrant are indicated
except for the bottom left quadrant (viable cells). One experiment representative of three
different experiments that gave similar results is shown in Figure 10.
                                            Example 11
                    Steady State Blood Levels on Day 7 in Healthy Volunteers
    [0271] This example provides data relating to the concentration of the compound of
formula I in the blood of a healthy human subject on day 7. The concentration was monitored
over a period of 12 hours, after oral administration of 50, 100, or 200 mg BID of the compound
of formula I on day 7 of the study. Figure 11 follows the plasma concentration of the drug over
a period of 12 hours from administration. The maximum concentration of drug is achieved
within two hours for all doses. Administration of 50, 100 or 200 mg BID of said compound
results in a concentration level that exceeds the PI3K6 EC5 0 concentration in basophil for at
least 12 hours.
    [0272] In addition, single dose studies wherein 17-400 mg of the compound of formula I
was administered in healthy volunteers was carried out. Concentration of the compound in the
blood was measured over 24 hours from administration and results are shown in Figure 24A. At
about 6 hours, the concentration of compound I in the blood for all administered doses is at least
                                                  49

about 100 nM. At about 12 hours, the concentration of compound I in the blood for doses 50
mg and higher is over 50 nM. The maximum concentration of compound I in the blood is
achieved within 2 hours of administration.
    [0273] In another experiment, the mean compound I concentration was measured on the 7th
day of 50 mg BID dosing in healthy volunteers (N=6). The mean trough concentration was
higher than the EC50 for PI3K6 and the mean peak concentration was lower than the EC50 for
PI3Ky as determined in the whole blood basophil activation assay, Figure 24B. This example
demonstrates the concentration range of compound I administered at 50 mg BID is at a level
that is above the ED 50 PI3K6 basophil activation level but lower than the minimum ED 50 PI3Ky
basophil level activation level in whole blood for at least 12 hours.
    [0274] Table 1, below, provides an overview of the subjects in the study, wherein either a
singe dose (SD) or multiple dose (MD) of the compound of formula I is administered to a
subject at varying amounts. The "n" values refer to the number of subjects in each group.
                                              Table 1
          Cohort    Regimen       Compound I                   Placebo
           1 (n=8)       SD       17 mg (n=6)                  Placebo (n=2)
          2 (n=8)        SD       50 mg (n=6)                  Placebo (n=2)
          3 (n=8)        SD       125 mg (n=6)                 Placebo (n=2)
          4 (n=8)        SD       250 mg (n=6)                 Placebo (n=2)
          5 (n=8)        SD       400 mg (n=6)                 Placebo (n=2)
          6 (n=8)       MD        50 mg BID x 7 d (n=6)        Placebo BID x 7 d (n=2)
          7 (n=8)       MD        100 mg BID x 7 d (n=6)       Placebo BID x 7 d (n=2)
          8 (n=8)       MD        200 mg BID x 7 d (n=6)       Placebo BID x 7 d (n=2)
                                           Example 12
                   Effect on Lesions in a Patient with Mantle Cell Lymphoma
    [0275] This example provides data relating to the area of lesions of a patient with mantle
cell lymphoma after 1 cycle of treatment (28 days) with the compound of formula I. The area of
6 lesions was measured prior to treatment and after a cycle of treatment. The response to 28
days of oral administration of 50 mg BID of the compound of formula I, results in a decrease of
lesion area compared to area prior to treatment and represents a 44% decrease in tumor burden.
The results are summarized in a bar graph found in Figure 12.
                                                50

                                             Example 13
                            Response of a Patient with CLL to Treatment
    [0276] This example provides data relating to the concentration of absolute lymphocyte
count (ALC) in the blood of a patient with CLL after 1 cycle (28 days) of treatment with oral
administration of the compound of formula I. The blood ALC concentration was measured over
a period of 4 weeks after completion of one cycle of treatment. A 55% decrease in
lymphocytosis and a 38% decrease in lymphadenopathy as a result of treatment were observed.
A marked decrease in ALC concentration is observed between week 1 and week 2, Figure 13.
                                             Example 14
                     Comparison of Lymphoma Patient to Healthy Volunteer
    [0277] This example provides data comparing the concentration of the compound of
formula I in a lymphoma patient to normal healthy volunteers. On the 2 8 h day of oral
administration of 50 mg BID of compound in a patient with mantle cell lymphoma, the
concentration of the compound in the blood was measured over a period of 6 hours after
administration. The concentration of 50 and 100 mg oral administration in normal healthy
volunteers on day 7 of administration was also observed. The results are summarized in
Figure 14. Thus, the compound does not build up excessively over the course of a cycle of
treatment, nor does the patient become tolerant by increased metabolism over the course of the
treatment cycle.
                                             Example 15
                             Activity of compound I in various kinases
    [0278] This example shows the IC50 profile of compound I across classes of kinases as
summarized in Table 2. While especially active on p1106, Compound I was also active on
p1 107 and even active enough to be therapeutically useful at non-toxic doses against p110P, due
to the demonstrated high NOAEL level of the compound; while exhibiting little activity on
Class II-V phosphoinositide kinases. Thus while being delta-selective, the compounds can
exhibit sufficient activity on p 1107 to be clinically useful, i.e., to be effective on a cancer that
relies upon p1107 for signaling, because a plasma level above the effective dosage for inhibition
of p 1107 can be achieved while still being selective relative to other isoforms, particularly the
alpha isoform.
                                                   51

                                                      Table 2
                                                Class      Class III                               Other
                  Class I PI3Ks, IC5o (nM)       PI3K,       PK             lass I'          Phosphoinositide
                                                                       PU K, 1(', (nN4)
                                               IC',flM)         MIC6(n                            kinases
  Compound p1l10       p1l10   p1105 p1107      CIlbeta    hVPS34     DNA-PK        mTOR    PIP15Ka    PIP5KQ
                                                                                        3
        I       435      128      1      14      >103         78        79          >1         13        >13
  NVP-BEZ-:
      235        19      293     63     267        3          6          1            2       ND*         ND
   Novartis
       InvitroGen Adapta assay
       *ND=not determined
                                                  Example 16
              No off-target activity of Compound I in kinome-wide protein kinase screen
    [0279] This example demonstrates that compound I has little or no off target activity in a
kinome-wide protein kinase screen. Using Ambit KINOMEscans a genome wide screen of
over 350 protein kinases failed to detect any activity at 10 PM. Examples of some kinases in
the screen are shown below in Table 3.
                                                      Table 3
                                   Examples of Relevant Kinases in Screen
                ABL               FGFR1           JAKI             P38MAPK              S6K
                AKT               VEGFR1          JAK2             PDGFR                SLK
                ALK               FLT3            JNK1             PIM                  SRC
                BLK               FRK              KIT             PKA                  SYK
                BRAF              FYN              LCK             PKC                  TAK
                BTK               HCK              LYN             PLK                  TIE
                CDK               HER2             MAPK            RAF                  TRK
                CSF1R             ICK              MEK             RET                  TYK
                EGFR              IGF1-R           MET             ROCK                 YES
                EPH               ITK              MLK             ROS                  ZAP70
                                                  Example 17
                                    Selectivity of Compound I for p1106
    [0280] This example demonstrates that compound I is selective for p1106 as measured in
isoform specific cell-based assays.
    [0281] Swiss-3T3 fibroblasts and RAW-264 were seeded on a 96-well tissue culture plate
and allowed to reach at least 90% confluency. Cells were starved and treated with either vehicle
                                                        52

or serial dilutions of compound I for 2 hrs and stimulated with PDGF or C5a respectively. Akt
phosphorylation and total AKT was detected by ELISA. Purified B-cells were treated with
either vehicle or serial dilutions of compound I for 30 minutes at room temperature before the
addition of purified goat anti-human IgM. Results are expressed as relative [3H] thymidine
incorporation induced by IgM crosslinking.
                                                Table 4
                    P131Ka                       PI3K6                    P13K 7
                  EC50 (nM)                    EC50 (nM)                EC50 (nM)
             Fibroblast Cell Line           Primary B Cell         Monocyte Cell Line
            PDGF induced pAKT               BCr mediated           C5a induced pAKT
                                              proliferaton
                   >20,000                          6                      3,894
                    (n=12)                        (n=6)                   (n=11)
                                              Example 18
                     Expression of p1106 in leukemia and lymphoma cell lines
    [0282] This example demonstrates that P13K p 1 106 is highly expressed in a broad range of
leukemia and lymphoma cell lines.
    [0283] P13K p110i promotes proliferation and survival in a wide range of leukemia and
lymphoma cell lines. Among the cell types investigated are MCL, DLBCL, AML, ALL, and
CML.
    [0284] Expression of P13K p 1 10 a, P, y and 6 in a panel of lymphoma and leukemia cell
lines is demonstrated in Figure 15. Proteins from 106 cells were separated by SDS-PAGE and
analyzed by Western blot using antibodies specific for the a1, P, y and 6 isoforms. Purified
recombinant p110 proteins were used as controls. Anti-actin antibodies were used to assess
equal loading of the samples. p1106 was consistently expressed at a high level while other p110
isoforms were highly variable. P13K p1 106 is known to be uniformly expressed in patient AML
cells as discussed by Sujobert, et al., Blood 2005 106(3), 1063-1066.
                                              Example 19
                              Inhibitory effect of Compound I on p1106
    [0285] Example 19 shows compound I inhibition of p1106 blocks P13K signaling in
leukemia and lymphoma cell lines with constitutive pathway activation.
    [0286] The P13K pathway is frequently deregulated in leukemia and lymphoma cell lines.
48% of cell lines, or 13 out of 27, were found to have constitutive p-AKT. In addition, P13K
                                                    53

pathway activation is dependent on p1 106. Compound I was found to inhibit constitutive AKT
phosphorylation in 13 out of 13 cell lines.
    [0287] PAGE results of figure 9 demonstrates that constitutive AKT phosphorylation was
inhibited by the presence of compound I in each of 11 cell lines, including B-cell and T-cell
lymphomas. Cells were incubated for 2 hrs with 10 pM compound I. Cell lysates were run on
SDS-PAGE and transferred onto PDVF membrane and probed with appropriate antibodies.
Compound I was found to inhibit constitutive AKT phosphorylation in 11 out of 11 cell lines.
Additional cell line data for T-ALL and B-ALL cell lines is shown in Figure 27. A decrease in
Akt and S6 phosphorylation after exposure to a range concentrations of compound I (0.1 pM to
10 pM), was quantitated by densitometry, expressed as the percent change, Figure 28.
                                             Example 20
            Compound I Inhibits Proliferation and Apoptosis in Leukemia Cell Lines
    [0288] Example 20 demonstrates that compound I inhibits proliferation and induces
apoptosis in leukemia cell lines. Figures 16A-B show that treatment with compound I for 24
hours reduces cellular viability in a dose dependent manner.
    [0289] Proliferation assays (AlamarBlue*) on ALL cell lines grown in the presence of 10 %
FBS serum and measurements were taken at 24 hrs. Proliferation was measured in triplicate
wells in 96-well plates. The inhibition of P13K signaling by compound I resulted in a block of
cell cycle progression, and/or cell death. In each of six leukemia cell lines, viability was
reduced by 40-50% with 10 micromolar concentrations of Compound I, Figure 16A.
    [0290] Induction of apoptosis by compound I. Cells were treated with DMSO (vehicle),
1 pM or 10 pM compound 1 for 24 hrs. The percentage of apoptotic cells was determined by
Annexin V-FITC/7AAD staining. One experiment representative of different experiments that
gave similar results is shown in Figure 16B.
                                             Example 21
                                  Expression of p1106 in CLL Cells
    [0291] This example demonstrates P13K p 1 106 and p110 6 isoform expression in patient
CLL cells.
    [0292] P13K mediated signaling pathways have been implicated in CLL. These pathways
have a role in cell proliferation, prevention of apoptosis and cell migration. Efforts were made
to determine P13K isoform expression in patient CLL cells.
    [0293] CLL patient demographics are summarized below in Table 5.
                                                  54

                                Table 5    CLL Patient Demographics
                                            (Total (N = 24)
                             I) Cytogenetic abnormalities
                                  13q14.3                     58%
                                  11q22.3                     33%
                                  17p13.1                     20%
                                  Trisomy 12                  12%
                             II) Treatment History
                                  Fludarabine refractory      29%
                                  Unknown                     54%
                             II) IgVH Status
                                  Mutated                     33%
                                  Unmutated                   33%
                                  Unknown                     33%
    [0294] The PAGE images of Figure 17A-D compare the expression of p110lo, p1106,
p110p, and p110y in CLL cells of patients A-E. p1106 and p110y is expressed in each patient
compared to the other P13K isoforms.
                                           Example 22
                      Compound I induces cleavage of caspase 3 and PARP
   [0295] This example demonstrates that compound I induced the cleavage of caspase 3 and
PARP. Figures 18A-B show results of caspase 3 and PARP (Poly(ADP) Ribose Polymerase)
cleavage in the presence of 1, 10 pM of compound I or 25 pM of LY294002.
    [0296] Further experiments provide evidence of compound I inducing caspase 2 and PARP
cleavage. Cells were cultured with compound I or vehicle alone for 24 hrs. Thereafter, cells
were lysed and sized-fractionated and immunoblotted with antibody directed against FLIP,
figure 29. Additionally, whole cell lysates were added to MDS (Meso Scale Diagnostics) multi
spot 96-well 4 spot plates coated with Total caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3, cleaved PARP, and
BSA. Proteins were detected with antibodies labeled with SULFO-TAG reagent and quantified.
A dose dependent response in the cleavage of caspase 3 and PARP was achieved upon exposure
to 5 or 10 pM of compound I.
                                                 55

                                            Example 23
                                Compound I Blocks P13K Signaling
    [0297] This example demonstrates that compound I blocks P13K signaling in patient AML
cells. PI3K6 is implicated in signaling in AML patient cells. Figure 21 shows the results of
Phospho-Akt production in the absence or presence of 0.1, 1.0, 10 PM of Compound I. This
provides evidence that compound I reduces phopsho-Akt production in patient AML cells.
                                            Example 24
               Measurement of P13K signaling in basophils founding whole-blood
    [0298] This example demonstrates a whole-blood assay for measurement of P13K signaling
in basophils using flow cytometry by the induction of CD63 surface expression.
    [0299] Inhibition of P13K signaling in basophils permits compound I to be a useful
pharmacodynamic marker. P13K signaling is monitored by CD63 surface expression. In
particular, pl106 mediates FCrR1 signaling and p1 107 mediates fMLP receptor signaling. The
flow cytometry analysis of P13K mediated CD63 expression on basophils comprises the
following sequential steps:
        1.      Collect peripheral blood
        2.      Basophil stimulation (fMLP or Anti-FCrR1 Mab)
        3.      Label basophils (Anti-CCR3-FITC and Anti-CD63-PE)
        4.      Lyse and fix cells
        5.      Analysis by flow cytometry
    [0300] Figure 22A-C compares the results of A) no stimulation, B) stimulation with Anti
FCcR1, or C) stimulation with fMLP.
    [0301] Figure 23 shows that Compound I is especially active where p1106 mediated
signaling is most important, but is also relatively active where p 107 is utilized: it achieved
50% reduction in SD63 expression at << 1 pM for the pl106 test, and ca. 10 pM for the pl107
test. Basophil activation was measured in human whole blood using the Flow2 CAST@ kit.
Whole blood samples were treated with either vehicle or serial dilutions of compound I prior to
activation of basophils either with anti-FcRI mAb or fMLP. Cells were stained with the
combination of anti-human CD63-FITC and anti-human CCR3-PE mAbs. The percent CD63
positive cells within the gated basophil population were determined in different treatment
groups and normalized to the vehicle control.
                                                  56

                                           Example 25
                     Compound I Reduces Lymphadenopathy in CLL Patient
    [0302] This example provides evidence of the reduction in size of a bulky lymphadenopathy
in a CLL patient with a del[17p]. A patient with del(17p) had an axillary lymphadenopathy,
which was imaged by computed tomography (CT) to provide a baseline measurement of 5.9 cm
x 4.1 cm, Figure 40A. After one cycle of treatment with compound I, the lymphadenopathy was
reduced to a dimension of 3.8 x 1.8 cm, Figure 40B. A cycle treatment was 28 days of
continuous oral dosing at either 200 mg BID or 350 mg BID of compound I.
                                           Example 26
            Limited Effect of Compound I on Glucose and Insulin Levels of a Subject
   [0303] This example demonstrates that treatment with compound I has little or no effect on
glucose and insulin levels. Compound I was administered at 50-200 mg amounts BID to a
subject over a period of up to 10 days. Blood glucose and insulin concentrations were measured
over time and compared to placebo results as shown in Figures 25A-B.
   [0304] Blood glucose concentration remained steady after 10 days of treatment with even
the highest dosage amount of compound I. Insulin levels remained within the normal range
after 7 days of treatment with compound I. This provides evidence that compound I has little or
no effect on glucose and insulin levels.
                                           Example 27
                                      Materials and Methods
    [0305] This example provides information on materials and methods of carrying out the
experiments described in Examples 28-35 which relate to the use of compound I in the
treatment of multiple myeloma.
        Materials
    [0306] p1106 inhibitor compound I and compound II were provided by Calistoga
Pharmaceuticals, (Seattle, WA). The sample of compound I and II used was over 95% the
S enantiomer. Compound I was dissolved in Dimethyl sulphoxide at 10 mM and stored at
-20'C for in vitro study. Compound II was dissolved in 1% carboxyl methylcellulose
(CMC)/0.5% Tween 80 and stored at 4'C for in vivo study. Recombinant human P1100a, , y
and 6 were reconstituted with sterile phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 0.1% BSA.
                                                 57

bortezomib was provided by Millennium Pharmaceuticals (Cambridge, MA). 3-Methyladenine
was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO).
         Cell culture
    [0307] Dex-sensitive (MM.lS) and resistant (MM.1R) human MM cell lines were kindly
provided by Dr. Steven Rosen (Northwestern University, Chicago, IL). H929, RPM18226, and
U266 human MM cell lines were obtained from American Type Culture Collection (Manassas,
VA). Melphalan- resistant RPMI-LR5 and Doxorubicin (Dox)-resistant RPMI-Dox4O cell lines
were kindly provided by Dr. William Dalton (Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL). OPM1
plasma cell leukemia cells were provided by Dr. Edward Thompson (University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston). IL-6-dependent human MM cell line INA-6 was provided by
Dr. Renate Burger (University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany). LB human MM cell line was
established in the laboratory. Phenotypic analysis revealed no cytogenetic abnormalities.
Phenotypic analysis is shown in table 6. CD expression profile of LB cell line, defined by flow
cytometric analysis.
                                             Table 6
                                   LB expression
                              CD marker          % expression
                              CD3                    5.5%
                              CD19                 61.7%
                              CD20                 97.2 %
                              CD38                 54.1 %
                              CD40                 96.8%
                              CD49e                  5.9%
                              CD70                 98.0%
                              CD138                96.3%
    [0308] All MM cell lines were cultured in RPMI1640 medium. Bone marrow stromal cells
(BMSCs) were cultured in Dulbecco's modification of Eagle's medium (DMEM) (Sigma)
containing 15% fetal bovine serum, 2 mM L-glutamine (Life Technologies),100 U/mL
penicillin, and 100 pg/mL streptomycin (Life Technologies). Blood samples collected from
healthy volunteers were processed by Ficoll-PaqueTM gradient to obtain peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMNCs). Patient MM and BM cells were obtained from BM samples
after informed consent was obtained per the Declaration of Helsinki and approval by the
Institutional Review Board of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (Boston, MA). BM
                                               58

mononuclear cells were separated using Ficoll-PaqueTM density sedimentation, and plasma cells
were purified (>95% CD138+) by positive selection with anti-CD138 magnetic activated cell
separation micro beads (Miltenyi Biotec, Auburn, CA). Tumor cells were also purified from the
BM of MM patients using the RosetteSep negative selection system (StemCell Technologies,
Vancouver, BC, Canada).
        Growth inhibition assay
    [0309] The growth inhibitory effect of compound I on growth of MM cell lines, PBMCs,
and BMSCs was assessed by measuring 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetra-sodium
bromide (MTT; Chemicon International, Temecula, CA) dye absorbance.
        Effect of compound I on paracrine MM cell growth in the BM
    [0310] MM cells (2 x 104 cells/well) were cultured for 48 h in BMSC coated 96-well plates
(Costar, Cambridge, MA), in the presence or absence of drug. DNA synthesis was measured by
[3H]-thymidine (Perkin-Elmer, Boston, MA) uptake, with [3H]-thymidine (0.5 t Ci/well) added
during the last 8 h of 48 h cultures. All experiments were performed in quadruplicate.
        Transient knockdown of P1 106 expression
    [0311] INA-6 cells and LB cells were transiently transfected with siRNA ON-TARGET
plus SMART pool P1106 or nonspecific control duplex (Dharmacon Lafayette,Co) using Cell
Line Nucleofector Kit V (Amaxa Blosystems Gaitherburg,MD).
        Immunofluorescence
    [0312] Viable MM cells (2.5 X 104) were pelleted on glass slides by centrifugation at
500 rpm for 5 minutes using a cytospin system (Thermo Shandon, Pittsburgh, PA). Cells were
fixed in cold absolute acetone and methanol for 10 min. Following fixation, cells were washed
in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and then blocked for 60 min with 5% FBS in PBS. Slides
were then incubated with anti-CD138 antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) at
4'C for 24 h, washed in PBS, incubated with goat anti-mouse IgG for 1 h at 4'C, and analyzed
using Nikon E800 fluorescence microscopy.
                                                 59

        Detection and quantification of Acidic Vesicular Organelles (AVO) with acridine orange
               staining.
    [0313] Autophagy was characterized by sequestration of cytoplasmic proteins and
development of AVOs. To detect and quantify AVOs in compound I or 3MA -treated cells, vital
staining was performed for 15 min with acridine orange at a final concentration of 1 pg/ml.
Samples were examined under a fluorescence microscope.
        Angiogenesis assay
    [0314] The anti-angiogenic activity of compound I was determined using an in vitro
Angiogenesis Assay Kit (Chemicon, Temecula, CA). HUVEC and endothelial growth media
were obtained from Lonza (Walkersville, MD, USA). HUVEC were cultured with compound I
on polymerized matrix gel at 37'C. After 8 h, tube formation was evaluated using Leika DM IL
microscopy (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany) and analyzed with IM50 software (Leica
Microsystems Imaging Solutions, Cambridge, UK). HUVEC cell migration and rearrangement
was visualized, and the number of branching points counted.
        Western blotting
    [0315] MM cells were cultured with or without compound I; harvested; washed; and lysed
using radioimmuno precipitation assay (RIPA) buffer, 2 mM Na 3 VO 4 , 5m M NaF, 1 mM
phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (5 mg/ml). Whole-cell lysates were subjected to sodium dodecyl
sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) separation, transferred to Pure
Nitrocellulose membranes (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA), and immunoblotted with anti
AKT, phospho(p)-AKT (Ser473, Thr 308), ERK1/2 , P-ERK1/2, P-PDK1, STAT, P-STAT,
P-FKRHL, P-70S6K, LC3, and PI3K/p110 a Abs (Cell Signaling Danvers, MA); anti-p1 10P,
PI3K/p1 106, Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), a-tubulin, and actin Abs
(Santa Cruz Biotechnology, CA); and anti-p110 y Ab (Alexis, San Diego, CA): and anti-LC3
Ab (Abgent, San Diego, CA).
        ELISA
    [0316] Cytokine secretion by human BMSCs cocultured with MM cells was assessed by
ELISA. BMSCs were cultured in 96-well plates with varying concentrations of compound I,
with or without INA-6 cells. After 48 h, supernatants were harvested and stored at -80'C.
Cytokines were measured using Duo set ELISA Development Kits (R&D Systems,
Minneapolis, MN). All measurements were carried out in triplicate.
                                                60

         Human cytokine array
    [0317] The cytokine levels in culture supernatants were assessed using Proteome Profiler
Antibody Arrays Panel A (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN), Supernatants from co-cultures
with BMSCs were incubated for 4 hours with membranes arrayed with Abs against 37
cytokines, according to manufacturer's instructions.
         Murine xenograft models of human MM
    [0318] CB17 SCID mice (48-54 days old) were purchased from Charles River Laboratories
(Wilmington, MA). All animal studies were conducted according to protocols approved by the
Animal Ethics Committee of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. Mice were inoculated
subcutaneously in the right flank with 3X106 LB cells in 100 pL RPMI-1640. When tumors
were palpable, mice were assigned into the treatment groups receiving 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg
gavages twice daily; and 7 mice in the control group receiving vehicle alone. Caliper
measurements of the longest perpendicular tumor diameters were performed every alternate day
to estimate the tumor volume using the following formula representing the 3D volume of an
ellipse: 4/3 X (width/ 2)2 X (length/2). Animals were sacrificed when tumors reached 2 cm or
the mice appeared moribund. Survival was evaluated from the first day of treatment until death.
Tumor growth was evaluated using caliper measurements from the first day of treatment until
day of first sacrifice, which was day 12 for the control group and days 17 and 19 for the
treatment groups. The images were captured with a canon IXY digital 700 camera. Ex vivo
analysis of tumor images was captured with a LEICA DM IL microscope and LEICA DFC300
FX camera at 40u/0.60 (Leica, Heidelberg, Germany).
    [0319] Human fetal bone grafts were implanted into CB17 SCID-mice (SCID-hu). Four
weeks following bone implantation, 2.5 X 106 INA-6 cells were injected directly into the
human BM cavity in the graft in a final volume of 100 pl of RPMI-1640 medium. An increase
in the levels of soluble human IL-6 receptor (shuIL-6R) from INA-6 cells was used as an
indicator of MM cell growth and burden of disease in SCID-hu mice. Mice developed
measurable serum shuIL-6R approximately 4 weeks following INA-6 cell injection, and then
received either 10 or 30mg/kg drug or vehicle alone daily for 7 weeks. Blood samples were
collected and assessed for shuIL-6R levels using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
(ELISA, R&D Systems. Minneapolis MN).
                                                 61

        Statistical analysis
    [0320] Statistical significance was determined by Dunn's multiple comparison tests. The
minimal level of significance was p<0.05. Survival was assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves
and log-rank analysis. The combined effect of compound I and bortezomib was analyzed by
isobologram analysis using the CalcuSyn software program (Biosoft, Ferguson, MO); a
combination index (CI) <0.7 indicates a synergistic effect.
                                            Example 28
                               Expression of p110 delta in MM cells
    [0321] This example demonstrates that p1106 is highly expressed in patient MM cells. To
assess PI3K/p1 10 expression, Abs was used against recombinant human PI3K/p1 10a, P, y, and
6 proteins with specific immunoreactivity against these isoforms. The expression of pl10 in
11 MM cell lines (MM.1S, OPM1, OPM2, RPM18226, DOX40, LR5, MM.1R, U266, INA-6,
H929, and LB), as well as 24 patient MM samples were evaluated and immunoblots shown in
figure 30A and 30B. Figure 30A shows expression of p110-a,-P, -7, and -6 in MM cell lines
detected by immunoblotting using specific antibodies. Anti-a-Tubulin MAb served as a loading
control. pl106 in patient MM cells was detected by immunoblotting using anti-P1 106 Ab
(Figure 30B).
   [0322] Anti-GAPDH MAb served as a loading control. INA-6 and LB cells strongly
expressed p1106, whereas MM.1S, OPM1, MM.1R, Dox40, U266 or H929 lacked pl1106
expression (Fig. 30A).
   [0323] p 1 106 expression in MM.lS and LB cells was confirmed by immunofluorescence
analysis (Fig. 30C). Human recombinant P110-a,- ,-7,-6 proteins in SDS sample buffer were
heated for 3 min prior to loading on gel. (10-20 pg per lane.) Recombinant human
P1 10-a,- ,-7,-  proteins were detected by Immunoblot analysis. Levels of P110 6 were
measured in MMlS and LB cells using P110 6 specific FITC conjugated secondary antibodies.
P1106 stained green, and nucleic acids (DAPI) stained blue.
   [0324] Western blotting revealed no correlation of between p1106 expression and
expression of the other isoforms (a,  P and 7). Importantly, all patient MM cells also expressed
p1106, (Fig. 30B3).
                                                 62

                                            Example 29
                              Cytotoxicity of compound I on MM cells
    [0325] This example demonstrates that compound I has selective cytotoxicity against cells
with p1l06. Specifically, compound I potently induced cytotoxicity in p1106 positive MM cells
as well as in primary patient MM cells without cytotoxicity in peripheral blood mononuclear
cells from healthy donors, suggesting a favorable therapeutic index.
    [0326] The growth inhibitory effect of pl106 knockdown in MM cells was evaluated. LB
and INA-6 cells were transfected with P1 106 siRNA (Si) or control siRNA (Mock). After 24 h,
expression of P110 6 was determined by western blot analysis, see figure 31A. INA-6 cells
were transfected with pl106 siRNA or control siRNA, and then cultured for 72 hours. Cell
growth was assessed by MTT assay, see figure 31 B. Data indicates mean  SD of triplicate
cultures, expressed as fold of control. Transfection with pl110 siRNA, but not mock siRNA,
down-regulated p1O       and inhibited MM cell growth at 72 h (Fig. 31A and 31B). The growth
inhibitory effect of p1i106 specific small molecule inhibitor compound I in MM cell lines,
PBMCs, and patient MM cells was evaluated.
    [0327] Compound I induced cytotoxicity against LB and INA-6 MM cells (p1 106-positive)
in a dose- and time- dependent fashion; in contrast, minimal cytotoxicity was noted in p1 106
negative cell lines (Fig. 31C). The legend for figure 31C: LB (o), INA-6 (A), RPMI 8226(o),
OPM2 (0), H929 ( * ), U266 (+),RPMI- LR5 (A) and OPM1 (m)MM cells were cultured with
or without compound I for 48h.
    [0328] Importantly, compound I also induced cytotoxicity against patient MM cells
(Fig. 3 1D), without cytotoxicity in PBMCs from 4 healthy volunteers at concentrations up to
20 pM (Fig. 31E). Patients MM cells isolated from BM by negative selection were cultured
with compound I for 48h. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from healthy donors
were cultured with compound I for 72 h. Data represent mean  SD viability, assessed by MTT
assay of triplicate cultures, expressed as percentage of untreated controls. These results strongly
suggest that sensitivity to compound I is associated with P1106 expression, and suggest a
favorable therapeutic window.
    [0329] To determine whether the cytotoxicity induced by compound I is via apoptosis, the
cleavage of caspases and PARP by western blot analysis was examined. INA-6 cells were
cultured with compound I (0-5pM) for 120 h. Total cell lysates were subjected to
immunoblotting using anti-caspase-3, -8, -9, PARP, and ac-tubulin Abs. FL indicates full-length
protein, and CL indicates cleaved protein. Significantly increased cleavage of caspase-8,
                                                  63

caspase-9, caspase-3, and PARP was observed in INA-6 MM cells treated with compound I for
120 h (Fig. 31F). These results indicate that cytotoxicity triggered by compound I is mediated,
at least in part, via caspase-dependent (both intrinsic and extrinsic) apoptosis.
                                            Example 30
                     Inhibition of AKT and ERK phosphorylation by compound I
    [0330] This example demonstrates the Inhibition of AKT and ERK phosphorylation by
compound I.
    [0331] An important downstream effector of P13K is the serine/ threonine protein kinase
AKT, which is activated by phosphorylation of Thr308 in the activation loop of the kinase
domain and Ser473 in the C-terminal tail. Phosphorylation of both sites requires an interaction
between the N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain of AKT and membrane phosphoinositide
generated by P13K. It was shown that compound I inhibits both domains, suggesting that P1 106
is the predominant isoform responsible for P13K signaling in MM cell lines.
    [0332] Inhibition of AKT and ERK pathways in INA-6 cells by compound I was examined.
INA-6 cells were cultured with Compound I or LY294002 for 12 h, Figure 32A. Actin Ab was
used as a loading control. INA-6 and MM. lS cells were cultured with Compound I
(0,0.25,1.0,5.0 pM) for 6 hours, Figure 32B. LB and INA-6 cells were cultured with compound
I for 0-6 hours, figure 32C. Whole cell lysates were subjected to immunoblotting using AKT,
P-AKT (Ser473 and Thr308), ERK1/2, P-ERK1/2, P-PDK1, and P-FKRHL antibodies. a
tubulin is used as a loading control.
    [0333] Compound I significantly blocked phosphorylation of AKT and ERK1/2 in p1106
positive INA-6 cells (Fig. 32A), but did not affect phosphorylation of AKT or ERK in MM.1S
cells with low expression of P1 106 (Fig. 32B). Compound I also significantly inhibited
phosphorylation of upstream PDK-1 and downstream FKHRL in INA-6 and LB MM cells in a
time- and dose- dependent fashion (Fig. 32C), further confirming inhibition of a both
PI3K/AKT and ERK pathways in these cells.
                                            Example 31
                        Compound I induces AVO development and autophagy
    [0334] This example demonstrates the ability of compound I to trigger both apoptosis and
autophagy.
    [0335] AKT regulates autophagy, thus investigation of compound I in inducing autophagy
in LB and INA-6 MM cells was carried out.
                                                  64

    [0336] INA-6 and LB MM cells were treated with 5 pM Compound I for 6h. Compound I
treatment induced LC3 accumulation in LB and INA-6 cells, evidenced by fluorescence
microscopy or transmission electron microscopy. Autophagosome formation was defined by
the accumulation of LC3; arrows indicate autophagosomes, figure 33A.
    [0337] INA-6 cells were treated with 5 pM Compound I or serum starvation for 6h, stained
with 1 pg/mL acridine orange for 15 min, and analyzed by fluorescence microscopy, figure
33B.
    [0338] LC3 and beclin-1 protein levels were determined by western blotting using LC3 and
beclin-1 antibodies of lysates from INA-6 cells treated with Compound I, with or without 3
MA, figure 33C. GAPDH served as a loading control.
    [0339] Immunofluorescence analysis showed markedly increased LC 3 staining in INA-6
and LB cells triggered by compound I (5pM, 6 h) treatment (Fig. 33A). Electron microscopic
analysis also showed increased autophagic vacuoles (arrows) in MM cells treated with
compound I. Since autophagy is characterized as acidic vesicular organelle (AVO)
development, acridine orange staining was carried out. As shown in Fig. 33B, vital staining
with acridine orange revealed development of AVOs in compound I- treated LB and INA-6
cells. Moreover, markedly increased LC3-II and Beclin1 protein were detected in INA-6 MM
cells after 6 h treatment with compound I, which was blocked by 3-MA autophagic inhibitor
(Fig. 33C).
    [0340] No cytotoxicity in INA-6 and LB cells was induced by 3-MA at concentrations up to
100 pM, figure 33D. P110 6 positive LB cells (*)      were treated with 3-MA (0-100 pM) for
24h. Data represent means (SD) of triplicate cultures.
    [0341] These results indicate that compound I induces development of AVOs and
autophagy at earlier time points than induction of caspase/PARP cleavage.
    [0342] Autophagy degrades cellular components, recycles cellular constituents, and
responds to various cellular stress. In this example, LC3-II, a hallmark of autophagy, is induced
by compound I treatment in p110 6 positive MM cell lines. Importantly, compound I treatment
resulted in a marked increase in autophagy, evidenced by the presence of autophagic vacuoles in
the cytoplasm, formation of AVOs, membrane association of microtubule-associated protein I
of LC3 with autophagosomes, and a marked induction of LC3-II protein. Electron microscopic
analysis confirmed that compound I induced autophagosomes. LC3-II was expressed through
LC3-I conversion. Conversely, autophagy induced by compound I was suppressed by 3-MA, a
specific inhibitor of autophagy. These studies suggest that early cytotoxic effects of compound
I are associated with autophagy.
                                                 65

                                           Example 32
                     Compound I inhibits cell growth in the presence of BMSC
    [0343] This example demonstrates the ability of compound I to inhibit paracrine MM cell
growth with BMSCs.
    [0344] Since IL-6 and IGF-1 induces growth and anti-apoptosis in MM cells, compound I
was examined in overcoming the effects of these cytokines in INA-6 and LB MM cells. LB and
INA-6 cells were cultured for 48h with control media (U); or with compound I at 5.0 PM ( E)
or 10 pM ( E ), in the presence or absence of IL-6 (1 and 10 ng/ml), figure 34A, or IGF-1 (10
and 100 ng/mL), figure 34B. DNA synthesis was determined by measuring [3H]-thymidine
incorporation during the last 8h of 72h cultures. Data represent means (SD) of triplicate
cultures. Neither IL-6 nor IGF-1 protected against the growth inhibition induced by compound
I (Fig. 34A and 34B).
    [0345] The BM microenvironment confers proliferation and drug-resistance in MM, thus
MM cell growth inhibitory effect of compound I in the presence of BMSCs was examined.
    [0346] LB and INA-6 MM cells were cultured for 48h with control media (0), and with
2.5 pM ( ), 5 pM (0), and 10 pM (U ) of Compound I, in the presence or absence of BMSCs,
figure 34C. DNA synthesis was determined by [3H]-thymidine incorporation. Data represent
means (SD) of triplicate cultures.
    [0347] IL-6 in culture supernatants from BMSCs treated with compound 1 (0-2.5 PM) was
measured by ELISA, figure 34D. Error bars indicate SD ().
    [0348] BMSCs were cultured with 1.0 pM compound I or control media for 48h; cytokines
in culture supernatants were detected using cytokine arrays, figure 34E.
    [0349] INA-6 cells cultured with or without BMSCs were treated with compound for 48h.
Total cell lysates were subjected to immunoblotting using indicated antibodies, figure 34F.
Actin was used as a loading control.
    [0350] BMSCs from 2 different patients (o, K>) were cultured with compound I (0-20pM)
for 48h. Cell viability was assessed by MTT assay, figure 34G. Values represent mean  SD of
triplicate cultures.
    [0351] Importantly, compound I inhibited growth and cytokine secretion (Fig. 34C-E), as
well as phosphorylation of AKT and ERK (Fig. 34F), induced by BMSCs. In contrast, no
significant growth inhibition in BMSCs was noted (Fig. 34G). These results indicate that
compound I blocks paracrine MM cell growth in the context of the BM microenvironment.
                                                 66

                                            Example 33
                     Compound I inhibits angiogenic HuVEC tubule formation
    [0352] This example demonstrates the ability of Compound I to inhibit HuVEC tubule
formation. The role of P13K, specifically p110 isoform, in angiogenesis was investigated.
Endothelial cells are an essential regulator of angiogenesis for tumor growth. Both Akt and
ERK pathways are associated with endothelial cell growth and regulation of angiogenesis; and
importantly, endothelial cells express p1 106. This example also demonstrates that compound I
blocks in vitro capillary-like tube formation, associated with down regulation of Akt
phosphorylation.
    [0353] The effect of P110 6 inhibition on angiogenesis was investigated. HuVECs were
treated with 0, 1.0, or 10 pM of compound I for 8 h, and tube formation by endothelial cells was
evaluated (Fig. 35A). HuVEC cells were plated on Matrigel-coated surfaces and allowed to
form tubules for 8 h, in the presence or absence of Compound I. Endothelial cell tube formation
was measured by microscopic analysis, figure 35B. *P<0.005.
    [0354] HuVECs were cultured with Compound I (0-20pM) 48h, and viability was assessed
by MTT assay, figure 35C. Data shown are mean  SE of triplicate wells from a representative
experiment. Thus, compound I inhibited capillary-like tube formation in a dose-dependent
fashion (p<0.05) (Fig. 35B), without associated cytotoxicity (Fig. 35C).
    [0355] Phosphorylation and expression of AKT and ERK1/2 was markedly down regulated
in HuVEC cells by compound I treatment. HuVECs were cultured with compound I (0-200pM)
for 8h, and cell lysates were analyzed by immunoblotting using the indicated antibodies, figure
35D. Actin was used as a loading control.
    [0356] These findings suggest that compound I can inhibit angiogenesis, associated with
down regulation of AKT and ERK activity.
                                            Example 34
                           Compound II inhibits MM cell growth in vivo
    [0357] This example demonstrates the ability of compound II to inhibit human MM cell
growth in vivo.
    [0358] The in vivo efficacy of P1 106 inhibitor was evaluated in a xenograft model in which
SCID mice are injected subcutaneously with human MM cells.
                                                  67

    [0359] Mice injected with 5x 106 LB cells were treated orally twice a day with control
vehicle ( * ), and compound 11 10mg/kg (o) or 30mg/kg ( o ). Mean tumor volume was
calculated as in Materials and Methods, Figure 36A. Error bars represent SD ().
    [0360] Representative whole-body images from a mouse treated for 12 d with control
vehicle (top panel) or Compound 11 (30mg/kg) (bottom panel), figure 36B.
    [0361] Tumors harvested from Compound 11 (30mg/kg) treated mouse (right panel) and
control mouse (left panel) were subjected to immuno-histochemistric analysis using CD31 and
P-AKT Abs. CD31 and P-AKT positive cells are dark brown, Figure 36D.
    [0362] Mice were treated with Compound 11 10mg/kg ( - - ), 30mg/kg (...)or Control
vehicle ( - ). Survival was evaluated from the first day of treatment until sacrifice using
Kaplan-Meier curves, figure 36C.
    [0363] Tumor tissues were harvested from mice treated with control vehicle or Compound
11 (30mg/kg). Protein levels of phosphorylated of PDK-1 and AKT (Ser473) were determined
by western blotting of cell lysates, figure 36E. Actin was used as a loading control.
    [0364] Growth of INA-6 cells engrafted in human bone chips in SCID mice was monitored
by serial serum measurements of shuIL-6R. Mice were treated with Compound 11 10mg/kg (         0
), 30mg/kg ( A ) or control vehicle( * ), and shuIL-6R levels were determined weekly by
ELISA, figure 36F. Error bars indicate SD ().
    [0365] Compound II (p110 8 inhibitor) significantly reduced MM tumor growth in the
treatment group (n=7) compared with control mice (n=7). Comparison of tumor volumes
showed statistically significant differences between control versus treatment groups (vs 10
mg/kg, P<0.05; vs 30 mg/kg, P<0.01) (Fig. 36A). Marked decrease in tumor growth in treated
versus in control mice was observed at day 12. (Fig. 36B) Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank
analysis showed a mean Overall Survival (OS) of 15 days (95% confidence interval, 12-17
days) in control mice versus 23 days (95% CI, 15-34 days) and 32 days (95% CI, 27-49 days) in
the 10 mg/kg and 30mg/kg compound II treated groups, respectively. Statistically significant
prolongation in mean OS compared with control mice was also observed in treatment groups (vs
10 mg/kg, P=0.086; vs 30 mg/kg, P=0.056) (Fig. 36C). Importantly, treatment with either the
vehicle alone or compound II did not affect body weight. In addition, immunohistochemical
(Fig. 36D) and immunoblot (Fig. 36E) analysis confirmed that compound II treatment
(30mg/kg) significantly inhibited p-Akt and p-PDK-1, as well as significantly decreased CD31
positive cells and microvessel density (p<0.01) (Fig. 36D). This suggests that compound II can
inhibit angiogenesis in vivo via suppression of the Akt pathway.
                                                 68

    [0366] In order to examine the activity of compound II on MM cell growth in the context of
the human BM microenvironment in vivo, a SCID-hu model was used in which IL-6 dependent
INA-6 cells are directly injected into a human bone chip implanted subcutaneously in SCID
mice. This model recapitulates the human BM microenvironment with human IL- 6/ BMSC
dependent growth of INA-6 human MM cells. These SCID-hu mice were treated with
compound II or vehicle alone daily for 4 weeks, and serum shuIL-6R monitored as a marker
tumor burden. As shown in Fig. 36F, compound II treatment significantly inhibited tumor
growth compared with vehicle control. Significant tumor growth inhibition in this model was
observed, evidenced by decreased serum shuIL-6R levels released by INA-6 cells, confirming
that pl1106 inhibition blocks the MM growth promoting activity of the BM microenvironment in
vivo. Taken together, these data demonstrate that inhibition of pi110 by compound II
significantly inhibits MM growth in vivo and prolongs survival.
                                           Example 35
          Compound I in combination with bortezomib exhibits synergistic cytotoxicity
    [0367] This example demonstrates the effect of Compound I in combination with
bortezomib to mediate synergistic MM cytotoxicity.
    [0368] The effects of combining compound I with bortezomib in inducing synergistic MM
cytotoxicity was investigated. LB and INA-6 MM cells were cultured with medium (m)and
with compound I, 1.25 pM (s), 2.5pM ( ), or 5.OpM (o), in the presence or absence of
bortezomib (0-5nM). Cytotoxicity was assessed by MTT assay; data represent the mean SD of
quadruplicate-cultures, figure 37A.
   [0369] INA-6 cells were treated with Compound I (5pM) and/or bortezomib (5nM) for 6h.
Phosphorylation of AKT was determined by western blotting of cell lysates using phospho
AKT (ser473) antibody, figure 37B. Actin served as a loading control.
   [0370] Compound I enhances cytotoxicity of bortezomib. Increasing concentrations of
compound I (1.5-5.OpM) added to bortezomib (2.5, 5.0 nM) triggered synergistic cytotoxicity in
LB and INA-6 MM cells (Fig.37A and Table 7). Importantly, induction of phospho-Akt by
bortezomib treatment was inhibited in the presence of compound I (Fig. 37B).
                                                69

                                                   Table 7
                                Comlbination:  index (C 4
                                  BoArezcnb Compound I            Fa    ct
                                          2. 65               f.57      ,7
                                             5        1,2S    T2      0.8
                                             5         2.5    0.0     0.25
                                                          S     .7a 5 022
                              INA-S       2,                     6q     .5
                                             r1       125        51   0 3
                                             5         2.5    C5
                                                               I        A2
                                             5            :59  ,T     (131
                                                 Example 36
                     Compound I effective in Follicular Lymphoma cell lines
    [0371] This example provides evidence that compound I blocks P13K signaling and induces
apoptosis in follicular lymphoma cells. P1 106 is expressed in FL cell lines as shown in Figure
38A. Certain cell lines show reduction in the production of pAkt, Akt, pS6 and S6 when the
cell is exposed to compound I, Figure 38B. Cleavage of PARP and Caspase-3 is observed after
exposure to compound I in a dose dependent fashion after 24 hours at 0.1 pM and 0.5 PM,
Figure 38C.
                                                 Example 37
                            Compound I effective in primary MCL cells
    [0372] This example demonstrates that compound I is effective against MCL. Compound I
was found to block constitutive P13K signaling in primary MCL cells of two patients in a dose
dependent manner when exposed to 0.1 pM or 1 pM of compound I, Figure 39A. Compound I
is also observed to inhibit survival factor and chemokine signaling in MCL cell lines. Figure
39B shows a significant reduction of pAkt in MCL lines exposed to different survival factors in
the presence of compound I.
                                                       70

1002207194
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
         1.       A composition comprising a compound of formula I or formula II:
                       F         - 1 I
                                                 F
                             NF
                           NN
                              HN     N                        HN N
                                        N                           N
                                NON H (I)                      NN H   (I)
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
        optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient;
        and a monoclonal antibody.
        2.        A composition according to claim 1, wherein the monoclonal antibody is an
anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody.
        3.        A composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound of
formula I or formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is predominantly the
S-enantiomer.
        4.        A composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound of
formula I is
                                       F
                                          I N
                                          N
                                              HN    N
                                                   N
                                                 N-N H  (I"),
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        5.        A composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the compound of
formula II is
                                               71

1002207194
                                 F             N
                                            N   N      N
                                                HN     N
                                                   \N
                                                      NNH(II") ,
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         6.        A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
monoclonal antibody is selected from the group consisting of rituximab and ofatumumab.
         7.        A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
monoclonal antibody is rituximab.
         8.        A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the
composition comprises one or more of a group of agents selected from the group consisting
of a-j:
         a)        R-CHOP (rituximab-CHOP);
        b)         R-hyperCVAD (rituximab-hyperCVAD);
         c)        R-FCM (rituximab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone);
         d)        bortezomib and rituximab;
         e)        temsirolimus and rituximab;
         f)        Iodine-131 tositumomab (Bexxar*) and CHOP;
         g)        R-CVP (rituximab-CVP);
         h)        R-ICE (rituximab-ICE);
         i)        FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab); and
        j)         FR (fludarabine, rituximab).
                                                72

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
