                                           ABSTRACT
The invention provides an app and books titled "Speak Up Please" to give an instant hep to the users
to speak anytime, anywhere. Unlike any other books, or apps, "Speak Up Please," will give you
the help you need, a bit like having a "talking angel," on your shoulder, whenever you need help.
It will give readers an easy, clear and simple guide on how to change their whole view on
speaking to others. The reading, and visual images I chose work together brilliantly to help you
understand.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

.0d Telstra -?                                         6:47 am                                       @P * 93%
   Documents            O      S        Speak Up Please - Volumes copy 2                               -
         A MESSAGE FROM THE AUTHOR
         Have you ever wondered how many people you would speak
         to in a day, a week, a month or a lifetime for that matter? It's
         actually incredible when you think about it, well I did, and by
         understanding this, you'll agree that speaking up is so
         important for us all.
         Now imagine, how wonderful would it be to have a book, or
         an app, that you could reach for at anytime, anywhere, you
         needed help speaking.
         Well get excited because it's finally here, and I couldn't be happier to share my collection of
         books titled "Speak Up Please" and the app, to give you instant help to speak anytime,
         anywhere.
         Unlike any other books, or apps, "Speak Up Please," will give you the help you need, a bit
         like having a "talking angel," on your shoulder, whenever you need help.
         My first book titled "From The Womb To School Years," is now available in major book stores
         globally, and online with Amazon Books, and other book servers.
       *The genius of "Speak Up Please," is in the varieties of topics I cover in each volume.
         For example, from your first day at school, to your first job interview, no matter what the topic
         or situation, I've got you covered, by giving you clear examples of conversations, and helpful
         tips.
         It is with pleasure that I share with you my wisdom and analogies to help you learn easily
         and enjoyably how to speak well, adding confidence to whatever you say, and how you say
         it, as you go about your daily activities.
         One of the biggest frustrations in communication is the inability to understand what a person
         is saying. Speaking incorrectly can sometimes lead to a total misunderstanding between
         people, which in turn can ruin relationships between family, friends, work colleagues, etc.
         Many of us fall into the "I can't understand you," or poor diction category. My collection of
         books and app, will give readers an easy, clear and simple guide on how to change their
         whole view on speaking to others. The reading, and visual images I chose work together
         brilliantly to help you understand. As they say, "a picture paints a thousand words," how true!
         I guarantee you from the moment you start reading my books or using the app, you will
         improve the sound of your speaking voice, giving you a more successful vocal image. Once
         you learn how to speak with confidence and credibility you will, make a lasting and positive
         impression.
                                                    419 words

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are four pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
