                                        ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to pharmaceutical compositions useful for (and to a method of)
treating autoimmune, respiratory and/or inflammatory diseases and conditions. The method
involves administering to a subject in need thereof roflumilast N-oxide by inhalation. The
present disclosure particularly relates to the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) by administering roflumilast N-oxide by inhalation.

           METHODS OF TREATING AUTOIMMUNE, RESPIRATORY AND
 INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS BY INHALATION OF ROFLUMILAST N-OXIDE
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014208359,
which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
The present application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Nos. 354/CHE/2013,
filed January 28, 2013, and 355/CHE/2013, filed January 28, 2013, each of which is hereby
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a method of treating an autoimmune, respiratory and/or
inflammatory disease or condition, such as asthma, COPD and other allergic and/or
inflammatory disorders of the lung by pulmonary administration (e.g., by inhalation) of
roflumilast N-oxide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The invention also relates
to pharmaceutical compositions for use in the method.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Autoimmune, respiratory and inflammatory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary
disorder (COPD) and asthma are chronic and often progressive diseases associated with a
dysregulated or overactive immune system.
Asthma is the most common chronic disease among children and also affects millions of adults.
Some 235 million people worldwide suffer from this disease.
COPD is a highly prevalent condition and a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.
As the disease progresses, patients with COPD may become prone to frequent exacerbations
resulting in patient anxiety, worsening health status, lung function decline and increase in
mortality rate. These episodes of worsening respiratory function lead to increases in health care
utilization, hospital admissions and costs. Worse, frequent exacerbations are associated with a
faster decline in lung function, thereby shortening life expectancy.
In addition to COPD and Asthma, other allergic and/or inflammatory disorders of lung include
diseases such as Cystic Fibrosis and Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
                                               -1-

According to the recommendations of Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease
(GOLD), the first line therapy for COPD are long acting j-agonists, long acting muscarinic
antagonist and inhalation corticosteroids. However, these drugs reduce the symptoms and
                                             -la-

exacerbations associated with the disease rather than targeting its molecular and cellular
basis. Accordingly, there is still a need for further improvement in COPD therapy.
Roflumilast (Dalirespo). a PDE4 inhibitor, is approved as an oral therapy in the U.S. to
reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in patients with severe COPD associated with chronic
bronchitis and a history of exacerbations.
In April 2010, the Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee (PADAC) to the FDA
voted 10 to 5 against approving roflumilast due to modest benefit and potential for adverse
events. In March 2011, the FDA approved roflumilast with a narrower indication than had
originally been pursued (namely, the treatment to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations in
patients with severe COPD associated with chronic bronchitis and a history of exacerbations).
Roflumilast has been reported to have dose dependent toxicity, which limits the use of
roflumilast at higher doses. The table below shows adverse events (AEs) that occurred in at
least 2% of those receiving roflumilast and greater than placebo.
                     AEs              Roflumilast (n=4438)     Placebo (n=4192)
                   Diarrhoea                 420(9.5)                113(2.7)
                  Weight loss                331 (7.5)               89(2.1)
                    Nausea                   209 (4.7)               60(1.4)
                   Headache                  195 (4.4)               87(2.1)
                   Back pain                 142 (3.2)               92 (2.2)
                   Influenza                 124 (2.8)               112 (2.7)
                   Insomnia                  105 (2.4)               41(l.0)
                   Dizziness                  92(2.1)                45(1.1)
              Decreased appetite              91 (2.1)               15 (0.4)
        Data obtained from the FDA label for Dalresp0 (roflumilast) 08/13/13
R.W. Chapman et at., European Journal of Pharmacology, 571, 215-221 (2007). report
experiments involving administration of roflumilast by inhalation to Brown Norway rats in an
attempt to improve its therapeutic index.
According to the label for Daliresp, roflumilast N-oxide is an active metabolite of roflumilast
International Publication Nos. WO 2001/90076 and WO 2011/163469, both of which are
                                                -2-

hereby incorporated by reference, disclose the preparation and certain uses of roflumilast N
oxide.    Additional efficacy, preclinical and clinical information for roflumilast and
roflumilast N-oxide is provided in A. Hatzelmann et aL, Journal of Pharmacology and
Experimental Therapeutics, 297, 267-279, 2001; Center For Drug Evaluation And Research
Pharmacology Review(s) on Roflumilast (Application Number:       0 22 522Origls000)  available
online on the U.S. FDA website; D.S. Bundschuh et al, Jou-nal of Phamacology and
Experimental Therapeutics, 297, 280-290, 2001; Rabe et al., Br. J. Pharmacol, 16353-67,
2011; Zuzana Diamant et al, Pulmonary Pharmacology & Therapeutics 24, 4 (2011) 353;
and S. Vollert et al., Diabetologia, 55, 2779-2788, 2012, each of which is hereby
incorporated by reference.
Despite currently available intervention therapies, respiratory disorders such as asthma and
COPD remain a disease class with a significant unmet medical need.            More effective
therapies with fewer adverse events are needed.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention provides a method of treating an autoimmune. respiratory and/or
inflammatory disease and/or condition by pulmonary administration (e.g.. by inhalation), an
effective amount of roflumilast N-oxide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
Without being bound by any particular theory, the inventors theorize that pulmonary
administration of roflumilast N-oxide will result in lower plasma levels of roflumilast N
oxide and roflumilast and therefore fewer side effects than oral delivery of roflumilast.
Furthermore, pulmonary delivery of roflumilast N-oxide has a broader therapeutic window
than oral delivery of roflumilast. This permits a lower dosage of drug to be administered
and/or a longer drug regimen with fewer adverse events.
The disease or condition car be asthma, COPD, chronic obstructive bronchiolitis, chronic
bronchitis, or allergic or non-allergic ihinitis. In a preferred embodiment, the disease or
condition is asthma or COPD.
The roflumilast N-oxide (or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) can be administered by
inhalation in the form of a dry powder, solution or suspension. In one embodiment, the
roflumilast N-oxide is administered as a dry powder. In another embodiment, the roflumilast
N-oxide is administered as a solution or suspension.        The roflumilast N-oxide may be
administered, for example, using a metered dose inhaler (MDI) or a dry powder inhaler
                                              -3-

(DPI). Alternatively, the roflumilast N-oxide may be administered with a nebulizer (e.g., an
ultrasonic nebulizer).
In one embodiment, the roflumilast N-oxide is administered as a single dose of about 5 gg to
about 2000 [g. In another embodiment, the roflumilast N-oxide is administered as a single
dose of about 20 gg to about 1200 pg. One or more doses of the roflumilast N-oxide may be
administered a day.
In yet another embodiment, the roflumilast N-oxide is administered as a single dose of about
50 tg to about 1000 ug, such as a single dose of about 100 gg to about 800 kg. for example,
as a single dose of about 100 gg, about 200 kg, about 400 gg or about 600 gg.
The present invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition suitable for pulmonary
administration (e.g., by inhalation) comprising roflumilast N-oxide and optionally one or
more pharmaceutically      acceptable   carriers and/or recipients.       The   pharmaceutical
composition may be used in the methods of treatment described herein, such as for the
treatment of asthma or COPD.
The pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of an inhalable dry powder comprising
rnflumilast N-oxide as an active ingredient and optionally particles of a physiologically
acceptable. pharmacologically-inert solid carrier.       In one preferred embodiment, the
roflumilast N-oxide particles are in micronized form.
Yet another embodiment is a pharmaceutical composition in the form of an aerosol suitable
for pulmonary administration comprising roflumilast N-oxide or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof as an active ingredient, a propellant, and optionally one or more co
solvents, pharmaceutically acceptable can-iers and/or excipients.
Yet another embodiment        is a pharmaceutical composition suitable for pulmonary
administration comprising a suspension          of particles of roflurnilast N-oxide or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (e.g., micronized particles of roflumilast N-oxide) in
a propellant.
Yet another embodiment is a metered dose inhaler (MDI) or a dry powder inhaler (DPI)
comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising roflumilast N-oxide.
                                              -4-

In any of the methods or compositions described herein, the roflumilast N-oxide can have a
particle size (for example, dse or dw) of less than about 10 microns. In a preferred
embodiment, the roflumilast N-oxide has a mass median diameter, ds0 , or d9o equal to or less
than about 10 microns, preferably less than about 6 microns and more preferably from about
I to about 6 microns. In yet another embodiment, the roflumilast N-oxide has a mass median
particle size, d5o, or d~o of less than about 10 microns (e.g., from about 0.1 to about 10
microns. such as about 0.5 to about 5 microns).
The roflumilast N-oxide may be in the form of an anhydrate, a solvate, a hydrate or a salt
with a phamnacologically acceptable acid or base. In a further embodiment of any of the
methods or compositions described herein, the roflumilast N-oxide may be in combination
with a second active agent, such as one or more of leukotriene receptor antagonists including
LTD4-antagonists, corticosteroids, HI receptor antagonists. f12 adrenoceptor agonists, COX
2 selective inhibitors, statins, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), M2 and/ or
M3 antagonists,      betamimetics,    additonal    PDE4-inhibitors,  EGFR-inhibitors,   CCR3
inhibitors, iNOS-inhibitors,     SYK-inhibitors. glucocorticoids. 62 agonists, p3 8 kinase
inhibitors, NKI receptor antagonists or any combination of any of the foregoing.
In a preferred embodiment of any of the methods or compositions described herein, the
roflumilast N-oxide is in combination with a second active agent selected from long-acting
32 agonists (LABA), M3 antagonists, corticosteroids, and any combination thereof.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figure 1 is a scatter graph showing the effect of orally administered vehicle and roflumilast
(RFL) (0.3, 1. 3. and 10 mg/kg) on the inhibition of LPS-induced neutrophilia in the
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of female Wistar rats (Example 3B.A).
Figure 2 is a scatter graph showing the effect of intratracheally (IT) administered roflumilast
(RFL) (10, 30. and 100 g/kg) on the inhibition of LPS-induced neutrophilia in the BALF of
female Wistar rats (Example 3B.A).
Figure 3 is a scatter graph showing the effect of intratracheally (IT) administered roflumilast
N-oxide (N-oxide) (10. 30, and 100 ptg/kg) on the inhibition of LPS-induced neutrophilia in
the BALF of female Wistar rats (Example 3B.A).
                                               -5-

Figures 4A and 4B are scatter graphs showing the effect of orally administered roflumilast
(RFL) (1, 3. and 10 mg/kg b.i.d.) observed in cigarette smoke induced cellular infiltration in
BALB/c mice (Example 3B.B).
Figures 5A and 5B are scatter graphs showing the number of macrophages and neutrophils,
respectively, in a 4 day cigarette smoke induced cellular infiltration COPD model following
intranasally administered rofiumilast N-oxide (N-oxide) (0.003, 0.03, 0.3, and 3 mg/kg
intranasally) in BALB/c mice (Example 3B.B).
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The methods of present invention allow for the treatment of respiratory and inflammatory
diseases and conditions using a smaller amount of active compound and/or allow for the
treatment of respiratory and inflammatory diseases and conditions for a longer period of time
in a more efficient manner. The methods of present invention also allow for lower systemic
side effects of roflumilast or -oflumilast N-oxide than would have been expected upon oial
administration of roflumilast N-oxide.
Roflumilast N-oxide has the formula:
                                                    C1
                                    F
                               F-                HN         N-O
                                          CC
The roflumilast N-oxide may be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Suitable
pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, salts derived from inorganic
bases such as Li, Na, K, Ca. Mg, Fe, Cu, Zn, and Mn; salts of organic bases such as N,N'
diacetylethylenediamine, glucamine, triethylamine, choline, hydroxide, dicyclohexylamine,
metformin, benzylamine, trialkylamine, and thiamine; salts of chiral bases such as
alkylphenylamine, glycinol, and phenyl glycinol; salts of natural amino acids such as glycine,
alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, norlencine, tyrosine, cystine, cysteine. methionine,
proline, hydroxy proline, histidine, omithine, lysine, arginine,. and serine; quaternary
ammonium salts of the compounds of invention with alkyl halides, alkyl sulphates such as
Me] and (MC) 2SO4; salts of non-natural amino acids such as D-isomers or substituted amino
                                             -6-

acids; salts of guanidine; and salts of substituted guanidine wherein the substituent's are
selected from nitro, amino. alkyl, alkenyl. alkynyl. ammonium or substituted ammonium salts
and aluminum salts. Suitable salts may also include acid addition salts where appropriate,
such as sulphates, nitrates, phosphates, perchlorates, berates. hydrohalides, acetates, tartrates,
maleates, citrates,     fumarates, succinates,       palmoates,  methanesulphonates,    benzoates,
salicylates, benzenesulfonates, ascorbates, glycerophosphates, and ketoglutarates.
When ranges we used herein for physical properties, such as molecular weight, or chemical
properties such as chemical formulae, all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and
specific embodiments therein am intended to be included. The term "about" when referring
to a number or a numerical range means that the number or numerical range referred to is an
approximation within experimental variability (or within statistical experimental error), and
thus the number or numerical range may vary from, for example, between 1%and 15% of the
stated number or numerical range.          The term "comprising" (mid related terms such as
"comprise" or "comprises" or "having" or "including") includes those embodiments, for
example, an embodiment of any composition of matter, composition, method, or process, or
the like, that "consist of' or "consist essentially of' the described features.
The term "effective amount" or therapeuticallyy effective amount" refers to that amount of
roflumilast N-oxide described herein that is sufficient to effect the intended application
including, but not limited to, disease treatment, as defined below.            The therapeutically
effective amount my vary depending upon the intended application (in vitro or in vivo), or
the subject and disease condition being treated, e.g., the weight and age of the subject, the
severity of the disease condition, the manner of administration and the like, which can readily
be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. The term also applies to a dose that will
induce a particular response in target cells, e.g., reduction of platelet adhesion and/or cell
migration. The specific dose will vary depending on the particular method of administration
of roflumilast N-oxide by inhalation chosen (e.g., by nebulization, aerosol for inhalation or
dry powder for inhalation), the dosing regimen to be followed, whether it is administered in
combination with other compounds. timing of administration, the tissue to which it is
administered, and the physical delivery system in which it is carried.
As used herein, the terms "treatment" and "treating' refer to an approach for obtaining
beneficial or desired results including, but not limited to, therapeutic benefit and/or a
prophylactic benefit.     By therapeutic benefit is meant eradication or amelioration of the
                                                 -7-

underlying disorder being treated. Also, a therapeutic benefit is achieved with the eradication
or amelioration of one or more of the physiological symptoms associated with the underlying
disorder such that an improvement is observed in the patient, notwithstanding that the patient
may still be afflicted with the underlying disorder. For prophylactic benefit, the compositions
may be administered to a patient at risk of developing a particular disease, or to a patient
reporting one or more of the physiological symptoms of a disease, even though a diagnosis of
this disease may not have been made.
A "therapeutic effect," as used herein encompasses a therapeutic benefit and/or a
prophylactic benefit as described above. A prophylactic effect includes delaying or
eliminating the appearance of a disease or condition, delaying or eliminating the onset of
symptoms of a disease or condition, slowing, halting, or reversing the progression of a
disease or condition, or any combination thereof.
The term "subject" or "patient" as used herein refers to any animal, such as a mammal, for
example a human. The methods and compositions described herein can be useful in both
human therapeutics and veterinary applications.       In some embodiments, the patient is a
mammal, and in some embodiments, the patient is human. For veterinary purposes, the terms
"subject" and "patient" include, but are not limited to, farm animals including cows, sheep.
pigs, horses, and goats; companion animals such as dogs and cats; exotic and/or zoo animals;
laboratory animals including mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, and hamsters; and poultry such
as chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese.
"Inflammatory response" as used herein is characterized by redness, heat, swelling and pain
(i.e., inflammation) and typically involves tissue injury or destruction. An inflammatory
response is usually a localized, protective response elicited by injury or destruction of tissues,
which serves to destroy. dilute or wall off (sequester) both the injurious agent and the injured
tissue. Inflammatory responses are notably associated with the influx of leukocytes and/or
leukocyte (e.g., neutrophil) chemotaxis. Inflammatory responses may result from infection
with pathogenic organisms and viruses. noninfectious means such as trauma or reperfusion
following myocardial infarction or stroke, immune responses to foreign antigens, and
autoimmune diseases. Inflammatory responses amenable to treatment with the methods and
Roflumilast N-oxide according to the invention encompass conditions associated with
reactions of the specific defense system as well as conditions associated with reacdons of the
non-specific defense system.
                                               -8- .

The methods of the present invention include methods for the treatment of conditions
associated with inflammatory cell activation. "Inflammatory cell activation" refers to the
induction by a stimulus (including, but not limited to, cytokines, antigens or auto-antibodies)
of a proliferative cellular response, the production of soluble mediators (including but not
limited to cytokines, oxygen radicals, enzymes, prostanoids, or vasoactive amines), or cell
surface expression of new or increased numbers of mediators (including, but not limited to,
major histocompatiblity antigens or cell adhesion molecules) in inflammatory cells
(including, but not limited to, monocytes, macrophages, T lymphocytes. B lymphocytes,
granulocytes     (polymorphonuclear       leukocytes     including   neutrophils, basophils,  and
eosinophils) mast cells, dendritic cells, Langerhans cells, and endothelial cells). It will be
appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the activation of one or a combination of these
phenotypes in these cells can contribute to the initiation, perpetuation, or exacerbation of an
inflammatory condition.
"Allergic disease" as used herein refers to any symptoms, tissue damage, or loss of tissue
function resulting from an allergy.
"Arthritic disease" as used herein refers to any disease that is characterized by inflammatory
lesions of the joints attributable to a variety of etiologies.
The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include a corticosteroid. Similarly,
the methods described herein may include co-treatment and/or co-administration with a
corticosteroid. The rofumilast N-oxide and corticosteroid may be in the same composition or
in separate compositions which are co-administered. Suitable corticosteroids include, but are
not limited to, dexamethasone, fluticasone, fluticasone furoate, prednisolone, betamethasone,
budesonide, mometasone, mometasone furoate. triamcinolone acetonide, ciclesonide, TPI
1020,     beclomlethasone,       beclomethasone        dipropionate,    prednisone,   deflazacort,
hydrocortisone. QAE-397. flunisolide, and any combination thereof.
The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include a second component, such as
one or more LABAs (long-acting P2 agonists), M3 antagonists. corticosteroids, and any
combination of any of the foregoing. Similarly. the methods described herein may include
co-treatment and/or co-administration with such a second component. The rofumilast N
oxide and second component may be in the same composition or in separate compositions
which are co-administered.
                                                 -9-

The present invention also provides a method for the prevention or treatment of any disease
wherein the activity of PDE4 receptors is implicated and inhibition of PDE4 receptor activity
is desired, which methods comprise administering to a patient in need thereof a
therapeutically effective amount of Roflumilast N-oxide alone, or in combination with a
second compactive agent selected from LABA (long-acting            P3  agonists), M3 antagonists
and/or corticosteroids.
The diseases wherein the activity of PDE4 receptors and inhibition of PDE4 receptors are
implicated include, e.g., diseases of the respiratory tract, characterized by airway obstruction,
such as asthma and COPD.
The present invention is also directed to a device which may be a single- or multi-dose dry
powder inhaler, a metered dose inhaler or a soft mist nebulizer comprising Roflumilast N
oxide.
The present invention is also directed to a kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition of
Roflumilast N oxide, alone or in combination with an additional active ingredient, in
admixture with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients, and a
device which may be a single- or multi-dose dry powder inhaler, a metered dose inhaler or a
soft mist nebulizer.
In the airways, the physiological responses to elevated intracellular levels of cyclic
nucleotides, in particular of cAMP, lead to the suppression of the activity of immune and pro
inflammatory cells such as mast cells, macrophages, T lymphocytes, eosinophils and
neutrophils, resulting in a decrease of the release of inflammatory mediators which include
cytokines such as IL-I, [L-3 and tumor necrosis factor -alpha (TNF-a). It also leads to an
airway smooth muscle relaxation and a decrease in edema.
PDE-4 inhibitors, such as roflumilast N-oxide, exhibit an in vitro inhibitory activity toward
the PDE4 enzyme in the nM range and exhibit a remarkable activity in the lungs upon intra
tracheal administration in an animal model of COPD. They may also exhibit sustained
pulmonary levels in the lungs, being undetectable in plasma, which is an index of a short
systemic action.
                                              - 10 -

For the treatment of the diseases of the respiratory tract as provided herein, roflumilast N
oxide is administered by inhalation. Inhalable preparations include, for example. inhalable
powders. propellant-containing metering aerosols and propellant-free inhalable formulations.
For administration as a dry powder. a known single- or multi-dose inhalers may be utilized.
The dry powder may be filled in gelatine, plastic or other capsules, cartridges or blister packs
or in a reservoir. A diluent or carrier, generally chemically inert to Roflumilast N-oxide. e.g..
lactose or any other additive suttable for improving the respirable fraction may be added to
the powdered compounds of the invention.
Inhalation aerosols containing propellant gas such as hydrofluoroalkanes may contain the
rofumilast N-oxide either in solution or in dispersed form. The propellant-driven formulations
may also contain other ingredients such as co-solvents, stabilizers and optionally other
excipients.
The propellant-free inhalable formulations comprising roflumilast N-oxide may be in form of
solutions or suspensions in an aqueous, alcoholic or hydroalcoholic medium and they may be
delivered by knownjet or ultrasonic nebulizers or by soft-mist nebulizers such as Respimat"
Roflumilast N-oxide may be administered as the sole active agent or in combination with one
or more other pharmaceutical active ingredients including those currently used in the
treatment of respiratory disorders, such as for example, but not Limited to, 3r-agonists.
corticosteroids and M3 antagonists.
The dosages of roflumilast N-oxide may depend upon a variety of factors including the
particular disease to be treated, the severity of the symptoms, the frequency of the dosage
interval, rofulumilast N-oxide utilized, the efficacy. toxicology profile, and pharmacokinetic
profile of rofulumilast N-oxide.
Advantageously, rofulmilast N-oxide may be administered by the inhalation route.            The
dosage of roflumilast N-oxide is preferably between about 0.01 and about 20 mg/day, such as
between about 0.1 and about 10 mg/day. More preferably, the dosage is between about 0.1
and about 5 mg/day.
Preferably, rofulmilast N-oxide alone or combined with other active ingredients may be
administered for the prevention, treatment, inhibition, or suppression of any obstructive
                                               - 11 -

respiratory disease such as asthma, chronic bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD).
Rofulmilast N-oxide may be administered for the prevention and/or treatment of any disease
wherein the activity of PDE4 enzyme is implicated and inhibition of PDE4 enzyme activity is
desired, or a disease state which is mediated by PDE4 activity (for instance a disease state in
which PDE4 is overexpressed or overactive).
Examples of such diseases include, but are not limited, allergic disease states such as atopic
dermatitis,   urticaria,  allergic  rhinitis,  allergic conjunctivitis,  vernal  conjunctivitis,
eosinophilic granuloma, psoriasis, inflammatory arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, septic shock,
ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, reperfusion injury of the myocardium and brain, chronic
glonerulonephritis. endotoxic shock, cystic fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF)
arterial restenosis, atherosclerosis, keratosis, rheumatoid spondylitis, osteoarthritis, pyresis,
diabetes mellitus, prneumoconiosis, toxic and allergic contact eczema, atopic eczema,
seborrheic eczema, lichen simplex, sunburn, itching in the anogenital area, alopecia areata,
hypertrophic scars, discoid lupus erythematosus. systemic lupus erythematosus, follicular and
wide-area pyodermias, endogenous and exogenous acne, acne rosacca, Beghet's disease,
anaphylactoid purura nephritis. inflammatory bowel disease, leukemia, multiple sclerosis,
gastrointestinal diseases, and autoimmune diseases.
Examples of such diseases also include neurological and psychiatric disorders such as
Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, amylolaterosclerosis (ALS), multiple systems
atrophy (MSA), schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Pick's disease,
depression, stroke, and spinal cord injury.
Pharmaceutical Compositions
One aspect of the present invention provides a pharmaceutical formulation comprising
roflumilast N-oxide in the form of an inhalable dry powder wherein the formulation
comprises micronized particles of a roflumilast N-oxide as an active ingredient, and particles
of a physiologically acceptable pharmacological[y-inert solid carrier. Prior to the present
invention, it was not known that roflumilast N-oxide could be prepared as micronized
particles suitable for inhalation.
                                               - 12 -

According to another aspect, the present invention provides a dry powder inhaler comprising
an inhalable dry powder of any embodiment described herein.
A further aspect of the present invention refers to an inhalable dry powder of the present
invention for use for the prevention and/or treatment of a disease where the PDE4 enzyme is
implicated and inhibition of PDE4 enzyme activity is desired, or a disease state which is
mediated by PDE4 activity, and in particular use for the prevention and/or treatment of an
inflammatory or obstructive airways disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD).
Another aspect of the present invention refers to a method of preventing, treating, inhibiting,
or suppressing an inflammatory or obstructive airways disease such as asthma or chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), the method comprising administration by inhalation
of a therapeutically effective amount of an inhalable dry powder according to any
embodiment described herein.
Another aspect of the present invention is directed to a package comprising an inhalable dry
powder formulation according to any embodiment described herein and a dry powder inhaler.
By "single therapeutically effective dose" it is meant the quantity of active ingredient
administered at one time by inhalation upon actuation of the inhaler. The "single
therapeutically effective dose" may be delivered in one or more actuations. preferably one
actuation (shot) of the inhaler. For "actuation" it is meant the release of active ingredient
from the device by a single activation (e.g. mechanical or by breath).
In general terms, the particle size of particles is quantified by measuring a characteristic
equivalent sphere diameter, known as volume diameter, by laser diffraction. The particle size
can also be quantified by measuring the mass diameter by means of a suitable known
instrument such as, for instance, a sieve analyzer.
The volume diameter (VD) is related to the mass diameter (MD) by the density of the
particles (assuming a size independent density for the particles).
The particle size may be expressed in terms of mass diameter (MD) and the particle size
distribution is expressed in terms of: i) the mass median diameter (MMD) which corresponds
to the diameter of 50 percent by weight or volume respectively, of the particles, and ii) the
                                              -13-

MD in micron of 10% and 90% of the particles, respectively. The terms MMD and mean
particle size are used interchangeably. In particle size measurements, d,, d,          and d,
respectively mean that 90%, 50% and 10% of the material is less than the micron size
specified.
Laser diffraction measurement of particle size can use a dry method (wherein a suspension of
the compound/salt in an airflow crosses the laser beam) or a wet method (wherein a
suspension of the compound/salt in a liquid dispersing medium, such as isooctane (e.g. if
compound is soluble in isooctane) or 0.1% Tween 80 in water, crosses the laser beam). With
laser diffraction, particle size may be measured, for example, with a Malvern Mastersizer or
Sympatec apparatus.       For example, particle size measurement and/or analysis by laser
diffraction can use any or all of (preferably all of) the following: a Malverm Mastersizer
longbed version, a dispersing medium of 0.1% Tween 80 in water, a stir rate of ca. 1500 rpm.
ca. 3 mins sonification prior to final dispersion and analysis, a 300 RF (Reverse Fourier) lens,
and/or the Fraunhofer calculation with Malvern software. Unless specified otherwise, all d50
and d90 measurements are measured by laser diffraction using a wet method.
The expression "respirable fraction" refers to an index of the percentage of active particles
which would reach the deep lungs in a patient. The respirable fraction, also termed fine
particle fraction, is evaluated using a suitable in vitro apparatus such as Multistage Cascade
Impactor or Multi Stage Liquid Impinger (MLSI) according to pmcedures reported in
common Pharmacopeias. It is calculated by the ratio between the delivered dose and the fine
particle mass (formerly fine particle dose). A respirable fraction higher than 30% is an index
of good inhalatory performance.
The delivered dose is calculated from the cumulative deposition in the apparatus. while the
fine particle mass is calculated from the deposition on Stages 3 (S3) to filter (AF)
corresponding to particles < 4.7 microns. The expression "accurate therapeutically active
dose of the active ingredient" refers to a formulation wherein the variation between the mean
delivered daily dose and the mean emitted dose is equal to or less than 15%, preferably less
than 10%.
In one aspect, the compositions of the invention are pharmaceutical formulations in the form
of inhalable dry powder comprising micronized particles of a Roflumilast N-oxide and
particles of a physiologically acceptable pharmacologically-inert solid carrier.
                                               -14-

The compositions according to the invention comprise the active ingredient in an amount
such that. in case of administration by inhalation from inhalers, the therapeutically effective
single dose (hereinafter the single dose) of a roflumilast N-oxide comprises between about 5
pig and about 2000 pg, such as between about 20 ig and about 1200 gg, e.g., between about
50 pg and about 1000 pig, between about 100 pig and about 800 pg or between about 100 pig,
and about 600 pIg.
According to a prefened embodiment, the single dose may be between about 100 and about
300 pig, while according to another preferred embodiment; the single dose may be comprised
between about 200 and about 800 pig, more preferably between about 300 ug and about 600
pg. In other embodiments, the single dose may be about 100 jig, about 200 pg, about 400 pg
or about 600 pg.
The single dose will depend on the lnd and the severity of the disease and the conditions
(weight, sex, age) of the patient and shall be administered one or more times a day, preferably
once or twice a day.
The daily dose at which the pharmaceutical composition comprising a Roflumilast N-oxide
shall be comprised between about 100 pig and about 2000 pg, preferably between about 200
pg and about 1000 pig, more preferably between about 200 pig and about 800 pig and more
preferably between about 100 pg and about 600 pg.
In one embodiment, the daily dose may be reached by a single or double administration.
In another embodiment, the daily dose may be reached by a single administration and
delivered in one actuation of the inhaler.
In another embodiment, the daily dose may be reached by a single administration and
delivered in more than one actuation of the inhaler, preferably two actuations
In another embodiment, the daily dose may be reached by a double administration and
delivered in one actuation of the inhaler.
In another embodiment, the daily dose may be reached by a double administration and
delivered in more than one actuation of the inhaler, preferably two actuations.
                                              -15-

The particles of Roflumilast N-oxide in the formulations according to the present invention
are preferably in a finely divided (micronized) form. i.e. their mass median diameter should
generally be equal to or less than about 10 microns, preferably less than about 6 microns,
more preferably comprised between about I and about 6 microns.
The active ingredient may be produced in the desired particle size using known methods, e.g..
by milling, direct precipitation, spray-drying, freeze-drying or supercritical fluids.
The carrier particles may be made of any physiologically acceptable phammacologically-ineit
material or combination of materials suitable for inhalatory use.
For example, the carrier particles may be selected from sugar alcohols; polyols, for example
sorbitol, mannitol and xylitol, and crystalline sugars, including monosaccharides and
disaccharides; inorganic salts such as sodium chloride and calcium carbonate; organic salts
such as sodium lactate; and other organic compounds such as urea, polysaccharides, for
example starch and its derivatives; oligosaccharides, for example cyclodextrins and dextins.
Advantageously the carrier particles are made of a crystalline sugar, for example, a
monosaccharide such as glucose or arabinose, or a disaccharide such as maltose, saccharose,
dextrose or lactose.
The formulations described herein may be prepared according to known methods. Generally
the process comprises the steps of:
i) micronising together the active ingredient and the carrier; and ii) subjecting the resulting
co-microuized mixture to agglomeration and spheronisation.
Alternatively, the process comprises the following steps;
i) micronising separately the active ingredient and the carrier; ii) mixing the micronized
components; and iii) subjecting the resulting mixture to agglomeration and spheronisation.
When a formulation of the invention is in form of an ordered mixture, it may advantageously
comprise an additive material able to promote the release of the active particles from the
carrier particles on actuation of the inhaler device, thereby improving the respirable fraction.
The additive material, which is preferably bound to the surface of the carrier coarse particles.
is of a different material from the carier particles.
                                               - 16 -

The additive material may be an amino acid, preferably selected from leucine, isoleucine,
lysine, valine, methionine, and phenylalanine. The additive may be a salt of a derivative of an
amino acid, for example aspartame or acesulfame potassium.
Alternatively, the additive material may include or be one or more water soluble surface
active materials, for example lecithin, in particular soya lecithin.
In a particular embodiment of the invention, the additive material may include or consist of
one or mote lubricant selected from the group consisting of stearic acid and salts thereof such
as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulphate, sodium stearyl fumarate, stearyl alcohol,
sucrose monopalmitate.
Other possible additive materials include talc, titanium dioxide, aluminium dioxide, and
silicon dioxide.
Advantageously, the additive particles have a starting mean particle size or d5o of less than
about 35 microns. Preferably they have a mean particle size or d50 of not more than I about 5
microns, more preferably not mom than about 10 microns
The optimum amount of additive material depends on the chemical composition and other
properties of the additive material. In general. the amount of additive is not more than about
10% by weight, based on the total weight of the formulation. In certain embodiments, the
amount of additive material is not more than about 5%, preferably not more than about 2%,
not more than about 1% by weight or not more than about 0.5% based on the total weight of
the formulation. In general, the amount of additive material is at least 0.01% by weight based
on the total weight of the formulation.
The formulations of the invention in the form of ordered mixture may also comprise fine
particles of a physiologically acceptable pharmacologically- inert material with a mass
median diameter (MMD) equal to or less than about 15 micron, preferably equal to or less
than about 10 microns, even more preferably equal to or less than about 6 microns.
The percentage of fine particles of physiologically acceptable pharmacologically-inert
material is advantageously comprised between about 0.1 and about 40% of the total amount
of the formulation.
                                              - 17 -

Preferably, the coarse particles and the fine particles are constituted of the same
physiologically acceptable pharmacologically- inert material.
A formulation in the fonn of an ordered mixture according to the invention may be prepared
according to known methods. Suitable methods may comprise the step of mixing together the
carrier coarse particles, the optional fine can-ier particles and the additive particles, and
finally adding the finely divided Roflumilast N-Oxide to the resulting mixture. A preferred
formulation according to the invention may be prepared according to the methods reported in
International Publication No. WO 2001/78693.
The presence of the additive material embedded in the microparticles may be detected
according to known methods, for instance, by electron scanning microscope coupled to
microcalorimetry.
The formulations of the invention may further comprise other therapeutic agents useful for
the prevention and/or treatment of a respiratory disease, e.g. P2-agonists such as salbutamol.
salmeterol, and vilanterol, corticosteroids such as fluticasone propionate or furoate,
flunisolide,   mometasone     furoate,   rofleponide  and    ciclesonide,  anticholinergic  or
antimuscarinic agents such as ipratropium bromide, oxytropium bromide, tiotropium
bromide, oxybutynin, and combinations thereof.
The dry powder formulations described herein may be used in all customary dry powder
inhalers, such as unit dose or multidose inhalers.
For example, the formulation of the invention may be filled in hard gelatine capsules, in turn
loaded in a unit dose inhaler such as the AerolizerTm. Alternative, the formulation as a
powder may be filled in a multidose inhaler comprising a powder reservoir such as that
described in International Publication No. WO 2004/012801.
The invention also relates to any one of the formulations described before, for use as a
medicament.
In one aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical formulation suitable for
aerosol administration by a Pressurized Metered Dose Inhaler (pMDI), (hereinafter refered to
as a pMDI formulation, comprising roflumilast N-oxide and a propellant.
                                              - 18 -

In a particular embodiment, the pMDI formulation may be in form of suspension of particles
of a micronized roflurnilast N-oxide in a propellant, so as to permit inhalation of the active
ingredient into the lungs upon administration of the aerosol formulation.
Advantageously the particles of the active ingredient shall have a mass median diameter
(MMD) of less than about 10 microns, preferably in the range of about I to about 10 micron,&
more preferably between about I and about 6 microns.
Any pressure-liquefied propellant may be used, preferably a hydrofluomalkane (HFA)
propellant. Suitable examples of HFA propellants include, but are not limited to, 1J,1,2
tetrafluoroethane (HFA 134a). 1,1,1,2.3,3.3 -heptafluoro-propane (HFA227) and mixtures
thereof.
In certain embodiments the propellant may include HFA 134a, while in other embodiments,
the propellant may include HFA 227, or a mixture thereof in any ratio.
In a particular embodiment the suspension pMDl formulations comprise a surfactant, which
may also act as a valve lubricant.
Suitable surfactants are known in the art and include, for example, sorbitan esters such as
sorbitan trioleate, sorbitan monolaurate, sorbitan mono-oleate and their ethoxylated derivates
such as polysorbate 20, polysorbate 80; ethylene oxide/propylene oxide co-polymers mid
other agents such as natural or synthetic lecithin, oleic acid, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP),
preferably PVP (K25) and polyvinyl alcohol, olive oil, glyceryl monolaurate, corn oil, cotton
seed oil or sunflower seed oil, isopropyl myristate, oeyl alcohol, polyoxyethylene (20)
sorbitan monolaurate, polyoxy ethylene (20) sorbitan mono-oleate, oleyl polyoxyethylene (2)
ether, stearyl polyoxyethylene (2) ether, lauryl polyoxyethylene (4) ether, block copolymers
of oxyethylene and oxypropylene, diethylene glycol dioleate, tetrahydro fur fury I oleate,
ethyl oleate, glyceryl mono-oleate, glyceryl monostearate. glyceryl monoricinoleate, cetyl
alcohol, stearyl alcohol, cetyl pyridinium chloride, ethylene oxide/propylene oxide co
polymer and ethoxylated alcohols such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) 300-1000, diethylene
glycol monoethyl ether, Antarox, Brij, and any combination of the foregoing.
The amount of surfactant, which may be present in the pMDI formulation according to the
invention, is usually in the range of about 0.001 to about 3.0% (w/w), preferably between
about 0.005 and about 1.0% (w/w).
                                             - 19 -

Optionally, the pMDl formulation may contain a co- solvent. Suitable co- solvents include,
but are not limited to, polar compounds that contain one or more hydroxyl groups or other
polar groups. For example, suitable co-solvents include an alcohol, such as ethanol.
preferably anhydrous ethanol, isopropanol; a glycol such as propylene glycol, polyethylene
glycol, polypropylene glycol or glycerol; a glycol ether; and a polyoxy ethylene alcohol, or
any combination thereof.
In one embodiment, the co-solvent is anhydrous ethanol. In a prefered embodiment, the
anhydrous ethanol is used in a concentration lower than about 20% (w/w), preferably below
about 15%, more preferably between about 1% and about 5% (w/w), most preferably about
1%(w/w) or about 5% (w/w).
In other embodiments, the pMDI formulations according to the invention may additionally
include additional excipients. Examples of additional excipients include sugars such as
lactose, amino acids such as alanine, betaine, cysteine, and/or antioxidants such as ascorbic
acid,   citric  acid,    sodium edetate,     editic   acid,   tocopherols,   butylhydroxytoluene,
butylhydroxyanisol and ascorbyl palmitate.
The weight ratio of the drug to the excipient is generally in the range from about 1:0.1 to
about 1 :100.
The pharmaceutical pMDI fonnulation of the invention may contain Roflumilast N-oxide in
an amount between about 0.02 and about 0.7% w/w, preferably between about 0.05 and about
0.5%, a co-solvent in an amount between about I and about 5% w/w, and one or more
surfactants in an amount between about 0.001% and about 3% w/w.
To prepare the suspension pMDI formulation according to the invention, Roflumilast N-oxide
is micronized by methods known in the art, to prepare the active substance in the form of
particles having a typical particle size suitable for inhalation, such as a d5 or d90 less than
equal to 5 [un and more preferably such as less than equal to 3 [tm.
According to another aspect, the present invention provides a pMDI comprising a canister
filled with a pharmaceutical formulation of the present invention and a metering valve for
deliver ing a daily therapeutically effective dose of the active ingredient.
                                               - 20 -

The pMDI formulation of the invention is filled into pMDls. The pMDIs comprise a canister
fitted with a metering valve. Actuation of the metering valve allows a small portion of the
spray product to be released to a subject.
In one embodiment, the formulation is actuated by a metering valve capable of delivering a
volume of between about 25 W and about 100 p[,
Advantageously, the MDI device filled with the formulation may be equipped with a dose
counter.
Conventional bulk manufacturing methods and known machinery may be employed for the
preparation of large scale batches for the commercial production of filled canisters.
For example. the pMDI suspension formulations according to the invention may be prepared
by adding the active ingredient to a chilled propellant or optionally a pre-mixed blend of
propellant and optionally further excipients and, then dispersing the resulting suspension
using a suitable mixer. After homogenization the suspension can be filled into the MDI
canister which is closed by crimping a metering valve on the canister.
Alternatively, the active ingredient and optionally further recipients can be added to a vessel.
The liquefied propellant is then introduced into the vessel under pressure and the active
ingredient is dispersed and homogenized using a suitable mixer and homogenizer. After
homogenization the bulk formulation can be transferred into the individual MDI canisters by
using valve to valve transfer methods.
Alternatively, the co-solvent, if present, is introduced into a vessel at room pressure. The
active ingredient and optional further excipients are added and homogenised using a suitable
homogenizer. The ethanolic suspension is kept under stirring. The ethanolic bulk is then
dosed into the open canister. The valve is placed onto the can and crimped. Finally, the
canister is pressure-filled with the final solution formulation through the valve.
The pMDI formulations according to the invention, depending on volume of the metering
valve to be used, may comprise from about 0.1 mg to about 50 mg of Roflumilast N-oxide
per mL, preferably from about 0.5 mg to about 25 mg of Roflumilast N-oxide per ml.
The pMDI formulations in the form of suspensions comprising particles of a micronized
Roflumilast N-oxide and a propellant, comprise the active ingredient in an amount such that,
                                                - 21 -

in the case of administration by inhalation from inhalers. the daily therapeutically effective
dose (hereinafter the daily dose) of Roflumilast N-oxide is between about 5 pg and about
2000 pg, preferably between about 20 gg and about 1500 pg, even more preferably between
about 50 pg and about 1000 pg, even more preferably between about 60 pg and about 800 pg,
even more preferably between about 200 pg and about 600 pg.
According to a preferred embodiment, the single dose is between about 100 pg and about 300
pg. According to another preferred embodiment, the single dose is between about 200 pg and
about 800 pg, mor preferably between about 300 pg and about 600 pg.
In further embodiments, the single dose may be about 100 pg, about 200 pg. about 400 pg or
about 600 pg.
The single dose will depend on the kind and the severity of the disease and the conditions
(weight, sex, age) of the patient and will be administered one or more times a day, preferably
once a day.
The daily dose may be delivered in one or two or mote actuations (shots) of the inhaler
wherein the pharmaceutical composition is contained. For example, a 400 pg daily dose may
be administered in one shot of 400 pg or as two shots of 200 gg dose.
In another aspect, Roflumilast N-oxide may be dissolved or suspended to give a nebulised
aqueous solution or suspension (herein called a nebulised formulation), available either as for
a single dose or multi-dose vials formulation.
The nebulised formulation may have the pH and/or tonicity adjusted with suitable buffers
and/or isotonic agents, and optionally, it may also comprise stabilizing and/or preserving
agents.
The present invention also provides a single dose or multidose vial filled with a nebulised
formulation as described herein for delivering a daily therapeutically dose of the active
ingredient by a nebulizer.
A liquid, propellant-flee pharmaceutical formulation in the form of a ready-to-use preparation
for administration by nebulisation of the invention, comprises Roflumilast N-oxide in an
amount such that the daily dose is is between about 35 pg and about 7000 pg, preferably
between about 70 pg and about 3500 pg. even more preferably between about 175 pg and
                                              - 22 -

about 2800 pig, even more preferably between about 280 pg and about 2100 pg, even more
preferably between about 350 Vg and about 1750 pig.
According to a preferred embodiment, the single dose may be comprised between about 350
pg and about 700 pIg, while according to another preferred embodiment, the single dose may
be comprised between about 700 pg and about 1400 pg.
In further embodiments, the single dose may be about 350 fg, about 700 pg or 1400 pg.
The formulation is preferably used as a ready-to-use formulation.
In another embodiment, the nebulised formulation may also be in a lyophilised form in
unitary doses for the reconstitution in a solution. In this embodiment, a single dose of a
lyophilised preparation may be reconstituted before use.
These nebulised formulations may also be distributed in suitable containers such as multidose
vials or, preferably, single dose vials for single dosage administration. Said single-dose vials
may be pre-sterilised or, preferably, may be aseptically filled using "blow, fill and seal"
technology (see http://www.brevettiangela.com). The filling is preferably carried out under
inert atmosphere.
Solution formulations can be advantageously sterilized by filtration.
The single-dose vials are preferably 2 ml volume. For suspension formulations, the
sterilization process is carried out through known techniques.
These formulations are intended for administration using suitable nebulizing apparatus such
as jet nebulizers, ultrasonic nebulizers, mesh-vibrating nebulizers, soft-mist nebutizers such
as Respimat@ or others.
The invention is also directed to a kit comprising a nebulised formulation as described herein
filled in vials for single dosage administration and a nebulizer.
All the pMDI and nebulized formulations of the present invention may further comprise other
therapeutic agents, such as those used in the treatment of respiratory disorders, e.g.
corticosteroids such as triamcinolone acetonide, fluticasone propionate, fluticasone furoate,
flunisolide,    mometasone      furoate,  rofleponide   and   ciclesonide;  anticholinergic   or
antimuscarinic agents such as ipratropium bromide, oxytropium bromide, glycopyrronium
                                               - 23 -

bromide and tiotropium bromide; long-acting p2 agonists such as vilanterol, indacaterol,
milveterol, salbutamol, levalbuterol, terbutaline, AZD-3199, BI-1744-CL, LAS- 100977,
bambuterol, isoproterenol, procaterol, clenbuterol, reproterol, fenoterol and ASF- 1020 and
salts thereof.
The invention also relates to any one of the formulations described before, for use as a
medicament.
In a further aspect. the present invention comprises any one of the formulations described
before, for use in the prevention and/or treatment of an inflammatory or obstructive airways
disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
In a further aspect, the present invention comprises the use of any one of the formulations
described before, in the prevention and/or treatment of an inflammatory or obstructive
airways disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
In a still further aspect, the present invention comprises a method of preventing and/or
treating an inflammatory or obstructive airways disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), which comprises administration by inhalation of an effective
amount of one of the formulations described before.
Administration of all the formulations of the invention may be indicated for the prevention
and/or treatment of mild, moderate or severe acute or chronic symptoms or for prophylactic
treatment of respiratory diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD). Other respiratory disorders characterized by obstruction of the peripheral airways as
a result of inflammation and presence of mucus such as chronic obstructive bronchiolitis and
chronic bronchitis may also benefit by this kind of formulation.
A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition
according to the present invention for use in the treatment of respiratory and inflammatory
diseases and conditions, particularly wherein the respiratory and inflammatory diseases or
conditions are selected from asthma, allergic and non-allergic rhinitis and COPD.
In a further embodiment of any of the methods or compositions described herein, the
Roflumilast N-oxide is in combination with a second active agent, selected from, for
example, leukotriene receptor antagonists including LTD4-antagonists, corticosteroids, HI
                                             - 24-

receptor antagonists,   P2  adrenoceptor agonists, COX-2 selective inhibitors, statins, non
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ("NSAIDs"). M2 and/or M3 antagonists, betamimetics.
additonal PDE4-inhibitors,      EGFR-inhibitors, CCR3-inhibitors, iNOS-inhibitors,          SYK
inhibitors, glucocorticoids, 62 agonists, p3 8 kinase inhibitors. NK1 receptor antagonists and
any combination thereof.
Suitable 02-agonists for use in the present invention include, but are not limited to,
arformoterol, bambuterol,      bitolterol, broxaterol,   carbuterol, clenbuterol,   dopexamine,
fenoterol, formoterol, hexoprenaline, ibuterol, Isoetharine, isopenaline, levosalbutamol,
mabuterol, meluadrine, metaprotenerol, nolomirole, orciprenaline, pirbuterol, procaterol,
reproterol ritodrine. rimoterol, salbutamol, salmefamol. salmeterol, sibenadet, sotenerot.
sulfonterol, terbutaline, tiaramide, tulobuterol, GSK-597901, GSK-159797. GSK-678007,
GSK-642444, GSK-159802,           HOKU-81,      (-)-2-17(S)-2(R)-Hydroxy-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)
ethylamino]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-2-naphthyloxy]-NN-dimethylacetamide                 hydrochloride
monohydrate, carmoterol, QAB-149 and 5-[2-(5,6-diethylindan-2-ylamino)-l-hydroxyethyl]
8-hydroxy-IH-quinolin-2-one,          4-hydroxy-7-12-{12-f[3-(2-phenylethoxy)propyljsulfonyl}
ethyl ]amuino ethyl]-2(3H)-benzothiazolone,               1-(I-fluoro-4-hydmxyphenyl)-2-[4-(1
benzimidazolyl)-2-methyl-2-butylamino]ethano,                   1-[3-(4-methoxybenzylamino)-4
hydioxyphenyl]-2-[4(1-benzimidazolyl)-2-methyl-2-butylamino]ethanol,          1-[2H-5-hydroxy-3
oxo-4H-1,4-benzoxazin-8-yl]-2-[3-(4-NN-dimethylaninophenyl)-2-methyl-2
propylaminojethanol,                  1-[2H-5-hydroxy-3-oxo-4H-1,4-benzoxazin-8-yI]-2-[3-(4
methoxyphenyl)-2-methyl-2-propylaminolethanot.                   1-12H-5-hydroxy-3-oxo-4H-1,4
benzoxazin-8-yl]-2-[3-(4-n-butyloxyphenyl)-2-methyl-2-propylamino]ethano.               1-2H-5
hydroxy-3-oxo-4H- 1,4-benzoxazin-8-yl]-2- {4-[3-(4-methoxyphenyl)- 1,2,4-triazol-3-yl J-2
methyl-2-butylamino)ethanol.           5-hydroxy-8-(I-hydroxy-2-isopropylaminobutyl)-2H-1,4
benzoxazin-3-(4H)-one.                     1-(4-amino-3-chlom-5-trifluoromethylphenyl)-2-tert
butylamino)ethanol,                 1-(4-ethoxycarbonylamino-3-cyano-5-fluorophenyl)-2-(tert
butylamino)ethanol, and combinations thereof, each of which is optionally in the form of a
racemate, enantiomer, diastereomer, or mixtures thereof aid also optionally in the form of a
pharmacologically-compatible acid addition salt.
Suitable corticosteroids and glucocorticoids for use in the present invention include, but are
not limited to, prednisolone. methylprednisolone. dexamethasone. naflocort, deflazacort,
halopredone      acetate,   budesonide,     beclomethasone       dipropionate,    hydrocortisone,
                                              -25-

triamcinolone      acetonide, fluocinolone      acetonide,   fluocinonide,      clocortolone    pivalate,
methylprednisolone       aceponate,    dexamethasone       palmitoate,    tipredane,    hydrocortisone
aceponate, prednicarbate, alclometasone dipropionate, halometasone, methylprednisolone
suleptanate,     mometasone furoate,       rimexolone,     prednisolone      farnesylate,   ciclesonide,
deprodone propionate, fluticasone propionate, halobetasol propionate, loteprednol etabonate,
betamethasone       butyrate propionate.      flunisolide,   prednisone,      dexamethasone      sodium
phosphate,     triamcinolone,     betamethasone      17-valerate,   betamethasone,       betamethasone
dipropiorate, hydrocortisone acetate, hydrocortisone sodium succinate, prednisolone sodium
phosphate, hydrocortisone probutate and combinations thereof.
Suitable LTD4 antagonists for use in the present invention include, but are not limited to,
tomelukast. ibudilast, pobilukast, pranlukast hydrate, zafirlukast, ritolukast, verlukast,
sulukast, cinalukast, iralukast sodium, montelukast sodium, 4-[4-[3-(4-Acetyl-3-hydroxy-2
propylphenoxy)propylsulfonyl]phenyl]-4-oxobutyric            acid,   [[5-[[3-(4-Acetyl-3-hydroxy-2
propylphenoxy)propyljthio]-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yljthio]acetic acid, 9-[(4-Acetyl-3-hydroxy-2
n-propylphenoxy)methyL]-3-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one,                5-[3-[2-(7
Chloroquinolin-2-yl)vinyl]phenyl]-8-(N,N-dimethylcarbamoyl)-4,6-dithiaoctanoic                      acid
sodium       salt;     3-[l-[3-[2-(7-Chloroquinolin-2-yl)vinyl]phenyl]-1-[3-(dimethylamino)-3
oxopropylsulfanyljmethylsulfanyl}propionic           acid   sodium     salt,    6-(2-Cyclohexylethyl)
[1,3,4]thiadiazolol3.2-a]-1,2,3-triazolo[4,5-djpyrimidin-9(IH-one,                 4-[6-Acetyl-3-[3-(4
acetyl-3-hydroxy-2-propylphenylthio)propoxy]-2-propylphenoxylbutyric                   acid,      (R)-3
Methoxy-4-[1 -methyl-5-[N-(2-methyl-4,4.4-trifluoobutyl)cabamoyl]indol-3-ymethyl]-N
(2-methylphenylsulfoiiyl)benzamide,                                       (R)-3-12-Methoxy-4-IN-(2
methylphenylsulfonyl)carbamoyl]benzyl]-1-methyl-N-(4,4,4-trifluoro-2-methylbutyl)indole
5-carboxamide,            (+)-4(S)-(4-Carboxyphenylthio)-7-4-(4-phenoxybutoxy)phenyll-5(Z)
heptenoic     acid,    compounds      International    Application    No.      PCT/EP03/12581,       and
combinations thereof.
Suitable inhibitors of egfr-lnase for use in the present invention include, but arc not limited
to, palifermin,      cetuximab,    gefitinib,   repifermin,   erlotinib    hydrochloride,     cancrtinib
dihydoehloride, lapatinib, N-[4-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenylamino)-3-cyano-7-ethoxyquinolin
6-y1]-4-(dimethylamino)-2(E)-butcnamide, and combinations thereof.
Suitable p3 8 kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention include, but are not limited to,
chlormethiazole            edisylate,         doramapimod,           5-(2,6-Dichloropheny)-2-(2,4
                                                  - 26 -

difluorophenylsulfanyl)-6H-pyrimido[3,4-b]pyridazin-6-one,                      4-Acetamido-N-(tert
butyl)benzamide, SCIO-469 (described in Abst, of Clin. PhannacoL Ther., 75(2), 2004, PII-7
and VX-702 (described in Circulatiom, 108 (17, Suppl. 4), Abst 882, 2003), and combinations
thereof.
Suitable NKI -receptor antagonists for use in the present invention include, but are not limited
to. nolpitantium besilate. dapitant, lanepitant. vofopitant hydrochloride, aprepitant, eziopitant.
N-[3-(2-Pentylphenyl)propionyll-threonyl-N-methyl-2,3-dehydrotyrosyl-leucyl-D
phenylalanyl-allo-threonyl-asparaginyl-serine         C-1.7-0-3.1      lactone,     l-Methylindol-3
ylcarbonyl-14(R)-hydroxyl-L-prolyl-(3-(2-naphthyl)1-L-alanine              N-benzyl-N-methylamide.
(+)-(2S,3S)-3-12-Methoxy-5-(trifluoromethoxy)benzylamino]-2-phenylpiperidine,                (2R,4S)
N-[I-[3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)benzoyll-2-(4-chlorobenzyl)piperidin-4-yljquinoline-4
carboxamide,                     3-[2(R)-[l(R)-[3,5-Bis(trifiuoromethyl)phenyl]ethoxy]-3(S)-(4
fluorophenyl)morpholin-4-ylmethy1]-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-IH-1,2,4-triazole-1-phosphinic                acid
bis(N-methyl-D-glucamine)         salt;  [3-(2(R)-il(R)-[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]ethoxyl
3(S)-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-morpholinylinethyl)-2,5-dihydro-5-oxo-lH-1,2,4-triazo1-1
ylphosphonic       acid    1-deoxy-1-(methylamino)-D-glucitol        (1:2)    salt,  I'-12-12(R)-(3,4
Dichlorophenyl)-4-(3.4,5-trimethoxyenzoyl)morpholin-2-y]]ethyl]spiro[benzo[c]thiophen
1(3H)-4-piperidine] 2(S)-oxide hydrochloride and the compound CS-003 (described in Eur.
Respir. J., 22(Suppl. 45): Abst P2664, 2003) and combinations thereof
Suitable NSAIDs for use in the present invention include, but am not limited to, Aceclofenac,
acemetacin.     acetylsalicylic    acid,  alclofenac,     alminoprofen,     amfenac,     Ampiroxicam
Antolmetinguacil, Anirolac, antrafenine. azapropazone, benorylate, Bermoprofen, bindarit,
hromfenac,     bucloxic    acid,   Bucolom,    Bufexamac,      Bumadizon,      butibufen,     Butixirat,
Carbasalatcalcium, carprofen, choline magnesium trisalicylate, celecoxib, Cinmetacin,
Cinnoxicam, clidanac Clobuzarit Deboxamet, dexibuprofen, Dexkctoprofen. diclofenac.
diflunisal, droxicam, Eltenac Enfenaminsaure Etersalat, etodolac, etofenamate, etoricoxib
Feclobuzon felbinac, fenbufen, fenclofenac. fenoprofen, fentiazac, Fepradinol Feprazon.
Flobufen,     floctafenine,    flufenamic     acid,    flufenisal,  Flunoxaprofen.        flurbiprofen,
Flurbiprofenaxetil, Furofenac, Furprofen, Glucametacin, [bufenac, ibuprofen, Indobufen,
indomethacin, Indometacinfarnesil, indoprofen, Isoxepac. Isoxicam, ketoprofen, ketorolac,
lobenzarit, Lonazolac, lornoxicam. Loxoprofen, [uniracoxib, meclofenamic. Meclofen.
mefenamic acid, meloxicam, mesalazine. Miro Profen. Mofezolac, nabumetone. naproxen,
                                                - 27 -

niflumic acid, olsalazine, oxaprozin, Oxipinac, oxyphenbutazone, parecoxib, phenylbutazone,
Pelubiprofen, Pimeprofen, Pirazolac,Priroxicam, pirprofen, Pranoprofen, Prifelon, Prinomod,
Proglumetacin, Proquazon. Protizininsliure, rofecoxib, Romazarit, salicylamide, salicylic
acid, Salmi Stein, Salnacedin, salsalate, sulindac, sudoxicam. suprofen. Talniflumate, tenidap.
Tenosal, tenoxicam, tepoxalin, tiaprofenic acid, Taramid. Tilnoprofenarbamel, timegadine,
Tinoridin, Tiopinac,     tolfenamic   acid,   toimetin.  Ufenamat, valdecoxib,     Ximoprofen,
zaltoprofen, Zoliprofen and combinations thereof.
The combinations described herein may be used in the treatment of any disorder which is
susceptible to amelioration by simultaneous, concomitant or sequential inhibition of
phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4). Thus, the present invention also includes methods of treatment
of these disorders, as well as the use of the combinations of the invention in the manufacture
of a medicament for the treatment of these disorders.
Prefened examples of such disorders are those respiratory diseases, wherein the use of
bronchodilating agents is expected to have a beneficial effect, for example asthma, acute or
chronic bronchitis, emphysema, or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).
Micronization of Roflumilast N-oxide
in one preferred embodiment, the roflumilast N-oxide to be administered by inhalation is
micronized. Micronization can be performed by mechanical impact (e.g.. by the use of mills.
such as hammer mills, pin mills or bead milling) or by impact via fluid energy (e.g., by jet
milling or the use of spiral jet mills or fluidized bed jet mills).      Additional details on
micronization and the micronization process arm provided in a Spring 2005 Pharmaceutical
Manufacturing and Packaging Sourcerarticle by J. M Larran, Journal of Pharmaceutical
Processing, "Advances in Powder Micronization Technology in Pharmaceutical Industry by
Hokosawa Micron Powder System;" Wikipedia entry on micronization; G. Gianola,
"Micronization Systems - Innovative Equipment Design and Applications," presentation at
Advances in Pharmaceutical Processing (Somerset, NJ, 2012) and R. Smith, "Micronization
of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients to Nanometer Scale." presentation at Advances in
Pharmaceutical Processing (Somerset, NJ, 2012).
Provided below is an exemplary method used for micronization of roflumilast N-Oxide using
an Alpine Spiral Jet Mill (HOSOKAWA). The process involved the following steps
                                               - 28 -

        e       15 gm of Roflumilast N-oxide was weighed.
        e       Main knob for compressed air supply was opened.
        e       Adjusted venture pressure at 6.0 bar and ring pressure at 0.5 bar.
        e       Roflumilast N-oxide was added at a feed rate of       -  200 mg/min manually
                through the hopper.
        e       After completion of micronization, main air supply knob was turned off and
                micronized roflumilast N-oxide was collected
Yield: - 9.0 g (  - 60% yield). Particle Size Distribution (PSD) of D, : 3.021 pm; Dso: 1.564
pm and Do :0.777 pm
                                          EXAMPLES
The present invention is now further illustrated by means of the following non-limiting
examples.
The experiments below show that roflumilast-N-oxide can be effectively delivered by
inhalation at low doses to achieve an equal or better biological effect than that observed for
roflumilast administered orally.
Example 1: Lung Microsome Stability of Roflumilast and Roflumilast N-oxide
Metabolic stability studies were conducted using rat, dog and human lung microsomes. The
protocol for the studies with rat, dog, and human lung microsomes (from Xenotech, USA) is
provided below.
0.4 mg protein was preincubated with 2mM NADPH (cofactor) in phosphate buffer (pH-7. 4 )
for 15 minutes at 370* C and then added with 1pM test item and incubated further for 60
minutes in triplicate. The reaction mixture was terminated with methanol containing an
internal standard and centrifuged further to analyze the test item remaining in the supernatant
by LC-MS/MS. The percent parent compound remaining was calculated in comparison with
similar samples terminated at 0 minutes. Table I shows the lung metabolic stability data.
                                            TABLE I
                                              - 29 -

                                Percent Parent Compound Remaining
                                                                              Additional
           Testtem             Rat      Dog      Human      Human Non        Observation
                                                 Smoker       Smoker
                                                                             No N-Oxide
         Roflumilast          97.1      97.4       98.8         99.8
                                                                              Form ation
                                                                            No Roflumilast
    Roflumilast-N-Oxide       100.0     98.3       99.3         91.5          Formation
Example 2: Pharmacokinetic (PK) Studies
Pulmonarv Kinetics by Intratracheal (IT)Route
Male and female Wistar rats were weighed and randomized for groups for various time
points. Roflumilast N-oxide was prepared as a suspension In a suitable vehicle for
intratracheal administration. For intratracheal dosing, animals were anesthetized with
ketamine (50 mg/kg; i.p.) and roflumilast N-oxide was administered via an Intratracheal
Microsprayer* Aerosolizer for Rat with a 0.5m glass syringe (Model IA-IB-R-GL500)
(Penn Century, US). A volume level of 0.5 mt/kg was administered into the airway system of
the rat at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg for the single dose and multiple dose study. The animals were
kept under normal regular diet conditions and rat chew diet was provided ad libitum
throughout the study. The blood and lung samples (all collections each of 150 pl from each
animal) were collected according to the sampling schedule. Blood samples were collected
from orbital sinus into the microfuge tubes containing dipotassium             EDTA as an
anticoagulant. Blood samples were centrifuged immediately with a speed of 1000g for 10
minutes at 4' C and separated plasma samples were frozen at below - 8 0 ' C and stored until
analysis. The plasma and lung concentrations of roflumilast N-oxide in all samples were
analyzed by LC-MS/MS (using X-Calibur 2.0.7 software) as per the established method. The
samples below the lower limit of quantification (LOQ) were mentioned as (BLQ) below level
of quantification in raw data and the results were tabulated accordingly. Pharmacokinetic
parameters C.U AUC.        AUCo.     Tm., t, Kel, VZ, and CLZ were estimated for the above
concentrations using WinNonlin (Phoenix 6.1 software) and the results were tabulated.
Pharmacokinctic parameters in plasma were calculated from concentration data as ng/nl.
Cma    and AUC values were reported in terns of nglml and ng h/ml, respectively.
                                              -30-

Pharmacokinetic parameters in the lungs were calculated from concentration data as ng/g.
C.   and AUC values were reported in terms of ng/g and ng-h/g, respectively. The lung to
plasma concentration ratio was calculated by assuming equal to I the plasma density. The
time - mean plasma concentration plots for roflumilast N-oxide were done using Graph pad
Prism 5.02 software. Table 2 shows the lung and plasma kinetics for the single and multiple
dose studies.
                                           - 31 -

                                             TABLE2
                                              Single Dose
             N =3 for each ime point at dose oft mg/kg of Roflumilast N-Oxide (IT)
 Parameter       Units                   Lung                  Units                  Plasma
                              N-Oxide        Roflumilast                    N-Oxide          Roflumilast
    Cm1           ng/g         26350                           ng/ml          530
  AUCo.,        ag~hr/g        47880                         ug.h/mni        4160
                                                  No                             -               No
 AUC,,          ng.hr/g        47960                         ng.hr/ml        4350
                                              Formation                                       Foniation
    T_             hr           0.25                             hr           0.25
     1             hr           2.54                             hr           5.43
                                             Multiple Dose
         N =3 for each time point at dose of 1 mg/kg of Rofluminlast N-Oxide (IDTfor 7 days
                                        Lung                                        Plasma
Parameter    Units           Day-I               Day-7        Units        Day-I               Day-7
                          N-     Roflu       N-      Roflu              N-     Roflu        N-     Roflu
                        Oxide    milast     Oxide    milast           Oxide    milast     Oxide    milast
                                                              pg/mn
   Cmi,       pg/g         -                0.00                L        -                 0.00
                                                                L
   Ce         pg/g         -                0.77                         -                 0.12
                                                                L
  C .         pg/g      26.35               23.15                      0.53                0.56
                                                                L
                                    No    -            No                        No     -            No
                                                             pg.br/
 AUCo,      pg.hr/g     47.88    Forma      17.96    Forma             4.16     Form      225      Form
                                                               mUL
                                   tion       -        ion                      ation       -      aion
                                                             ptg.hr/
 AUCa       pgbr/g         -                18.51                        -                 2.81
                                                               mL
                                                              ag.br/
AUCoar      pg.hr/g     47.96               18.04                      4.35                2.39
                                                               mL
  T            hr        0.25               0.25                hr     025                 1.00
               hr        254                0.81~               hr     5.43                153
                                                -32-

Example 3: Inhalation Studies
For inhalation studies, roflumilast N-Oxide is administered as a suspension. Roflumilast N
oxide (100 mg) is placed in a mortar and triturated following addition of a suitable solvent in
a gravimetric dilution to afford a fine suspension.
For inhalation suspension dosing, animals are placed in a plexiglass chamber and exposed to
roflumilast N-oxide (at a suitable concentration) for a period of 30 minutes in an aerosol form
using a Piston Nebulizer (Infi-Neb, USA) at an appropriate flow rate (I/min).
For dry powder inhalation dosing, animals are anesthetised with ketamine (50 mg/kg; i.p.).
then the animals are administered a mixture of micronized roflumilast N-oxide and a suitable
carrier in a powder form via intratracheal insufflation (using a Penn Century insufflations
powder delivery device (DP-4, US)).
Example 3A: In Vitro Biological Studies
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced TNFa in MH-S (Mouse Alveolar Macrophage) cells:
MH-S represents a mouse alveolar macrophage cell line that secretes copious amounts of
TNFa upon induction by LPS.           Cells are plated at 150,000 cells per well.     Different
concentrations of roflumilast N-oxide are added 15 minutes prior to the addition of LPS. LPS
(1pg/ml) is added and then incubated for 4 hours. The supernatant is collected at the end of
incubation period and TNFa estimated using an ELISA kit. Percent inhibition and IC50
values are determined.
LPS induced TNFa in THP-1 (Human Monocyte) cells: THP-1 represents a monocytic
cell line that has elevated endogenous pAKT levels and secretes copious amounts of TNFa
upon induction by LPS. Cells are plated at 150.000 cells per well. Different concentrations
of roflumilast N-oxide are added. LPS (lpg/ml) is added and then incubated for 4 hours.
The supernatant is collected at the end of incubation period and TNFa estimated using an
ELISA kit. Percent inhibition and IC5 Ovalues are determined,
Con A + PMA induced IFNy in Human Whole Blood: Freshly collected human whole
blood (HWB) is diluted with media and incubated with a desired concentration of inhibitor
for 15 minutes. Cytokine release is induced with the addition of Concanavalin A (25 pg/ml)
                                              - 33 -

+ Phorbol Myristate Acetate (50 ng/ml). The supernatant is collected after 20 hours and IFNy
estimated using an ELISA kit. Percent inhibition and IC,0 values are determined.
Con A + PMA induced IFNy in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC): PBMC
from whole blood are isolated by density gradient using Histopaque and incubated with a
desired concentration of inhibitor for 15 minutes.       Cytokine release is induced with the
addition of Concanavalin A (25 pg/ml) + Phorbol Myristate Acetate (50 ng/ml).               The
supernatant is collected after 20 hours and [FNy estimated using an ELISA kit.          Percent
inhibition and ICo values are determined.
Example 3B: In Vivo Biological Studies
A.      Lipopolysaccharide      (LPS) Induced Pulmonary Neutrophilia in a Female
        Sprague-Dawley Rat Model
An exaggerated recruitment and subsequent activation of neutrophila is likely to be important
for the development and course of several inflammatory diseases in the airways and lungs,
such as severe asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, and acute
respiratory distress syndrome. The mechanisms by which neutrophiia contribute to these
diseases may involve the release of proteolytic enzymes, such as neutrophil elastase, and free
oxygen radicals. When released, these compounds can cause bronchoconstriction, bronchial
hyperreactivity, hyper-secretion, epithelial damage, and tissue remodelling in the airways.
Roflumilast was prepared as a suspension in a suitable vehicle for oral administration. For
intratracheal administration, roflumilast or roflumilast N-oxide was prepared as a dry powder
mixture and administered by using a dry powder Insufflator (Penn-Century, USA). Animals
were anaesthetized with ketamine and LPS solution was administered intratracheally one
hour after roflumilast (at a dose of 0.3, L 3, and 10 mg/kg orally), or 30 minutes after
roflumilast (at a dose of 10. 30 and 100 pg/kg i.t) or roflumilast N-oxide administration (at a
dose of 10, 30 and 100 pg/kg, it). 6 hours after LPS instillation, animals were exsanguinated
under anaesthesia, and then trachea were cannulated and the lungs were lavaged with 5-mi
aliquots of heparinised PBS (I unit/ml) four times through tracheal cannula (total volume 20
ml). BAL (bronchoalveolar savage) fluid was stored at 2-8c C until assayed for total cell and
differential leukocyte count. Bronchioalveolar fluid was centrifuged (500xg for 10 minutes)
and the resulting cell pellet was resuspended in 0.5 ml of heparinized saline. The total
number of white blood cells were determined in BAL fluid using a blood cell counter and
                                              -34-

were adjusted to lxl0 cell/ml.         Differential cell count was calculated manually.   One
hundred microliters of the cell suspension was centrifuged using cytospin 3 to prepare a cell
smear. The cell smear was stained with a blood staining solution for differentiation and
slides were microscopically observed to identify eosinophil according to their morphological
characteristics. The number of each cell type among 300 white blood cells in the cell smear
was determined and expressed as a percentage. The total number of neutrophils in each BAL
fluid was calculated.
Roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide were administered intratracheally (i.t) at doses of 100,
30, and 10 pg/kg as 1:200; 1:500; and 1:1000 drug:lactose blends, respectively.
         L.     Effective dose of Roflunilast
Roflumilast upon oral administration demonstrated a dose dependent inhibition in neutrophil
infiltration compared to the control group at 0.3, 1. 3 and 10 mg/kg. The results are shown in
Figure 1. Percent inhibitions were -7.89%, 43.46%, 68.02%, and 92.21%, respectively, and
the 50% inhibition (EDo) dose was 1.8 mg/kg.
Roflumilast upon intratracheal administration demonstrated a dose dependent inhibition in
neutrophil infiltration compared to the control group at 10, 30 and 100 pg/kg. The results are
shown in Figure 2. Percent inhibitions were 31.76%, 60.47%, and 64.40%, respectively, and
the 50% inhibition (ED 0 ) dose was 26 pg/kg.
         ii.    Effective dose of Roflumilast N-Oxide
Roflumilast N-oxide upon intratracheal administration demonstrated a dose dependent
inhibition in neutrophil infiltration compared to control group at 10, 30 and 100 pg/kg. The
results are shown in Figure 3.       Percent inhibitions were 37.52%, 49.66%, and 69.48%,
respectively, and the 50% inhibition (EDo) dose was 27 pg/kg.
B.       Acute Cigarette Smoke Induced Cell Infiltration in Female Balb/c Mice
Animals were acclimatized for seven days prior to the start of the experiment. The animals
were randomly distributed to various groups based on their body weight. For oral
administration of roflumilast and for intranasal administration of roflumilast N-oxide,
roflumilast or roflumilast N-oxide were prepared as a suspension in a suitable vehicle. On
day 1, mice were administered roflumilast N-oxide or roflumilast and after I hour, the
                                               - 35 -

animals were placed in a whole body exposure box. On day 1 and day 2, the mice were
exposed to the mainstream smoke of 6 cigarettes, and 8 cigarettes on day 3 and day 4.
Exposure to the smoke of each cigarette lasted for 10 minutes (cigarettes were completely
burned in the first two minutes and followed by an air flow with animal ventilator, then 20
minutes exposure to fresh room air). After every second cigarette an additional break of 20
minutes with exposure to fresh room air was conducted. Control animals were exposed to
room air chamber. From day I to day 4, the animals were administered roflumilast N-oxide
or roflumilast. On day 5, 24 hours after the last cigarette smoke (CS) exposure, the animals
were exsanguinated under anaesthesia, the trachea were cannulated and the lungs were
ravaged with 0.5-ml aliquots of hepwinised PBS (1 unit/ml) four times through tracheal
cannula (total volume 2 ml). Bronchioalveolar (BAL) collected was stored at 2-8O C until
assayed for total cell and differential [eukocyte count. BAL fluid was centrifuged (50Oxg for
10 minutes) and the resulting cell pellet was suspended in 0.5 ml of heparinised saline. The
total number of white blood cells was determined in BAL fluid and adjusted to Ix106 cell/ml.
Differential cell count was calculated manually by diff-quick staining. Forty microliters of
the cell suspension was centrifuged using cytospin 3 to prepare a cell smear. The cell smear
was stained with a blood staining solution for differentiation and microscopically observed to
identify cell type according to their morphological characteristics. The number of each cell
type among 300 white blood cells in the cell smear were determined and expressed as a
percentage, and the number of neutrophils and macrophages in each BAL fluid were
calculated.
Roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide as a suspension in polysorbate 80 (1% v/v) and methyl
cellulose (MC) (0.5% w/v) were used for oral and intranasal administration respectively.
        L.      Effective dose of Roflumilast
Roflumilast upon oral administration demonstrated a dose dependent inhibition in
macrophage infiltration compared to control group at 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg. Percent inhibitions
were 22.2%, 51.00%, and 69.11%, respectively, and the 50% inhibition (ED50 ) dose was 3.5
mg/kg. Dose dependent inhibition in neutrophil infiltration was observed and the percent
inhibitions were 70.85%, 73.69%, and 83.01% respectively, and the 50% inhibition (ED 5o)
dose was 1.75 mg/kg. The results for macrophages and neutrophils are shown in Figures 4A
and 4B, respectively.
                                              - 36 -

        ii.    Effective dose of Roflumilast N-Oxide
Roflumilast N-oxide upon intranasal administration demonstrated a dose dependent inhibition
in macrophage infiltration compared to control group at 0.003, 0.03 0.3 and 3 mg/kg.
Percent inhibitions were 50.68%, 55.10%, 62.79% and 63.35%, respectively, and the 50%
inhibition (ED5o) dose was 0.049 mg/kg. Dose dependent inhibition in neutrophil infiltration
was observed and the percent inhibitions were 26.60%, 59.28%, 66.49% and 72.08%
respectively. The 50% inhibition (ED,0 ) dose was 0.038 mg/kg. The results for macrophages
and neutrophils air shown in Figures 5A and 5B, respectively.
C.      Ovalbumin Induced Pulmonary Eosinophilia in Male Guinea Pigs
Airway inflammation and hyper-responsiveness (AHR) are hallmarks and distinguishing
features of bwnchial asthma. Piovocation of pre-sensitized mice with the same allergen
induces airway inflammation with preferential eosinophilic infiltration and, as a consequence,
AHR. Pulmonary cosinophilia and airway remodelling in conjunction with altered neural
control of airway tone and airway epithelial desquamation may contribute to AHR in asthma.
After the quarantine period, 0.3 mL blood samples are collected from orbital vein by retro
orbital plexus method from each individual animal amd analysed on a cell analyser (ADVIA
2120. Siemens). Based on their total cell count, guinea pigs are randomized and divided into
various groups. Ear pinna is marked with an indelible marking pen for identification. On day
0, weights are recorded and athe animals ar then sensitized with 50pg of Ovalbumin and 10
mg of alum solution (1 mL) intraperitoneally. On day 7 and day 14, the above sensitization
protocol is repeated. Roflumilast N-oxide is prepared as a suspension in a suitable vehicle or
as a dry powder mixture. Roflumilast N-oxide or vehicle is administered by aerosol
suspension or dry powder insufflation. On day 18, the animals are treated with roflumilast N
oxide. On days 19 and 20, the animals are treated with roflumilast N-oxide and exposed to
0.5 % w/v ovalbumin for 10 minutes using an ultrasonic nebulizer with a flow rate of 0.2 ml
per minute. On day 21, fasted animals are treated with roflumilast N-oxide and 15 minutes
after dosing, animals are nebulized with 1% w/v ovalbumin solution for 10 min. Control
group animals are treated with 0.5% w/v methyl cellulose (vehicle). Sham control groups are
sensitized with 10 mg of alum on days 0, 7 and 14 and exposed to saline solution with the
same nebulization rate on days 19, 20 and 21. Twenty four hours after OVA challenge, blood
                                             - 37 -

samples and BAL fluid is collected. Samples are analysed for total cell count using a blood
analyser (ADVIA 2120, Siemens) and differential lcukocyte count is performed manually.
Examole 4: Safety and Toxicity
In order to determine the safety of roflumitast N-oxide by inhalation compared to roflumilast
by oral administration, a 7- and 14-day repeat dose safety study was conducted according to
the protocol giver in Table 5 below.
                                            TABLE5
          Species:                                       Wistar Rats
   Experimental design               5M+5F - Main study and 5M+5F in placebo groups
        Compound                 Roflumilast N-Oxide                        Rotlumilast
            Dose                    1000 ug/kg/day                         10 mg/Kg/day
           Route                     Intatracheal                               Oral
          ED50 in
   Lipopolysaccharide                  27 ug/kg                              1.8 mg/kg
    inducedpulmonary
  neutrophilia in fernale
   Sprague-Dawley rat
           model
     Criteria for Dose     ~37 fold to ED50 of Roflumilast        5.5 fold to ED50 of Rolumilast
         selection :                   N-oxide
Duration of the treatment   7 & 14 days for Roflumilast N-            7 days for Roflumilast
                                         oxide
                                              - 38 -

The results are presented in Table 6.
                                            TABLE6
                                                                              14-DAY REPEAT
       STUDY                          7-DAY REPEAT DOSE
                                                                                     DOSE
Drug & Route             Rollunilast by Oral*       Roflumilast N-Oxidc    Rollumilast N-Oxide
                                                    by Intratracheal       by Intratracheal
PARAMETERS
CLINICAL SIGNS           Abnormal clinical          No abnormal clinical   No abnormal clinical
                         signs were observed in     signs were observed    signs were observed in
                         treatment group            in treatment group     treatmetiL group
                         animals compared to        animals compared to    animals compared to
                         placebo group animals      placebo group animals  placebo group animals
                         (abnormal gait)
MORTALITY                 IM animal died on day     No Mortality           No Mortality
                         7
BODY WEIGHT              Yes, significant           Nosiguificant          No significant
PROFILE                  reduction in body          reduction in body      reduction in body
                         weight of around 25 %      weight observed at all weight observed at all
                         observed in all            treatment groups       treatment groups
                         treatment groups (n=
                          10)
HEMATOLOGY               Yes, elevated WBC          No treatment related   No treatment related
                         with a corresponding       changes observed       changes observed
                         lymphocytopenia            across the groups.     across the groups.
CLINICAL                 Yes, reduced serum         No abnormal clinical   No abnormal clinical
CHEMISTRY                albumnin and ALP,          signs were observed    signs were observed in
                         increases in total         in treatment group     treatment group
                         bilirbin                   animals compared to    animals compared to
                                                   placebo group animals   placebo group animals
ORGAN WEIGHTS            Yes, reduced thymus        No differences in the  No differences in the
                         and spleen weight with     absolute and relative  absolute and relative
                         an increase in weight      organ weight to body   organ weight to body
                         of adrenals                weight between         weight between
                                                    control and treatment  control and treatment
                                                    group animals          group animals
                                               - 39 -

GROSS PATHOLOGY           Yes, treatment related      No treatment related   No treatment related
                          gross pathological          gross pathological     gross pathological
                          changes including           changes observed       changes observed
                          stomach enlargement         across the treatment   across the treatment
                                                      groups                 groups
HISTOPAT.HOLOGY           Infiltration of             No significant         No significant
                          neutrophils and             histopathological      histopathological
                          monoinuclear cells into     changes observed in    changes observed in
                          lung alveolus observed      lung, stomach. spleen, lung, stomach. spleen,
                          indicating significant      thymus and adrenal.    thymus and adrenal
                          lung damage. Other
                          changes included
                          atrophy of thymus and
                          spleen, hypertrophy
                          /hyperplasia of
                          adrenals and gastric
                          ulcerations,
Intratracheal administration of roflumilast N-oxide was found to be safe when compared to
oral administration of roflumilast, which showed significant toxicity.
Intratracheal administration of roflumilast N-oxide (1000 pg/kg) was found to be safe and
provide a significant therapeutic window of more than 37-fold based upon its ED5 , of 27
pg/kg. In contrast, oral administration of roflumilast (10 mg/kg) had a lower therapeutic
index given its EDjo of 1.8 mg/kg (i.e., it is toxic even at a 5.5 fold).
The preceding data on metabolic stability, pharmacokinetics, in vivo efficacy and safety
studies related to roflumilast N-oxide demonstrates that administration of roflumilast N-oxide
by inhalation has the desired therapeutic effect with significant improvements in safety when
compared to oral administration of roflumilast.
Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments,
it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and
applications of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that numerous
modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may
                                                 -40-

be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as described
above. It i.s intended that the appended claims define the scope of the invention and that
methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered
thereby.
All publications, patents and patent applications cited in this application are herein
incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent or patent
application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference.
                                             - 41 -

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.       A method of treating an autoimmune, respiratory or inflammatory disease or
condition in a subject in need thereof comprising pulmonary administration of an effective
amount of roflumilast N-oxide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered by inhalation.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered by inhalation as a dry powder, solution or suspension.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered as a dry powder.
5.      The method of claim 3. wherein roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is administered as a solution or suspension.
6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered at a single dose of about 5 gg to
about 2000 pg.
7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered at a single dose of about 20 gg to about 1200 g.
8.      The method of claim 6, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered at a single dose of 50 ltg to 1000 pg.
9.      The method of claim 6, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered at a single dose of 100.g to 800 g.
10.     The method of claim 6, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered at a single dose of 100 pg. 200 gg, 400 gg, or 600 [g.
11.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the disease or condition is
selected from asthma, COPD, chronic obstructive bronchiolitis, acute bronchitis, chronic
bronchitis, emphysema, allergic rhinitis and non-allergic rhinitis.
                                               - 42 -

12.     The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the disease or condition is
asthma.
13.     The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the disease or condition is
COPD.
14.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in combination with a long-acting  P2
agonist, an M3 amtagonist, a corticosteroid, or any combination thereof.
15.     The method of claim 12, wherein the long-acting P2 agonist is selected from
carmoterol, GSK-642444, indacaterol, milveterol. arformoterol, formoterol, salbutamol,
formoterol, levalbuterol. terbutaline, AZD-3199, BI-1744-CL, LAS-100977, bambuterol.
isoproterenol, procaterol, clenbuterol, reproterol, fenoterol, ASF-1020, and any combination
thereof.
16.     The method of claim 14, wherein the M3 antagonist is selected from aclidinium,
tiotropium, ipratropium and oxitopium, and any combination thereof.
17.     The method of claim 14, wherein the corticosteroid is selected from the group
consisting of dexamethasone, fluticasone, fluticasone furoate, prednisolone, betamethasone,
budesonide, mometasone, mometasone furoate, triamcinolone acetonide, ciclesonide, TPI
1020,     beclomethasone,      beclomethasone        dipropionate,   prednisone,   deflazacort,
hydrocortisone, QAE-397, flunisolide, and any combination thereof.
18.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is anhydrous, a solvate, or a hydrate.
19.     Roflumilast N-oxide having a dse or do, of less than about 10 microns (e.g., from
about 0.1 to about 10 microns, such as about 0.5 to about 5 microns),
20.     The mflumilast N-oxide of claim 19, wherein the d50 or dw is (i) equal to or less than
about 10 microns. (ii) less than about 6 microns, or (iii) between about 1 and about 6 microns.
21.     Roflumilast N-oxide having a dso or d9O equal to or less than 10 microns suitable for
inhalation.
                                             - 43  -

22.     The roflumilast N-oxide of claim 21, having a d., or d,0 of (i) less than about 6
microns or (ii) between about I and about 6 microns.
23.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising roflImilast N-oxide and, optionally, one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients, wherein the composition is
administrated by inhalation.
24.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 23, in the form of a metered dose inhaler
(MDI) or a dry powder inhaler (DPI).
25.     The    pharmaceutical    composition   of claim     23,  wherein    the  pharmaceutical
composition is in the form of an inhalable dry powder comprising micronized particles of
roflumilast N-oxide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as an active ingredient and
particles of a physiologically acceptable pharmacologically-inert solid carrier.
26.     The    pharmaceutical    composition   of claim     23,  wherein    the  pharmaceutical
composition     is in the form     of an aerosol      comprising    roflumilast  N-oxide  or   a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as an active ingredient. a propellat and, optionally,
one or more co-solvents, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.
27.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 26, wherein the roflumilast N-oxide is in
the form of a suspension of particles of micronized roflumilast N-oxide in the propellant.
28.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-27, wherein the dso or d, of
the roflumilast N-oxide is (i) about 10 microns or less, (ii) less than about 6 microns or (iii)
between about I and about 6 microns.
29.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-28, further comprising a
long-acting  P2 agonist, an M3 agonist, a corticosteroid, or any combination thereof.
30.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, wherein the long-acting        P2 agonist is
selected from carmoteol, GSK-642444, indacaterol, milveterol, arformoterol, formoterol,
salbutamol, formoterol, levalbuterol, terbutaline, AZD-3199, BI-1744-CL, LAS-100977,
bambuterol, isoproterenol, procaterol, clenbuterol, reproterolt fenoterol, ASF-1020, and any
combination thereof.
                                             - 44 -

31.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, wherein the M3 antagonist is selected
from aclidinium, tiot-opium, ipratropium and oxitropium, and any combination thereof.
32.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, wherein the corticosteroid is selected
from the group consisting of dexamethasone, fluticasone, fluticasone furoate, prednisolone,
betamethasone, budesonide, mometasone, mometasone furoate, triamcinolone acetonide,
ciclesonide,  TPI-    1020,  beclomethasone,    beclomethasone    dipropionate,     prednisone,
deflazacort hydrocortisone. QAE-397, flunisolide, and any combination thereof.
33.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 23-32, wherein the roflumilast
N-oxide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is anhydrous, a solvate, or a hydrate.
                                           -45-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
