                                ABSTRACT
A computer system executes a method that improves the accuracy of sorting
of objects in an image. The method extracts objects of a category in an image
and reduces noise in the category. A second image is generated from the
image with the category of objects in white color and the background in black
color. A marked object is constructed in the second image by a pixel with at
least two non-zero neighbor pixels. The number of the marked objects in the
second image is counted.
                                      13

                          1/9
100
             Defining a category in an image
                             110
            Extracting objects of the category
                             120
             Reducing errors in the category
                             130
           Generating a second image with the
        category of objects in white color and the
                background in black color
                             140
    Improving accuracy of sorting objects in the image
                             150
         Constructing a marked object by a pixel
           with at least two non-zero neighbor
                             160
        Counting a number of the marked objects
                    in the binary image
                             170
                          Fig.1

                                        TITLE
                        Method of sorting objects in an image
                             FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a method that sorts objects in an image.
 5
                                   BACKGROUND
   Analyzing images requires categorization and statistics of numerous irregular
   shaped objects. The characteristics information, such as the number of
   interested objects of each category, average size and size distribution of the
10 objects of each category, etc. need to be extracted.
   New method that sorts objects in an image will meet advancing technological
   needs and assist in advancing this technology field.
                                           1

                         SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One example embodiment is a method executed by a computer system that
   improves the accuracy of sorting of objects in an image. The method extracts
   objects of a category in an image and reduces noise in the category. A
 5 second image is generated from the image with the category of objects in
   white color and the background in black color. A marked object is constructed
   in the second image by a pixel with at least two non-zero neighbor pixels. The
   number of the marked objects in the second image is counted.
10 Other example embodiments are discussed herein.
                                          2

                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figure 1 shows a method that sorts objects in an image with an improved
   accuracy in accordance with an example embodiment.
 5
   Figure 2 shows an image in accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 3 shows a preprocessed image in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
10
   Figure 4 shows an image of extracted rocks in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   Figure 5 shows an image of categorized rocks in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   Figure 6A shows an image of extracted rocks in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   Figure 6B shows an image of extracted rocks with reduced noises in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 7 shows an image of rocks after clustering in accordance with an
   example embodiment.
   Figure 8 shows an image of marked rocks in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   Figure 9 shows a computer system that executes the method with an example
   embodiment.
                                         3

                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Example      embodiments    relate  to  methods    and  systems    that extract
   characteristic information of the objects in an image and improve accuracy of
 5 identifying and sorting these objects.
   Example embodiments provide examples of images as being linear scanning
   images. Example embodiments, however, are not limited to linear scanning
   images or a particular type of image. Various types of digital images can be
10 recognized by a computer system or electronic device and can be executed
   as part of an example embodiment.
   Linear scanning imaging has been applied in geological sample examination
   as well. Analyzing linear scanning images requires categorization and
15 statistics of numerous irregular shaped objects, such as different kind of rocks
   in the image. The characteristics information including number, average size
   and size distribution of interested objects need to be extracted. Conventional
   techniques are time consuming and error prone due to the large amount of
   objects in each image, and the irregular shape and uneven color of objects.
20
   Example embodiments solve one or more of the technical problems as set
   forth above by providing methods and systems that achieve automatic sorting
   of objects in an image with improved accuracy over conventional techniques.
   The objects are sorted into different categories and the information of objects
25 in each category, including the number and average size of the objects, are
   extracted with a high accuracy. This information provides a more accurate,
   truer assessment of the geological sample, such as the material in the rock,
   the kind of rock, the composition of the rock, etc. This information helps
   scientists better understand the composition of geological samples.
30
   In one example embodiment, firstly a category is defined in an image. Objects
   of the category are extracted and the noise in the category is reduced by a
   computer system or an electronic device executing an example embodiment.
   A second image is generated from the image with the category of objects in
                                           4

   white color and the background in black color. A marked object is constructed
   in the second image by a pixel with at least two non-zero neighbor pixels. The
   number of the marked objects in the second image is counted and the number
   of pixels in each marked object is obtained. Finally, the statistic information of
 5 the objects in a category can be calculated from the pixel set of each marked
   object.
   Figure 1 shows a method 100 that sorts objects in an image with an improved
   accuracy in accordance with an example embodiment.
10
   Block 110 states defining a category in an image. By way of example, the
   category is defined according to the types of interested objects. In another
   example, the standard to classify the objects are provided by an image
   interpreter.
15
   Block 120 states extracting objects of the category. By way of example, the
   objects of each category are exacted with HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value)
   model or RGB (Red, Green, Blue) model.
20 Block 130 states reducing noise in the category. In an example embodiment,
   the noise is reduced by applying a medium filter for individual RGB layer. In
   another example embodiment, the objects in a category are clustered by a
   clustering algorithm to reduce the errors.
25 Block 140 states generating a second image with the category of objects in
   white color and the background in black color. By this step, the objects of
   each category are shown in a separate binary image.
   Block 150 states improving accuracy of sorting objects in the image, including
30 constructing a marked object by a pixel with at least two non-zero neighbor,
   and counting a number of the marked objects in the binary image.
   Block 160 states constructing a marked object by a pixel with at least two non
   zero neighbor.
                                           5

   Each pixel has eight neighboring point. By way of example, if a non-zero pixel
   has at least two non-zero neighbors, a marked object is constructed with the
   connected non-zero pixels. The location of each marked object and the
 5 number of pixels therein are recorded at the same time.
   Block 170 states counting a number of the marked objects in the binary image.
   Since the number and size of objects in each category is known, other
10 statistic information such as an average size can also be obtained from the
   pixel set of each marked object. As a result, the objects in the image are
   successfully sorted.
   Figure 2 shows an image 200 in accordance with an example embodiment.
15
   By way of example, the image 200 is a linear scanning image of a drilling
   sample in Chicxulub Crater. Analyzing the linear scanning image requires
   categorization and statistics of the irregular shaped rocks in this image.
   For example, three categories of rocks are identified as interested objects and
   they are differentiated with their main color as white, black and green
   respectively. The characteristics information for each category, such as the
   number of interested objects, average size and size distribution of the objects
   are to be extracted.
   Figure 3 shows a preprocessed image 300 in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
20
   In an example embodiment, a pre-processing procedure is included to
   improve the quality of identifying the objects of different categories, since the
   linear scanning image may be taken with different lighting conditions, resulting
   in inconsistent brightness and contrast and that brings difficulty for sorting the
25 objects in different images.
                                             6

  In one example, histogram equalization is used to alter the brightness and
  improve the image contrast. The image in Figure 3 shows the linear scanning
  image    preprocessed     by   histogram   equalization.   The     pre-processing
  procedure benefits the clustering of the objects in the images with sharp color
5 difference among different types of objects.
  Figure 4 shows an image 400 of extracted rocks in accordance with an
  example embodiment.
  By way of example, exacting the objects of each category is achieved with
  HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value) model or RGB (Red, Green, Blue) model. For
  example, the categories of black and white stones are extracted with HSV
  model, and the green stone is extracted with RGB model.
  In an example embodiment, HSV values of each pixel in the image is
  calculated with the HSV model. The pixel of the HSV value within a threshold
  of a certain category is classified as the corresponding category of rock. As
  shown in Figure 4, the white rocks in the image are extracted by HSV model.
  Figure 5 shows an image of categorized rocks in accordance with an example
  embodiment. The categories of black, white and green stones are extracted
  and shown in different colors.
  Figure 6A shows an image 600A of extracted rocks in accordance with an
  example embodiment. Figure 6B shows an image 600B of extracted rocks
  with reduced noises in accordance with an example embodiment.
  Due to the uneven colored rock, the extracted objects may miss partial area
  or be classified into a wrong category. A filtering technique is used to remove
  noise from the image. In an example embodiment, a medium filter is applied
  on each individual RGB layer to mitigate the errors. All the filtered RGB layers
  are combined to form a new colored image. By this way, the unevenness
  within the object is smoothed.
                                          7

As shown in Figure 6A, the black rocks are extracted with HSV model, which
are shown as bright objects in a dark background. Figure 6B shows an image
generated by applying medium filter on the image in Figure 6A. As can be
seen in Figure 6B, the noises caused by non-uniform color of the rocks are
reduced in the image.
Figure 7 shows an image 700 of rocks after clustering in accordance with an
example embodiment.
In an example embodiment, a clustering algorithm is applied to the images
with categorized black, white and green rocks to further reduce the errors of
categorization. In each image, the recognized objects are shown in white
color and the rests are in black. In one example, k-means algorithm is used as
the clustering method. As shown in Figure 7, the green rocks are recognized
after applying k-means clustering method and shown as white color in a black
background.
Figure 8 shows an image 800 of marked rocks in accordance with an example
embodiment.
In one example embodiment, the recognized objects of each category are
shown as white color in a binary image. Each pixel in the binary image has
eight neighboring points. A connected component is constructed if there is a
non-zero pixel with at least two non-zero neighbors. The location of the pixels
in the connected component are marked as well. The total number of the
marked objects can be obtained by counting the number of connected
components in the image.
In one example embodiment, a threshold is set to limit the size of the
connected component to further remove the noises caused by different color
of the same object. The connected component with an area smaller than the
threshold is removed from the image and not counted as a marked object.
Figure 8 shows the marked black rocks as white color in an image after
applying a threshold.
                                        8

   Based on the number of marked objects and the number of pixels therewithin,
   characteristic information can be calculated. For example, an average size of
   the objects can be calculated by sqrt(A/(pi*N)), where sqrt is square root, A is
   the total area occupied by objects of a certain category, N is the number of
   the objects in the category.
   In an example embodiment, the accuracy of the sorting method is 95%.
   Figure 9 shows a computer system 900 that executes the method of sorting
   objects in an image with an improved accuracy in accordance with an
   example embodiment. The computer system 900 include one or more
   computer/server 910, a network 920 and a database 930.
 5
   The computer/server 910 includes a processor 911, a memory 912, a display
   913 and an improved object sorter 914. The database 930 includes electronic
   storage or memory and can store data or other information to assist in
   executing example embodiments. The network 920 can include one or more
10 of a wired network or wireless network, such as the internet.
   The processor, memory and the improved object sorter in the computer/server
   910 execute methods in accordance with example embodiments. The
   improved object sorter 914 can include software and/or hardware to execute
15 example embodiments.
   The processor unit includes a processor (such as a central processing unit,
   CPU,    microprocessor,    microcontrollers, field programmable     gate array
   (FPGA), application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), etc.) for controlling the
20 overall operation of memory (such as random-access memory (RAM) for
   temporary data storage, read only memory (ROM) for permanent data storage,
   and firmware). The processing unit communicates with the improved object
   sorter and the memory to perform operations and tasks that implement one or
   more example embodiments discussed herein. The memory, for example,
                                           9

   stores applications,   data, programs,       algorithms (including software to
   implement or assist in implementing example embodiments) and other data.
   In some example embodiments, the methods illustrated herein and data and
 5 instructions associated therewith are stored in respective storage devices,
   which are implemented as computer-readable and/or machine-readable
   storage media, physical or tangible media, and/or non-transitory storage
   media. These storage media include different forms of memory including
   semiconductor memory devices such as DRAM, or SRAM, Erasable and
10 Programmable Read-Only Memories (EPROMs), Electrically Erasable and
   Programmable Read-Only         Memories (EEPROMs)         and flash memories;
   magnetic disks such as fixed and removable disks; other magnetic media
   including tape; optical media such as Compact Disks (CDs) or Digital
   Versatile Disks (DVDs). Note that the instructions of the software discussed
15 above can be provided on computer-readable or machine-readable storage
   medium, or alternatively, can be provided on multiple computer-readable or
   machine-readable storage media distributed in a large system having possibly
   plural nodes. Such computer-readable or machine-readable medium or media
   is (are) considered to be part of an article (or article of manufacture). An
20 article or article of manufacture can refer to any manufactured single
   component or multiple components.
   Blocks and/or methods discussed herein can be executed and/or made by a
   user, a user agent (including machine learning agents and intelligent user
25 agents), a software application, an electronic device, a computer, firmware,
   hardware, a computer system, and/or an intelligent personal assistant.
   Furthermore, blocks and/or methods discussed herein can be executed
   automatically with or without instruction from a user.
30 The methods in accordance with example embodiments are provided as
   examples, and examples from one method should not be construed to limit
   examples from another method. Further, methods discussed within different
   figures can be added to or exchanged with methods in other figures. Further
   yet, specific numerical data values (such as specific quantities, numbers,
                                           10

   categories, etc.) or other specific information should be interpreted as
   illustrative for discussing example embodiments. Such specific information is
   not provided to limit example embodiments.
 5 As used herein, "histogram equalization" is a method in image processing of
   contrast adjustment using the image's histogram.
   As used herein, "HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value)" is a color model that
   describes colors (hue) in terms of their shade (saturation or amount of gray)
10 and brightness (value)
   As used herein, "RGB (Red, Green, Blue)" is an additive color model in which
   red, green and blue light are added together in various ways to reproduce a
   broad array of colors.
15
   As used herein, "medium filter" is a nonlinear digital filtering technique used to
   remove noise from an image by replacing each entry with the median of its
   neighboring entries.
20 As used herein, "k-means" is a method for cluster analysis in data mining to
   partition n objects into k clusters in which each object belongs to the cluster
   with the nearest mean.
                                           11

                                      CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method executed by a computer system that improves the accuracy of
   sorting of objects in an image, the method comprising:
              defining a category;
              extracting, by the computer system, objects of the category;
               reducing, by the computer system, noise in the category;
              generating, by the computer system, a second image with the
      category of objects in white color and the background in black color;
      and
               improving the accuracy of sorting of objects in the image by:
                       constructing, by the computer system, a marked object by
              a pixel with at least two non-zero neighbor pixels;
                       counting, by the computer system, a number of the
               marked objects in the category.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              setting, by the computer system, a threshold;
               removing, by the computer system, the marked object with
       pixels less than the threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              altering, by the computer system, brightness and/or contrast of
      the image.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              filtering, by the computer system, noise in the image.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              clustering, by the computer system, the objects in the image.
                                          12

<removed-date>
                                        1/9
              100
                             Defining a category in an image
                                           110
<removed-apn>
                            Extracting objects of the category
                                           120
                             Reducing errors in the category
                                          130
                          Generating a second image with the
                        category of objects in white color and the
                               background in black color
                                           140
                    Improving accuracy of sorting objects in the image
                                          150
                         Constructing a marked object by a pixel
                          with at least two non-zero neighbor
                                           160
                        Counting a number of the marked objects
                                  in the binary image
                                           170
                                        Fig.1

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         200
                               2/9
Fig.2

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         300
                               3/9
Fig.3

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         400
                               4/9
Fig.4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         500
                               5/9
Fig.5

<removed-date>
                              6/9
              600A              600B
<removed-apn>
                     Fig.6A            Fig.6B

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         700
                               7/9
Fig.7

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         800
                               8/9
Fig.8

<removed-date>
                                    9/9
              900
                                Computer / Server 910
<removed-apn>
                    Processor        Memory              Display
                       911             912                913
                                Improved object sorter
                                        914
                                    Network(s)
                                       920
                                      Database
                                        930
                                 Figure 9

