                                      ABSTRACT
Noise reduction methods and systems for reducing unwanted sounds in signals received
from an arrangement of microphones are disclosed, the method including the steps of:
sensing sound sources distributed around a specified target direction by way of an
arrangement of microphones to produce left and right microphone output signals;
determining the magnitude or power of the left and right microphone signals;
attenuating the signals based on the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values
derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.

                                                  I
                       A NOISE REDUCTION METHOD AND SYSTEM
   Technical Field
             The present invention relates to a noise reduction method and to systems
 5 configured to carry out the method. Embodiments of the invention represent
   improvements upon, or alternatives to, methods or systems described in applicant's
   international patent application no PCT/AU2011/001476, published as
   W02012/065217, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
10 Background to the Invention
             In hearing devices, such as hearing aids, background noise is detrimental to the
   intelligibility of speech sounds. Most modern hearing devices address this issue by
   introducing noise reduction processing technology into the microphone output signal
   paths. The aim is to increase the Signal-to-Noise (SNR) ratio available to listeners,
15 hence improve clarity and ease of listening to the hearing device wearer.
             The success of noise reduction processing often depends greatly on the
   formation of appropriate reference signals to estimate the noise, the reason being that
   the reference signal is used to optimize an adaptive filter that aims to eliminate the
   noise, ideally leaving only the target signal. However, such reference estimates are
20 often inaccurate because most known techniques, such as Voice Activity Detection, are
   susceptible to errors. In turn, such inaccuracies lead to inappropriate filtering and
   degradation in the output quality of processed sound (target distortion), particularly at
   low SNR where noise reduction functions are most needed.
             There remains a need for improved noise reduction methods and systems.
25
   Summary of the Invention
             In a first aspect the present invention a noise reduction method for reducing
   unwanted sounds in signals received from an arrangement of microphones including the
   steps of: sensing sound sources distributed around a specified target direction by way of
30 an arrangement of microphones to produce left and right microphone output signals;
   determining the magnitude or power of the left and right microphone signals;
   attenuating the signals based on the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values
   derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.

                                                2
             The method may further include the steps of: determining the sum of the
   magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and
   right microphone signals, wherein the step of attenuating the signals may be further
   based on a comparison of the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived
 5 from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals with the sum of
   the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left
   and right microphone signals.
             The step of attenuating the signal may be based on the ratio of the difference of
   the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left
10 and right microphone signals to the sum of the magnitudes or powers or values derived
   from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.
             The step of attenuating may be based on one minus the ratio.
             The step of attenuating may be based on a transformation of the ratio.
             The step of attenuating may be based on one minus the transformation of the
15 ratio.
             The difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the
   magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals may be time-averaged.
             The sum of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes
   or powers of the left and right microphone signals may be time-averaged.
20           The step of time-averaging may include asymmetric rise and fall times
             The step of attenuating may be frequency specific.
             The step of attenuating may include determining the attenuation of low
   frequencies from other frequency bands.
             The step of attenuating may include determining the attenuation of selected
25 frequencies based on the magnitude or power of the difference between the left and
   right microphone signals or a value derived from the magnitude or power of the
   difference between the left and right microphone signals.
             The selected frequencies may be low frequencies.
             The attenuation may be scaled by a function.
30           Unwanted reduction of target output level in high noise levels may be
   eliminated through an estimator of the amount of noise being eliminated.
             An estimator of the amount of noise being eliminated over a frequency range
   of interest may be derived from the maximum attenuation applied across that range.

                                                 3
             In a second aspect the present invention provides a system for reducing
   unwanted sounds in signals received from an arrangement of microphones including:
   sensing means for sound sources distributed around a specified target direction by way
   of an arrangement of microphones to produce left and right microphone output signals;
 5 determination means for determining the magnitude or power of the left and right
   microphone signals; attenuation means for attenuating the signals based on the
   difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or
   powers of the left and right microphone signals.
             The determination means may be further arranged to determine the sum of the
10 magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and
   right microphone signals; and the attenuation means may be further arranged to
   attenuate the signals based on a comparison of the difference of the magnitudes or
   powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right
   microphone signals with the sum of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from
15 the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.
             The attenuation means may be arranged to attenuate the signals based on the
   ratio of the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the
   magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals to the sum of the
   magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and
20 right microphone signals.
             The attenuation means may be arranged to attenuate the signals based on one
   minus the ratio.
             The attenuation means may be arranged to attenuate the signals based on a
   transformation of the ratio.
25           The attenuation means may be arranged to attenuate the signals based on one
   minus the transformation of the ratio.
             In some embodiments, this signal processing technique reduces interference
   levels in spatially distributed sensor arrays, such as the microphone outputs available in
   bilateral hearing aids, when the desired target signal arrives from a different direction to
30 those of interfering noise sources. In the field of hearing, this technique can be applied
   to reduce the effect of noise in devices such as hearing aids, hearing protectors and
   cochlear implants.
             Embodiments of the invention provide an improved and efficient scheme for

                                                4
   the removal of noise present in microphone output signals without the need for complex
   and error-prone estimates of reference signals.
             Some embodiments may be used in an acoustic system with at least one
   microphone located at each side of the head producing microphone output signals, a
 5 signal processing path to produce an output signal, and means to present this output
   signal to the auditory system.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
             Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
10 examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
             Figure 1 is a block diagram of a system for conducting a noise reduction
   method for reducing unwanted sounds in signals received from an arrangement of
   microphones. Figure 2 is a block diagram of a modification of the weight calculation
   method described in Figure 1, such that low frequency noise attenuation is improved.
15
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
             The following description of an embodiment is presented for microphone
   output signals from the left and right sides of the head. The desired sound source to be
   attended to is presumed to arrive from a specific direction, referred to as the target
20 direction. In the preferred embodiments, multiband frequency analysis is employed,
   using for example a Fourier Transform, with left and right channel signals X, (k)
   andXR (k), respectively, where k denotes the klh frequency channel.
           Referring to figure 1, a schematic representation of a system 100 according to a
25 preferred embodiment of the invention is shown. The system 100 is embodied in digital
   signal processing (DSP) hardware and is represented as functional blocks. An overview
   of the operation of the blocks of system 100 will now be given, and a more detailed
   explanation of the calculations taking place will follow.
30           The outputs from detection means in the form of the left 101 and right 102
   microphones are transformed into multichannel signals using an analysis filter bank
   block, 103 and 104, for example using a Fourier Transform to produce left and right

                                                 5
   signals XL(k) and XR(k) respectively.
             The method then proceeds in the following manner:
 5  1.       Measure left and right microphone powers (in each frequency band). Power
   for each channel in the left and right signals are independently determined by way of
   determination means 105 and 106.
   2.        Calculate PDIF, the difference of microphone powers (assumed to contain the
10 difference between L and R ear noise, and little target because that cancels). The
   absolute value of PDIF is calculated at 107. That is to say, PDIF always has a positive
   value.
   3.        Calculate PsUM, the sum of difference powers (which contains 2xtarget and L
15 and R noise components).
   4.        Time average PDIF and PSUM (optionally with asymmetric rise fall times) by
   accumulating these values over time using integration processes, 108 and 110,
   respectively.
20
   5.        Calculate "attenuation" u(k) at 111 which equates to 1-( PDIF/PSUM), which is
   an estimate of how much the microphone power needs to be scaled back to better
   approximate the target-only component. Optionally the ratio (PDIF/PSUM) may by
   modified by a scaling function prior to subtracting it from one.
25
   6.        Alter the strength of noise reduction by applying a mapping function that
   translates "attenuation" to arrive at a set of filter weights W(k) In the preferred
   embodiment the mapping function takes the form of raising "attenuation" to a fixed
   power, with a default value of 2.6. The value of the fixed power coefficient may be
30 application dependent, user selectable.
   7.        For low frequencies, there remains the problem that the head provides little
   attenuation between ears, which leaves much of the noise in that region. To address
   that problem the very low frequencies are scaled down by an additional factor that is
35 determined from other frequency regions such as a power-weighted average, or
   alternatively the maximum, of the attenuation applied to the frequencies in the 500-

                                                 6
   4000Hz range).
             At 112 the left and right signals XL(k) and XR(k) are added together. The filter
   weights W(k) are applied to the combined signal from block 111 by programmable
 5 filter 113 to yield output signal Z(k).
             A broadband time-domain signal is optionally created using a synthesis filter
   bank, 120, for example using an inverse Fourier Transform, and may benefit from
   further processing such as adjustment of spectral content or time-domain smoothing
10 depending on the application, as will be evident to those skilled in the art.
             In the method described above the left and right signals are added together to
   produce a monaural signal before the channel weight is applied. This provides an
   additional SNR gain at the expense of the loss of left and right directional cues. An
15 alternative would be to apply the weight to left and right signals separately to retain
   directional information. Intermediate to those options, in an alternative implementation,
   ipsilateral and contralateral signals may be weighted unequally before addition to
   achieve the desired trade off of additive SNR gain and directional cue retention. Such
   additive weighting may be fixed, or dynamically determined, for example from the
20 channel attenuation.
            The following formulae are applied in the method conducted by system 100.
            The power in each channel for signals from microphones located on the left and
25 right sides of the head is calculated as follows:
    PL(k) = X.(k)x *XL (k) ... Eq.1
    PR (k) = XR(k)x *XR(k)..    .Eq.2
30                  Eq.1 and Eq.2 describe the situation for which the target direction
   corresponds to the direction in which the head is orientated. Optionally the target
   direction can be altered by filtering the left and right microphone signals. Although the

                                                         7
   target direction can be specified by the user, it should be obvious to those skilled in the
   art that an automated process can also be used.
                     PDIF is  calculated as follows:
 5
    PDIF PR (k)-PL (k          .Eq.3
                     PsuM is calculated as follows:
10   10sm =
    P'jUM  =P P(k)+ P(k).E.
                      L      ......
                                  Eq.4
                     The time-averaged values of PDIF and PSUM are determined in the
   preferred embodiment using leaky integration with asymmetric rise (tr) and fall (Tf)
   timesas follows:
15
   if ( PDI          DF      )    1 (k)       F(k)x  (-       )+ PDIF (k)x,
   else
    P)DIF        DIF     (1-     rk                  ... Eq.5
20
   if P       (k) < Py (k)
        Pe(k)=     y(k) x (1-7 )+ Py(k) x
   else
    IPSbM (k) = Fs   (k)x (1-7Tr)+       P,  (k)x T,    ... Eq.6
25
                     Alternative time-averaging methods can be used.
                     The level of attenuation is calculated as follows:
    u(k)=1-(PjFF/P9f)               .... Eq.7

                                                 8
                    Optionally, the ratio (PDIFF / Psum) is raised to a power prior to
   subtraction from 1 to modify the shape of the attenuation function. Because u(k) is
   always less than or equal to 1, attenuation can be increased by raising its value to a
   power S:
              5
   w(k)w~k=u~~s....
          = uk'        Eq.8
                    Alternative methods to produce the desired strength of noise reduction
   w(k) from the ratio of    (PDFF  / Psm) may be used. It will be evident to those skilled in
   the art that there may be benefit from adjusting the noise-reduction strength modifier in
10 a time varying manner, for example according to the output of a signal to noise ratio
   estimator or algorithms that determine the type of acoustic environment automatically.
                    The channel weighting values W(k) are applied to the combined channel
   signals XL (k) and XR (k), to produce the channel output signal:
15
    Z(k)= W(kXXL (k)+ X R(k)) ... Eq. 9
   Alternatively, the desired retention of directional information can be achieved by
   retaining partial independence of the left and right ear signals to produce a stereophonic
20 output:
    ZL(k)   = W(k)(XL ( Xi, + XR (k)X JiOnt)
    ZR(k)=W(kXXL(k)x              + XR, (         ... Eq. 10
                                            Y+,(k)xY,)
25
                    Further noise reduction and improved quality of the output signal is
   derived from an estimator of how much noise is being removed in the frequencies most
   important to voiced speech intelligibility between 500Hz and 4kHz. In the preferred
   embodiment that estimator is calculated as the largest of the attenuation values applied
30 in the 500-4000Hz speech range:
     'max  = max,(W(k))

                                                 9
    ... Eq. 11
                    Wmax is used in the preferred embodiment to determine additional
   attenuation to be applied to frequency channels below a few hundred Herz, for which
 5 the head is an ineffective barrier. In addition it is used to adjust a slow varying AGC
   that minimises target level reduction that otherwise increases as noise levels increase
   relative to the target. Alternative metrics to Wmax, such as the power-weighted average
   of the attenuation applied to the frequency channels in the 500-4000Hz speech range,
   may be used in a similar manner.
10
                    It will be evident to those skilled in the art that although the example
   implementation is described in terms of a target direction that is normal to the
   microphone configuration, i.e.in the "look direction" of a listener wearing a microphone
   at each ear, the desired target direction can be altered by filtering the left and right ear
15 inputs prior to application of the noise reduction.
                    In the embodiment described above the power of the microphone signals
   was determined and then a degree of attenuation in the form of filter weights was
   calculated based on the power values. Similarly, in other embodiments the magnitude
20 of the signals may be determined. The degree of attenuation may be calculated based
   on the magnitude values. In other embodiments, the degree of attenuation may be
   calculated based on values derived from the magnitude or power values.
                    In a variation to the embodiment described above there may be provided
25 an option to make the attenuation also dependent on phase, rather than amplitude
   (powers or magnitude) alone. In practice, this new option is used only in low frequency
   regions where power/magnitude differences between ears can be too small to be
   effective. In low frequency bands using the new approach, not only are the powers of
   the left and right signals required, but also the left and right signals need to be
30 subtracted, and the power of their difference (as opposed to the difference of the
   powers) needs to be calculated.

                                                 10
                   Referring to figure 2, a schematic representation of a modified weight
   calculation system 200 according to a modification of weight calculation described in
   system 100. The outputs from detection means in the form of the left 201 and right 202
   microphones are again transformed into multichannel signals using an analysis filter
 5 bank block, 203 and 204, for example using a Fourier Transform to produce left and
   right signals XL(k) and XR(k) respectively.
                   The method then proceeds in the following manner:
10  1.       As described in steps 1-3 for System 100, calculate the values of PsuM, and      PDIF
   from the left and right power values determined by way of power determination means
   205 and 206, and absolute value determination means 207.
   2.        Subtract the left and right signals, XL(k) and XR(k) , and calculate   VDIF, the
15 power of the complex vector difference using determination means 208.
   3.        Calculate the preliminary attenuation a(k) values at 209 using    PDIF, PSUM, and
   optionally  VDIF- In the preferred embodiment high frequency bands are processed only
   using PDIF and PSUM according to: a(k) = 1-(     PDIF/PSUM), and attenuation for low
20 frequency bands incorporates an additional factor dependent on       VDIF according to:
   a(k) = 1- (PsUM x (PDIF + VDIF)   - (PDIF X VDIF))/   (PSUM  PSUM).
   4.        Optionally alter the strength of the preliminary attenuation to produce the
25 attenuation by applying a mapping function. The mapping function need be neither
   linear nor time-invariant. In the preferred embodiment, the mapping function is a
   frequency dependent threshold function that inhibits attenuation above threshold.
   5.        Time average the attenuation by accumulating its values over time using
30 integration process 208.
   6.        Optionally alter the strength of the time-averaged attenuation using a further
   mapping function to produce attenuation values u[k] using for example a power
   function with a fixed coefficient. The value of the fixed power coefficient is application
35 dependent, and may be user selectable. In the preferred embodiment, the mapping

                                                   11
   function is unity for low frequency bands that incorporate    VDIF dependence, and equal
   to 2 otherwise.
                    The introduction of VDIF dependence for low frequencies in system 200
 5 eliminates the need for the additional attenuation factor described in system 100 for
   very low frequencies. The output weights W[k] determined in system 200 can be used
   to scale the left and right signals XL(k) and XR(k) in the same manner as described for
   system 100.
10                  The following formulae are applied in the method conducted by system
   200:
   PL(k) is calculated according to Eq.1
   PR(k) is calculated according to Eq.2
15 PDIF  is calculated according to Eq. 3.
   Psum is calculated according to Eq. 4.
   VDIF   is the power of the vector difference between left and right signals, calculated as:
20  VDIF = (XL (k)    XR (k))x*(X L(k)       X,(k)) ... Eq.12
   For high frequency bands the preliminary level of attenuation is calculated as follows:
    a(kc) =1 -I PD1FUM-           ....Eq. 13
25
   Note that in contrast to Eq.7,   PDIF  and PSUM have not been smoothed
   For low frequency bands, the preliminary attenuation is determined according to:
    a(k)=1-(P        *(PDIF   VDIF)  - (DF   X VDIF   /SUM    X     *  .... Eq.14
   Where Re(VDIF) is the real part of the complex power VDIF.

                                                 12
   The time-averaged value of a[k] is determined in the preferred embodiment using
   frequency-dependent leaky integration as follows:
   a(k)=a(k)x(1--,)+a(k)xZ7, ... Eq.15
 5
   Alternative time-averaging methods can be used.
   The time-averaged level of attenuation in the preferred embodiment described in
   System 200 is further modified by raising a[k] to a fixed frequency-dependent power
10 coefficient as follows:
   w(k) = a(k)s      ... .Eq.16
   Alternative methods to produce the desired strength of noise reduction w(k) may be
15 used.
                   It will be clear to those skilled in the art that alternative measures that
   exhibit phase-dependence between left and right signals may be used instead of VDIF to
   enhance performance in the low frequency bands.
20
                   In various embodiments, the boundary between high and low frequencies
   is dependent upon the particular application. The boundary between high and low
   frequencies may vary in the range between 500Hz and 2500Hz. In the detailed
   embodiment described above, a value of 1000Hz may be used.
25
                   Any reference to prior art contained herein is not to be taken as an
   admission that the information is common general knowledge, unless otherwise
   indicated.
                   Finally, it is to be appreciated that various alterations or additions may be
30 made to the parts previously described without departing from the spirit or ambit of the
   present invention.

                                                 13
CLAIMS:
1.   A noise reduction method for reducing unwanted sounds in signals received from an
arrangement of microphones including the steps of:
     sensing sound sources distributed around a specified target direction by way of an
arrangement of microphones to produce left and right microphone output signals;
     determining the magnitude or power of the left and right microphone signals;
     attenuating the signals based on the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values
derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.
2.   A method according to claim 1 further including the steps of:
     determining the sum of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the
magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals,
     wherein the step of attenuating the signals is further based on a comparison of the
difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of
the left and right microphone signals with the sum of the magnitudes or powers or values
derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.
3.   A method according to either of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the step of attenuating the
signal is based on the ratio of the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived
from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals to the sum of the
magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right
microphone signals.
4.   A method according to claim 3 wherein the step of attenuating is based on one minus
the ratio.
5.   A method according to claim 3 wherein the step of attenuating is based on a
transformation of the ratio.
6.   A method according to claim 5 wherein the step of attenuating is based on one minus
the transformation of the ratio.

                                                 14
7.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the difference of the magnitudes or powers or
values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals is
time-averaged.
8.   A method according to claim 2 wherein the sum of the magnitudes or powers or values
derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals is time
averaged.
9.   A method according to either of claims 7 or 8 wherein the step of time-averaging
includes asymmetric rise and fall times.
10. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the step of attenuating is frequency
specific.
11. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the step of attenuating includes
determining the attenuation of low frequencies from other frequency bands.
12. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the step of attenuating includes
determining the attenuation of selected frequencies based on the magnitude or power of the
difference between the left and right microphone signals or a value derived from the
magnitude or power of the difference between the left and right microphone signals.
13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the selected frequencies are low frequencies.
14. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the attenuation is scaled by a
function.
15. A method according to any preceding claim wherein any unwanted reduction of target
output level in high noise levels is eliminated through an estimator of the amount of noise
being eliminated.
16. A method according to a claim 15 wherein an estimator of the amount of noise being
eliminated over a frequency range of interest is derived from the maximum attenuation

                                                 15
applied across that range.
17. A system for reducing unwanted sounds in signals received from an arrangement of
microphones including:
     sensing means for sound sources distributed around a specified target direction by way
of an arrangement of microphones to produce left and right microphone output signals;
determination means for determining the magnitude or power of the left and right
microphone signals;
     attenuation means for attenuating the signals based on the difference of the magnitudes
or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone
signals.
18. A system according to claim 17 wherein the determination means is further arranged to
determine the sum of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or
powers of the left and right microphone signals; and
     the attenuation means is further arranged to attenuate the signals based on a comparison
of the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or
powers of the left and right microphone signals with the sum of the magnitudes or powers or
values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals.
19. A system according to claim 17 wherein the attenuation means is arranged to attenuate
the signals based on the ratio of the difference of the magnitudes or powers or values
derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and right microphone signals to the sum
of the magnitudes or powers or values derived from the magnitudes or powers of the left and
right microphone signals.
20. A system according to claim 19 wherein the attenuation means is arranged to attenuate
the signals based on one minus the ratio.
21. A system according to claim 19 wherein the attenuation means is arranged to attenuate
the signals based on a transformation of the ratio.

                                               16
22. A system according to claim 21 wherein the attenuation means is arranged to attenuate
the signals based on one minus the transformation of the ratio.
23. A system according to any one of claims 16 to 22 wherein the attenuation means is
arranged to attenuate selected frequencies based on the magnitude or power of the difference
between the left and right microphone signals or a value derived from the magnitude or
power of the difference between the left and right microphone signals.
24. A system according to claim 23 wherein the selected frequencies are low frequencies.

                                                <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                 <U+271D><U+271F>            <U+271D><U+2720>
                   <U+271D>        <U+271D><U+271E>                           <U+271D><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271D><U+2702>
                                          <U+271D><U+261E>                       <U+271D>
                       <U+271D><U+261B>
                                      <U+2702>              <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2702><U+271D>
                            <U+271D><U+271D>
                                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>

                                            <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                      <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>
               <U+2702><U+271D>         <U+2702><U+271D><U+271E>               <U+2702><U+271D><U+2720>
                                                          <U+2702><U+271D>   <U+2702> <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+2702>
<removed-apn>                      <U+2702><U+271D><U+261E>
              <U+2702><U+271D><U+2702>
                                                    <U+2702><U+271D><U+2721>
                    <U+2702><U+271D><U+261B>               <U+2702><U+271D><U+271D>
                                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2702>

