  Abstract
  Disclosed herein is an electronic device and methods relating to the electronic device, an
  electronic device having a plurality of modes, a method of changing the mode of an electronic
  having a plurality of modes, and specifically but not exclusively to an electronic device for a
5 gauge attached to a vessel, an electronic device for a gas meter, and a telemetric fitting for a
  gauge attached to a vessel, and a telemetric fitting for gas meter.

                                                      1
                                      AN ELECTRONIC DEVICE
   Technical field
 5 The disclosure herein generally relates to an electronic device and methods relating to the
   electronic device, an electronic device having a plurality of modes, a method of changing the
   mode of an electronic device having a plurality of modes, and specifically but not exclusively to
   an electronic device for a gauge attached to a vessel, an electronic device for a gas meter, and a
   telemetric fitting for a gauge attached to a vessel, and a telemetric fitting for gas meter. The
 0 disclosure further generally relates to the processor of a telemetric electronic device which is
   configured to specify at least one particular orientation of the telemetric electronic device
   when it is attached to the tank or meter, and/or wherein the processor is configured to poll
   the accelerometer, and/or wherein the processor is configured to trigger sending
   acceleration information by the transmitter when detected movement and/or orientation
 5 of the device reaches a threshold.
   Background
   Fuels that are gaseous at standard ambient temperature and pressure ("gas fuels") may comprise,
   for example, methane, ethane, propane, butane, pentane, and mixtures of two or more of these
 0 hydrocarbons. Standard ambient temperature and pressure is 25 deg. C and 101kPa. Gas fuels
   may also comprise small amounts of other gases including propylene, butylenes, and additives
   including, for example, odorant gasses in the form of ethanethiol, tetrahydrothiophene, or amyl
   mercaptan for the detection of gas leaks.
   Gas fuels may be compressed to form a liquefied gas fuel. For example, butane, propane, and
25 fuels containing mixtures of these hydrocarbons may be sold as liquid petroleum gas or liquid
   propane gas, either of which may be abbreviated to LPG. A liquefied gas fuel may be stored in a
   pressure vessel, examples of which include but are not limited to cylinders and tanks including
   LPG bulk storage tanks ("LPG bullet tanks"), and liquefied natural gas storage tanks.
   Within the pressure vessel is an interface between the liquefied gas fuel and the vapour thereof.
30 The vapour is located above the liquefied gas fuel and within an upper part of the pressure
   vessel. A vapour outlet in the form of a vapour outlet valve assembly may be attached to the
   upper part of the pressure vessel.

                                                      2
   The quantity of liquefied gas fuel within a pressure vessel may be determined using a liquid
   level gauge in the form of a float level-gauge, an example of which is shown in figure 1 and
   generally indicated by the numeral 10. The float level-gauge of figure 1 is a ROCHESTER
   brand float-level gauge which is used with LPG bulk storage tanks, however other examples
 5 include TAYLOR and COTRAKO brand float gauges. The float level-gauge comprises a float
   12 connected to a stem 14 via a movable joint 16, and a head 18 from which the stem 14
   depends. The head 18 is shown in further detail in a top perspective view thereof in figure 2. The
   float level-gauge 10 penetrates a pressure vessel wall and the head 18 is externally attached
   thereto with fasteners in the form of bolts that pass through bolt passageways 20 to a flange or
 0 other suitable mount that is integrated with the pressure vessel, for example by welds or screws.
   A seal that surrounds the penetrating stem 14 may be sandwiched between the head 18 and a
   flange integrated with the pressure vessel wall.
   The float 12 follows the interface between the liquefied gas fuel and the vapour thereof. A
   magnet located at the head 18 is operationally coupled to the float 12. Movement of the float 12
 5 is transmitted to the magnet via a gear system at the joint 16. Vertical movement of the float 12
   is transformed to a rotation of the magnet at the head 18, and consequently a rotation of the
   magnet's magnetic field. The magnet is mounted to rotate around the stem axis. Generally, the
   magnetic field may be followed by a user visible external needle, the orientation of which may
   indicate the height of the float and the interface that the float follows. The use of the magnet
 0 enables measurement of the quantity of liquefied gas fuel within the pressure vessel while
   maintaining a high strength seal, enhancing safety.
   While the description above specifically mentions liquefied gas fuel, the description may
   generally apply for any suitable type of liquid within a vessel that may or may not be
   pressurised, for example liquefied ammonia, cryogenic liquids including liquefied natural gas
25 and liquefied permanent gases, and refined petroleum products including petrol, kerosene, and
   fuel oil.
   The pressure within a vessel may be measured with a pressure gauge. The pressure within a
   vessel containing a non-liquefied permeant gas in its gaseous state, for example, may be read to
   determine the quantity of gas remaining in vessel.
30 When a user observes that a gauge indicates that the contents of a vessel is low, the user may
   contact a supply company to refill the vessel.

                                                      3
   Natural gas is generally delivered to a premises via a service line connected to the gas mains. A
   gas meter may be inserted in the service line to determine the quantity of gas that has been
   consumed at the premises for billing and other purposes.
   Premises may have a plurality of LPG cylinders onsite. An LPG gas changeover valve may
 5 control which of the plurality of gas cylinders is connected to a gas outlet. A person may order a
   gas delivery when a bottle is depleted and the LPG case changeover valve switches to another
   cylinder.
   Electronic devices may interface with gauges, gas meters, an automatic changeover valves for
   example. There may be a need to do at least one of the following:
 0      e   activating and deactivating an electronic device
        *   determine whether an electronic device is oriented correctly
        *   determine whether an electronic device and/or vessel or valve attached thereto has been
            tampered with
        *   track the position of a vessel.
 5 Summary
   Disclosed is a telemetric electronic device including an interface for attaching the electronic
   device to a tank or meter, a processor, a transmitter coupled to the processor, and an
   accelerometer coupled to the processor, wherein the accelerometer is configured to detect
   orientation of the electronic device and wherein the processor is configured to specify at
.0 least one particular orientation of the electronic device when it is attached to the tank or
   meter.
   Further disclosed is a telemetric electronic device including an interface for attaching the
   telemetric electronic device to a tank or meter, a processor, a transmitter coupled to the processor
   and an accelerometer coupled to the processor, the accelerometer configured to detect orientation
25 of the telemetric electronic device, wherein the processor is configured to specify at least one
   particular orientation of the telemetric electronic device for when the device is attached to the
   tank or meter at a stationary location, the tank or meter being configured for use at the stationary
   location. The device can therefore be transported pre-attached to a tank or meter, and then arrive
   at a stationary location where the use of the tank or meter is intended at the stationary location
30 still pre-attached to the tank or meter, or the device can be attached at the location. The
   orientation of a device which is attached to a tank or meter at the tank's or meter's location of

                                                      4
   use is therefore determined. The telemetric device further includes a GNSS receiver coupled to
   the processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to generate GNSS information, wherein the
   accelerometer is configured to generate acceleration information and wherein the processor is
   configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS information in response to
 5 acceleration information when a detected orientation of the telemetric electronic device is the
   same or the same within tolerances as the processor specified orientation information.
   Moreover, disclosed is a telemetric electronic device including an interface for attaching the
   telemetric electronic device to a tank or meter, a processor, a transmitter coupled to the processor
   and an accelerometer coupled to the processor and wherein the processor is configured to poll
 0 the accelerometer when the device is attached to the tank or meter at a stationary location, the
   tank or meter being configured for use at the stationary location.
   Additionally is disclosed a method of a telemetric electronic device configured with an interface
   for attaching the telemetric electronic device to a tank or meter, the device comprising a
   processor, a transmitter coupled to the processor, an accelerometer coupled to the processor, a
 5 transmitter, and a GNSS receiver coupled to the processor wherein the method includes the
   processor polling the accelerometer for polling information when the device is attached to the
   tank or meter at a stationary location, the tank or meter being configured for use at the stationary
   location, the processor comparing acceleration information with stored orientation information to
   determine if the orientation of the device is the same or the same within tolerances of stored
 0 orientation information, the processor triggering acquisition and transmission of GNSS
   information by the GNSS receiver in response to acceleration information when the detected
   orientation of the telemetric electronic device is the same or the same within tolerances as the
   processor specified orientation information and the processor triggering transmitting GNSS
   information.
25 Also disclosed is a telemetric electronic device wherein the at least one particular
   orientation has a range or tolerance associated thereto. Additionally, disclosed is a
   telemetric electronic device wherein when the accelerometer detects an orientation which
   does not satisfy at least one particular orientation, the processor is configured to not
   switch from a current mode to another mode and wherein when the accelerometer detects
30 an orientation which does satisfy at least one particular orientation, the processor is
   configured to switch from a current mode to another mode. Furthermore, disclosed is a
   telemetric electronic device including a Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receiver
   coupled to the processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to generate GNSS information

                                                    5
   and wherein the processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS
   information when the processor switches from a current mode to another mode. Also,
   disclosed is a telemetric electronic device including a GNSS receiver coupled to the
   processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to generate GNSS information wherein the
 5 processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS information in
   response to accelerometer information. Furthermore, disclosed is a telemetric electronic
   device wherein the processor is configured to poll the accelerometer. Additionally,
   disclosed is a telemetric electronic device wherein the accelerometer is configured to
   detect acceleration consistent with movement that reaches a threshold and wherein the
 0 processor is configured to trigger sending acceleration information by the transmitter
   when the movement reaches the threshold. Moreover, disclosed is a telemetric electronic
   device wherein movement that reaches a threshold corresponds to one of a usage event, a
   filling event, a natural event, a tapping event, a cylinder swap event, an activation event, a
   scheduled event, a movement event, and an orientation change. Also, disclosed is a
 5 telemetric electronic device including at least one sensor for sensing the state of a tank or
   meter. Still further disclosed is a telemetric electronic device including at least one sensor
   for sensing the usage of a tank or meter.
   Also disclosed is a telemetric electronic device, including an interface for attaching the
   electronic device to a tank or meter, a processor, a transmitter coupled to the processor;
 0 and an accelerometer coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is configured to poll
   the accelerometer. Also disclosed is a telemetric electronic device wherein the processor
   being configured to poll or monitor the accelerometer comprises monitoring the
   accelerometer at least one of continually, periodically, randomly, fixed intervals, repeating
   intervals, regularly, and progressively. Disclosed is a telemetric electronic device wherein
25 the processor is configured to poll the accelerometer.
   Moreover, disclosed is a telemetric electronic device including an interface for attaching
   the electronic device to a tank or meter, a processor, a transmitter coupled to the processor
   and an accelerometer coupled to the processor, the accelerometer is configured to detect
   acceleration consistent with movement that reaches a threshold and wherein the processor
30 is configured to trigger sending acceleration information by the transmitter when the
   movement reaches the threshold. Additionally, disclosed is a telemetric electronic device
   wherein movement that reaches a threshold corresponds to one of a usage event, a filling

                                                       6
   event, a natural event, a tapping event, a cylinder swap event, an activation event, a
   scheduled event, a movement event, and an orientation change.
   Furthermore, disclosed herein is an electronic device having a plurality of modes. The electronic
   device comprises an accelerometer configured to generate accelerometer information, for
 5 example, when the electronic device is tapped. The electronic device comprises a processor
   configured to switch from a first mode of the plurality of modes to a second mode of the
   plurality of modes, for example, in response to the accelerometer information satisfying an
   acceleration condition.
   In an embodiment, the acceleration condition comprises at least one of:
 0          the accelerometer information is indicative of a plurality of taps, movement or
   orientation, the state of the asset, and/or the usage of the asset, which can be indicative of usage
   or state of the tank or meter or asset, which may correspond to one of a usage event, a filling
   event, a natural event, a tapping event, a cylinder swap event, an activation event, a
   scheduled event, a movement event, and an orientation change;
 5          the accelerometer information is indicative of a tap on a selected surface of the electronic
   device or any other movement or orientation misalignment or change ;
            the accelerometer information is indicative of a predefined sequence of taps on a plurality
   of surfaces of the electronic device or any other movement or orientation misalignment or
   change.
 0 In an embodiment, the accelerometer is configured to switch from one of the plurality of modes
   to another one of the plurality of modes in response to the accelerometer information satisfying
   another acceleration condition. The acceleration condition and the other acceleration condition
   may be the same.
   In an embodiment, the processor is configured to switch to the second mode in response to the
25 accelerometer information satisfying a first acceleration condition.
   In an embodiment, the processor is configured to switch to the first mode in response to the
   accelerometer information satisfying a second acceleration condition.
   In an embodiment, the processor is configured to trigger sending of a tamper alert in response to
   the accelerometer information satisfying a tamper acceleration condition.
30 In an embodiment, the processor is configured to switch in response to the accelerometer
   information satisfying an orientation condition.

                                                     7
   In an embodiment, the first mode and the second mode each comprise one of a production mode,
   a transport mode, a commissioning mode, an operational mode, and a decommissioned mode.
   There may be other modes, or less modes.
   An embodiment comprises a GNSS receiver for generating GNSS information. The processor
 5 may be configured to trigger sending of the GNSS information. The processor may be
   configured to trigger sending of the GNSS information in response to the processor switching
   modes.
   In an embodiment, the processor is configured to trigger sending the accelerometer information.
   Disclosed herein is an electronic device. The electronic device comprises an accelerometer
 0 configured to generate accelerometer information when the electronic device is tampered with.
   The electronic device comprises a processor configured to trigger sending a tamper alert in
   response to the accelerometer information satisfying a tamper acceleration condition.
   Disclosed herein is an electronic device. The electronic device comprises a GNSS system for
   generating GNSS information. The electronic device comprises a processor configured to trigger
 5 sending of the GNSS information.
   Any embodiment described above may be for a gauge attached on a vessel, and may comprise a
   telemetric fitting for a level-gauge sensor attached to a vessel. Alternatively, any embodiment
   described above may be for a gas meter, and may comprise a telemetric fitting for a gas meter.
   Alternatively, any embodiment described above may be for an automatic changeover valve, and
 0 may comprise a telemetric fitting for an automatic changeover valve.
   Disclosed herein is an electronic device. The electronic device comprises a GNSS receiver.
   The electronic device comprises an accelerometer for detecting movement of the electronic
   device and triggering generation of GNSS information by the GNSS receiver in response to
   movement being detected thereby.
25 Disclosed herein is an electronic device comprising an accelerometer and a GNNS receiver for
   generating GNSS information, the accelerometer being for detection of movement of the
   electronic device and triggering the sending of GNSS information.
   Disclosed herein is a method of changing the mode of an electronic device having plurality of
   modes. The method comprises generating accelerometer information when the electronic device
30 is tapped. The method comprises switching from a first mode of the plurality of modes to a

                                                     8
   second mode of the plurality of modes in response to the accelerometer information satisfying an
   acceleration condition.
   In an embodiment, the acceleration condition comprises at least one of:
           the accelerometer information is indicative of a plurality of taps;
 5         the accelerometer information is indicative of a tap on a selected surface of the electronic
   device;
           the accelerometer information is indicative of a predefined sequence of taps on a plurality
   of surfaces of the electronic device.
   An embodiment comprises switching to the second mode in response to the accelerometer
 0 information satisfying a first acceleration condition.
   An embodiment comprises switching to the mode in response to the accelerometer information
   satisfying a second acceleration condition.
   An embodiment comprises sending a tamper alert in response to the accelerometer information
   satisfying a tamper acceleration condition.
 5 An embodiment comprises switching only in response to the accelerometer information
   satisfying an orientation condition.
   In an embodiment, the first mode and the second mode each comprise one of a production mode,
   a transport mode, a commissioning mode, an operational mode, and a decommissioned mode.
   An embodiment comprises sending GNSS information in response to switching from one mode
20 to another mode.
   An embodiment comprises sending the accelerometer information.
   Disclosed herein is an electronic device having a plurality of modes. The electronic device
   comprises an accelerometer configured to generate accelerometer information when the
   electronic device is accelerated. The electronic device comprises a processor configured to
25 switch from a first mode of the plurality of modes to a second mode of the plurality of modes in
   response to the accelerometer information satisfying an acceleration condition.
   The acceleration may due to a natural event, for example an earthquake. Alternatively, the
   acceleration may be induced.

                                                    9
   Disclosed herein is a method comprising generating accelerometer information when an
   electronic device is tampered with and sending a tamper alert in response to the acceleration
   information satisfying a tamper acceleration condition.
   Disclosed herein is a method comprising generating GNSS information for an electronic device,
 5 and triggering the sending of the GNSS information.
   Disclosed herein is non-transitory processor readable tangible media including program
   instructions which when executed by a processor causes the processor to perform a method
   disclosed above.
   Disclosed herein is a computer program for instructing a processor, which when executed by the
 0 processor causes the processor to perform a method disclosed above.
   Any of the various features of each of the above disclosures, and of the various features of the
   embodiments described below, can be combined as suitable and desired.
   Brief description of the figures
   Embodiments will now be described by way of example only with reference to the
 5 accompanying figures in which:
           Figure 1 shows a side elevation view an example of a prior art float level-gauge.
           Figure 2 shows a perspective top view of a head of the float level-gauge of figure 1.
           Figure 3 shows an embodiment of an electronic device on a vessel.
           Figure 4 shows a schematic diagram of example electronics for the electronic device of
20         figure 3.
           Figure 5 shows the electronic device of figure 3 being tapped.
           Figure 6 shows a chart of accelerometer information generated by the electronic device
           of figure 3.
           Figure 7 shows the electronic device of figure 3 incorrectly attached on the side of a tank.
25         Figure 8 shows another embodiment of an electronic device on a gas meter being
           tampered with.

                                                     10
           Figure 9 shows a screen shot of a generated map on which is overlaid GNNS information
           generated by the electronic device of figure 3.
           Figure 10 shows another embodiment of an electronic device 58 comprising an automatic
           changeover valve.
 5 Description of embodiments
   Figure 3 shows an embodiment of a telemetric electronic device, the telemetric electronic device
   being generally indicated by the numeral 30. The electronic device is for a gauge 34 attached on
   a vessel 32 and comprises a telemetric unit or fitting for a level-gauge sensor 34 attached to the
   vessel 32 for measuring the level 33 of a fluid in the vessel 32. The vessel 32 is in this
 0 embodiment a pressure vessel in the form of a LPG bulk storage tank, but the vessel may
   alternatively be any of a cylinder or a tank for any suitable fluid, examples of which include
   liquefied gas fuel, liquefied ammonia, cryogenic liquids including liquefied natural gas and
   liquefied permanent gases, water, solutions, liquid chemicals, and refined petroleum products
   including petrol, kerosene, and fuel oil. Furthermore, the tank can be referred to as an asset,
 5 wherein the asset can be, for example, any fuel handling and storage systems. While a
   magnetically enabled float gauge fuel-level sensor system is depicted in FIGs. 1 and 2, it is
   understood that a fluid-level or fuel-level sensing device can be enabled by any type of
   technology, for example, ultra-sound/ultrasonic, optical, pressure, ammeters, voltmeters, and any
   other type of sensor system and any fluid-level detection is within the scope of this discussion.
 0 For example, alternative embodiments described in further detail below include:
        *  an electronic device for a pressure gauge
        *  an electronic device for a gas meter, which may comprise a telemetric fitting for the gas
           meter
        *  an electronic device comprising an automatic changeover valve.
25 Figure 4 shows a schematic diagram of example electronics 36 in the form of a printed circuit
   board assembly (PCBA) within the electronic device 30, the electronics comprising a plurality of
   electronic systems 40, 42, 44, 46 50 mounted on a printed circuit board (PCB) 38. Mounted on
   the PCB 38 is a MEMS (micro-electro-mechanical systems) accelerometer 40, a GNSS receiver
   44, a radio 46, and a processor 42 in the form of a micro-controller unit in communication with
30 each of the other plurality of modules 40, 44, 46. A power source in the form of a battery is
   generally included. Each of the radio 46 and the GNSS receiver comprise an antenna 48, 50.

                                                    11
   The accelerometer 40 is in the form of a micro-machined device that can detect physical
   acceleration in 1, 2 or 3 axis and provides an analogue and/or digital signal encoding an
   acceleration vector (i.e. magnitude and direction). The accelerometer 40 can be used for
   orientation and motion detection. The acceleration vectors from the accelerometer can be
 5 integrated once (with respect to time) to obtain velocity, and double integrated to provide a
   distance vector.
   The GNSS receiver 44 detects signals from a constellation of satellites in Earth orbit (generally
   from one or more of the GPS, GLONASS, Galileo and Beidou constellations) to determine the
   geographic position of the GNSS receiver on Earth which is encoded in GNSS information. The
 0 GNSS information may include other information, for example time. The absolute position data
   gathered over time can be summed to obtain a distance vector. The distance vector can be
   differentiated once (with respect to time) to obtain a velocity vector, and it's differentiated twice
   to obtain an acceleration vector. These vectors are generally absolute vectors with respect to
   Earth.
 5 The GNSS receiver 44 comprises a System on Module (SoM), or a single integrated circuit (IC)
   with peripheral components, each with one or more antenna front end circuits. The antenna 50
   may be a circuit component on the SoM or the PCB 38, or it may be connected via a connector
   for placement further from the main circuitry or external of housing.
   The radio 46 is for wireless transmission of information at radio frequencies. The radio 46
 0 wirelessly transmits the GNSS information and the accelerometer information to a remote
   computer system in the form of computer server via a communications network. The computer
   server may be real or virtual. The radio encapsulates a string of symbols encoding the
   information in accordance with a communications protocol and subsequently sends the
   encapsulated string of symbols, together with identification information indicative of the
25 identification of the electronic device 30. The radio 46 comprises at least one of a medium range
   radio network interface and a long range radio network interface. Medium-to-long range
   wireless links enables transmission to centralised data centres, for example, using either private
   and/or commercial radio base stations. In this embodiment, the radio network interface
   comprises a low power wide area network (LPWAN) interface. The LPWAN interface
30 comprises a low-power wide area network radio (LPWAN) integrated circuit. An LPWAN is a
   type of wireless communications network for medium to long range communications at bit rates
   which are generally, but not necessarily, low, and has low power consumption when compared
   to cellular communication technologies for voice and high bandwidth data services. Examples of

                                                      12
   LPWAN include but are not limited to LoRa, and SIGFOX. The LPWAN radio integrated
   circuit may be within a LPWAN radio module. The range achieved LPWAN depends on many
   factors, including the presence of obstacles in the transmission path, but ranges of more than 5
   km are common, for example 5-10 km.
 5 Alternative embodiments may have a radio comprising another type of medium range radio
   network interface or long range radio network interface, for example a cellular radio network
   interface (examples of which include but are not limited to GSM, CDMA, and LTE cellular
   radio network interfaces), IEEE 802.11 interface ("Wi-Fi") and a satellite communications
   interface.
 0 The electronic device 30 has a plurality of modes, in this embodiment at least two modes,
   however alternative embodiments may have 3, 4, 5 or more modes. As indicated below, modes
   and states are used interchangeably herein. Terms such as a "first mode" and a "second mode"
   have been used to describe different modes of the disclosed device. It is understood that a first
   mode and a second mode may also be referred to as a "current mode" and "another mode" as
 5 well. The list of modes or states provided herein is not to be taken as all inclusive. Any modes
   or states are within the scope of this discussion. There may be a distinction between a sensor
   sensing the state of the tank or meter or asset and a sensor sensing the usage of the tank or meter
   or asset. The sensors may be any suitable sensors. Different modes or states may apply to a
   sensor sensing the state of the tank or meter or asset and a sensor sensing the usage of the tank or
 0 meter or asset. The accelerometer 40 is configured to generate accelerometer information when
   the electronic device is oriented, moved, polled or tapped, as shown in figures 5 and 6.
   As discussed above, the accelerometer 40 can be used for orientation and motion detection and
   any other suitable function. As discussed below, the processor in the electronic device 30 can be
   configured to specify a particular location and orientation for the device to be attached to the
25 tank 32. Also discussed below, the accelerometer can be used to determine the orientation of the
   electronic device 30 with respect to the direction with respect to the ground and the electronic
   device's approximate position on the tank can be inferred. For example, as described below, if
   the electronic device is specified to be attached to the top surface of the tank facing up, but it is
   incorrectly attached to the side surface of the tank, the incorrect orientation may be detected by
30 the accelerometer and the processor, polling the accelerometer can determine that the orientation
   is incorrect. That is, upon installation on the tank or meter, the asset, if when polled or
   monitored, the accelerometer generates accelerometer information which provides an orientation
   of the device on the tank or meter that is not the same as or the same within tolerances, the

                                                      13
   processor may not trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS information by the GNSS
   receiver. Alternatively, if the accelerometer information provides an orientation of the device on
   the tank or meter upon installation that is the same as or the same within tolerances, the
   processor may not trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS information by the GNSS
 5 receiver. Accordingly, a local (mobile) device and/or a remote server may report either no
   GNSS signal sent, or an affirmation of a signal sent which can include the coordinates
   determined by the GNSS receiver to verify that the device has been properly installed and that it
   is in a particular location. In this way, a local distribution worker, or a remote server centre may
   determine that the device has the correct orientation on the tank or meter, and/or receive location
 0 coordinates. Also discussed below is, for example, the processor 42 may not switch to an
   operational or commissioning mode, for example, when the accelerometer information indicates
   that the electronic device 30 is not correctly oriented, for example, upright, for example, within a
   range or tolerance. For example, as mentioned, different orientations during transport and
   installation are specified to deactivate the electronic device 30 during transport. Also, as
 5 mentioned below, the processor 42 can be configured to switch modes in response to the
   accelerometer information satisfying an orientation condition.
   In another embodiment, the orientation can be detected as a small deviation from a reference
   orientation which can be stored information on the processor. A determination can be made by
   the manufacturer as to a range or tolerance associated with a reference orientation, where if the
 0 detected orientation of an installed telemetric electronic device exceeds the range or tolerance,
   the device may not operate correctly which could be dependent upon the liquid-level or fuel
   level sensor type. For example, an ultra-sound sensor may be highly dependent upon the
   orientation of the device with respect to the liquid-level surface. Accordingly, the at least one
   particular orientation may have a range or tolerance associated thereto, possibly less than
25 1 degree or more than 1 degree from a reference orientation. For example, if at least one
   particular orientation, perpendicular to the ground reference orientation is stored on the
   processor, the device can be configured to switch from a current mode to another mode when
   the accelerometer detects that orientation. In that case, the orientation satisfies at least
   one particular orientation which is stored in the processor. In the event that the
30 accelerometer detects and orientation that is not stored in the processor, the device may
   not switch from a current mode to another. In that case, the accelerometer detects an
   orientation which does not satisfy at least one particular orientation which is stored in the
   processor.,

                                                      14
   As mentioned above, an accelerometer is coupled to the processor, wherein the
   accelerometer is configured to detect acceleration consistent with movement that reaches
   a threshold and wherein the processor is configured to trigger sending acceleration
   information by the transmitter when the movement reaches the threshold. A threshold
 5 condition may be consistent with a tamper event. For example, a person may try to remove
   the device from the asset. For example, a tamper condition may be satisfied if the acceleration
   information indicates that a particular threshold has been met which may be caused by a sharp
   blow or shock that has been delivered to the device 30, or the orientation of the device 30 has
   unexpectedly changed, or the device 30 has been moved. Under various conditions, an
 0 accelerometer will "interrupt" the processor to wake up. The processor can then query the
   accelerometer for the condition that caused the interrupt such as a tamper condition. On the
   other hand, the processor can poll the accelerometer for its condition, not having been awakened
   by the accelerometer. In this particular embodiment, the processor is configured to poll the
   accelerometer of the device when the device is attached to the tank or meter at a stationary
 5 location, the use of the tank or meter being intended at the stationary location. The processor
   being configured to monitor the accelerometer in one embodiment includes at least one of
   continually, periodically, randomly, at fixed intervals, at repeating intervals, regularly, and
   progressively. In one embodiment monitoring can include continuously, however, the meaning
   of continuously typically connotes without interruption or gaps and such would be a battery
 0 drain. Therefore, the processor may either monitor the processor continuously within the normal
   definition of the term being without interruption or gaps, and/or the processor may monitor with
   interruptions or gaps which, for example, would be to poll the accelerometer. Polling the
   accelerometer which can include at least one of continually, periodically, randomly, at fixed
   intervals, at repeating intervals, regularly, and progressively, may avoid excessive battery drain.
25 The device can be transported pre-attached to a tank or meter, and then arrive at a stationary
   location where the use of the tank or meter is intended at the stationary location still pre-attached
   to the tank or meter or the device can be attached to the tank or meter at that particular location,
   where the use of the tank or meter is intended. The orientation of a device which is attached to a
   tank or meter at the tank's or meter's location of use is therefore determined by orientation
30 specified by the processor.
   The stationary location where the tank or meter is configured for use at the stationary location
   may be the ultimate customer's location. A tank or meter may be installed at the location, with
   fittings for example, to bring the contents of an asset for use at that location. As mentioned,
   tanks and meters are used with fuels, for example, as utilities. A tank or meter at a location for

                                                      15
   use at the stationary location may be hooked up for services, or may be not hooked up for
   services. The notion of the stationary location is the geographical place where the tank or meter
   can or will be used for utility services, regardless of whether the tank or meter is fully installed at
   the stationary location. This notion of the stationary location is differentiated from when the
 5 device is in transport, either individually or pre-attached to a tank or meter.
   Polling of the device can be to ascertain various conditions of the device and or the tank or
   meter, as opposed to those conditions that may cause the accelerometer to provide an "interrupt"
   signal to the processor to wake up the processor so that it can query the accelerometer for
   acceleration information. Polling may take place at for example, 30-second intervals, 1-minute
 0 intervals or for example at 30-minute intervals. Battery usage may provide guidance to the
   frequency and/or the intervals or randomness of the polling. The polling may initiated by an
   interrupt caused by a different source other than the accelerometer as discussed herein. For
   example, the processor may receive a remote signal via a receiver requiring polling of the
   accelerometer, where polling can include a one-off, single or individual query to the
 5 accelerometer as well, and/or a limited number of queries. Also, when the device changes from
   a current mode or state to another mode or state, the processor may initiate polling of the
   accelerometer as discussed.
   The orientation may match the orientation stored on the processor, or it may not. If is does then
   the processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS information in
 0 response to acceleration information when the detected orientation of the telemetric electronic
   device is the same or the same within tolerances as the processor specified orientation
   information, wherein this described process may be dependent on its current mode or state. If
   the orientation acceleration information does not match the orientation stored on the processor,
   for example, a warning that the device does not have the processor specified orientation may be
25 provided. The problem may be with the orientation of the device on the tank or meter, or it may
   be with the orientation of the tank or meter. In any case, if the orientation provided by the
   acceleration information does not match the orientation information stored on the processor, the
   processor may not trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS information by the GNSS
   receiver. The detected orientation may however, be delivered, transmitted or otherwise reported
30 so that a technician may correct the orientation.
   As disclosed, the processor is configured to specify at least one particular orientation of the
   telemetric electronic device wherein when the device is attached to the tank or meter at a
   stationary location, the use of the tank or meter is intended at the stationary location, the

                                                    16
   processor can poll the accelerometer to determine various conditions as described herein, and in
   particular, the orientation of the device, and when they meet conditions specified by the
   processor, for example, the GNSS can be triggered for acquisition and transmission of GNSS
   information in response to that acceleration information, or other functions of the device may be
 5 initiated. For example, other functions that may be initiated include for example, reporting
   usage information of the tank or meter. The described installation process, where orientation is
   determined which will determine if the device is properly installed, or if there is a problem with
   the orientation of the device or of the tank or meter, and when the orientation conditions
   specified by the processor are the same or within tolerances, the GNSS can be triggered for
 0 acquisition and transmission of GNSS information in response to that acceleration information.
   While figure 5 shows the electronic device 30, in one embodiment, to wake up the processor,
   being physically tapped with a finger 52, it will be appreciated that the electronic device may be
   configured to detect acceleration consistent with movement that reaches a threshold, wherein the
   processor can be configured to trigger sending acceleration information by the transmitter when
 5 the movement reaches the threshold. In such a case, the accelerometer will send an "interrupt"
   signal to the processor that something has been detected. The processor can then query the
   accelerometer for acceleration information to match the acceleration information with data
   stored on the processor which indicates that a particular event has taken place, such as a tamper
   event, or a wake-up event. An example of such a movement may occur when the electronic
 0 device is tapped with any object suitable for gently striking the device and imparting a detectable
   shock thereto, typically a short sharp shock, for example by using a mallet, screwdriver, wand or
   custom-designed implement in an effort, for example, by a user to change the device's mode or
   state from a current mode to another mode. The processor 42 receives the accelerometer
   information and is configured to switch from a current or one mode (the "first mode") of the
25 plurality of modes to another mode ("the second mode") of the plurality of modes in response to
   the accelerometer information satisfying an acceleration condition which is the reaching of a
   threshold. As mentioned below, there may be an acceleration threshold that must be reached
   before the processor acknowledges a tap. It should be understood that referring to two modes as
   the "first mode" and the "second mode" does not imply that the first mode always
30 chronologically precedes the second mode (there may be circumstances in which the second
   mode precedes the first mode), nor does it imply that the first mode is more important than the
   second mode, nor does it imply that plurality of modes consists of only two modes.

                                                      17
   The acceleration condition may generally be any suitable or relevant acceleration condition, as
   discussed above, however some examples of accelerometer conditions include but are not
   limited to:
               *   the accelerometer information is indicative of a plurality of taps;
 5             e   the accelerometer information is indicative of a tap on a selected surface of the
                   electronic device; and
               *   the accelerometer information is indicative of a predefined sequence of taps on a
                   plurality of surfaces of the electronic device.
   Detecting, for example, a double tap, a tap on a selected surface, or a predefined sequence of
 0 taps on a plurality of surfaces of the electronic device 30 may reduce the number of false
   positive detections when compared with a single tap. These detection protocols may be
   programmed into the electronic device firmware or software, for example.
   Figure 6 is a chart of the accelerometer information generated by the accelerometer when tapped
   twice by the single finger 52. A tapping event generally generates a particular acceleration
 5 profile which may be detected, and thereby acceleration threshold conditions may be matched to
   one or more of those stored in or by the processor, such indicative of various types of events as
   described above. The vertical axis is acceleration and the horizontal axis is time. It will be
   appreciated however that the accelerometer information may comprise information for two or
   three acceleration axis. The analysis lines in figure 1 indicate the time periods in which the
 0 processor looks for the two taps. There may also an acceleration threshold that must be reached
   before the processor acknowledges a tap.
   The processor is configured to switch to the second mode in response to the accelerometer
   information satisfying a first or particular acceleration condition. The processor is, in this but
   not all embodiments, configured to switch to the first mode in response to the accelerometer
25 information satisfying a second acceleration condition. For example, the first mode and the
   second mode may each comprise one of a production mode, a transport mode, a commissioning
   mode, an operational mode, and a decommissioned mode, however other embodiments may
   have more or less modes. The processor is configured a switch from one mode or state to another
   mode or state in response to a particular acceleration condition being satisfied. For example, the
30 processor 42 may switch from production mode to transport mode, transport mode or
   decommissioned mode to commissioning mode, commissioning mode to operational mode, and
   operational mode to decommissioned mode. Before commissioning, the electronic device 30 is
   in a low power consumption mode to conserve power, which also reduces or inhibits

                                                      18
   transmission. In some embodiments, the processor 42 is inactive or not powered in the transport
   and/or decommissioned mode and the accelerometer triggers the processor 42 to become active
   when the accelerometer detects one or more taps, for example a double tap.
   Various orientation, movement and acceleration conditions may occur for which thresholds may
 5 apply to indicate various conditions such as the state of the asset or tank or meter, or the usage of
   the asset or tank or meter. For example, the thresholds may be determined based upon empirical
   testing by the manufacturer. In one example, the processor 42 is configured to trigger the
   sending of a tamper alert in response to the accelerometer information satisfying a tamper
   acceleration condition, generally but not necessarily in the operational mode. For example, the
 0 tamper condition may be satisfied if the acceleration information indicates a sharp blow or shock
   has been delivered to the device 30, or the orientation of the device 30 has unexpectedly
   changed, or the device 30 has been moved. Figure 8 shows another embodiment of an electronic
   device 54 for a gas meter 56 being tampered with. The electronic device 54 has identical or
   similar electronics 36 to the embodiment 30. A change in orientation and/or accelerations
 5 consistent with movement of the electronic device 54 is detected by the processor and a tamper
   alert or earthquake alert in the form of a message is sent to a computer server for processing.
   The remote computer system may send an email or SMS alert, or generally any suitable type of
   electronic alert, to a person, for example a technician, in response to tampering being detected.
   In another example, the electronic device may be installed on an asset or tank or meter correctly,
 0 and then over time, may slowly move so that its orientation is not within tolerances for
   performance. For example, as mentioned, the processor may be configured to poll, monitor,
   detect or survey output of the accelerometer, which in this context may be one of, for example,
   continually, periodically, randomly, fixed intervals, repeating intervals, regularly, and
   progressively. In this way, the processor may poll the accelerometer for accelerometer
25 information in a manner depending for example, on its mode or state. For example, it may poll
   the accelerometer at installation. The device may determine that installation has taken place by a
   waking procedure. Otherwise, while the device is in one or one or more different states, it may
   poll the accelerometer. The frequency of the polling may be determined by its state wherein
   particular acceleration information would be more important in one state or another state.
30 As mentioned, the disclosed telemetric electronic device may be configured for installation on
   the top of a tank, or on the side of a tank wherein, the processor may be configured to specify
   that the telemetric electronic device is to be attached to the top surface of the tank facing up or
   on the side of the tank. It is understood, that any position for installation is within the scope of

                                                       19
   this discussion, and may the position for installation may include, for example, the underside of
   the tank. Figure 7 for example, shows the electronic device 30 incorrectly attached on the side
   of a tank 32, instead of at the top of the tank as shown in figure 3. This incorrect orientation may
   have occurred at installation, in which case the device may not move into an operational mode or
 5 state. On the other hand, the device may have moved quickly or slowly, wherein the processor
   polling the accelerometer for orientation information, would determine that the orientation of the
   device has changed, and therefore, initiate an alert state, for example.
   In another embodiment of the electronic device (not shown) the device may be a single unit, for
   example, resemble a tower, cylinder, box or any shape, being a single unit or piece having the
 0 electronic components housed in a unitary arrangement and not including two pieces (see the
   figures) wherein one piece is connected to the gauge head and by a wire or lead attached to the
   housing in which the electronics is housed. That is, the electronic device may be a single fitting
   designed to sit on top of the gauge head. In one embodiment, the electronic device may be
   designed so that it can be attached to the side of the tank or meter or on top of the tank or meter.
 5 In practice, a telemetric electronic device can be assigned to a tank or meter at a particular
   location at a merchant's facility, prior to its delivery to the tank or meter at the location. A gas
   distribution delivery professional may install the telemetric electronic device on a tank or meter
   at the location out in the field during the course of deliveries, for example. The processor may
   be pre-programmed to expect that the device will be installed on the side of a tank or meter, and
 0 therefore, the orientation of the device, if upright, may be known to the processor as it polls the
   accelerometer for orientation information upon installation. Upon installation, the device may
   become aware of installation for example, through taps as mentioned above. Also, a tool
   including a magnet held close to an on/off switch may make the device aware of installation. If
   at installation, the orientation which is expected to be on the side of a tank or meter, is actually
25 upright, when the processor polls the accelerometer and determines that the orientation is
   incorrect, the processor may not proceed into an operational state, and may instead provide a
   message locally and/or to a remote server that the orientation is not correct.
   As discussed, the processor can be configured to specify at least one particular orientation
   for the electronic device when it is attached to the tank or meter and wherein the
30 accelerometer is configured to detect a change in the orientation of the electronic device
   such that the telemetric electronic device is not within at least one particular orientation
   has a range or tolerance associated thereto. For example, if the device were attached in the
   correct orientation, but was off by, for example one degree, and therefore not within range
   or tolerances, the device would not switch into operational mode. If on the other hand, the

                                                     20
   device is installed having an expected orientation within tolerances, the device may switch
   to an operational mode. Accordingly, when the accelerometer detects an orientation which
   does not satisfy at least one particular orientation, the processor is configured to not
   switch from a current mode to another mode and wherein when the accelerometer detects
 5 an orientation which does satisfy at least one particular orientation, the processor is
   configured to switch from a current mode to another mode.
   When the processor switches from a current mode to another mode, for example, when the
   accelerometer detects an orientation which does satisfy at least one particular orientation,
 0 the processor may be configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS
   information, for example, so that the location of the device may be confirmed. The
   processor can trigger the GNSS receiver to generate GNSS information under other conditions as
   well as mentioned. For example, triggering the GNSS receiver to generate GNSS information
   may occur in at least one of the transport, operational, commissioning, or decommissioned
 5 modes, for example. Modern accelerometers have very low "sleep" current whereas a GNSS
   receiver may not draw such a low current (relative to 10+yr operation on a small primary
   battery). Thus, using the accelerometer to continuously detect a possible tank relocation and only
   triggering the GNSS to qualify that the tank has been moved, may or may not result in a very
   significant saving in battery energy. This provides near-immediate location-change notification,
 0 as opposed to an alternative approach to reducing battery usage which involves triggering the
   GNSS on an infrequent basis, say monthly, by having long periods between GNSS periods of
   operation to achieve at least 10 years of operation when the electronic device 30 is powered by a
   small on-board primary battery.
25 The device itself can be tracked whilst not mounted on the intended tank/ACO/meter to track the
   device's location.
   The acceleration information may also be sent by the radio 46 to the remote computing system
   so that a tank filling event or other event can be detected.
   The processor 42 is configured to switch modes only in response to the accelerometer
30 information satisfying an orientation condition. As mentioned, figure 7 for example, shows the
   electronic device 30 incorrectly attached on the side of a tank 32, instead of at the top of the tank
   as shown in figure 3. The accelerometer information indicates that the electronic device 30 is
   not upright. The processor in the electronic device 30 specifies a particular location and

                                                     21
   orientation for the device to be attached to the tank 32. The accelerometer can be used to
   determine the orientation of the electronic device 30 with respect to the direction towards the
   ground and the electronic device's approximate position on the tank can be inferred. For
   example, if the electronic device is specified to be attached to the top surface of the tank facing
 5 up, but is incorrectly attached to the side surface of the tank, the correct orientation will be
   detected by the accelerometer. The processor 42 will not switch to an operational or
   commissioning mode, for example, when the accelerometer information indicates that the
   electronic device 30 is not correctly oriented, for example upright. For commissioning, the
   accelerometer 40 can be used to detect for the correct orientation of the electronic device 30 and
 0 to detect a tap sequence in the form of a double-tap to initiate commissioning mode while in at
   least the transport mode and the decommissioned mode, for example. That is, the processor is
   configured to specify a plurality of orientations, thresholds, and movements for the telemetric
   electronic device, for which when acceleration information is received, the processor is
   configured to interpret the accelerometer information, or in the alternative, initiate a message for
 5 transmission to a remote server for interpretation of the accelerometer information. Other tap
   sequences may be used as suitable. Different orientations during transport and installation are
   specified to deactivate the electronic device 30 during transport. Accordingly, the
   accelerometer is configured to detect acceleration consistent with movement that reaches
   a threshold and the processor is configured to trigger sending acceleration information by
 0 the transmitter when the movement reaches the threshold, including for example, one of a
   usage event, a filling event, a natural event, a tapping event, a cylinder swap event, an
   activation event, a scheduled event, a movement event, and an orientation change. The
   processor 42 is configured to trigger sending of the GNSS information and/or the accelerometer
   information, for example in at least one of the transport, commissioning, operational and
25 decommissioned modes, for example, wherein the device includes at least one sensor for
   sensing the state of a tank or meter and/or at least one sensor for sensing the usage of a
   tank or meter. The state of the tank or meter may be sensed, for example by a
   thermometer, a pressure gauge, and/or one or more accelerometers. The usage may be
   sensed by a float gauge, ultra-sound, magnetic and/or optical sensors.
30 The processor 42 is configured to trigger sending the GNSS information when the processor 42
   switches modes or at pre-determined times, such as after the correct orientation is determined at
   installation, as discussed above. The GNSS information is sent by the radio 46 to a remote
   computer system via the communications network. Figure 9 shows a screen shot of map
   generated by the remote computer system on which is overlaid the GNSS information received

                                                       22
   thereby. The GNSS information is associated with the correct site and tank within a data store in
   the form of a database accessible by the remote computer system. The data store includes site
   and/or vessel information including a geographic indicator/reference of each site (most typically
   the site address or post code). In some cases, the data store will also have a global position
 5 reference for each vessel, for example, in the form of latitude and longitude values which are
   derived, for example, from a delivery truck computer system, which is generally as used to
   efficiently guide/route drivers to the correct tank to deliver gas.
   The server then compares the GNSS information received from the electronic device 30 with a
   position reference derived by the server from the site address or post code, which may be done in
 0 any known way, including using a web service from Google. Association of site/tank to an
   electronic device 30 is automatic if the two positions are separated by no more than a
   predetermined distance (for example, 50m for a site with only one tank, less for one with
   multiple tanks). If there are none or more than one candidate site or tank, then the server can
   present a list of candidate sites or tanks to the person to make a decision.
 5 This association is relevant, for example, where the electronic device 30 is being retro-fitted to a
   tank that is already installed/operational as well as one that is yet to be installed on the consumer
   site. An added benefit in the latter case is that the device can be fitted at a depot before the vessel
   is delivered to a consumer's installation site and does not require an additional site visit by a
   device installer once the tank is installed at the installation site. In this case the tank installer just
 0 activates the device before leaving the site.
   This association method also applies to electronic devices other than those for LPG bulk storage
   tanks, including automatic changeover-valves, gas cylinders, meter reading units etc.
   The processor 42 is configured to trigger sending the accelerometer information, for example to
   the remote computer system via the communications network. The acceleration information may
25 be integrated by the remote computer system to determine velocity and then position
   information, which may be overlaid on a map generated by the remote computer system.
   Figure 10 shows another embodiment of an electronic device 58 comprising an automatic
   changeover valve 60. The electronic device 58 has identical or similar electronics 36 as the
   embodiment 30. The automatic changeover valve 60 is connected to two liquefied gas fuel
30 cylinders 62, 64 for placing in fluid communication either one of the two liquefied gas fuel
   cylinders 62, 64 with a gas fuel outlet 66. The accelerometer within the electronic device 58
   senses acceleration caused by rotational motion or vibration 68 that occurs when the automatic

                                                      23
   changeover valve 60 places the full liquefied gas fuel cylinder (which is cylinder 64 in figure 10)
   in fluid communication with the gas fuel outlet 66 when the other liquefied gas fuel cylinder
   (which is cylinder 62 in figure 10) is depleted. The accelerometer information generated by the
   accelerometer 40 is sent to the remote computer system via the communications network for
 5 logging this event. The remote computer system can promptly alert the service provide to come
   and change the empty liquefied gas fuel cylinder 62. The acceleration information may also be
   sent for detection of a cylinder swap event.
   Embodiments may not have all the functions of the embodiment described above. For example,
   alternative embodiments do not variously switch modes when tapped, do not detect tampering,
 0 and do not have a GNSS system.
   An embodiment of a method of changing the mode of an electronic device having a plurality of
   modes will now be described, which can be implemented using the electronic device 30, for
   example. A step comprises generating accelerometer information when the electronic device is
   tapped. A step comprises switching from the first mode to a second mode of the plurality of
 5 modes in response to the accelerometer information satisfying an acceleration condition.
   Various embodiments of the method may optionally comprise any of the following steps:
        *   switching from the first mode to the second mode in response to the accelerometer
            information satisfying a first acceleration condition
        *   switching from the second mode to the first mode in response to the accelerometer
 0          information satisfying a second acceleration condition
        *   sending a tamper alert in response to the accelerometer information satisfying a tamper
            acceleration condition
        *   switching from one mode to another mode only in response to the accelerometer
            information satisfying an orientation condition
25      e   sending GNSS information in response to switching from one mode to another mode
        *   sending the accelerometer information.
   An embodiment of another method that can be implemented using the electronic device 30 will
   now be described. The embodiment comprises generating accelerometer information when an
   electronic device is tampered with and sending a tamper alert when the acceleration information
30 satisfies a tamper acceleration condition.

                                                   24
   An embodiment of yet another method that can be implemented using the electronic device 30
   will now be described. The embodiment comprising generating GNSS information for an
   electronic device, and triggering the sending of the GNSS information.
   The electronic devices 30, 543, 58 comprise non-transitory processor readable tangible media
 5 including program instructions which when executed by a processor causes the processor to
   perform a method disclosed above. The tangible media comprises memory in the form of non
   volatile memory in the form of flash memory, but may comprise a hard drive or generally any
   suitable form on non-volatile memory.
   The electronic device 30,54, 58 comprise a computer program for instructing a processor, which
 0 when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform a method disclosed above.
   Summary of example modes
   Productionmode
   In production mode, any mode or functionality may be invoked, such as a low power mode and
   high power mode, sleep, wake, transmit and receive modes, depending on the requirements of a
 5 test. For example, to measure the power rail voltage level during high current use, a test system
   may invoke the device to transmit and then measure the power rail voltage. In other words, the
   test system sets up conditions for measurements for validating the hardware.
   Specific configurations and identification information may also be programmed into the
   electronic device memory (which may reside in the processor 42 external memory in the form of,
2O for example, Flash), such as the unique device ID.
   Transportmode
   In transport mode, all electronic components (ICs) in the device are in its lowest power mode,
   such as shutdown, sleep and low power mode, depending on the device's requirement, until an
   Activation event occurs. RF transmission is disabled in transport mode.
25 In transport mode, the accelerometer may be in its lowest output data rate (ODR) capable of
   detecting an Activation event. Upon detecting an Activation event, the accelerometer wakes up
   the micro-controller for transition into the Commissioning state.
   There are no scheduled events, and can only transition to the next state via an Activation event.
   Commissioning mode

                                                      25
   This is a temporary transitional state which may actually be implemented as a set of sequences or
   subroutines that occur, after an Activation event, within the Transport state.
   The device sends GNSS fix data, its unique ID, tank levels, installation orientation, etc., and any
   other relevant information that is required for commissioning.
 5 During this state, correct and incorrect installation orientation is detected by the accelerometer
   and the GNSS fix is used to associate the device to tank and site.
   After running through these predefined sequence of actions, the device automatically transitions
   into the Operational state without further events.
   Operationalmode
 0 Operational mode is generally but not necessarily, on average, the device's highest power mode.
   The various components in the electronic device toggle between high and low power modes
   depending on the functions they need to perform, such as data transmitting, receiving GNSS, gas
   level data sampling, etc. To conserve power, the device is typically in low power mode for most
   of the time, only going into higher power modes for specific hardware components (ICs) that are
 5 necessary for the desired function, after which the components are put back into lower power
   modes.
   In this mode, the electronic device performs data collection and transmission and waits for RTC
   events and Decommissioning events.
   If the device is switched in this mode, the accelerometer detects the movement and wakes up the
20 GNSS receiver to track its travel and update the server of its new locations.
   In the case of a gas meter installation, a mechanical tamper attempt is detected by the
   accelerometer and an alarm is sent to the server.
   Decommissionedmode
   In the decommissioned mode, the device is in low power mode in general, but may make
25 regular, but infrequent, GNSS fix and transmit that data to alert the server of its location.
   This mode may be entered into by Decommissioning event.
   The device is generally transitioned out of this mode by an Activation event.

                                                     26
  Now that embodiments have been disclosed, it will be appreciated that some embodiments may
  have some of the following advantages:
       *  In the case of a large scale deployment (large quantity of devices, by numerous
          (unskilled) installers, in numerous geographies) a method of activation that does not
5         require distribution of a custom activation tool and associated user training in the use
          thereof is of significant benefit.
  Variations and/or modifications may be made to the embodiments described without departing
  from the spirit or ambit of the invention. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
  considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Reference to a feature disclosed
0 herein does not mean that all embodiments must include the feature.
  Prior art, if any, described herein is not to be taken as an admission that the prior art forms part
  of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction.
  In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
  context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
5 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, that
  is to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
  further features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                                      27
   Claims
      1. A telemetric electronic device, comprising:
          an interface for attaching the telemetric electronic device to a tank or meter;
          a processor;
 5        a transmitter coupled to the processor; and
          an accelerometer coupled to the processor, the accelerometer configured to detect
                   orientation of the telemetric electronic device;
          wherein the processor is configured to specify at least one particular orientation of the
                   telemetric electronic device for when the device is attached to the tank or meter at
 0                 a stationary location, the tank or meter being configured for use at the stationary
                   location;
          a GNSS receiver coupled to the processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to
                   generate GNSS information;
          wherein the accelerometer is configured to generate acceleration information; and
 5        wherein the processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS
                   information in response to acceleration information when a detected orientation of
                   the telemetric electronic device is the same or the same within tolerances as the
                   processor specified orientation.
 0    2. The telemetric electronic device as recited in claim 1,
           wherein the accelerometer is configured to detect acceleration consistent with movement
               that reaches a threshold;
          wherein the accelerometer is configured to generate accelerometer information; and
          wherein the processor is configured to trigger sending acceleration information by the
25             transmitter when the movement reaches the threshold.
      3.  The telemetric electronic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured
          to poll the accelerometer for acceleration information.
30
      4. A telemetric electronic device, comprising:
          an interface for attaching the telemetric electronic device to a tank or meter;
          a processor;

                                                 28
      a transmitter coupled to the processor; and
      an accelerometer coupled to the processor; and
      wherein the processor is configured to poll the accelerometer of the device for
               acceleration information when the device is attached to the tank or meter at a
 5             stationary location, the tank or meter being configured for use at the stationary
               location.
   5. The telemetric electronic device as recited in any one of claims 3 and 4, wherein the
      processor being configured to poll the accelerometer comprises, monitoring the
 0    accelerometer at least one of continually, periodically, randomly, at fixed intervals, at
      repeating intervals, regularly, and progressively.
   6. A telemetric electronic device as recited in any of claims 1 and 4, comprising:
      a GNSS receiver coupled to the processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to
 5             generate GNSS information;
      an accelerometer coupled to the processor, wherein the accelerometer is configured to
               detect acceleration consistent with movement that reaches a threshold and to
               generate acceleration information;
      wherein the processor is configured to trigger sending acceleration information by the
 0             transmitter when the movement reaches the threshold; and
      wherein the processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS
               information in response to acceleration information.
   7. The telemetric electronic device as recited in any one of claims 4, wherein upon
25    installation of the device to the tank or meter, the processor is configured to specify at
      least one particular orientation for the telemetric electronic device when it is attached to
      the tank or meter and wherein the accelerometer is configured to detect orientation of the
      telemetric electronic device.
30
   8. The telemetric electronic device as recited in any one of claims 1 and 4,
      wherein when the accelerometer detects an orientation which does not satisfy at least one
               particular orientation, the processor is configured to not switch from a current
35             mode to another mode; and

                                                 29
       wherein when the accelerometer detects an orientation which does satisfy at least one
               particular orientation, the processor is configured to switch from a current mode
               to another mode.
 5 9. The telemetric electronic device as recited in claim 4, further comprising:
       a GNSS receiver coupled to the processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to
               generate GNSS information;
       wherein the accelerometer is configured to generate acceleration information; and
       wherein the processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS
 0             information in response to acceleration information.
   10. The telemetric electronic device as recited in any one of claims 1 and 4, further
       comprising:
       a GNSS receiver coupled to the processor, the GNSS receiver being configured to
 5             generate GNSS information;
       wherein the processor is configured to trigger acquisition and transmission of GNSS
               information when the processor switches from a current mode to another mode.
   11. The telemetric electronic device as recited in any one of claims 1 and 4, further
 0     comprising at least one for sensing the state of tank or meter.
   12. The telemetric electronic device as recited in any one of claims 1 and 4, further
       comprising at least one sensor for sensing the usage of a tank or meter.
25
   13. A method of a telemetric electronic device configured with an interface for attaching the
       telemetric electronic device to a tank or meter, the device comprising a processor, a
       transmitter coupled to the processor, an accelerometer coupled to the processor, a
       transmitter, and a GNSS receiver coupled to the processor, the method comprising:
30     the processor polling the accelerometer of the device for acceleration information when
               the device is attached to the tank or meter at a stationary location, the tank or
               meter being configured for use at the stationary location;
       the processor comparing acceleration information with stored orientation information to
               determine if the orientation of the device is the same or the same within
35             tolerances of stored orientation information;

                                               30
      the processor triggering acquisition and transmission of GNSS information by the GNSS
             receiver in response to acceleration information when the detected orientation of
             the telemetric electronic device is the same or the same within tolerances as the
             processor specified orientation information; and
5     the processor triggering transmitting GNSS information.
  14. The method of claim 13, wherein the processor polls the accelerometer at least one of
      continually, periodically, randomly, at fixed intervals, at repeating intervals, regularly,
      and progressively.
0
  15. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
      when the accelerometer detects the stored orientation, the processor does not switch from
             a current mode to another mode; and
      wherein when the accelerometer detects the stored orientation, the processor switches
5            from a current mode to another mode.
                                    Silicon Controls Pty Ltd
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON
0

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
