ABSTRACT
A water dispensing assembly comprising a base portion adapted for connection to a water
conduit, a valve member adapted to be at least partially received in the base portion, and a water
dispensing portion adapted for removable connection to the base portion.

                  1/4
DRAWINGS
               2   1         17
         24 23
                          21
                 Figure 2

A WATER DISPENSING ASSEMBLY
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to a water dispensing assembly.           In particular, the
present invention relates to a water dispensing assembly that includes a water spout that is
detachable from a support.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       Water dispensing plumbing fixtures, such as water spouts, are commonly used to
direct water into sinks, basins and troughs.        These fixtures are commonly fabricated from
relatively hard materials, such as brass, diecast zinc or chrome plated plastic, and are typically
fixed in place on, or through, a wall.
[0003]       Water spouts are also commonly used to direct water into bathtubs. However, when
used in this context, a water spout can create a safety hazard in that a user's body (and
particularly a user's head) may come into contact with the spout, potentially causing bruising,
lacerations or even concussion.        While this presents a hazard to adults, it also presents a
significant hazard to children, who are more likely to be moving around within a bathtub.
[0004]       In addition, if part of a user's body comes into contact with a water spout that is (or
has been) dispensing hot water, bums can result. Further, there is the possibility that a poorly
supervised child could turn on a tap to start the flow of water to the bath through the water spout,
thereby increasing not only the risk of the bath overflowing, but also increasing the risk of burns
from the flow of hot water or even drowning.
[0005]       In light of the foregoing, there would be an advantage if it were possible to provide a
water spout that reduced the risk of injury to a user.
[0006]       It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0007]       The present invention is directed to a water dispensing assembly, which may at least
partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer
with a useful or commercial choice.

[0008]       With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
water dispensing assembly comprising a base portion adapted for connection to a water conduit,
a valve member adapted to be at least partially received in the base portion, and a water
dispensing portion adapted for removable connection to the base portion.
[0009]       Any suitable water conduit may be connected to the base portion. It is envisaged,
however, that the water conduit may comprise a pipe.           In particular, the water conduit may
comprise a pipe through which water is adapted to flow into a basin, sink, trough, bath or the
like. Thus, it is envisaged that the water conduit may include an open end through which water
flows when in use.
[0010]       It is further envisaged that at least the open end of the water conduit may be
connected to the base portion so that water may flow from the water conduit through the base
portion and into the water dispensing portion.
[0011]       The water conduit may be adapted for any suitable connection to the base portion.
For instance, the open end of the water conduit may be brought into abutment with the base
portion such that water exiting the water conduit enters the base portion. In other embodiments
of the invention, the base portion may be adapted for fixed connection to the water conduit, such
as by welding, brazing or similar heat treatments, through chemical bonding, through the use of
adhesives or the like and so on. In some embodiments of the invention, the base portion and the
water conduit may be formed integrally with one another.
[0012]       In other embodiments, the base portion and the water conduit may be adapted for
temporary connection to one another. For instance, the water conduit and the base portion may
be connected to one another using a frictional connection. Alternatively, one or more fasteners
(pins, bolts, nails, screws, rivets or the like) may be used to connect the water conduit to the base
portion.
[0013]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the base portion and the water conduit
may be adapted for screw-threaded connection to one another. Thus, in this embodiment of the
invention, it is envisaged that the base portion and the water conduit may each be provided with
complementary screw-threaded portions.           In some embodiments of the invention, the water
conduit may include an internally screw-threaded portion.         In this case, the base portion may
include an externally screw-threaded portion. In an alternative embodiment, the water conduit
may include an externally screw-threaded portion. In this case, the base portion may include an
internally screw-threaded portion.

                                                    -Y
[0014]       The water conduit may be of any suitable diameter, and it will be understood that the
diameter of the water conduit may vary depending on the duty of the water conduit.                It is
envisaged that, in embodiments of the invention in which the base portion and the water conduit
comprise complementary screw-threaded portions that the screw-threaded portion of the base
portion will be sized so as to be suitable for use (i.e. have a complementary diameter and screw
thread) with the water conduit to which it is connected.
[0015]       The base portion may be of any suitable size, shape or configuration. In a preferred
embodiment of the invention, however, the base portion comprises a bore extending at least
partially therethrough. More preferably, the bore extends entirely through the base portion. In
this embodiment, it is envisaged that, in use, a first end of the bore may be located in fluid
communication with the open end of the water conduit, while the opposed second end of the bore
may be located in fluid communication with the water dispensing portion.
[0016]       Preferably, the bore extends from a first side of the base portion to a second, opposed
side of the base portion. In this embodiment of the invention, the water conduit may be adapted
for connection to the first side of the base portion, while the water dispensing portion may be
adapted for connection to the second side of the base portion.
[0017]       In some embodiments of the invention, the base portion may include a valve seat.
The valve seat may be located at any suitable location on the base portion, although in a preferred
embodiment of the invention, the valve seat may be located in the bore. The valve seat may be
of any suitable form and of any suitable size and shape, and the exact form of the valve seat is
not critical to the invention. However, it is envisaged that the valve member and the valve seat
are provided with complementary shapes and/or dimensions so that, when the valve member is
brought into abutment with the valve seat, the flow of water through the valve seat is
substantially precluded.
[0018]       It is envisaged that the valve member may be at least partially located within the
bore.   In one embodiment of the invention, it is envisaged that, when the water conduit is
connected to the base portion, the valve member may be at least partially received in the bore
and/or at least partially received in the water conduit.
[0019]       In use, it is envisaged that the base portion may be connected to, or at least located in
abutment with, a support. Any suitable support may be provided, such as, but not limited to, a
wall, bath, basin, sink, trough or vanity unit. The base portion may be provided with one or more
connection portions adapted for connection to the support, or may be connected thereto using any

                                                   -r
suitable technique, including mechanical fasteners (screw, bolts, nails, rivets, pins etc.) or
adhesives (such as glues, sealants, waterproofing material or the like). Alternatively, the support
may be provided with an aperture in which the base portion is located. In this embodiment of the
invention, it is envisaged that the base portion may be retained in a frictional engagement with
the aperture in the support.
[0020]       In some embodiments, it is envisaged that the water conduit may terminate behind
the support (where it is hidden from view of a user), so that only the water dispensing portion
and, optionally, the base portion extend forwardly of the support. In this embodiment, the first
face of the base portion may be located so that the second side of the base portion (i.e. the side to
which the water dispensing portion is connected) extends forwardly of the support (i.e. where it
is accessible by a user), or is located substantially flush with the support, in which case only the
water dispensing portion of the assembly extends forwardly of the support. Not only does this
provide the assembly with pleasing aesthetics, but it also means that, when the water dispensing
portion is removed or disconnected from the base portion, there is no part of the assembly that a
user can accidentally come into contact with.
[0021]       In other embodiments of the invention, the water conduit may extend forwardly of
the support but may not be visible to a user due to the location of the base portion. In this
embodiment of the invention, the first side of the base portion (i.e. the side of the base portion to
which the water conduit is connected) may be retained in abutment with an outer surface of the
support. Thus, in this embodiment, the aperture in the support may be of a smaller diameter than
the diameter of the base portion. For instance, the diameter of the aperture in the support may
only be of sufficient diameter to allow the water conduit to project through the aperture, and at
least part of the portion of the water conduit that projects through the aperture may be connected
to the base portion.
[0022]       The valve member may be of any suitable size, shape or configuration. However, in
a preferred embodiment of the invention, the valve member may have a diameter that is smaller
than the diameter of the water conduit so that the valve member may be at least partially received
within the water conduit. Thus, the valve member may move forwards and backwards within the
water conduit and/or the bore in the base portion depending on whether the valve is open to
permit the flow of water through the assembly or closed to substantially preclude the flow of
water through the assembly.
[0023]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the valve member may be at least

partially received in the water conduit. In this way, the water conduit may act as a guide for the
valve member in order to ensure that the movement of the valve member (either into or out of
abutment with the valve seat) is substantially linear.
[0024]        In some embodiments of the invention, it is envisaged that the portion of the valve
member received in the water conduit may have a diameter that is only slightly smaller than the
inside diameter of the water conduit. In this way, the portion of the valve member received in
the water conduit may be retained therein in a frictional engagement with an inner surface of the
water conduit.
[0025]       The valve member may be provided with one or more flow passages therethrough.
The one or more flow passages may be provided so that water may flow through and/or around
the portion of the valve member.
[0026]       In a preferred embodiment, the valve member may include a sealing member. It is
envisaged that the sealing member may be adapted to engage with the valve seat in order to
preclude the flow of water therethrough.         The sealing member may be fabricated from any
suitable material (for instance, metal such as brass or stainless steel, rubber, plastic or the like, or
a combination thereof), and it is envisaged that the sealing member may have a complementary
shape and/or size to the valve seat such that, as the sealing member is brought into abutment with
the valve seat, a seal is formed between the valve seat and the sealing member to substantially
preclude the flow of water through the valve seat. In some embodiments of the invention, the
sealing member may include one or more gaskets, o-rings or the like.
[0027]       The water dispensing portion may be of any suitable form. However, in a preferred
embodiment of the invention, the water dispensing portion may comprise a water spout. The
shape and size of the water dispensing portion is not critical to the invention, and it will be
understood that the water spout could be provided in any suitable shape or size depending on its
duty, the aesthetic taste of the user and so on.
[0028]       It is envisaged that the water dispensing portion may be provided with a flow passage
therethrough, with an inlet of the flow passage adapted to receive water flowing through the base
portion from the water conduit, and the outlet of the flow passage adapted to dispense water into
a vessel, such as a sink, basin, trough, bath or the like.
[0029]       As previously stated, the water dispensing portion is adapted for removable
connection to the base portion. The removable connection of the water dispensing portion to the

                                                 V
base portion may be achieved using any suitable technique. For instance, the water dispensing
portion may be connected to the base portion using one or more fasteners (such as pins, screw,
bolts or the like). In this embodiment of the invention, removal of the one or more fasteners may
allow the water dispensing portion to be removed from the base portion.
[0030]       Alternatively, the base portion and the water dispensing portion may be screw
threadedly connected to one another, thereby allowing the water dispensing portion to be screwed
on or off the base portion as required.
[0031]       In other embodiments of the invention, at least one of the water dispensing portion
and the base portion may be provided with one or more connection portions so as to facilitate the
connection to, and removal of, the water dispensing portion from the base portion.           More
preferably, both the water dispensing portion and the base portion may be provided with one or
more connection portions.
[0032]       Any suitable connection portions may be provided.       For instance, the connection
portions may include one or more latches, catches, snap fittings, press studs, magnets or the like.
 In another embodiment one of the base portion or the water dispensing portion may be provided
with one or more resiliently deformable members, such as a resiliently deformable rim, that
resiliently deforms when brought into contact with a substantially rigid rim on the other of the
base portion or the water dispensing portion, thereby allowing connection of the base portion to
the water dispensing portion. Alternatively, one or more resiliently deformable projections may
be provided on the base portion and/or the water dispensing portion, with the one or more
resiliently deformable projections brought into engagement with a receiving portion (recess,
aperture or the like) and retained therein.
[0033]       In another embodiment of the invention, the base portion and/or the water dispensing
portion may be provided with one or more substantially rigid projections adapted to be received
in one or more receiving portions on the other of the base portion and/or the water dispensing
portion. In some embodiments, the rigid projections may be received in the receiving portions,
and then the base portion and the water dispensing portion must be moved relative to one another
to fully engage the base portion with the water dispensing portion.
[0034]       Any suitable movement may be used, such as a sliding movement, pivoting
movement or the like. Alternatively, a rotational movement may be used, such as for an internal
bayonet fitting. Preferably, however, the receiving portions comprise one or more channels, and
the water dispensing portion and the base portion must be rotated relative to one another to bring

the water dispensing portion into and out of engagement with the base portion.
[0035]       The base portion and the water dispensing portion may rotate any suitable distance
relative to one another between an engagement condition in which the projections enter the
receiving portions and a locking condition in which the base portion and the water dispensing
portion are fully connected to one another.        Preferably, however, the rotational movement
between the engagement condition and the locking condition is sufficient so as to prevent
accidental or unwanted disconnection, but not so great that the connection or disconnection of
the base portion and the water dispensing portion is difficult or time-consuming.
[0036]       In some embodiments of the invention, the base portion and the water dispensing
portion may rotate no more than 360' relative to one another between the engagement condition
and the locking condition. More preferably, the base portion and the water dispensing portion
may rotate no more than 1800 relative to one another between the engagement condition and the
locking condition. Yet more preferably, the base portion and the water dispensing portion may
rotate no more than 900 relative to one another between the engagement condition and the
locking condition. Most preferably, the base portion and the water dispensing portion may rotate
about 450 relative to one another between the engagement condition and the locking condition.
[0037]       The connection of the base portion to the water dispensing portion in the locking
condition may be achieved using any suitable technique. For instance, the one or more channels
may taper along at least a portion of their length so that the projections are retained in a frictional
engagement with the walls of the channels. Alternatively, the projections may include one or
more portions of increased thickness and the channels may include a region of reduced width so
as to prevent the projections from being withdrawn from the channel when in the locking
condition.
[0038]       In some embodiments of the invention, the one or more channels may include a ramp
portion therein. The ramp portion may be of any suitable size, although it will be understood that
the ramp portion may be provided to draw the water dispensing portion and the base portion into
close abutment so that the seal formed between the water dispensing portion and the base portion
is substantially watertight to prevent the leakage of water between the water dispensing portion
and the base portion. In some embodiments of the invention, one or more sealing members may
be located between the water dispensing portion and the base portion to assist in forming the seal
therebetween. Any suitable sealing members may be provided, such as one or more gaskets, o
rings or the like.

[0039]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention, an inlet of the flow passage in the water
dispensing portion may abut, or be located in relatively close proximity to, the valve seat of the
base portion. Thus, in some embodiments, the water dispensing portion may be provided with a
valve actuation member. The valve actuation member may be of any suitable form and may be
provided at any suitable location on the water dispensing portion. In a preferred embodiment,
however, the valve actuation member may be located at least partially within the inlet of the flow
passage. Preferably, the valve actuation member extends outwardly from the inlet of the flow
passage so that, when the water dispensing portion is connected to the base portion, the valve
actuation member is at least partially received within the bore in the base portion.
[0040]       The valve actuation member may be of any suitable form, although in a preferred
embodiment of the invention, the valve actuation member comprises one or more projections.
[0041]       It is envisaged that, when the water dispensing portion of the assembly is not
connected to the base portion, the valve member (and in particular the sealing member) will be
located in abutment with the valve seat, so as to substantially preclude the flow of water through
the valve seat.
[0042]       The valve member may be biased into abutment with the valve seat via one or more
biasing members (such as springs or the like). Alternatively, the flow of water through the water
conduit may urge the valve member into abutment with the valve seat. In another embodiment,
the valve member may be positioned during assembly so as to abut the valve seat when the water
dispensing portion is disconnected from the base portion.
[0043]       When the water dispensing portion is connected to the base portion, it is envisaged
that the valve actuation member may be brought into abutment with the valve member (or, more
specifically, the sealing member) so as to force the valve member out of abutment with the valve
seat. In this way, water may flow around the valve member, through the valve seat and into the
water dispensing portion.
[0044]       In some embodiments, the entire valve member may be forced out of abutment with
the valve seat (for instance, by being pushed back towards, or further into, the water conduit). In
this embodiment of the invention, it is envisaged that the presence of the valve actuation member
may prevent the valve member from returning to its abutment with the valve seat, despite the
flow of water attempting to urge the valve member back into abutment with the valve seat.
[0045]       In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the valve member may comprise two

or more portions adapted for movement relative to one another. In this embodiment of the
invention, it is envisaged that abutment of the valve actuation member with the valve member
may result in movement of a first portion of the valve member relative to a second portion of the
valve member so as to allow water to flow around the valve member and into the water
dispensing portion.
[0046]       In this embodiment of the invention it is envisaged that a first portion of the valve
member may be located in frictional engagement with the water conduit, while a second portion
of the valve member may be adapted for abutment with, and sealing against, the valve seat. The
abutment of the valve actuation member against the second portion of the valve member may
result in movement of the second portion of the valve member, and, in particular, a sliding
movement of the second portion towards the first portion.
[0047]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention, to achieve the movement of the valve
member relative to the valve seat it may be required to overcome a force biasing the valve
member into abutment with the valve seat. Any suitable force may be provided, although in a
preferred embodiment, the valve member may include one or more biasing members (springs or
the like), the natural bias of which maintain the valve member in abutment with the valve seat.
Thus, to move the valve member out of abutment with the valve seat, the valve actuation
member must overcome the natural bias of the one or more biasing members. Not only does this
help to ensure the integrity of the abutment of (and seal between) the valve member and the valve
seat, but it also prevents the unwanted or accidental movement of the valve member away from
the valve seat (such as if a child inserted its finger into the valve seat in an attempt to break the
seal between the valve seat and the valve member).
[0048]       When the desired amount of water has been dispensed through the assembly, a user
may disconnect the water dispensing portion from the base portion. When this occurs, the valve
member is returned into abutment with the valve seat, thereby substantially precluding the flow
of water therethough. In addition, disconnecting the water dispensing portion from the base
portion results in the removal of a hazard to a user, both in terms of coming into contact with the
water dispensing portion and also the potential for bums if hot water has been flowing through
the water dispensing portion.
[0049]       When the water dispensing portion is removed from the base portion, the base
portion may be left exposed if desired. Alternatively, a cover portion may be provided to at least
partially cover the base portion in order to avoid a situation in which the valve member is

                                                   IU
accidentally removed from its abutment with the valve seat and/or to provide a more aesthetically
pleasing look to the assembly.       The cover member may be of any suitable size, shape or
configuration, and may attach to the base portion in any suitable manner. Preferably, however,
the cover portion may attach to the base portion in the same manner as the water dispensing
portion.
[0050]       In some embodiments of the invention, the cover member may also be used to assist
in the installation of the assembly. For instance, the cover member may include one or more tool
receiving portions adapted to at least partially receive a tool. Thus, when the cover portion is
connected to the base portion, a tool may be received in the one or more tool receiving portions,
thereby allowing a user to manipulate the cover member (and also the base member) using the
tool. This may be of particular use when, for instance, the base portion is to be screw-threadedly
connected to the water conduit and access to the base portion and/or the water conduit is
restricted or unavailable.
[0051]       The assembly may be fabricated from any suitable material, or combination of
materials. For instance, the assembly may be fabricated from metal (such as brass, stainless
steel, chrome-plated steel or the like), plastic, fibreglass or the like, or any suitable combination
thereof.
[0052]       It is envisaged that the assembly could be retrofitted to an existing water conduit.
Alternatively, the assembly could be installed in, for instance, new dwellings.              In some
embodiments of the invention, the valve member may be positioned at least partially within the
base portion at point of manufacture.       This may assist in simplifying the installation of the
assembly.
[0053]       Although the present invention has been described largely in terms of a water spout,
it will be understood that the invention could also be used with other plumbing fittings, such as a
shower head, a tap located on the exterior of a building or the like.
[0054]       In addition, while the invention has been described in terms of a water dispensing
assembly, it will be understood that the assembly could be used for dispensing any suitable fluid,
slurry or even fine particulate matter. For instance, the assembly could be used for dispensing
alcoholic beverages, soft drinks or the like in restaurants, bars and so on. In addition, the
assembly could be used for dispensing cleaning fluids (such as soap, dishwashing liquid,
detergent and the like), and so on.

[0055]       Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0056]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0057]       Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0058]       Figure 1 illustrates an isometric view of a water dispensing assembly according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0059]       Figure 2 illustrates an isometric view of a water dispensing assembly according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0060]       Figure 3 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a water dispensing assembly according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0061]       Figure 4 illustrates a side view of a water dispensing assembly according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0062]       Figure 5 illustrates a rear view of a portion of a water dispensing assembly according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0063]       Figure 6 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a water dispensing assembly according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0064]       Figure 7 illustrates a cover member according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0065]       Figure 1 illustrates an isometric view of a water dispensing assembly 1 according to
an embodiment of the present invention. The assembly 1 comprises a base portion 10, a water

                                                    I /
dispensing portion 11 in the form of a water spout and a valve member 12.
[0066]       The base portion 10 includes a bore 13 therethrough, the bore 13 including an
internal screw thread 2 that allows the base portion 10 to be screw-threadedly connected to a
water conduit 14 in the form of a water pipe having a complementary external screw thread 3. In
particular, the water conduit 14 is screw-threadedly connected to a first side 16 of the base
portion 10.
[0067]       The valve member 12 includes a rear portion 4 adapted to be at least partially
received in an open end of the water conduit 14 and a front portion 24 that includes a sealing
member 23 adapted to be brought into sealing abutment with a valve seat (obscured) in the bore
2, thereby substantially precluding the flow of water through the valve seat (obscured).          By
locating the rear portion 4 at least partially within the water conduit 14, the water conduit may act
as a guide to the valve member 12, thereby ensuring that the movement of the valve member 12
is substantially linear.
[0068]       When the water spout 11 is connected to the base portion 10 (and specifically, to a
second side thereof), a valve actuation member 8 located in a flow passage 9 of the water spout
11 is brought into abutment with the sealing member 23, overcoming the natural bias of the
spring 25, and moving the sealing member 23 out of abutment with the valve seat (obscured)
thereby allowing water to flow from the water conduit 14 through the base portion and into the
flow passage 9 in the water spout 11.
[0069]       The valve member 12 is adapted to move backwards and forwards within the bore 13
and the water conduit 14 depending on whether the water dispensing portion 11 is connected to
the base portion 10. For instance, when the valve actuation member 8 is brought into contact
with the sealing member 23, the valve member 12 moves rearwardly towards (or further into) the
water conduit 14. Similarly, when the water dispensing portion 11 is removed, the valve member
moves forwardly into abutment with the valve seat (obscured).
[0070]       The portion 17 of the water spout 11 that abuts the second side (obscured) of the base
portion 10 is provided with connection members 15 in the form of projections that extend
outwardly from the portion 17 of the water spout 11 towards the second side (obscured) of the
base portion 10. The connection members 15 include enlarged portions 18 at an end thereof, the
enlarged portions adapted to be retained in channels (obscured) on the second side (obscured) of
the base portion 10, thereby reducing or eliminating the risk of unwanted disconnection of the
water spout 11 from the base portion 10.

                                                   I -Y
[0071]       Figure 2 illustrates an isometric view of a water dispensing assembly 1 according to
an embodiment of the present invention. The assembly 1 of Figure 2 is identical to that of Figure
1, other than being illustrated from a different angle.
[0072]       In this Figure, it may be seen that the water conduit 14 includes an open end 27
having a diameter 26. The diameter 26 is greater than the diameter of the rear portion 4 of the
valve member 12 so that, when the rear portion 4 is inserted into the open end 27 of the water
conduit 14, the valve member 12 is able to move relative to the water conduit 14.
[0073]       The rear portion 4 is provided with a plurality of flow channels 28 that extend along
the length of the rear portion 4 in the direction of the flow of water through the water conduit 14.
 In this way, water may flow past (or through) the rear portion 4 and into the base portion 10.
[0074]       The valve member 12 is biased into the position shown in Figure 2 by the spring 25.
The front portion 24 of the valve member 12 includes the sealing member 23 that is adapted to
abut the valve seat (obscured), thereby substantially precluding the flow of water through the
valve seat (obscured) when the water spout 11 is disconnected from the base portion 10. Figure
2 also illustrates an o-ring 50 located about the opening of the bore and adapted to form a seal
between the base portion 10 and the water dispensing portion 11 when the base portion 10 and
the water dispensing portion 11 are connected to one another.
[0075]       Also illustrated in Figure 2 are the channels 29 in the second side 21 of the base
portion 10 in which the connection members (obscured) on the water spout 11 are received. It is
envisaged that the enlarged portions of the connection members (obscured) are first received in
the enlarged portion 20 of the channels 29, and the water spout 11 is then rotated clockwise
relative to the base portion 10 so that the enlarged portions of the connection members
(obscured) are retained in the narrower portions of the channels 29 so as to prevent accidental or
unwanted disconnection of the water spout 11 from the base portion 10.
[0076]       Figure 3 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a water dispensing assembly 1 according
to an embodiment of the present invention.              In this Figure, the water spout 11 is shown
disconnected from the base portion 10 so that water is substantially precluded from flowing
through and out of the base portion 10.
[0077]       It is shown in this Figure that the rear portion 4 of the valve member 12 is located
within the water conduit 14, and the screw-threaded bore 2 of the base portion 10 is connected
via a screw threaded engagement to the water conduit 14.

                                                    I -t
[0078]        The base portion is positioned so as to be in abutment with an outer surface 37 of a
support 36 (such as a wall, bath tub or the like).         In this embodiment, the water conduit 14
extends through an aperture 30 in the support 36 and the portion of the water conduit 14 that
extends through the aperture 30 is screw-threadedly connected to the base portion 10.
[0079]        When the water spout 11 is disconnected from the base portion 10, the sealing
member 23 moves under the natural bias of the spring 32 to abut the valve seat 35.              In this
position, the abutment of the sealing member 23 against the valve seat 35 substantially precludes
the flow of water through the valve seat 35.
[0080]        It will also be noted that the rear portion of the spring 32 abuts the open end 33 of the
water conduit 14, thereby substantially precluding rearward movement of the valve member 12
unless the bias of the spring 32 may be overcome.
[0081]        Figure 4 illustrates a side view of a water dispensing assembly 1 according to an
embodiment of the present invention. In this Figure, the water spout 11 and the base portion 10
are illustrated.
[0082]        The connection portions of the water spout 11 and the base portion 10 are more
clearly illustrated in Figure 4. It may be seen that an inner surface 40 of the water dispensing
portion 11 is provided with projections 15 having enlarged ends 42. To connect the water spout
11 to the base portion 10, the enlarged ends 42 are inserted into the enlarged openings 43 in the
channels 29. The water spout 11 is then rotated clockwise relative to the base portion 10 until
the enlarged ends 42 abut the relatively narrow ends 44 of the channels 29. As the enlarged ends
42 of the projections 15 are larger than the narrow ends 44 of the channels 29, the water spout
cannot be disconnected from the base portion 10 by pulling the projections 15 out of the channels
29. Thus, accidental or unwanted disconnection of the water spout 11 from the base portion 10 is
precluded.
[0083]        Instead, to disconnect the water spout 11 from the base portion 10, the water spout 11
must be rotated anti-clockwise relative to the base portion until the enlarged ends 42 of the
projections 15 are aligned with the enlarged openings 43 of the channels 29. At this point, the
water spout 11 may be withdrawn from its connection to the base portion 10.
[0084]        Figure 5 illustrates a rear view of a portion of a water dispensing assembly 1
according to an embodiment of the present invention. In this Figure, the water spout (obscured)
is shown when partially engaged with the base portion 10. It may be seen that the enlarged ends

                                                  I -)
42 of the projections (obscured) are within the channels 29 and are prevented from being
withdrawn due to the width of the channels 29 being less than the diameter of the enlarged ends
42.
[0085]      Each of the channels 29 includes a ramped portion 45 that, as the water spout
(obscured) rotates relative to the base portion 10 into the engaged condition, draws the water
spout (obscured) into close abutment with the base portion 10, thereby creating a seal between
the water spout (obscured) and the base portion 10 so as to substantially preclude the leakage of
water therebetween.    The channels 29 are also provided with an indentation 46 that precludes
unwanted or accidental rotation of the water dispensing portion 11 relative to the base portion 10
back along the ramped portion 45.
[0086]      In this Figure it may also be seen that, when the water spout (obscured) and the base
portion 10 are engaged with one another, the valve actuation member 8 is positioned within the
bore 2 so as to force the valve member (not shown in this Figure) out of abutment with the valve
seat.
[0087]      Figure 6 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a water dispensing assembly 1 according
to an embodiment of the present invention. In this Figure, the water spout 11 is shown when
connected to the base portion 10.
[0088]      When the water spout 11 and the base portion 10 are connected to one another (via
the connection members 15) a sealing member in the form of an o-ring 50 forms a seal
therebetween so as to reduce or preclude leakage of water between the water spout 11 and the
base portion 10.
[0089]      In the embodiment of the invention illustrated in Figure 6, the valve actuation
member 9 abuts the sealing member 23, thereby creating a force that overcomes the natural bias
of the spring 24 and pushes the sealing member 23 (and therefore the valve member 12) in the
direction of arrow 56.
[0090]      As the spring 24 is retained in abutment with the end 33 of the water conduit 14,
movement of the valve member 12 in the direction of arrow 56 results in the compression of the
spring 24 as shown in Figure 6.
[0091]      Removal of the sealing member 23 from abutment with the valve seat 22 allows
water to flow through the water conduit 14 and the base portion 10 and to enter the water spout
11 through the valve seat 22. Water can then exit the water spout 11 into a bath, basin, sink or

                                                   IV
the like (not shown).
[0092]        Figure 7 illustrates a cover member 70 according to an embodiment of the present
invention. In this Figure, a water spout (not shown) has been disconnected from the base portion
10, leaving the second side 21 of the base portion 10 exposed.
[0093]        If a user wishes to ensure that the second side 21 of the base portion 10 is not visible
(either for aesthetic reasons or to prevent any attempt to manually move the valve member (not
shown in this Figure) out of abutment with the valve seat 22, a cover member 70 may be
connected to the base portion 10.
[0094]        In this embodiment of the invention, the cover portion 70 may be connected to the
base portion 10 using the same technique as the water spout (not shown. Specifically, the cover
portion 70 may be provided with projections 73 adapted to be received and retained in the
channels 29 in the second side 21 of the base portion 10.
[0095]        To assist in connecting the cover portion 70 the base portion 10, the cover portion 70
may be provided with a socket 72 adapted to receive a tool (not shown) therein. The tool (not
shown) may be inserted into the socket 72 and then used to rotate the cover portion 70 into (and
out of) its connection to the base portion 10. This may be particularly helpful for connecting or
disconnecting the cover portion 70, which does not provide the same ease of grip to a user as the
water spout (not shown).
[0096]        It will be understood that the cover portion 70 may also be used during the
installation of the assembly (and particularly the base portion 10). The cover portion 70 may be
connected to the base portion 10, and then a tool may be received in the socket 72, so as to
facilitate (for instance) connection of the base portion 10 to the water conduit (not shown in this
Figure). It is envisaged that the use of the cover portion 70 in this manner may make installation
of the assembly quicker and easier, particularly in situations when access to the rear of the base
portion 10 and/or the water conduit is restricted or unavailable.
[0097]        In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0098]        Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention.                 Thus, the

                                                  I/
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0099]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of
its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately
interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                   10
CLAIMS
1.      A water dispensing assembly comprising a base portion adapted for connection to a water
conduit, a valve member adapted to be at least partially received in the base portion, and a water
dispensing portion adapted for removable connection to the base portion.
2.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 1 wherein the base portion includes a
bore.
3.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 2 wherein the bore includes a valve seat.
4.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 3 wherein, when the water dispensing
portion and the base portion are disconnected from one another, the valve member abuts the
valve seat so as to substantially preclude the flow of water through the valve seat.
5.      A water dispensing assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
water dispensing portion includes a valve actuation member.
6.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 5 wherein, when the water dispensing
portion is connected to the base portion, the valve actuation member actuates the valve member,
thereby allowing the flow of water through the valve seat.
7.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 6 wherein the valve actuation member
actuates the valve member by moving the valve member out of abutment with the valve seat.
8.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 2 wherein the valve member is adapted
to be received at least partially within the bore and at least partially within the water conduit.
9.      A water dispensing assembly according to claim 8 where the valve member is adapted for
movement relative to both the bore and the water conduit.
10.     A water dispensing assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
water dispensing portion comprises a water spout.
11.     A water dispensing assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
water dispensing portion and the base portion are each provided with one or more connection
portions adapted to facilitate connection of the water dispensing portion to the base portion.
12.     A water dispensing assembly according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
water dispensing portion and the base portion are rotated relative to one another to bring the

water dispensing portion into and out of engagement with the base portion.
13.    A water dispensing assembly according to claim 11 or claim 12 wherein the connection
portions comprise one or more projections located on the base portion and/or the water
dispensing portion, the one or more projections adapted to be received in one or more receiving
portions located on the other of the base portion and/or the water dispensing portion.
14.    A water dispensing assembly according to claim 13 wherein the one or more receiving
portions comprise one or more channels.
15.    A water dispensing assembly according to claim 14 wherein the one or more channels
include a ramp portion adapted to draw the water dispensing portion and the base portion into
close abutment so as to form a seal therebetween.

                                              1/4
<removed-date>
              DRAWINGS
                                    2          18        17
                                                                  1
                         24    23
<removed-apn>
                    3
                                                    9         8
                         4     25   16
                                                        21
                                                                   1
               14              29
                                         50
                                    10
                                                                  11
                         4    12

                                     2/4
<removed-date>       1
                                23
                                       10
                                                               12
                                                         14
<removed-apn>
                                                     4        30
                      11
                                            2
              1
                                                              10
                  11
                           15                   29

                                               3/4
<removed-date>
                                                                    8
                  42
<removed-apn>
              1
                                                                                  2
                       10
                                 29
                  1
                                                                        25
                                      11                  24
                                                          33
                                                                        4
                                           9
                            22
                                      15             23                               14
                                                               10            12
                                                               29

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             22
     10
                       29
                                 4/4
21

