                                              26
                                         ABSTRACT
      The present invention provides a preparation method of argireline, comprising the
following steps: (1) synthesizing       Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl   Chloride Resin; (2)
synthesizing    Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrity
Chloride    Resin;    (3)  synthesizing    Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; (4) synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH; and (5) subjecting the product obtained in step (4) to
cleavage, separation, amidation reaction and purification to obtain an argireline product.
The method not only solves the problems of high costs and low loads of resins used in the
traditional solid-phase synthesis of argireline, but also overcomes the defects of complex
processes, long synthesis periods, and low efficiencies. The method has the advantages of
low synthesis cost, high synthesis efficiency, and simple synthesis method, and can be used
for the large-scale synthesis of Argireline.
                                           26                 1611809CN-AU

                                                1
   PREPARATION METHOD OF ARGIRELINE AND ARGIRELINE PRODUCT
Technical Field
The present invention belongs to the technical field of polypeptide synthesis technology,
and particularly relates to a preparation method of Argireline by fragment synthesis.
Background of the Invention
Argireline, which is an active polypeptide containing six amino acids and has a sequence
of Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-Arg-NH 2, has a biological activity of skin wrinkle
removal, thereby is widely used in various advanced cosmetics.
At present, Argireline is synthesized mainly by using solid-phase synthesis and liquid
phase synthesis methods. Fmoc-AM Resin and Fmoc-MBHA Resin used in the solid phase
synthesis method are expensive and the resin substitution degree is small, resulting in a
higher cost in the solid-phase synthesis of Argireline. The prices of raw materials in the
liquid-phase synthesis method are greatly reduced, but the liquid phase synthesis method
has disadvantages of complicated process, long cycle, low efficiency, and high cost of
purification. It is of great significance to reduce production costs, improve production
efficiency, and simplify the synthesis process of Argireline as a cosmetic raw material.
Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop a method of synthesizing Argireline with
high efficiency and a low cost in the field.
It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
Disclosure of the Invention
The technical problem to be solved provided in the present invention is to provide a
method of synthesizing Argireline, which has advantages of low synthesis cost, high
synthesis efficiency and simple synthesis process. The method according to the present
invention not only addresses the shortcomings of high synthesis cost and low load of resins

                                               2
in the existing classical solid-phase synthesis of Argireline, but also addresses the
shortcomings of complicated process, long cycle and low efficiency in the liquid-phase
synthesis of Argireline.
In particular, there is provided a synthesis method of Argireline in the present invention,
which    comprises    the  following steps:    synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH, a fully protected fragment peptide, with 2-Chlorotrityl
Chloride Resin; synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)
NH 2 by reacting the fully protected fragment peptide Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH        with     benzotriazol- 1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium
hexafluorophosphate,       1-hydroxybenzotriazole,     ammonium        chloride   and   N,N'
diisopropylethylamine; and subjecting Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-NH 2 to deprotection to give Argireline.
Summary of Invention
According to a first aspect, the invention provides a preparation method of Argireline
comprising the following steps:
     (1) synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
     (2) using the resin of step (1) in the preparation of Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)- 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
     (3) using the resin of step (2) in the preparation of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2- Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
     (4) using the resin of step (3) in the preparation of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH; and
     (5) subjecting the product obtained in step (4) to cleavage, separation and purification
to give an Argireline product.
In embodiments of the invention, step (1) comprises:
     swelling 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin in dichloromethane, and
     adding thereto dichloromethane, Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine

                                               3
to react so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
In embodiments of the invention, step (2) comprises:
     eluting Fmoc from Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin obtained in step (1)
twice,
     adding         thereto      N,N-dimethylformamide,          Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH,           1
hydroxybenzotriazole,       azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium     tetrafluoroboric
acid, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine to react so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; and
     attaching sequentially Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Met-OH, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH, and
Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH onto Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl              Chloride Resin by
using the same method as described above, so as to give Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
In embodiments of the invention, step (3) comprises:
     eluting Fmoc- from Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin obtained in step (2) twice, and
     adding thereto a mixture of dichloromethane,             acetic anhydride, and N,N'
diisopropylethylamine to react so as to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)
Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
Wherein, reactions in step (1), step (2) and step (3) are carried out by stirring for 0.5 to 2
hours at room temperature and under the protection of nitrogen;
     Fmoc elution in step (1), step (2) and step (3) is carried out in a mixture of piperidine
and N,N-dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of 1: 4; and preferably, in step (4), a
mixture of dichloromethane, acetic anhydride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine in a
volume ratio of 9 : 1 : 0.5 is added.
In embodiments of the invention, step (4) comprises:
     adding a cleavage solution into Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin to perform a cleavage reaction, and
     subjecting the resulting product to separation, purification and drying so as to give

                                                4
Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH.
Wherein, the separation, purification and drying in step (4) comprises:
     filtering the cleavage reaction product;
     washing the resulting filtrate for three times with a saturated salt solution with twice
the volume of the resulting filtrate;
     adding saturated salt solution with volume equal to that of the cleavage solution;
     adjusting pH to 7.0 with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution;
     removing organic solvent by evaporation under reduced pressure and 35 'C to
precipitate and filtrate; and
     washing the resulting precipitate with pure water for three times and drying at 40 to
45 'C to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH.
In embodiments of the invention, step (5) comprises:
     dissolving Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH               in N,N
dimethylformamide;
     adding     benzotriazol-1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium        hexafluorophosphate,    1
hydroxybenzotriazole, ammonium chloride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine thereto to
react so as to give a reaction solution;
     subjecting the reaction solution to treatment, separation, purification and drying to
give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH            2;
     adding a cleavage solution thereto to perform a cleavage reaction; and
     separating, purifying and drying the resulting crude product to give the product.
In embodiments of the invention, step (5) further comprises:
     filtrating the resulting product after completion of the cleavage reaction,
     adding filtrate into cold diethyl ether to precipitate to give a crude Argireline product,
and
     subjecting     the   crude   Argireline  product    to   purification  by   reverse-phase
chromatography and lyophilization so as to give Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH 2 .
Wherein, the cleavage solution in step (4) is a mixture of trifluoroethanol, acetic acid and

                                               5
dichloromethane in a volume ratio of 2 : 0.75 : 7.25; preferably, the cleavage solution in
step (5) is a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid 83 mass%, phenol 5 mass%, thioanisole 4
mass%, water 3 mass%, and triisopropyl silane 5 mass%.
In further embodiments of the invention, in step (1), the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl
chloride resin: Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH : N,N-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 1 : 4.
In further embodiments of the invention, in step (2), the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl
chloride   resin   : Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH       : 1-hydroxybenzotriazole     : azabenzotriazole
N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroboric acid : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 2
(2.5~3) : (2.5~3) : (2.5~3).
In further embodiments of the invention, in step (5), the molar ratio of Ac-Glu(OtBu)
Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH                                  benzotriazol-1
yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium        hexafluorophosphate        1-hydroxybenzotriazole
ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 3 : 3 (3-5): (3-5).
There is also provided an Argireline product prepared by any of the above preparation
methods, which has a purity of more than 95%.
More particularly, there is also provided a synthesis method of Argireline by solid-phase
fragment synthesis, which comprises the following steps:
(1) Synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH
( Synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin is swellen in dichloromethane           for 15 minutes, and
dichloromethane, Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine are added thereto
to react by stirring for 1.5 hours at room temperature and under the protection of nitrogen
so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
O Synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Fmoc- is eluted from Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin twice by using a
mixture of piperidine and N,N-dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of 1: 4, then N,N
dimethylformamide,       Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH,       1-hydroxybenzotriazole,   azabenzotriazole
N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroboric acid, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine are

                                                6
added thereto to react by stirring for 2 hours at room temperature under the protection of
nitrogen, so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
 D      Synthesizing       Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Met-OH, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH, and Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH are
attached sequentially onto Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin by using
the same method as that in step (Z, so as to give Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
@J        Synthesizing       Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Fmoc- is eluted from Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl    Chloride Resin twice by using a mixture of piperidine and N,N
dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of 1: 4, then a mixture of dichloromethane, acetic
anhydride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine in volume ratio of 9 : 1 : 0.5 is added thereto to
react by stirring for 30 minutes at room temperature under the protection of nitrogen, so as
to    give     Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-           Chlorotrityl
Chloride Resin;
@ Cleavage     treatment
A cleavage solution is added into Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin to perform a cleavage reaction by stirring for 1.5
hours at room temperature; after filtration, the resulting filtrate is washed for three times
with a saturated salt solution; a saturated salt solution with volume equal to that of the
cleavage solution is added into the filtrate, a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is used
to adjust pH to 7.0; organic solvents are removed by evaporation at 35 'C in a rotary
evaporator to precipitate and filtrate; and the resulting precipitate is washed with pure
water for three times and dried at 40 to 45 'C to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH;
The cleavage solution used herein is a mixture of trifluoroethanol, acetic acid and

                                                7
dichloromethane in a volume ratio of 2 : 0.75 : 7.25;
(2) Synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH              2
Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH               is dissolved      in N,N
dimethylformamide; benzotriazol-1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate,
1-hydroxybenzotriazole, ammonium chloride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine are added
thereto to react for 3 hours by stirring; then a saturated salt solution with twice the volume
of the reaction solution is added into the reaction solution to precipitate; after filtration, the
resulting precipitate is washed for three times with pure water, and dried at 40 to 45 'C to
give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH              2;
(3) Synthesizing Argireline Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH           2
A cleavage solution is added into Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-NH 2, with 3 to 5 ml of the cleavage solution per gram of Ac-Glu(OtBu)
Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH         2, so as to react for 1.5 to 2.5 hours by
stirring at room temperature; after filtration, the resulting filtrate is added into cold diethyl
ether to precipitate to give a crude Argireline product; and the crude Argireline product is
subjected to purification by reverse-phase chromatography and lyophilization so as to give
Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH 2;
The cleavage solution used herein is a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid 83 mass%, phenol 5
mass%, thioanisole 4 mass%, water 3 mass%, and triisopropyl silane 5 mass%.
Wherein, in 0 of step (1), the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin: Fmoc-Arg(pbf)
OH : N,N-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 1 : 4.
Wherein, in @ of step (1), the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin: Fmoc-Arg(pbf)
OH      :    1-hydroxybenzotriazole      :   Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroboric acid : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 2 : (2.5 ~-3) : (2.5 ~-3) : (2.5 -3).
Wherein, in 3 of step (1), the molar ratios of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin to Fmoc
Gln(Trt)-OH, 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin to Fmoc-Met-OH, 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin to
Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH, and 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin to Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH are all 1:
2; and the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin : 1-hydroxybenzotriazole

                                                 8
Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium             tetrafluoroboric      acid         NN'
diisopropylethylamine is 1 : (2.5-3) : (2.5-3) : (2.5-3).
Wherein, in S of step (1), the obtaining of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)
Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH comprises:
     washing the cleaved solution for three times with a saturated salt solution with twice
the volume; adding thereto a saturated salt solution with volume equal to that of the
cleavage solution; adjusting pH to 7.0 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution;
removing organic solvents by evaporation at 35 'C to precipitate and filtrate; and washing
the resulting precipitate with pure water three times and drying at 40 to 45 'C.
Wherein, in step (2), the molar ratio of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-OH : benzotriazol-1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate                   1
hydroxybenzotriazole : ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 3                  3
(3~5) : (3~5).
Wherein, in step (2), the obtaining of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-NH 2 comprises:
     adding a saturated salt solution with twice the volume of the reaction solution to
precipitate; after filtration, washing the resulting precipitate for three times with pure water
and drying at 40 to 45 'C.
The present invention has the following advantages.
In the present invention, a fully protected fragment of Argireline, Ac-Glu(OtBu)
Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH,           is first synthesized by using relatively
inexpensive 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; carboxyl terminus of the fully protected
fragment     of     Argireline     is   subjected    to     amidation      with    benzotriazol-1
yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium            hexafluorophosphate,           1-hydroxybenzotriazole,
ammonium chloride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine in N,N-dimethylformamide solution
to   give    Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH              2;  then   Ac
Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH             2 is subjected to deprotection
to give Argireline Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH 2.

                                               9
The present invention not only overcomes the problem that the synthesis cost of Argireline
in the traditional solid-phase synthesis method is high, which is due to the Fmoc-AM Resin
and the Fmoc-MBHA Resin used in the traditional solid-phase synthesis method are
expensive and the resin substitution degree is small; but also overcomes the problems of
complicated process, long cycle, low efficiency, and high cost of purification in the liquid
phase synthesis method of Argireline; providing a synthesis method with simple process,
low production cost, easy purification and high efficiency for the large-scale production of
Argireline.
The method according to the present invention not only solves the problems of high costs
and low loads of resins used in the traditional solid-phase synthesis of argireline, but also
overcomes the defects of complex processes, long synthesis periods, and low efficiencies.
The method has the advantages of low synthesis cost, high synthesis efficiency, and simple
synthesis method, and can be used for the large-scale synthesis of argireline.
Brief Description of the Drawings
Figure 1 is a mass spectrum of Argireline synthesized in Example 1.
Figure 2 is a liquid chromatogram of Argireline synthesized in Example 1, wherein (a) is a
liquid chromatogram, and (b) is a treatment channel.
Specific Mode for Carrying out the Present Invention
Hereinafter, the present invention will be described more detail with reference to the
accompanying drawings and examples of embodiments. However, the present invention
should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.
The abbreviations in the description are explained as follows:
2-chlorotrityl chloride Resin,
Fmoc: 9- tromomethoxycarbonyl, and
pbf,     OtBu,      and     Trt:   all    protecting    groups,    representing    2,2,4,6,7
pentamethyldihydrobenzofuran-5-sulfonyl, tert-butoxy, and trityl, respectively.

                                               10
A preparation method of Argireline is provided in the present invention, which comprises
the following steps: (1) synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; (2)
synthesizing Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-           2-Chlorotrityl
Chloride    Resin;    (3)  synthesizing    Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2- Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; (4) synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH; and (5) subjecting the product obtained in step (4) to
cleavage, separation and purification to give an Argireline product. Wherein, step (1)
comprises: swelling 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin in dichloromethane, and adding thereto
dichloromethane, Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine to react so as to
give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
The preparation method according to the present invention is a result of the creative work
of the inventors. In step (1), the synthesis method of Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl
Chloride Resin may avoid adverse factors resulted from use of high-cost amino resins such
as Rink Amide-AM Resin, Rink Amide-MBHA Resin, or the like, thereby effectively
reducing costs; 2-chlorotrityl chloride Resin, as a raw material, has a relatively low price,
so that the cost is reduced. 2-chlorotrityl chloride Resin with a substitution degree of 1.74
mmol/g is used herein, but 2-chlorotrityl chloride Resin with a different substitution degree
may also achieve the same or similar technical effects, which also falls into the protection
scope of the present invention. The substitution degree of 2-chlorotrityl chloride Resin may
be any of the existing commercialized substitution degree. The substitution degree of 1.74
mmol/g used in the present invention is the best value determined by yield and purity of
the synthetic fragment and resin utilization.
Wherein, step (2) comprises: eluting Fmoc from Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride
Resin obtained in step (1) twice, adding thereto N,N-dimethylformamide, Fmoc-Arg(pbf)
OH,         1-hydroxybenzotriazole,         Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroboric acid, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine to react so as to give Fmoc
Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl     Chloride   Resin; and attaching sequentially Fmoc
Gln(Trt)-OH,    Fmoc-Met-OH,      Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH,       and Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH         onto

                                                11
Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl       Chloride Resin by using the same method as
described above, so as to give Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin. This is a step of extending the amino acid chain, in
which the selected protecting groups for protecting each of the amino acid side chains may
be any protecting group having a cross-protecting effect with Fmoc, as long as the desired
protective effect can be achieved. The above-mentioned substituents are optimized to have
a best effect.
       Wherein, step (3) comprises: eluting Fmoc- from Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl     Chloride Resin obtained in step (2) twice, and
adding     thereto   a  mixture    of    dichloromethane,   acetic   anhydride,   and   N,N'
diisopropylethylamine to react so as to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)
Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; wherein, reactions in step (1), step (2)
and step (3) are carried out by stirring for 40 minutes to 2 hours at room temperature under
the protection of nitrogen; wherein Fmoc elution in step (1), step (2) and step (3) are
carried out in a mixture of piperidine and N,N-dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of 1:
4; and preferably, in step (4), a mixture of dichloromethane, acetic anhydride, and N,N'
diisopropylethylamine in a volume ratio of 9 : 1 : 0.5 is added; wherein, step (4) comprises:
adding     a   cleavage  solution    into   Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin to perform a cleavage reaction, and subjecting the
resulting product to separation, purification and drying so as to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)
Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH;        wherein, the separation, purification and
drying in step (4) comprises: filtering the cleavage reaction product; washing the resulting
filtrate for three times with twice volume of a saturated salt solution; adding thereto a
saturated salt solution with volume equal to that of the cleavage solution; adjusting pH to
7.0 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution; removing organic solvents by
evaporation under reduced pressure and at 35 'C to precipitate and filtrate; and washing the
resulting precipitate with pure water for three times and drying at 40 to 45 'C to give Ac
Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH.            The   ratios  between    the

                                                 12
respective substances may be appropriately adjusted in the preparation process, and the
products can still meet the requirements. Therefore, it also falls into the protection scope of
the present invention to adjust appropriately the ratios between the respective substances in
the preparation process and the parameter values of the reaction conditions. In the general
solid-phase polypeptide synthesis, if the usage of the resin as a benchmark is taken 1, the
usages of amino acids and other reagents should be excessive, typically 1.8 to 3, or may be
higher if there is a difficult reaction. The range of 1.8 to 3 is an economic usage.
Wherein,    step   (5)    comprises:    dissolving    Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)
Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH           in     N,N-dimethylformamide;          adding    benzotriazol-1
yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium             hexafluorophosphate,         1-hydroxybenzotriazole,
ammonium chloride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine thereto to react so as to give a
reaction solution; subjecting the reaction solution to treatment, separation, purification and
drying to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH             2;  adding a
cleavage solution thereto to perform a cleavage reaction; and separating, purifying and
drying the resulting crude product to give the product.
Wherein, the cleavage solution in step (4) is a mixture of trifluoroethanol, acetic acid and
dichloromethane in a volume ratio of 2 : 0.75 : 7.25; preferably, the cleavage solution in
step (5) is a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid 83 mass%, phenol 5 mass%, thioanisole 4
mass%, water 3 mass%, and triisopropyl silane 5 mass%. The respective cleavage steps are
different, and the materials to be cleaved are different, so the selected cleavage solutions
are different.
Wherein, in step (1), the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin : Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH
N,N-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 1 : 4.
Wherein, in step (2), the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin: Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH
1-hydroxybenzotriazole : Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroboric
acid : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 2 : (2.5~-3) : (2.5-3) : (2.5-3). Wherein, in step
(5), the molar ratio of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH
benzotriazol- 1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium             hexafluorophosphate         :      1-

                                               13
hydroxybenzotriazole : ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 3 : 3
(3~5) : (3~5).
Mixing ratios between the respective substances are controlled within the above ranges in
the preparation steps, which is a result of considering a number of factors. The above
mentioned ranges may be changed by ± 10%, and the technical effects can still be
achieved. The preferred solution is provided as above.
An Argireline product prepared by the above-mentioned preparation method is also
provided in the present invention, and the purity of the Argireline is more than 95%.
In a specific embodiment, a synthesis method of Argireline comprises the following steps:
(1) Synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH
O Synthesizing    Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin is swellen in dichloromethane for 15 minutes, then the
solution is subjected to suction filtration, added with Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH and N,N'
diisopropylethylamine in the molar ratio of 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin: Fmoc-Arg(pbf)
OH : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine of 1 : 1 : 4, and added with dichloromethane as a solvent
in an amount of 10 ml of dichloromethane per gram of 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin. A
reaction is carried out by stirring for 1.5 hours at room temperature under the protection of
nitrogen so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
0 Synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Fmoc- is eluted from Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin twice by using a
mixture of piperidine and N,N-dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of 1: 4, then the
solution is added with Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, 1-hydroxybenzotriazole, Azabenzotriazole
N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroboric acid, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine in
the   molar ratio     of 2-Chlorotrityl     Chloride    Resin  : Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH        : 1
hydroxybenzotriazole : Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium          tetrafluoroboric
acid : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine of 1 : 2 : (2.5~3) : (2.5~3) : (2.5~3), and added with
N,N-dimethylformamide as a solvent in an amount of 10 ml of N,N-dimethylformamide
per gram of 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin. A reaction is carried out by stirring for 2 hours

                                                 14
at room temperature under the protection of nitrogen so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
 D        Synthesizing        Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Met-OH, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH, and Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH are
attached sequentially onto Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin by using
the same method as that in step (Z, so as to give Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
@J         Synthesizing         Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Fmoc- is eluted from Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl     Chloride Resin twice        by using a mixture      of piperidine    and N,N
dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of 1: 4; a reaction solution is prepared with
dichloromethane, acetic anhydride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine in volume ratio of
dichloromethane : acetic anhydride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine of 9 : 1 : 0.5, and the
reaction solution is added into 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin in an amount of 10 ml of the
reaction solution per gram of 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin. A reaction is carried out by
stirring for 30 minutes at room temperature under the protection of nitrogen so as to give
Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2- Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
@ Cleavage      treatment
A cleavage solution is prepared with trifluoroethanol, acetic acid and dichloromethane in
the volume ratio of trifluoroethanol : acetic acid : dichloromethane of 2: 0.75: 7.25, and
added       into    Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl
Chloride Resin in an amount of 10 ml of the cleavage solution per gram of Ac-Glu(OtBu)
Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl          Chloride Resin. A reaction is
carried out by stirring for 1.5 hours at room temperature under the protection of nitrogen;
after filtration, the resulting filtrate is washed for three times with a saturated salt solution
with twice of the volume of the filtrate, added a saturated salt solution with volume equal

                                                 15
to that of the cleavage solution, adjusted pH to 7.0 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate
solution. Organic solvents are removed by evaporation at 35 'C in a rotary evaporator and
precipitate is separated out. After filtration, the resulting precipitate is washed with pure
water for three times and dried at 40 to 45 'C to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH.
(2) Synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH              2
Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH                is dissolved     in N,N
dimethylformamide, with one gram of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-OH      in   10 ml of N,N-dimethylformamide.           The solution is added with
benzotriazol- 1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium                hexafluorophosphate,              1
hydroxybenzotriazole, ammonium chloride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine in the molar
ratio of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH               : benzotriazol-1
yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium          hexafluorophosphate          1-hydroxybenzotriazole
ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine of 1:3:3:(3-5):(3-5) to react for 3 hours
by stirring. A saturated salt solution with twice the volume of the reaction solution is added
into the reaction solution and precipitate is separated out; after filtration, the resulting
precipitate is washed three times with pure water, and dried at 40 to 45 'C to give Ac
Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH 2.
(3) Synthesizing Argireline Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH          2
A cleavage solution is prepared with trifluoroacetic acid, phenol, phenyl sulfide, water, and
triisopropylsilane in the ratio of trifluoroacetic acid : phenol : phenyl sulfide : water :
triisopropylsilane of 83 ml: 5 g: 4 ml: 3 ml: 5 ml. Then the cleavage solution is added into
Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH             2,  with 3 to 5 ml of the
cleavage solution per gram of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)
NH 2 , so as to react by stirring for 1.5 to 2.5 hours at room temperature. After filtration, the
resulting filtrate is added into cold diethyl ether with 5 to 8 times of the volume of the
filtrate and precipitate is separated out. After filtration, the resulting precipitate is washed
three times with anhydrous ether and dried in vacuum to give a crude Argireline product.

                                              16
The crude Argireline product is subjected to purification by reverse-phase chromatography
and lyophilization so as to give Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH 2.
Examples
The sources of the respective substances used in the examples will be described below. If
not specified, the raw materials and instruments used are commercially available and are
conventionally raw materials and instruments, as long as they meet the experimental
requirements.
The substitution degree of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin used in the present invention is 1.74
mmol/g, and commercially available from Tianjin Nankai Hecheng S&T Co.,Ltd.
The solid-phase polypeptide synthesis reactor is a universal polypeptide synthesis reactor,
and may be CS936X CSBio Peptide Synthesizer commercially available from Chengdu
Sinotrade Import & Export Co., Ltd.
The analytical high performance liquid chromatograph is Hitachi Automatic L2000.
The preparative high performance liquid chromatograph is LC3000 commercially available
from Beijing CHXT Technology Co., Ltd. C18 analytical column with 4.6 mm x 250 mm
is commercially available from Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, and C18 preparative column with 40.1 mm x 450 mm is commercially available
from Chengdu Sci-Bio-Chem Co.Ltd.
Various      amino      acids,    1-hydroxybenzotriazole,       Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'
tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroboric acid, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine used in the
Examples are commercially available from GL Biochem (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
LTQ-XL electrospray ionization mass spectrometer is commercially available from
American Thermo Finnigan Co., Ltd.
Various organic solvents and organic reagents used in Examples are made of AR or CP.
Example 1
The preparation method of Argireline in this example was comprised of the following
steps.

                                                17
(1) Synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH
T Synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
50.0 g of 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin was added into a reactor, and immersed and
swellen in 500 ml of dichloromethane for 15 minutes. After suction filtration, the reactor
was added with 500 ml of dichloromethane, 56.45 g of Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, and 61.0 ml of
N,N'-diisopropylethylamine (the molar ratio of 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin : Fmoc
Arg(pbf)-OH : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine was 1: 1: 4). The mixture was stirred for 1.5
hours at room temperature and under the protection of nitrogen. After suction filtration, the
resulting   resin was washed        twice with isopropanol    and N,N-dimethylformamide,
respectively, 500 ml each time, to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
0 Synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Piperidine was mixed with N,N-dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of piperidine to
N,N-dimethylformamide of 1 : 4 so as to obtain a mixture. 500 ml of the mixture was
added into Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin in the reactor to react for 10
minutes, and the mixture was removed by suction filtration. Then, another 500 ml of the
mixture was added into the reactor to react for 20 minutes. After suction filtration, the
resulting resin was washed with isopropanol and N,N-dimethylformamide for two times,
500 ml each time, to complete Fmoc- elution twice from Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl
Chloride Resin. 500 ml of N,N-dimethylformamide, 112.89 g of Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, 35.26
g of 1-hydroxybenzotriazole, 83.81 g of Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroboric acid, and 45.6 ml of N,N'-diisopropylethylamine were added into the
reactor to react by stirring for 2 hours at room temperature under the protection of nitrogen.
After suction filtration, the resulting resin was washed with isopropanol and N,N
dimethylformamide for two times, 500 ml each time, to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
(I       Synthesizing        Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
106.26 g of Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH, 64.64 g of Fmoc-Met-OH, 74.04 g of Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-

                                                18
OH, and 74.04 g of Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH were attached sequentially onto Fmoc-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin by using the same method as that in step (Z. The
amounts of the other reagents were: 35.26 g of 1-hydroxybenzotriazole, 83.81 g of
Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium         tetrafluoroboric acid, and 45.6 ml of
N,N'-diisopropylethylamine. The resulting resin was washed with isopropanol and N,N
dimethylformamide for two times, 500 ml each time, to give Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)
Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
The molar ratios of Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin, Fmoc-Met-OH to
2-chlorotrityl chloride resin, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin, and
Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin are all 2: 1; and the molar ratio of 2
chlorotrityl   chloride resin    : 1-hydroxybenzotriazole       : Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'
tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroboric acid : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : (2.5~3)
(2.5~3) : (2.5~3).
 4D        Synthesizing       Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin
Piperidine was mixed with N,N-dimethylformamide in a volume ratio of piperidine to
N,N-dimethylformamide of 1 : 4 to obtain a mixture. 500 ml of the mixture was added into
Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl               Chloride
Resin in the reactor to react for 10 minutes, and the mixture was removed by suction
filtration. Then, another 500 ml of the mixture was added into the reactor to react for 20
minutes. After suction filtration, the resulting resin was washed with isopropanol and N,N
dimethylformamide for two times, 500 ml each time, to complete Fmoc- elution twice
from            Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl
Chloride Resin. 450 ml of dichloromethane, 50 ml of acetic anhydride, and 25 ml of N,N'
diisopropylethylamine were added into the reactor to react by stirring for 30 minutes at
room temperature and under the protection of nitrogen. After suction filtration, the
resulting resin was washed with isopropanol and N,N-dimethylformamide for two times,
500 ml each time. After suction filtration, the resulting resin was washed with methanol for

                                              19
three times, 500 ml each time, and subjected to suction filtration to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)
Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl       Chloride Resin.
@   Cleavage treatment
A cleavage solution was prepared by mixing trifluoroethanol, acetic acid, and
dichloromethane in a volume ratio of trifluoroethanol : acetic acid : dichloromethane of 2 :
0.75 : 7.25, then 500ml of the cleavage solution was added into Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)
Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2- Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin to react by stirring for 1.5
hours at room temperature. After filtration, the filtrate was transferred to a 1000 ml
separatory funnel, washed with 1000 ml of a saturated salt solution for three times. Then
the filtrate was transferred into a 2000 ml eggplant bottle, added with 500 ml of a saturated
salt solution. The mixture was adjusted to pH 7.0 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate
solution, and subjected to evaporation in a rotary evaporator at 35 'C to remove organic
solvents and separate out precipitate. After filtration by a No. 4 sand core funnel, the
precipitate was washed with pure water for three times and dried at 40 to 45 'C to give
120.16 g of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH,            in a yield of
78.94%.
(2) Synthesizing Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH           2
120.16 g (68.68mmol) of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH
was added into a 5L flask, and added with 1200ml of N,N-dimethylformamide, 107.22g of
benzotriazol-1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium       hexafluorophosphate,      27.84g   of   1
hydroxybenzotriazole,      18.37g    of  ammonium      chloride,   and   59.8ml     of   N,N'
diisopropylethylamine to react for 3 hours by stirring. The reaction solution was added
with 2400ml saturated salt solution to separate out precipitate. After filtration by a No. 4
sand core funnel, the resulting precipitate was washed for three times with pure water, and
dried at 40 to 45 'C to give 113.11 g of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-NH 2, in a yield of 94.13%.
(3) Synthesizing Argireline Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH 2
A cleavage solution was prepared by mixing trifluoroacetic acid, phenol, thioanisole,

                                                20
water, and triisopropyl silane in a ratio of trifluoroacetic acid : phenol : thioanisole : water:
triisopropyl silane of 83ml : 5g: 4ml: 3ml: 5ml. Then 300 ml of the cleavage solution was
added into 113.11 g of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH              2 to
react for 2 hours by stirring at room temperature. After suction filtration by a No.3 sand
core funnel, the filtrate was added into 2400 ml of cold diethyl ether to separate out
precipitate. After suction filtration by a No.4 sand core funnel, the precipitate was washed
for three times with pure water, and dried in vacuum to give a crude Argireline product.
The    crude   Argireline   product     was   subjected    to  purification   by   reverse-phase
chromatography and lyophilization to give 63.35 g of Argireline, in a yield of 81.79%.
The structure of the synthesized product was characterized by using a mass spectrometry,
and the result was shown in Figure 1. It can be seen from Figure 1 that the molecular
weight and molecular ion peaks of the synthesized product were consistent with those of
Argireline, indicating that the synthesized product was Argireline. The purity of the
synthesized Argireline was determined by using liquid chromatograph, and the liquid
chromatogram was shown in Figure 2(a). It can be seen from Figures 2(a) and (b) that the
purity of Argireline was greater than 95%.
Example 2
The procedure of step (1) of this example was the same as that of Example 1, with
exception that the molar ratios of Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin,
Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH      to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin, Fmoc-Met-OH             to 2-chlorotrityl
chloride resin, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin, and Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)
OH to 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin were all 2 : 1, and the molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl
chloride resin : 1-hydroxybenzotriazole : Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroboric acid : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine was 1 : 2.5 : 2.5 : 2.5. The procedure of
step (2) of this example was the same as that of Example 1, with exception that the molar
ratio of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH               : benzotriazol-1
yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium         hexafluorophosphate      :    1-hydroxybenzotriazole

                                            21
ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine was 1 : 3 : 3 : 3 : 3. The procedure of
step (3) of this example was the same as that of Example 1, and 62.51 g of Argireline was
obtained, and the yield was 80.71%. The structure of the synthesized product was
characterized by using a mass spectrometry with the same conditions as those of Example
1, and it showed that the molecular weight and molecular ion peaks of the synthesized
product were consistent with those of Argireline. The purity of the synthesized Argireline
was determined by using liquid chromatograph, and the purity was greater than 95%.
Example 3
The procedure of step (1) of this example was the same as that of Example 1. The
procedure of step (2) of this example was the same as that of Example 1, with exception
that the molar ratio of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH
benzotriazol- 1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium        hexafluorophosphate                1
hydroxybenzotriazole : ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine was 1 : 3 : 3 : 4:
4. The procedure of step (3) of this example was the same as that of Example 1, and 62.78
g of Argireline was obtained, and the yield was 81.06%. The structure of the synthesized
product was characterized by using a mass spectrometry with the same conditions as those
of Example 1, and it showed that the molecular weight and molecular ion peaks of the
synthesized product was consistent with that of Argireline. The purity of the synthesized
Argireline was determined by using liquid chromatograph, and the purity was greater than
95%.

                                                22
What is claimed is:
      1. A preparation method of Argireline comprising the following steps:
      (1) synthesizing Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
      (2) using the resin of step (1) in the preparation of Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)- 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
      (3) using the resin of step (2) in the preparation of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2- Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin;
      (4) using the resin of step (3) in the preparation of Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met
Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH; and
      (5) subjecting the product obtained in step (4) to cleavage, separation and purification
to give an Argireline product.
      2. The preparation method of claim 1, wherein step (1) comprises:
      swelling 2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin in dichloromethane, and
      adding thereto dichloromethane, Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine
to react so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
      3. The preparation method of claim 1 or 2, wherein step (2) comprises:
      eluting Fmoc from said Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin obtained in step
(1) twice,
      adding        thereto      N,N-dimethylformamide,          Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH,           1
hydroxybenzotriazole,       Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium     tetrafluoroboric
acid, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine to react so as to give Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2
Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin; and
      attaching sequentially Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Met-OH, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH, and
Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH onto Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin so as to
give Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrity            Chloride
Resin.
      4. The preparation method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein step (3) comprises:
      eluting   Fmoc-     from   said    Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-

                                                23
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin obtained in step (2) twice, and
      adding    thereto    a mixture of dichloromethane,        acetic    anhydride, and N,N'
diisopropylethylamine to react so as to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)
Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin.
      5. The preparation method of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein said reactions in step
(1), step (2) and step (3) are carried out by stirring for 0.5 to 2 hours at room temperature
and under the protection of nitrogen;
      wherein Fmoc elutions in step (2) and step (3) are carried out in a mixture of
piperidine and N,N-dimethylformamide, wherein the volume ratio of piperidine and N,N
dimethylformamide is 1: 4; and
      preferably, in step (4), a mixture of dichloromethane, acetic anhydride, and N,N'
diisopropylethylamine is added, wherein the volume ratio of dichloromethane, acetic
anhydride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 9 : 1 : 0.5.
      6. The preparation method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein step (4) comprises:
      adding a first cleavage solution to Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)
Arg(pbf)-2-Chlorotrityl Chloride Resin to perform a first cleavage reaction, and
      subjecting the first cleavage reaction product to separation, purification and drying so
as to give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH.
      7. The preparation method of claim 6, wherein the separation, purification and drying
in step (4) comprises:
      filtering the first cleavage reaction product to obtain a filtrate;
      washing the filtrate for three times with a volume of a saturated salt solution equal to
twice that of said first cleavage solution;
      adding thereto a saturated salt solution with volume equal to that of said first cleavage
solution;
      adjusting pH to 7.0 with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution;
      removing organic solvents by evaporation under reduced pressure and 35 'C to
precipitate and filtrate so as to obtain a precipitate; and

                                                  24
       washing the precipitate with pure water three times and drying at 40 to 45 'C to give
Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH.
       8. The preparation method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein step (5) comprises:
       dissolving Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH                 in N,N
dimethylformamide;
       adding thereto benzotriazol-1-yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate,
1-hydroxybenzotriazole, ammonium chloride, and N,N'-diisopropylethylamine to react so
as to give a reaction solution;
       subjecting the reaction solution to treatment, separation, purification and drying to
give Ac-Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-NH              2;
       adding a second cleavage solution thereto to perform a second cleavage reaction to
obtain a crude product; and
       separating, purifying and drying the crude product to give the product.
       9. The preparation method of claim 8, wherein step (5) further comprises:
       carrying out filtration after completion of the second cleavage reaction to obtain a
filtrate,
       adding the filtrate into cold diethyl ether to precipitate so as to give a crude Argireline
product, and
       subjecting   the    crude   Argireline    product   to   purification   by    reverse-phase
chromatography and lyophilization so as to give Ac-Glu-Glu-Met-Gln-Arg-Arg-NH 2 .
       10. The preparation method of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the first cleavage
solution in step (4) is a mixture of trifluoroethanol, acetic acid and dichloromethane,
wherein the volume ratio of trifluoroethanol, acetic acid and dichloromethane is 2 : 0.75 :
7.25; preferably, the second cleavage solution in step (5) is a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid
83 mass%, phenol 5 mass%, thioanisole 4 mass%, water 3 mass%, and triisopropyl silane 5
mass%.
       11. The preparation method of any one of claims 2 to 10, wherein in step (1), the
molar      ratio   of   2-chlorotrityl    chloride   resin    :  Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH         :   N,N'-

                                               25
diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 1 : 4.
      12. The preparation method of any one of claims 3 to 11, wherein in step (2), the
molar ratio of 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin : Fmoc-Arg(pbf)-OH : 1-hydroxybenzotriazole :
Azabenzotriazole-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium          tetrafluoroboric    acid    :    N,N
diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 2 : (2.5-3) : (2.5-- 3) : (2.5~3).
      13. The preparation method of claim 8, wherein in step (5), the molar ratio of Ac
Glu(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Met-Gln(Trt)-Arg(pbf)-Arg(pbf)-OH                  :      benzotriazol-1
yloxytripyrrolidinophosphonium       hexafluorophosphate       :   1-hydroxybenzotriazole
ammonium chloride : N,N'-diisopropylethylamine is 1 : 3 : 3 : (3-5) : (3-5).
      14. An Argireline product prepared by the preparation method of any one of claims 1
to 13, having a purity more than 95%.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
