ABSTRACT
A collapsible boat hull 10 with at least one bottom panel 16,18 and two side
panels 12,14, and a removable transom 32 with attachment means 36 to engage
the transom with the two sides of the boat hull, such that, during installation of the
transom member, the attachment means initially engages with the sides of the
boat, and rotation of the transom to an upright position in the boat hull retains the
attachment means and the respective sides of the boat hull together. Releasable
latches 42,44 at the lower edge of the transom engage with retaining members 54
on the bottom panels. Seating or cross-bracing has 100 which releasably engage
with retainers on the sides of the boat.

                1/7
          4%24L
                              Ac
Fig 1
                 'Ni
            N        4V
                          "'I
                       Ib
     Fig3
                                 ."
                              2/

                                            1
STERN TRANSOM AND SEATING OF A COLLAPSIBLE BOAT HULL
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to stern transom for a collapsible boat
hull which can be readily installed when erecting the boat for use and removed for
ease of transportation of the boat hull when collapsed.
[0002]      The present invention further relates to removable seating or cross
brace for a boat hull.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0003]      It is known to provide collapsible boat hulls incorporating a pair of
hinge interconnected bottom panels and a pair of side panels hinged to the
bottom panels. Such boats can be collapsed and folded along the hinging edges
of the panels into a substantially flat configuration.
[0004]      Some collapsible boat hulls are provided with a prow at either end of
the hull, avoiding having a stern transom member. However, more typically
collapsible boat hulls are also provided with some form of stern member
functioning as a transom, and seats removably mounted onto the boat hull when
the boat hull is in an erected configuration.
[0005]      Some collapsible boat hulls have rigid transoms, which may be stern
panels hinged to the sides panels, such that two transom panels hinge from the
respective side panels to overlap and provide a transom at the stern of the boat.
[0006]      Others collapsible boats are provided with diaphragms to prevent
ingress of water past the transom panel(s). The diaphragm can accommodate
rigid panels, which rigidify and stabilise the diaphragm when an outboard motor is
mounted thereon.

                                              2
[0007]       It has been realised that simply providing a rigid transom member,
whilst forming a stern to the boat hull, does not aid rigidity of the hull unless
effective mounting is provided that allows the transom to be readily mounted to
the unfolded hull and readily removed to allow the hull to be collapsed for
transport, and once mounted in position in the hull also provides support to the
hull and has effective retention means.
[0008]       Provision is generally also made to mount an outboard motor on the
transom. It is necessary that the transom is sufficiently strong and mounted
sufficiently well to the hull in order to transfer forces from the outboard motor in
the hull for propulsion.
[0009]       It is also known to provide removable seating that is installed into the
boat hull to brace the sides of the boat as well as to provide seating.
[0010]      Often a collapsible boat will need to be erected and put into the water
by one person. Having a transom and seating that can be readily installed and
removed by that one person would be of great practical benefit to the user.
[0011]      Seating for known collapsible boats often requires latch bolts or other
catches that are relatively tricky to use, particularly singlehandedly. Installing
seats often requires both sides of the seat to be latched at the same time.
Releasing seats from the hull can also require releasing latches/bolts at both
sides of the boat before the seat can be lifted out of the hull. Known latches/bolts
arrangements have been found to be cumbersome and awkward to use,
particularly for one person erecting/collapsing the boat on their own.
[0012]      The present invention attempts to address at least in part some of the
aforementioned disadvantages.

                                            3
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0013]      With the aforementioned in mind, in one aspect the present invention
provides a collapsible boat hull having at least one bottom panel and two side
panels, and a removable transom member, the transom member including
attachment means arranged to engage with the two sides of the boat hull, such
that, during installation, the attachment means initially engages with the sides of
the boat, and rotation of the transom member to an upright position in the boat
hull retains the attachment means and the respective sides of the boat hull
together.
[0014]      In a further aspect of the present invention, a collapsible boat hull has
at least one bottom panel and two side panels, and a removable transom
member, the transom member including attachment means arranged to engage
with the two sides of the boat hull, such that, during installation, the attachment
means engages with the sides of the boat and rotation of at least a portion of the
attachment means retains the transom member in an upright position at the stern
of the boat hull.
[0015]      It will therefore be appreciated that the removable transom member
may be initially engaged with the side panels and the attachment means actuated
by rotation of at least part of the attachment means to lock the transom member
to its upright position, or the transom member may be initially engaged with the
side panels through the attachment means, and the transom member rotated to
cause the attachment means to releasably lock the transom member to the side
panels.
[0016]      Release of the transom member from the sides of the boat hull may be
achieved by rotating the transom member away from its installed upright position
and releasing the attachment means from the sides of the boat hull, or by rotation
of the part of the attachment means.

                                            4
[0017]       Engagement of the attachment means to the sides of the boat may
also draw the sides of the boat to the transom, which helps to brace the boat and
provide rigidity.
[0018]       Preferably the boat hull includes a diaphragm across a stern of the
hull, which diaphragm is supported by the transom member when the transom
member is installed in the boat hull. The transom member may be rotated into its
upright installed position from within the boat hull to lie adjacent the diaphragm
with the diaphragm external of the hull relative to the transom member.
[0019]       The releasable attachment means may include bayonet or cam type
releasable fasteners to attach the transom member to the respective side panels.
For example, when installing the transom member into the boat hull, a bayonet or
cam arrangement may engage each upper side of the transom member and
respective side member of the boat hull such that, as the transom member is
pivoted to an installed position, the bayonet or cam arrangement positively
connects or locks the respective sides to the transom member. This arrangement
can 'pull' the sides and the transom member together to create a positive tension
and help rigidify the hull. It will be appreciated that, in preferred embodiments,
the transom member cannot be released from the boat hull until it is
rotated/pivoted away from its upright installed position to a release position.
[0020]       The release position for the transom member may be horizontal or at
an angle above or below horizontal, preferably no more than 300 above or below
horizontal.
[0021]       The sides or transom member may have the bayonet or cam
arrangement, and the other of the transom member or sides may have a
receiving arrangement for the bayonet or cam arrangement.
[0022]       Preferably retaining means locks the transom member to the bottom of
the boat. Thus, the transom member may be provided with retaining means to

                                             5
lock the transom member to the bottom of the boat. The retaining means may
have or cooperate with respective one or more retaining portions provided within
or on the bottom of the boat. Thus, as or once the transom member is rotated
into its installed position, the retaining means engages the transom member to
the bottom of the boat to prevent the transom member from rotating back. The
installed transom member supports the diaphragm against water pressure when
the boat is in water. The retaining means prevents the transom member from
rotating inwards with respect to the boat hull and thereby prevents loss of support
for the diaphragm.
[0023]       It will be appreciated that the boat hull need not have a diaphragm.
One or more seals may be provided between the transom member and the
bottom and sides of the boat hull to prevent ingress of water. Such one or more
seals may be provided on the transom member, on the sides and/or bottom of the
hull, or on the transom member and the sides and/or bottom of the boat hull.
Thus, rotating the transom member into position can also effect sealing between
the transom member and hull against ingress of water by use of the seal(s).
[0024]       The retaining means may include a release arrangement, such as at
least one release handle operatively connected to at least one respective
retaining means release latch. The at least one release handle may be provided
in or on the transom member, such as at least one recessed release handle in the
body of the transom member. The at least one release handle may be arranged
and configured for foot or hand operation. That is, the term 'handle' does not limit
operation of the release handle(s) to hand operation, and a user may employ foot
operation in one or more embodiments.
[0025]       The at least one release handle may be operatively connected to the
respective at least one release latch by a release actuator, which may include
one or more elongate members, such as one or more rods or cables. The
release actuator(s) may be provided within the material or body of the transom

                                            6
member or may be provided under a cover attached to an external surface of the
transom member.
[0026]      A further aspect of the present invention provides a boat hull cross
brace or seat attachment system, the boat hull including two sides and a bottom,
the attachment system including an inter co-operating releasable attachment
arrangement between the cross brace or seat and the sides of the boat, wherein
the brace or seat includes a first member of a said releasable attachment
arrangement at one end thereof and a second member of a said releasable
attachment arrangement at a second opposed end thereof, each of the first and
second members engaging with a respective retainer on the respective side of
the boat.
[0027]      Preferably the boat hull is collapsible. More preferably, the boat hull
and seat(s) may be stowed in one or more bags for ready transportation once the
seating is removed form the hull and the boat hull is collapsed. Thus, the
collapsible boat hull may be a flat pack hull.
[0028]      The releasable attachment arrangement preferably includes a release
catch on one or both of the ends of an elongate seat or brace. The release catch
may be manually operated to release the respective end of the seat/brace from
engagement with a retainer on the side panel. Alternatively, a said retainer may
be provided at each end of the seat and a release catch provided on each side of
the boat.
[0029]      The release catch may have a catch member biased to a catch
position, whereby, operation of the catch member enables release of that end of
the seat or brace from engagement with the retainer on the boat side.
[0030]      The catch member may be biased by a biasing means, such as a
spring or resilient member. The catch member may include a jaw that engages

                                             7
with a portion of the retainer to retain the seat or brace to the side panel. The jaw
may be released by manual operation.
[0031]      The first and second members may include an engaging portion to
locate and engage with a respective portion on the respective retainer. It will be
appreciated that the retainer is attached to the side panel, such as by bonding
and/or one or more fasteners, such as bolts or rivets. Bonding, such as by an
adhesive (e.g. a marine grade epoxy) is preferred. The retainer supports the seat
or brace relative to the side panel.
[0032]       It will also be appreciated that release of the seat or brace from the
retainers on the side panels to remove the seat or brace from the boat hull may
be achieved by operating the release catch on one end of the seat or brace, lifting
that end of the seat or brace to a required angle with respect to the retainer at the
other end, until the catch on the seat or brace at that other end reaches a release
position, whereby the seat or brace can be lifted free from the boat hull.
[0033]      A further aspect of the present invention provides a method of
releasing a seat or cross brace from a boat hull, the method including operating a
release means at a first end of the seat or cross brace, lifting that end of the seat
or brace to a required angle with respect to a retainer holding the opposite end of
the seat or cross brace until the seat or cross brace at that opposite end reaches
a release position, whereby the seat or cross brace is released to be removed
from the boat hull.
[0034]      A seat angle of between 100 and 500 relative to its installed position is
envisaged as sufficient to allow automatic release of the distal end of the seat
relative to the manually operated release at a [proximal end of the same seat.
Thus, a user can manually release a seat retaining catch at one end of the seat,
raise that end of the seat upwards until a required angle is reached, at which
point the opposite (distal) end of the seat is released from retention and can be
lifted away from the retainer at that distal end of the seat.

                                          8
[0035]     The angle of automatic release of the distal end of the seat when the
proximal end is lifted may be in the range, 150 to 450, preferably 150 to 300 and
more preferably within the range 200 to 300. A preferred angle is about 250.
[0036]     Alternatively, manual release can be made at both ends of the seat by
two users acting in harmony to remove the seat at about the same time, or a
single user manually releasing one end of the seat from its retainer, moving to the
opposite side of the boat hull and manually releasing that opposite side of the
seat.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0037]     The present invention will now be described, by way of example, with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0038]     Figures 1 to 4 show stages of installing the pivot/rotate in place
transom member into a collapsible boat hull according to an embodiment of the
present invention.
[0039]     Figure 5 shows a stern view the collapsible boat hull with pivot/rotate in
place transom member installed according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0040]     Figures 6 and 7 show respective attachment means to releasably
attach the transom member to the sides of the boat hull. Figure 6 shows an
attachment member on the transom member and Figure 7 shows a cooperating
receiving member on the side panel to receive the attachment member.
[0041]     Figure 8 shows a latch with release handle to be mounted to a transom
member according to an embodiment of the present invention.

                                             9
[0042]      Figure 9 shows, according to an embodiment of the present invention,
a cross section through part of the transom member revealing an embodiment of
the workings of the latch release mechanism to hold the transom in its upright
position against external water pressure when installed.
[0043]      Figures 10 to 12 show, according to an embodiment of the present
invention, various stages in releasing a seat clip (and therefore that end of the
seat) from an attachment point on the interior face of the side panel.
[0044]      Figures 13 and 14, according to an embodiment of the present
invention, show a tilt lift release of the seat clip from an opposite end of the seat
compared to that shown in Figures 10 to 12.
[0045]      Figures 15 to 17, according to an embodiment of the present invention,
show, respectively, detail of the attachment point on the side panel, the seat clip
and the seat clipped into place within the boat hull.
[0046]      Figures 18 to 21 show features of a transom-seat brace attachment
arrangement according to a further embodiment of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0047]      Referring to the accompanying figures, there is shown a collapsible
boat hull 10 with side panels 12,14 and bottom panels 16,18. The side panels
are each joined to a respective one of the bottom panels by a flexible hinge
20,22. The bottom panels are joined to each other by another flexible hinge 24.
[0048]     A cross brace 26 helps to maintain rigidity towards the bow 28 of the
erected boat.

                                         10
[0049]      A diaphragm (or membrane) 30 closes the stern of the boat hull.
When the boat hull is opened out, the transom member 32 can be positioned into
the stern of the boat hull.
[0050]      In the embodiment shown, the transom member includes a rigid panel
34 incorporating an attachment means in the form of a releasable pivot/rotation
means having a releasable fastener portion 36 (36a,36b) on the upper edge of
each end of the transom member and a respective cooperating fastener portion
38 (38a,38b) on the inner upper rear of each side panel.
[0051]      With the boat hull opened out, as shown in figure 1, the transom
member 32 releasable fasteners are engaged into the respective cooperating
fastener portions on the upper rear of each side panel.
[0052]      As shown stepwise in figures 2 to 4, the transom member is then
rotated downwards, pivoting about the fastener means, until the lower edge 40 of
the transom member is adjacent the bottom of the boat hull.
[0053]      The transom member 32 includes a mount 66 for an outboard motor
(not shown). Removable seats 68,70 are provided within the boat. A cover 72
goes over the bow end of the bat between the cross brace and the bow cover.
[0054]      As shown in figures 4 and 5, struts/braces 69,71 can be positioned
between the rear seat 68 and the removable transom member 32. The term strut
and brace will be used interchangeably in the following specification, and
reference to one is reference to the other. These struts connect between the
engine mounting plate and the rear of the rear seat. The struts help to transfer
forces and any vibration from an outboard motor to the rear seat and therefore
into the sides of the boat hull.
[0055]      Figures 18 to 21 show features of a preferred embodiment of a
connection arrangement between the strut/brace 69,71 and the transom 32.

                                             11
[0056]       Figure 18 shows a section of the transom 32 with a projecting stud
116b with a rearward facing hook portion 118b. It will be appreciated that a
similar projecting stud 118a will be mounted on the adjacent side of the transom.
[0057]       Figure 19 shows a section in close up of the end portion 120 of the
strut/brace 71 providing the port side brace/strut between the seat/thwart 70 and
the transom 32. The end portion 120 hooks over the projecting stud 116b (and
similarly 116a on the starboard side). Figures 20 and 21 show detail of the end
portion 120. The end portion can plug into the end of the strut/brace via
projection 124. The opening 122 has a lip 126 over which the hook portion
118a,1 18b connects to positively engage with the end portion 120. The hook is
therefore effectively housed in the opening of the end portion and allows the boat
hull to be lifted via the strut(s)/brace(s) or seat/thwart for transport.
[0058]       Preferably, the struts 69,71 can include means 120 to releasably
connect with respective projections 116a,1 16b on the upper edge of the transom.
In one arrangement, openings 122 provided on respective end portions 120 of the
struts ('thrust poles') hook over upright projections from the transom, such that
gravity and the weight of a person would retain the brace(s) connected to the
transom and thereby help to transfer thrust forces from the motor through the
transom to the seat.
[0059]       However, it has been realised that more positive engagement between
the struts/braces and the transom can assist in providing one or more lifting
points (effectively one or more handles) to aid transport and lifting of the boat hull
when erected and assembled. This positive connection between the
struts/braces and the transom avoids users lifting the seat out in a less than
optimal way and risk damaging the seat mounting points e.g. the seat clips and
retainers.
[0060]       Furthermore, positive engagement of the brace(s) and transom
together beneficially improves structural integrity of the boat hull when erected.

                                             12
[0061]       In a preferred embodiment, projections upward from the transom
include hook portions 118a,118b which engage into recesses ('eyes') 122
provided on the transom end(s) of the brace(s).
[0062]       It will be appreciated that the end portions 120 can include a respective
attachment portion 124, such as a plug or collar, to connect into (as a plug) or
over (as a collar) an end to the strut/brace. Attachment can be by bonding or
rivet(s) or other fastener(s) or interference fit.
[0063]       The projection(s) from the top of the transom preferably have a
rearward facing hooked portion 118a,118b. Each projection may be provided as
a hooked pin inserted into the top edge of the transom 32 and bonded into place.
It will be appreciated that the hooked portion may alternatively be provided on the
end(s) of the brace(s) and the recess provided on the respective projection(s).
[0064]       The recess at the end of each strut/brace has an internal lip 126 so
that when the brace is rotated over the projection, the hook engages with the lip
and the brace is releasably attached to the projection until the brace is counter
rotated to a release position. The counter rotation is prevented by the seat
catches when the seat is locked into the side panels, and therefore the boat can
be carried by the two strokes.
[0065]       When in use as braces, the braces are aligned below the hinge line of
the transom i.e. the pivot axis through the connectors 36a,36b, and secure the
transom so it can not rotate even if it escapes from the catches 42,44 locking the
bottom of the transom to the bottom of the boat hull.
[0066]       The struts may be omitted if the boat is only needed for light use
applications, such as rowing, paddling or towing, or when only a low power (e.g.
trolling) motor is used. For higher power outboard motors, the struts are utilised
in order to ensure the transom member is not overloaded with forces from the

                                            13
motor i.e. the struts provide bracing to transfer loads into the rear seat and
therefore to the sides of the boat.
[0067]      The struts 69.71 can be discrete items that removably attach to the
seat and transom, or can be pivotably/hingedly attached to the rear seat and
releasably connected to the transom, or can be pivotably/hingedly attached to the
transom and releasably connected to the seat.
[0068]      As shown in figure 6, the transom member in the embodiment shown
includes attachment means 36a to connect the upper end 74 to a respective
retaining means 38a (see figure 7) at an upper inside face of the side panel. The
attachment means includes bayonet lugs 76,78 which engage into respective
bayonet lug receiving portions 80,82 as shown in figure 7. As the transom
member is rotated from a near horizontal position to its upright installed position,
the bayonet lugs are retained by lug retaining portions 84,86 in the retainer of the
side panel, on each side of the boat hull. This also acts to draw the sides to the
transom for additional rigidity in the hull and better force transfer from the
outboard motor to the sides when the boat is in use.
[0069]      Latches 42, 44 are shown at the lower edge of the transom member in
figures 1 to 5. Each latch is arranged to be recessed into the transom member so
that the operating mechanism for each latch and the handle 46 for each latch is
discrete and the latch is relatively flush with the surface of the transom member.
[0070]      As shown in figure 8, each latch has a release handle 46 (e.g. in the
form of a finger grip or trigger) to release the respective latch to allow the transom
member to be pivoted up for subsequent release and removal from the boat hull.
Each said latch also has a latch member 48 arranged to engage with a retaining
member 54 on the bottom panel 16,18 of the boat hull (see Figure 9).
[0071]      The latch is released by lifting the release handle to operate and
disengage the release latch from the retaining member.

                                            14
[0072]      As shown in the cross section in Figure 9, the latch 42,44 is recessed
into the lower portion of the transom member 32. The latch has a spring 50
biased combined handle and latch member, whereby lifting the latch member
using the finger grip 46 disengages the latch member from the retaining member
54 on the bottom panel 56.
[0073]      It will be appreciated that the latches are relatively wide and engage
across a significant width with the retaining member on the bottom of the boat.
This avoids point loads for integrity of the transom and adds strength to that
connection. The wide connection also ensures good transfer of forces through
the transom to the bottom of the boat.
[0074]      The latch member has a bevelled face 58 that contacts the retaining
member 54 as the transom is pivoted into place and automatically causes the
latch member 48 to lift against the spring bias when sufficient closing force is
applied.
[0075]      The transom member has a stop member 60 at its bottom face. The
stop member contacts a stop 62 mounted to the bottom panel. In the
embodiment shown, the stop 62 is integral to the retaining member on the bottom
panel. This contact also hooks the stop member under a portion of the stop to
help prevent or restrict downward movement of the bottom panel(s) relative to the
transom. Essentially helping to lock the transom and bottom panel(s) together
until released.
[0076]      As shown in figure 9, the transom member abuts and supports a
diaphragm 30 that is attached to the bottom panel (and to the side panels not
shown in figure 9). An edge portion 90 of the diaphragm is retained in a recess
92 by a wedge or filet member 94 by an interference fit and/or sealing/adhesive
agent for waterproofing

                                             15
[0077]       Releasing the transom member involves lifting the release latch(es),
pivoting the transom member inward with respect to the boat hull until the
releasable fasteners at the upper edges of the transom can be released from the
respective cooperating retainer on each side panel.
[0078]       It will be appreciated that installing the transom using the features
apparatus described and shown not only supports the diaphragm, but also adds
rigidity to the hull by positively yet releasably attaching the side panels to brace
the stern of the boat. The transom attachment means can positively pull the
transom and side panels to each other to add rigidity to the hull.
[0079]       Figures 10 to 12 show stages in releasing a seat 68,70 or cross brace
26 from a side 12,14 of the boat. In figure 10, a release clip 100 of a catch 104
on the underside of the seat is engaged under a retainer 102 on the interior face
of the side of the boat. A lip 106 of the catch engages into a hook shaped recess
 108 on the retainer. The release clip is biased by a biasing means, such as a
spring 110, to ensure the clip engages positively under the retainer to retain that
end of the seat in place.
[0080]       As shown in figure 11, the clip 100 is operated to a release position by
rotation about a pivot 112. This releases the clip from engagement with the
underside of the retainer and provides sufficient clearance to allow the seat/brace
to be lifted away from the retainer.
[0081]       Figures 13 and 14 show the end of the seat 68,70 or brace 26 distal
from the end shown in figures 10 to 12 i.e. figures 13 and 14 show the distal end
of the seat 68, 70 or brace 26 opposite to the end that has been released and
lifted shown in steps in figures 10-12.
[0082]       As can be seen in figures 13 and 14, the clip 100 is not retracted for
release, rather, as the seat or brace angles upwards, the jaw 114 of the clip rides
under the retainer until it is clear of the retainer. This allows the lip 106 to lift out

                                         16
of the retainer. Thus, the seat or brace can advantageously be removed by a
single user from one side of the boat hull.
[0083]      Figure 15 shows the retainer 102 mounted to the interior surface of the
boat side 12, 14. The retainer has two recesses 108. The clip 100 is shown in
figure 16. The clip has two lips 106 and two corresponding jaw portions 114, and
a central spring biasing means 110. Figure 17 shows the seat 68,70 locked into
position with the clip engaged with the retainer to hold the seat end in place until
released as described above.

                                            17
CLAIMS:
1.       A collapsible boat hull having at least one bottom panel and two side
panels, and a removable transom member, the transom member including
attachment means arranged to engage with the two sides of the boat hull, such
that, during installation of the transom member, the attachment means initially
engages with the sides of the boat, and rotation of the transom member to an
upright position in the boat hull retains the attachment means and the respective
sides of the boat hull together.
2.       The collapsible boat hull according to claim 1, wherein the releasable
attachment means includes at least one bayonet or cam type releasable fastener
to attach the transom member to the respective side panels.
3.       The collapsible boat hull according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the release or
initial engagement position for the transom member with respect to the sides of
the boat hull is horizontal or at an acute angle above or below horizontal
4.       The collapsible boat hull according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the sides or transom member has the bayonet or cam arrangement, and
the other of the transom member or sides has a receiving arrangement for the
bayonet or cam arrangement.
5.       The collapsible boat hull according to any one of the preceding claims,
including at least one releasable retaining means that prevents the transom
member rotating back from its installed position.

                                          18
6.      The collapsible boat hull according to claim 5, the at least one releasable
retaining means including at least one retaining portion mounted on the bottom of
the boat, such that the at least one releasable retaining means maintains the
transom member in an installed position until the at least one retaining means is
released from the at least one retaining portion to allow the transom member to
rotate to a release position for removal from the boat hull.
7.      The collapsible boat hull according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the at least one
retaining means includes a release arrangement.
8.      The collapsible boat hull according to claim 7, the release arrangement
including at least one release handle operatively connected to at least one
respective retaining means release latch.
9.      The collapsible boat hull according to claim 8, the at least one release
handle may be provided in or on the transom member.
 10.    The collapsible boat hull according to claim 8 or 9, the at least one
recessed release handle and release latch integral to a said release arrangement.
 11.    The collapsible boat hull according to any one of the preceding claims,
further including an elongate member extending between the two sides of the
hull.
 12.    The collapsible boat hull according to claim 11, further including at least
one brace configured to extend between the elongate member and the transom.
 13.    The collapsible boat hull according to claim 12, the or each said brace
including releasable engagement means to releasably engage with the transom
or the elongate member or both the transom and elongate member.

                                           19
14.     The collapsible boat hull according to claim 11, 12 or 13, wherein the
elongate member includes a seat, thwart or cross brace between the two sides of
the boat hull.
15.     The collapsible boat hull according to claim 12 or 13, the transom including
at least one brace connector arranged and configured to connect to the at least
one brace.
16.     The collapsible boat hull according to claim 15, wherein the at least one
brace connector includes one or more projections extending from the transom
and including a respective connector portion on each said projection to engage
with a corresponding portion on the or each said brace.
17.     The collapsible boat hull according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the at least
one strut or brace connector and the at least one strut or brace include an inter
cooperating hook and recess arrangement, with one of the at least one strut or
brace connector and respective strut or brace having at least one hook portion
that releasably engages into at least one said recess provided on the other of the
said at least one strut/brace and strut/brace connector.
18.     The collapsible boat hull according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein
the at least one strut/brace extends to meet the transom at a level below an upper
edge of the transom.
19.     The collapsible boat hull according to claim 12, wherein the at least one
strut/brace provides, when in use, a lifting and/or carrying handle to support
transportation of the boat hull.
20.     The collapsible boat hull according to claim 12, 13 or 15, wherein the or
each strut/brace is releasably removable from engagement with the transom or
the elongate member or both the transom and the elongate member.

                                          20
21.     A boat hull brace or seat attachment system, the boat hull including two
sides and a bottom, the attachment system including an inter co-operating
releasable attachment arrangement between the brace or seat and the sides of
the boat, wherein the brace or seat includes a first member of a said releasable
attachment arrangement at one end thereof and a second member of a said
releasable attachment arrangement at a second opposed end thereof, each of the
first and second members engaging with a respective retainer on the respective
side of the boat.
22.     The attachment system of claim 21, wherein the boat hull is collapsible.
23.     The attachment system of claim 21 or 22, including a release catch on one
or both of the ends of the seat or brace.
24.     The attachment system of claim 23, wherein the release catch is/are
manually operated to release the respective end of the seat or brace from
engagement with a retainer on the side panel.
25.     The attachment system of claim 24, said retainer provided at each end of
the seat and the release catch provided on each side of the boat.
26.     The attachment system of any one of claims 23 to 25, the release catch
including a catch member biased to a catch position, whereby, operation of the
catch member enables release of that end of the seat or brace from engagement
with the retainer on the boat side.
27.     The attachment system of claim 26, the catch member biased by a biasing
means.
28.     The attachment system of claim 27, the catch member including a jaw that
engages with a portion of the retainer to retain the seat or brace to the side panel.

                                            21
29.      A method of releasing a seat or cross brace from a boat hull, the method
including operating a release means at a first end of the seat or cross brace,
lifting that end of the seat or brace to a required angle with respect to a retainer
holding the opposite end of the seat or cross brace until the seat or cross brace at
that opposite end reaches a release position, whereby the seat or cross brace is
released to be removed from the boat hull.
30.      A method according to claim 29, whereby the required angle is between
100 and 500 relative to its installed position.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

